DRN-1703675
The complaint
Mrs Ts complained about the way Great Lakes Insurance SE (GL) dealt with claims she 
made under her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs T owns two dogs.  In December 2017, she bought a pet insurance policy from GL to 
help cover the cost of any veterinary care the dogs might need.
Towards the end of 2018, just before the policy expired, Mrs Ts vet recommended that one 
of her dogs be seen by an animal behaviour expert. Mrs T arranged a consultation. The 
behaviourist Mrs T consulted would only assess animals in their home environment. And she 
charged clients travel costs, in addition to the assessment.
After the consultation, Mrs T made a claim under the policy. GL considered the claim and 
declined it. Mrs Ts previous vet had commented on her dogs behaviour  so GL said her 
dog had a pre-existing condition. And pre-existing conditions werent covered by the policy. 
Mrs T objected and GL reconsidered  and accepted - the claim. But they deducted an 
excess of £69 and the behaviourists travel costs from the amount they paid.
Mrs Ts dog had follow-up treatment, for which she also submitted a claim. GL made a 
further payment under the policy. But, because the policy had been renewed in December 
2018, GL deducted another excess from the settlement. Mrs T complained about this and 
about the deduction of the behaviourists travel costs. GL considered her complaint but 
stated they were entitled to deduct an excess each year. And they said the policy only 
provided cover for the treatment of behavioural conditions  not for other associated costs. 
Mrs T was aware that the policy only covered behavioural conditions for six months after 
diagnosis. A few days before the end of the six month period, her dog was prescribed 
medication. Mrs T claimed for this and GL paid the claim. 
But when they replied to Mrs Ts complaint, GL said they shouldnt have paid for the whole 
prescription, only for the pills that wouldve been given to Mrs Ts dog before the six month 
period expired. GL said, as a gesture of goodwill, they wouldnt ask Mrs T to pay back what 
shed been overpaid. Mrs T wasnt happy with this. She felt that GL had delayed in dealing 
with her claims and complaints, which had led to a delay in her getting her dog treated  so 
less of the treatment fell within the six month time limit.
Mrs T brought her complaint to us. Our investigator considered her concerns. But she 
concluded that the policy terms were clear and hadnt been applied unreasonably. So she 
didnt think GL should have done anything differently.
Mrs T didnt share the investigators view. So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ive looked at Mrs Ts insurance policy document. It gives a start date and confirms the 
policy will run for twelve months. And it says the policy will be renewed automatically to 
make sure theres no gap in cover.
Ive considered the section called Your cover. This sets out, amongst other things, details 
of the excess. The policy clearly says that the excess is £69 per year.
Mrs T agrees thats what the policy says. But shes said that her dog was being treated for 
one condition on an ongoing basis  so she should only make one excess payment. And she 
says that shes been penalised because the first claim was made so close to the renewal 
date.
Ive thought about this. Its unfortunate that Mrs Ts dog needed treatment so close to the 
end of the policy year. But I think its clear from the opening wording of the policy how GL 
view a year  and that its not a rolling twelve month period. So I dont think it was 
unreasonable for GL to decide that Mrs Ts claim went across two policy years  and to 
charge an excess for each.
The same section of the policy sets out what GL will pay for. It says:
Behavioural treatments
If your pet is diagnosed with a behavioural condition by a vet, we will pay its 
treatment costs. We will pay for up to 6 months after diagnosis.
Your pets behavioural Condition must be treated by either a Certified Animal 
Behaviourist (CCAB), a member of the Association of Pet Behaviour Counsellors 
(APBC), a member of the Canine and Feline Behaviour Association (CFBA) or a vet.
Mrs T said she made sure the behaviourist she contacted had the appropriate qualifications. 
Whilst I understand Mrs T appointed a suitably qualified expert, and the behaviourist didnt 
give Mrs T any option except a home visit, that doesnt mean the travel was part of 
treatment. It wasnt  instead it was simply additional costs the behaviourist charged. So I 
cant say that GL applied this term unreasonably.
And Im not persuaded that GL shouldve provided cover for a longer period than they did. I 
think this terms clear too. The policy highlights it will only pay for treatment up to 6 months 
after diagnosis. And this is what GL did. Ive looked carefully at the timeline.  Mrs Ts dog 
was first treated in December and she made her first claim a few days later. This was 
declined at first, but then paid when Mrs T challenged GLs decision. 
The second claim, for which a second excess was deducted, was submitted in late March. 
Payment was made in early April. Mrs T immediately emailed a complaint to GL about 
deduction of the excess. GL have admitted that her email was overlooked, and it wasnt 
addressed until about six weeks later, when Mrs T chased GL. Mrs T didnt seek any further 
treatment for her dog until the end of May  because shed not heard from GL.
I can understand Mrs Ts reluctance to run up further costs whilst she was disputing the 
claims shed already made. Im sure she bought an insurance policy to reassure herself that 
her dog could be treated without her incurring large vets bills. But Mrs T always had to have 
her dog treated and then submit a claim  which GL assessed. There was no guarantee that 
any claim she made within the six month period would be paid in full. So, I dont think the fact Mrs T was awaiting responses from GL reasonably stopped her for continuing to seek 
treatment for her dog, during the covered 6 month period.
Ive seen Mrs Ts email from the start of April. It challenges GLs decision to deduct a second 
excess because the claims entered a second policy year. Im not persuaded that how it was 
answered had any impact on GLs consideration of further claims. Mrs T chose to wait. I 
dont think its reasonable for me to decide GLs responsible for her decision.
Because Mrs T got a prescription for her dog so close to the six month time limit, GL said it 
should only have covered part of the cost. But they paid for it all in error. There was some 
confusion about the correct daily dosage for Mrs Ts dog, when GL noted how much it 
overpaid. But, regardless of the figures, they did overpay. Because GL did acknowledge that 
they shouldve replied to Mrs Ts email more quickly, they decided not to try and recover 
their overpayment. I think thats fair. So Im not deciding they should do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ts complaint about Great Lakes 
Insurance SE  so Im not asking them to do anything more than theyve done already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman