DRN-3735505
The complaint
Mr H complains about ETIKA FINANCE UK LIMITEDs (Etikas) decision not to lend to him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr H, but I dont think Etika have done anything wrong here.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The Standards of Lending Practice set out by the Lending Standards Board detail the main 
responsibilities a lender has when considering an application for credit.
A lender's main responsibility for all customers is to provide a borrower with a product that is 
affordable and meets their needs. 
Where one lender will lend, another may not. Thats a decision for the lender to take. But if a 
customer asks a credit provider why it turned down their application, it must tell them the 
primary reason for the rejection.
Here, I think Etika did that. It explained that the application had been refused because of 
information on Mr Hs credit file and it explained to Mr H how a copy could be obtained and 
who he needed to raise the dispute with.
Mr H says that the review shouldnt have been an automated one and that it should have 
been reviewed by a member of staff. Its for Etika to decide the processes and procedures 
they adopt, and I dont think they therefore had to complete a manual review of Mr Hs 
application. 
Ultimately, Im not persuaded Etika have done anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman