DRN-2519236
The complaint
Mr A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd closed his bank account. Hes also unhappy about how 
long it took Monzo to return money in his account to him. He says this caused him trouble 
and upset. And he wants Monzo to pay him compensation.
What happened
  Mr A opened an account with Monzo in June 2019.
In April 2020, Monzo closed Mr As account immediately. The bank wrote to Mr A on 26 April 
2020 to let him know. At the time Mr As balance was just under a pound. 
Mr A complained to Monzo about closing his account. He said hed been a loyal customer of 
the bank and had maintained his account properly. He said the closure had caused him a 
great deal of inconvenience as he was expecting a payment into his account and had 
several direct debits set up. He asked Monzo to reopen his account. Monzo said it had acted 
in accordance with the terms of the account and wouldnt reopen Mr As account. But Monzo 
accepted it had made a mistake and should have released Mr As balance to him at the time. 
To put things right it offered to release the balance to Mr A. 
Mr A wasnt happy with this response, so he brought his complaint to our service where an 
investigator considered it. The investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. She said Monzo 
hadnt done anything wrong when it closed Mr As account. And that it wasnt obliged to 
provide Mr A with an explanation for why it no longer wanted him as a customer. She also 
thought Monzo had done enough to put things right by offering to return Mr As balance to 
him.
Mr A didnt accept the investigators view. He says the bank discriminated against him and 
wants the bank to provide a proper explanation for why it had closed his account.  
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The crux of Mr As complaint is the closure of his account. Mr A says he hasnt done 
anything wrong and pointed out that hes been a good customer of the bank. So, he feels the 
bank has treated him unfairly and caused him a good deal of trouble and upset because he 
had to rearrange several direct debits and was expecting payments into his account. 
Its clear from what Mr A has told us and Monzo that he feels strongly about his complaint. 
But its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to 
provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to 
do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep customer or require it to 
compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Monzo closed Mr As account immediately. Having looked at all the evidence, in my view 
that was reasonable. So, it was entitled to close the account as it has already done. And I 
wont be asking the bank to reopen Mr As account. 
I understand Mr A wants Monzo to explain the reason it closed his account. But Monzo 
doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their accounts. Its under no 
obligation to tell Mr A the reasons behind the account closure, as much as hed like to know. 
So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr A this information. And it wouldnt 
be appropriate for me to require it do so. 
Ive also considered Mr As request for compensation. Mr A says he was put to a good of 
trouble having to rearrange his direct debits and he missed out on payment coming into to 
his account because the bank closed his account. Ive no doubt that Monzo closing the 
account made things difficult for Mr A, and he was inconvenienced having to reorganise his 
direct debits, but for the reasons Ive already explained, Im satisfied that Monzo didnt do 
anything wrong when it closed Mr As account. So, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to award 
compensation.  
Its only fair that Monzo should compensate Mr A for any losses, distress and inconvenience 
he experienced as a result of its errors. Monzo has accepted it didnt give Mr A his closing 
balance of 78p when it closed his account. To put things right it has offered to return this to 
him now. I know Mr A wont agree, but I think the offer made by Monzo is fair and 
reasonable. So, Im not going to ask them to do anything more. 
Mr A has said that he feels the bank is discriminating against him because of his name. And 
believe that this is the rationale for the account closure. Whilst I recognise the strength of his 
feelings, Ive not seen any evidence to show any discrimination on the part of Monzo.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I dont require Monzo Bank Ltd to do anything more to resolve 
Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman