DRN-3037313
The complaint
Mrs W has complained about Jigsaw Insurance Services Plcs service in connection with her 
motor insurance policy.
Reference to Jigsaw includes the agents which acted for it.
What happened
Jigsaw sold Mrs W a policy. The policy was underwritten by an insurer, a separate business 
from Jigsaw, which Ill refer to as M. Mrs W was in an accident when a lorry crashed into her 
at speed. Her car was deemed a total loss.
As Mrs Ws car was written off and she didn't want to add another car to the policy at that 
time, she contacted Jigsaw to cancel it. Jigsaw did so. It wrote to her the same day. It said 
that until her claim was settled it couldn't tell her if any balance was due.
Around ten months later Jigsaw wrote to Mrs W to say that she either needed to pay it the 
balance owing, of around £155, or it would refer the matter to its debt collection agency. 
Mrs W didn't think that was fair and complained. Jigsaw said that M had recently told it that 
the claim had been closed as non-fault and, at that point, it had applied its cancellation 
charges. Having done so Mrs W had a balance owing of £155. It had written to Mrs W 
previously to explain that but it seems she didn't receive that letter.
Mrs W remained unhappy and brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators looked 
into it. She didn't think Jigsaw had done anything wrong. Mrs W didn't agree so her 
complaint's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
Jigsaw is an insurance broker. That means it sells insurance policies and might help with 
their administration. But it doesn't provide the cover itself. That is provided by a separate 
insurance company. So Jigsaw isn't responsible for any actions or delays on behalf of the 
insurance company, in this case M.
Mrs W said that when she asked Jigsaw to cancel her policy it told her she didn't owe 
anything else and there was nothing more for her to do. But, while she didn't need to do 
anything at that point - other than cancelling her direct debit - it's not the case that Jigsaw 
said she wouldn't ever have to pay anything more. 
Ive listened to the call in question. What Jigsaw said was that if the claim was closed as a 
fault claim, whilst that was unlikely, she could still be liable for any outstanding premium. Ive 
noted that Jigsaws call handler didn't refer to any of its cancellation charges during the call. 
And while he could have been clearer about that, it did send Mrs W a letter that day telling 
her that until M settled the claim it couldn't calculate whether any balance was outstanding. 
So, while its true that Jigsaw told her she didn't need to do anything else immediately, its 
not the case that it told her she wouldnt ever have anything more to pay.
M then notified Jigsaw, around ten months later, that the claim had been closed as non-fault. 
So, Jigsaw then calculated the balance on Mrs Ws account and said she owed around 
£155.
It might help if I explain that when a consumer cancels a policy its common for charges to 
apply. There might also be premium payments owing to the insurer particularly, as in this 
case, if there's been a claim on the policy. Thats because the premium the insurer charges 
might depend on how the claim was categorised. If the claim closes as being a fault claim  
and that includes a situation where the consumer wasn't to blame for an accident or incident 
but the insurer couldn't reclaim anything its paid out to settle the claim - then the insurer will 
usually charge the full years premium even where the monthly instalments are up to date. 
But if the claim closes as non-fault the insurer will only charge for the period it provided the 
cover for. That means the insurer will calculate how many days it provided the insurance 
cover for and charge the consumer for each day of that cover. And if premiums are still 
owing after that the insurer will generally ask the broker to collect any sums owed or pay any 
refund of overpaid premiums back to the broker. 
Similarly, on cancellation its usual for a broker like Jigsaw to make sure that the policyholder 
has paid it all its fees. Those will include charges for things like arranging the policy, any 
non-refundable charges, cancellation fees etc, which will have been set out in the brokers 
terms of business. It will then add or deduct any premium owing or refunded, before 
deducting any sums the consumers already paid. If the consumer has already paid more 
than the sums owed they will get a refund. If that amount is less than the consumer owes 
then the broker will charge the balance to the consumer.
In this case Jigsaw didn't know how much M intended to charge Mrs W for her time on cover 
until after it had closed the claim down as non-fault. So, after M told Jigsaw it had done that, 
Jigsaw wrote to her setting out its charges and said that, after deducting everything shed 
already paid, she still owed around £155. I'm aware that Mrs W didn't receive Jigsaws first 
letter setting out the balance of the sums owing and the first she knew about it was when it 
sent her a chaser letter. I can see how that must have been a source of immense frustration 
for her. She hadn't heard from Jigsaw for around ten months and then  to her  she 
received a letter out of the blue telling her to pay £155. But, while I can understand that 
came as something as a shock to her, I don't think Jigsaw did anything wrong.
As I've said above, Jigsaw didn't know exactly how much it would charge or refund Mrs W 
until M closed the claim. And Jigsaw isn't responsible for any delays on Ms behalf. So it 
couldnt calculate the balance outstanding until M had contacted it. And it had told Mrs W 
that was the case in the letter it sent to her on the day she cancelled the policy. Further, I 
can see that the cancellation charges and fees which Jigsaw applied where all charges that 
it had let Mrs W know would apply on cancellation before she bought the policy. So those 
were things Mrs W had agreed to pay when she took out the policy. There was a 
considerable delay between Mrs W actually cancelling the policy and Jigsaw applying those. 
But as I've said above I don't think that delay was Jigsaws fault. And given the charges 
Jigsaw applied were sums Mrs W had agreed to pay when she bought her policy, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Jigsaw to apply those charges.
It seems that Mrs W was further annoyed when Jigsaw referred the matter to its debt 
collectors. But Mrs W owed Jigsaw money which she hadn't paid. And it put its collection 
process on hold when she complained. I think that was fair.Mrs W believes Jigsaws customer service has been sadly lacking. But while it could have 
been clearer about its cancellation fees and charges in her initial call when she cancelled her 
policy, from an independent perspective I think its handled the matter reasonably. I think the 
majority of Mrs Ws frustration is borne out of the fact that Jigsaw continued to charge her a 
sum that she didn't think was fair, rather than because it had done anything wrong.
I do understand that Mrs W had - what sounds like - a horrendous experience; being 
involved in a terrifying accident that wasnt her fault. But while I empathise with her position 
that doesn't mean that Jigsaw isn't entitled to collect the fees that Mrs W agreed to pay when 
she bought the policy from it. It follows that I'm not going to instruct it to take any further 
action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman