DRN-2258434
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) handled a 
claim he made under his motor insurance policy after his car was stolen. 
What happened
On 12 December 2019, Mr Cs car keys were taken when his house was burgled, and his 
car was stolen from outside his house. On 13 December 2019, Mr C contacted Admiral to 
make a claim under his policy.
Admirals representative explained that on the information provided so far they would have to 
deal with the claim on the basis that the car might not be found. In the meantime his policy 
would be cancelled as the car was no longer in his possession. The representative explained 
how the excess on his policy would be treated if the car was recovered and repairable. She 
said that in some cases a car was recovered, though it was rare for them to be repairable.
A letter from Admiral to Mr C dated 13 December 2019 contained the following information:
Policy cancellation
As your vehicle has been stolen and not recovered, we are proceeding with the claim 
on a total loss basis. This means that the insurance cover for your vehicle will be 
cancelled with immediate effect
If your vehicle has been recovered, you must notify us straight away. Should your
vehicle be recovered before your claim is settled, we will not be liable for any costs 
you have incurred if you choose to replace your vehicle prior to us issuing 
settlement.
On 16 December 2019, Mr C spoke again with Admiral. He was asked to obtain details of 
the police officer who was dealing with his case, as Admiral needed to verify the details of 
the burglary with them before it would be able to settle his claim. Mr C said he was hoping to 
get another car in the following days. Admirals representative said if this happened, they 
could reinstate the policy and consider the new vehicle for the policy.
On 17 December 2019, Mr C acquired a new car on finance. On 19 December 2019, 
Admiral wrote to Mr C reminding him that it needed contact details of the police officer in 
charge of his case before it could settle his claim.
On 21 December 2019, Mr C told Admiral that his car had been found. It transpired that the 
car was repairable. Mr C wanted any repairs to be by a main dealer of his choice; so Admiral 
arranged for it to be delivered to this main dealer for inspection and an estimate.  There was 
some delay between Admiral and the main dealer in examining the car and deciding what 
repairs were appropriate, but finally Admiral authorised the required work in March 2020.
Mr C complained to Admiral about delays in the handling of his claim, and the fact that 
having led him to believe his claim was going to be settled on a total loss basis it went back 
on this when the car was found and after he had entered into a finance agreement for a 
replacement car. This left him with two cars, both on finance agreements.
Admiral accepted that it was responsible for some of the delay and communication issues 
before repairs were authorised. It paid him compensation of £300 in respect of this. 
However, it said that it had made clear from the initial phone call on 13 December 2019 
onwards that if the car was found and was repairable this is what would happen. So it didnt 
agree that it should now deal with his claim on a total loss basis.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
compensation of £300 Admiral had paid in respect of the delays and communication issues 
for which it was responsible was a fair offer.
In relation to how Admiral dealt with Mr Cs claim, he said the policy made it clear that where 
a car was stolen, Admiral had the option of settling the claim by repairing the car or paying 
its value.
As Admiral made clear in the initial phone call of 13 December 2019, and the letter it sent on 
the same day, it was proceeding initially on the basis that the car wouldnt be recovered and 
so would be a total loss. But if the car was recovered before the claim was settled and was 
repairable, this is what would happen, and it wouldnt be responsible for any costs Mr C 
incurred if he had chosen to replace his car.
The investigator thought Admiral acted reasonably in wanting to speak with the investigating 
police officer before settling the claim. It didnt manage to do so before January 2020, some 
time after the car was found. He didnt think Admiral could have been expected to be in a 
position to settle the claim before the car was found. So he didnt think Admiral had acted 
unreasonably in deciding the car should be repaired.
Mr C asked that an ombudsman review his complaint. So it has been passed to me to issue 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator said, Admiral had the option under the policy when a car was stolen of 
repairing it if it was recovered and was repairable, or of paying out its market value. Admiral 
said initially it would proceed on the basis the car wouldnt be recovered, and would be a 
total loss, to avoid delays.
However, Im satisfied it made clear in its initial phone call and letter that this would change if 
the car was recovered and was repairable before settlement of the claim. It also pointed out 
in the letter that it wouldnt be responsible for any costs Mr C incurred if he chose to replace 
his car before the claim was settled.
Mr C proceeded to enter into a finance agreement to replace his car before Admiral had 
settled his claim. Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Admiral to want to speak to the 
police officer in charge of the case before settling the claim, and Admiral wasnt responsible 
for any unreasonable delay in doing so.
So I conclude that Admiral was entitled to settle Mr Cs claim by paying for the car to be 
repaired rather than treating it as a total loss.Admiral did contribute to the delay in the car being examined and assessed by the main 
dealer. I agree that the compensation of £300 for this that it has paid Mr C is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman