DRN-4071189
The complaint
Mrs S has said that Lloyds mis-sold her a Gold account that was taken out in March 2008. 
Mrs S, via her representative, has explained that she was not given the option of a fee-free 
account and the benefits of the account were not explained to her. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked into this complaint already, and they did not think that the 
Gold account was mis-sold. Mrs S did not agree with this and requested a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint. Having carefully thought about 
everything Ive been provided with, I am not upholding this complaint, let me explain why. 
Ive started by thinking about whether Mrs S was given a clear choice in taking the Gold 
account. At this point, it may help for me to explain that where matters are in dispute  such 
as here - I have to make my decision based on what I think is more likely than not to have 
happened based on the available evidence.
Firstly, I will address whether Mrs S was given a fair choice in taking out the Gold account. 
Mrs Ss representative has explained that when the account was taken out, Mrs S was not 
given the option of a fee free account. But Mrs S has held a fee free account in the past 
according to the questionnaire that she completed when she submitted her complaint to us. 
So I think she would have been reasonably aware that fee free accounts were available to 
her. So even if the availability of free accounts were not highlighted during the sale of the 
account, I think she would have been reasonably aware that she could opt for a free account 
if she wished to do so. I think it more likely that she agreed to the Gold account (rather than 
opting for a fee free account) because of the benefits that it came with at the time. 
When this account was taken out the main benefits that it came with were Worldwide Travel 
insurance, Breakdown cover and Mobile Phone insurance. From Mrs Ss bank statements 
from the time, there seems to be transactions that suggest that she travelled, had a mobile 
phone and drove. 
So, I think that she was given a fair choice to take out the Gold account and she chose to do 
so due to the benefits that the account came with.
I believe that Lloyds did make a personal recommendation that the account was right for Mrs 
S based on her circumstances at the time of the sale. 
Lloyds says it recommended the account for Travel insurance and based on what I can see I 
do not think that this recommendation was inappropriate. I accept that Lloyds may not have 
told Mrs S everything about all of the benefits that the account came with, but I am satisfied 
that the major benefits wouldve been outlined to her. I also cant see anything specific that 
Mrs S was not told that I think wouldve altered her decision to take out the account. I note 
that Mrs S has said that she was in financial difficulties at the time that these accounts were 
taken out. 
Mrs Ss representative has explained that Mrs S was not told about the need to register 
phones or register for the travel insurance. Firstly, I should say that in relation to the travel 
insurance, there was no need to register to use the policy unless the account holder had pre-
existing medical conditions. I also can see that Lloyds indicated that Mrs S said at the time 
that she did not have any personal circumstances that would affect her ability to be covered 
under the travel insurance policy. 
In relation to the mobile phone insurance, I am satisfied, albeit on balance, that the need to 
register phones would have been either mentioned in the initial sale or in the documents 
issued at the time the account was taken out. Also, I feel that if having to register a phone 
would have put Mrs S off from having agreed to the account in the first instance, I would 
have expected Mrs S to downgrade the account upon receiving one of the multiple 
documents issued over the years that set out this requirement.
Mrs Ss representative has explained that they were suffering from severe financial 
difficulties at the time the account was taken out. But I cant see from Lloyds contact notes or 
anything else to suggest that this was discussed or shouldve been apparent to Lloyds at the 
time that the Gold account was sold. So, I dont think it was inappropriate for Lloyds to have 
sold the Gold account to Mrs S when it did.
Overall, I can understand that this will be disappointing for Mrs S and I can see that with 
hindsight she may not have felt that the Gold account provided value for money. But I dont 
think overall that the Gold account was mis-sold in the first instance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman