DRN-3612828
The complaint
Ms C has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC have allowed fraudulent activity on her 
account, that they set up her ISA incorrectly, and that they sent her a credit card offer.
What happened
Ms C says she kept her own records of all her transactions, and that the balance she came 
to was different to the one on her Barclays statements. She could not find any payments on 
her statements that were wrong, but she feels payments must be being taken that dont 
show up on her statements. As her statements balanced correctly and Ms C didnt dispute 
any particular transactions, Barclays said they couldnt help further. Ms C feels that Barclays 
staff are part of a wider conspiracy to hurt her. 
Ms C also complained that when she set up an ISA, Barclays opened the wrong one. They 
corrected this and transferred her balance to the right account, but Ms C said this caused 
her stress as she thought the transfer was fraud at first. Barclays apologised, explained they 
had contacted her about this, and offered her £35 compensation. Ms C did not feel this 
amount was sufficient. 
Lastly, Ms C is unhappy that Barclays sent her a credit card marketing offer, which she felt 
was patronising.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Ms C 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To clarify, in this decision I am only considering Ms Cs original complaint  about her 
balance, the ISA, and the credit card letter. Shes raised new points since then, such as 
about her experience at a withdrawal in branch. But those are new issues which Barclays 
havent had a chance to address themselves yet. So shed need to raise any new complaints 
with Barclays first as a separate case to this one.
Barclays accept that they initially opened the wrong type of ISA for Ms C. And I understand 
why this may have caused her stress. But Barclays fixed their mistake on the same day, 
transferred Ms Cs balance to the correct ISA, tried to phone her to explain what had 
happened, and sent her a letter. That seems like a reasonable resolution. And in terms of 
amounts of compensation, were here to resolve complaints rather than to issue large fines 
or punish businesses. Taking into account our guidelines for compensation, I think that the 
£35 Barclays have already offered is fair to put things right there.
I also understand Ms C was unhappy that Barclays sent her a credit card offer. But they 
were allowed to do that, since she was opted in to receive marketing materials like that. 
Ms C can contact Barclays and opt out of such letters if she no longer wants to get them. 
And I have not found anything inappropriate in the contents of the letter.
Turning to the main issue of Ms Cs account balance, I do understand that Ms C feels very 
strongly that the balance is wrong, and Ive taken into account all the things shes told us. 
I should explain that Barclays are required to investigate if a customer disputes a particular 
payment or payments on their statements. But Ms C hasnt found any payments on her 
statements that she wants to dispute. And Barclays statements are the official record of all 
the transactions on her account. So if Ms C wants to dispute things which never showed up 
on her statements and never changed her statement balance, and for which she hasnt 
provided any receipts or other evidence for, then theres not really much Barclays can do.
I understand that Ms C is worried there might have been fraud on her account. But I hope 
I can reassure her that I have not found any evidence of fraud here. There are no incorrect 
entries on her statements, and Ms C hasnt been able to identify any transactions she 
doesnt recognise or didnt make herself. I understand that Ms C went through her 
statements with a staff member, and didnt find anything wrong. And her statements are 
continuous and roll over each month  there are no gaps or spaces between statements 
where someone could take out money without it affecting the statement balance.
More importantly, Ms Cs statements balance correctly  everything adds up. So 
mathematically speaking, its not possible for any money to be missing. If money was 
missing, her statements wouldnt add up. But they add up perfectly.
Ms C didnt sent us any of the personal records which she says showed her balance was 
wrong. And she now says those records were since stolen. So I have no evidence which 
supports her assertion that money was missing.  And given that her statements are 
mathematically correct, I think its more likely that Ms C simply made some human errors in 
her record keeping. For example, if Ms C forgot to take a receipt or lost a receipt, or if she 
wrote down a wrong number, or if her records didnt take account of the days it can take for 
a payment to go through, or if her maths went wrong anywhere, or if she made any number 
of other understandable and common mistakes, then that would explain why the balance she 
worked out was often a bit different to the one on her statements.
I understand Ms C feels that this is all part of a wider conspiracy. For example, shes said 
that someone is getting companies to ring her mobile while shes driving in order to cause an 
accident, that someone caused a printer to be reported as faulty in order to upset her, and 
that someone is breaking into her home and spraying solvents on her cooking utensils. 
Again, I hope I can reassure Ms C that Barclays staff are not involved in any of those things. 
I do appreciate that she is very worried about those issues. It might be helpful for Ms C to 
speak to her GP about those things  her GP will be able to give her good advice.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint in this particular case.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman