DRN-2801468
The complaint
Mr V is unhappy that Trading 212 UK Limited sold shareholdings without his instruction. He 
complains Trading 212 didnt notify him that the shareholdings werent eligible to be held 
within his Individual Savings Account (ISA) wrapper. 
What happened
Mr V has a stocks and shares ISA account with Trading 212 as part of an execution only 
service. He used the platform to trade shares.
  
In July 2020, Trading 212 conducted an internal audit and contacted HMRC to confirm 
whether some of the shareholdings were eligible to be held within an ISA. Following 
correspondence, they found that two of the positions held by Mr V were not eligible. They 
say they notified their affected clients, including Mr V, in August 2020 and explained the 
positions needed to be closed by 1 September. Otherwise, they explained they would close 
the positions manually. As Mr V didnt close the positions, Trading 212 did so manually. 
They added the funds to his available balance. 
However, Mr V says he did not receive this notification and doesnt believe it was sent. He 
says he can see other historic notifications on the platform. He emailed Trading 212 to find 
out why the shareholdings had been sold without his instruction. After some 
correspondence, he raised a complaint. He says these were long term investments and he 
had no intention to sell. 
Trading 212 responded on 9 October 2020. They didnt uphold the complaint and said they 
had an obligation to ensure that all ISAs are legally compliant. They say they notified all 
affected clients and then closed the non-eligible investments held within the ISA because Mr 
V hadnt done so. They also say they were acting within their Share Dealing Terms of 
Business. 
The investigator felt that Trading 212 should have provided more notice of the removal of the 
non-compliant shares by using a different medium. She also felt that Trading 212 didnt 
notify Mr V promptly. She recommended that Trading 212 pay Mr V £50 to recognise the 
frustration caused but didnt feel that Mr V had been caused a financial loss. Trading 212 
accepted the investigators view and paid Mr V the £50. However, Mr V didnt accept the 
view. Therefore, the case passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Offering non-eligible instruments
Mr V has explained he is very concerned that non-eligible instruments were offered to be 
part of his ISA holding in the first place. Trading 212 have explained that they believed they 
were compliant when they were offered on their platform and that there isnt a specific 
procedure to approve separately each traded instrument offered with HMRC. 
However, Trading 212 monitored their supported trading instruments through their internal 
audit. And when they identified the instruments might not be eligible, they consulted with 
HMRC for clarification. Whilst I understand Mr Vs point here, Trading 212 have acted in line 
with how I would expect because they monitored the situation, sought advice and went on to 
ensure the non-eligible instruments were removed. Therefore, Im not persuaded theyve 
done anything wrong in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Notification 
In response to the view, Mr V said that Trading 212 confirmed that they used the 
notifications page on their platform and such messages do expire. However, he says he is 
able to view other historic notifications. He feels that because it was an important notification 
with implications regarding the funds he would have thought it should still be available. He 
also says they knew about the non-eligible holdings in advance but there was a four to six 
week gap and they only allowed one week for their clients to act. 
Trading 212 have explained that they sent the notification on 26 August 2020 and provided 
the information it contained. They stated that should any positions be left open by 1 
September then they would manually close them. Theyve explained that the notification was 
platform only and did not trigger any other alerts.
I do appreciate Mr V feels strongly that Trading 212 should be able to provide more 
information about the notification. And, having considered the information and comments, 
Im not persuaded Trading 212 did enough to notify Mr V in any event. This is because they 
knew the holdings were non-compliant in July 2020 but delayed notification. Also, Trading 
212 only provided a platform notification and as Mr V was being asked to take some action 
within a short period of time, I would have expected them to have also used a different 
method to ensure he saw the message. For example, an email or text alert.  
Ive carefully considered how the delay in not notifying Mr V in July 2020 has impacted him. 
Ive done this by comparing the share prices of non-eligible holdings in July 2020 to when 
they were sold. Having done so, I can see the holdings overall were sold at a greater value 
than what they would have achieved were they sold in July 2020. 
Mr V has also said he lost out because the share price increased significantly after his were 
sold. However, Trading 212 offer another account type on their platform where the funds 
could have been reinvested. This means that when the holdings were sold, Mr V could have 
reinvested the funds. As he had an execution-only relationship with Trading 212, I wouldnt 
have expected them to advise Mr V on what to do with the funds. But I can see Mr V was 
aware the holdings were sold as of 4 September 2020 so he was in a position to decide 
whether to reinvest. And that he purchased different shares with these funds. Therefore, 
from the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded Trading 212 caused Mr V a financial loss in 
respect of his long-term investments as there was an opportunity for him to reinvest in the 
same holdings before this price rise.
Closing positions without instructionIve reviewed the conditions outlined in the Share Dealing Terms of Business and can see 
Trading 212 stated they could take any action, in their reasonable discretion, which they 
consider desirable to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
 
From what Ive seen, Im content they were acting within the terms set out. Trading 212 do 
have an obligation to ensure the holdings within the ISA are compliant. They sought to notify 
their clients and as the shareholdings were still in Mr Vs account by the time specified, Im 
not persuaded Trading 212 did anything wrong when they sold the holdings. Ultimately, the 
holdings werent compliant and needed to be removed.
Nevertheless, we would expect them to have handled this fairly and I appreciate Mr V feels 
strongly about the holdings being sold without his instruction. I have already agreed that 
Trading 212 should have provided better notification of the action required of him. And this 
would have meant that Mr V was fully informed in advance. 
Putting things right
Ive concluded that the notification provided to Mr V by Trading 212 wasnt reasonable. 
Trading 212 paid Mr V the £50 recommended by the investigator to put things right. I 
appreciate Mr V is very unhappy with this and feels he has been caused a financial loss. 
However, Ive already explained why Im not persuaded this is the case.
Therefore, Im satisfied £50 appropriately recognises the frustration caused by Trading 212 
when they didnt provide sufficient notification and the shock to Mr V of finding the holdings 
had been sold. 
My final decision
Trading 212 UK Limited have paid Mr V £50. This is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint and I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman