DRN-3873564
The complaint
Mr F complains that a conditional sale agreement he had for a car with Moneybarn No.1 
Limited was unfairly terminated.
What happened
Mr F entered a conditional sale agreement for a used car with Moneybarn in February 2020. 
The purchase price was £11,467. Under the relevant terms of the agreement Mr F was 
required to pay 59 monthly repayments of £348.38 and he needed to keep the car 
comprehensively insured.
Mr Fs income was impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. He asked Moneybarn for 
assistance in March 2020 and it applied a three-month payment deferral to his account to 
cover his April, May and June 2020 instalments.  Mr F says Moneybarn agreed to grant a 
second payment deferral to cover his March, April and May 2021 instalments over the 
phone. He says he was told to ignore any arrears letters and resume payments in June 
2021. Mr F says that despite resuming his payments Moneybarn terminated his agreement 
for non-payment.
When Mr F complained to Moneybarn, it said it didnt approve the second payment deferral 
request because Mr F hadnt provided any documentation to show his income was impacted 
by Covid -19. In addition, it said Mr F was in breach of the agreement by not keeping the car 
insured, so it didnt think it had made a mistake when it terminated his agreement.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Fs complaint. He didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. He said the call notes showed that Moneybarn had asked Mr F to provide 
documentation to show his income was impacted by the pandemic. As Mr F didnt provide 
the requested documentation and failed to keep the car insured, he didnt think it made a 
mistake when it didnt approve the deferral and when it subsequently terminated the 
agreement. 
Mr F didnt think Moneybarn should have required any additional information to apply a 
second payment deferral in 2021. He wanted to keep the car, have his agreement reinstated 
and agree a repayment plan to clear the arrears. Mr F said he had explained to Moneybarn 
that the car was in the garage for repairs, and he would insure it once it was back on the 
road, in the circumstances he thought it was unfair for Moneybarn to terminate his 
agreement.
I issued a provisional decision dated 17 November 2022 setting out why I thought Mr Fs 
complaint should be partially upheld. In summary I thought Moneybarn had made a mistake 
when it didnt grant Mr F a second three-month payment deferral in 2021, as Mr F had 
explained that the new January 2021 lockdown restrictions meant he was no longer able to 
meet his clients. And he completed an income and expenditure assessment which showed a 
deficit. I thought the relevant motor finance agreements and coronavirus guidance was 
intended for customers like Mr F who were affected by the Covid-19 pandemic and required 
quick, immediate short-term support, without the need for prolonged discussions, detailed 
checks or the provision of supporting documentation.  
In the circumstances I thought it would have been fairer for Moneybarn to have granted Mr F 
a second three-month payment deferral in 2021, without requiring him to provide 
documentary evidence. However, I went on to say that I didnt think Moneybarn had made a 
mistake when it terminated Mr Fs agreement, because he had failed to keep the car insured 
as required.
I hadnt seen any call notes where the failure to insure the car was discussed but was 
satisfied that Moneybarn had included the failure to insure in Mr Fs default notice, which 
required him to provide it with a copy of a valid comprehensive insurance certificate before 6 
May 2021. Mr F didnt do this, so even if Moneybarn had correctly treated his missing 
payments as deferred and not arrears, I thought Mr F was still in breach of the agreement. 
Whilst I appreciated that Mr F said he didnt insure the car because it was in the garage, I felt 
there was still a risk of damage or theft from the garage, in the circumstances I didnt think 
Moneybarn acted unfairly when it terminated the agreement.
To put things right, I provisionally directed Moneybarn to treat the missing payments 
between April to June 2020 and March to May 2021 as deferred and remove any adverse 
information (including the default) in respect of those periods from Mr Fs credit file. I also 
said Moneybarn should come to a suitable arrangement with Mr F to repay the remaining 
deferred payments and any outstanding balance on the agreement.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wished to raise. 
Moneybarn accepts my provisional decision, Mr F hasnt responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion to that which I reached in my 
provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I think Moneybarn should have granted Mr F the second payment three-month deferral to 
cover his missing March to May 2021 payments. To put Mr F back in the position he would 
have been in, had the deferral been granted, Moneybarn should ensure that Mr Fs credit file 
accurately reflects two periods of deferrals, totalling six months and remove any adverse 
information in relation to the deferred periods. Moneybarn should also come to a suitable 
arrangement to enable Mr F to repay any remaining deferred payments and repay the 
outstanding balance.
My final decision
My decision is that I partly uphold this complaint, and I direct Moneybarn No.1 Limited to do 
the following;
treat the missing payments between April to June 2020 and March to May 2021 as 
deferred payments and remove any adverse information (including the default) from 
Mr Fs credit file, in respect of those periods. 
come to a suitable arrangement with Mr F to repay the remaining deferred payments 
and any outstanding balance on the agreement.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Karen Dennis
Ombudsman