DRN-2098611
The complaint
Mr G complains that Nationwide Building Society provided him with the wrong information 
about the interest payable on his fixed-rate bond when he surrendered it and has not paid 
him the right amount.
What happened
Mr G invested £671,539 into a two-year fixed-rate bond on 25 July 2016. He did not hold the 
bond for the full two-year period but instead surrendered it early, on 7 November 2017. He 
received £678,176 after deduction of an early access penalty.
Mr G queried the interest certificate he was provided with in 2018 which showed gross 
interest of £10,130 for the period 6 April 2017 to 7 October 2017. Nationwide acknowledged 
that it had provided the wrong information in the certificate and a further one was issued in 
January 2019 showing a figure for gross interest of £8,383.18 for the same period. But Mr G 
was unhappy with the interest he had received on surrender of his bond as he thought 
Nationwide had paid him too little.
Nationwide apologised for sending an incorrect certificate and offered Mr G £75 for the 
inconvenience caused. But it maintained that the amount Mr G had received was correct and 
that it wasnt responsible for any costs as a result of early closure of the account.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint in which I made the following findings:
Mr G said that he was entitled to a total of £682,175 less a penalty of £1,746 so that 
he had been underpaid. But although the total amount he calculated as payable was 
right, the penalty figure he has used is wrong.
The penalty payable for early surrender was 180 days of interest which amounts to 
£4,191 - not £1,746.
As interest was payable annually the interest due from the start of the second year of 
the bond (25 July 2017) was not showing in his account.
The interest payable (but not showing) together with the figure of £1,746 Mr G has 
referred to and says he was given at the time he made enquiries about surrender 
amounts to £4,191.
Mr G has received what he is entitled to on surrender, but Nationwide has not 
provided him with clear information and should pay him £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Mr G has suggested that he wouldve used a different account if he had been aware 
of the actual amount of the penalty, but I have seen no persuasive evidence he 
wouldnt have surrendered the bond anyway.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding and providing further information. Mr G 
didnt agree with my finding that he wouldnt have surrendered the bond if he had been given 
clear information about the amount of the penalty. He provided evidence of three other 
accounts he had which he says he couldve and wouldve used instead if he had been made 
aware of the penalty amount.
Nationwide didnt agree with my decision. It said:
The penalty of £4,191 can be seen on 7 November 2017 on Mr Gs account 
statements previously supplied to us.
The figure of £1,746 shown on the statements isnt a penalty but a write back of 
interest as the penalty took the accruing interest figure into a negative figure.
The difference between the actual closure figure and the closure figure without 
penalty is £4,191.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered what both parties have said and the information they have provided but 
Im not persuaded that I should depart from the findings in my provisional decision.
Mr G has said that he wouldve used money from three other accounts for what he needed 
rather than surrender the bond if he had known what the penalty was. But Im not persuaded 
it is more likely than not he wouldve done so.
He said in his complaint to Nationwide, and repeated on referral to us, that he needed an 
additional £170,000 for a house purchase and that he went into Nationwide to try and 
withdraw this amount from his bond but was told he couldnt. 
The three accounts he has provided evidence of only amount to just over £160,000. So, 
based on what he told Nationwide and us he wouldnt have been able to do what he says he 
wanted to do by cashing in the three accounts.
I note that in his response to the provisional decision he has said that he only needed 
£141,000, not the £170,000 he initially stated. But whilst that may have been how matters 
turned out Im not satisfied that at the time he spoke to Nationwide he didnt think he needed 
the £170,000 he has referred to. If that wasnt the case, I can see no reason he wouldve 
referred to that figure, both to Nationwide and us.
Even if I accepted that he only wanted £141,000 at the time he spoke to Nationwide Im 
mindful that he was happy with the amount he was told was payable to him from the bond. I 
acknowledge it is possible he mightve made a different decision if he was aware the penalty 
was greater. But given at the time he was willing to accept getting back £678,176 on an 
investment of £671,539 Im not satisfied he wouldnt have gone ahead with surrendering the 
bond rather than looking at other accounts, regardless of the penalty amount.
Nationwide has said that the figure of £1,746 shown in the statement isnt part of the penalty 
but a write back of interest because of the penalty. But I think it is suggesting a difference 
where one doesnt really exist, and that in practice they are one and the same thing.
The penalty was £4,191 and in effect this was paid by deducting the interest that had 
accrued from July 2017 to date of surrender (but which wasnt showing on the account) and 
the further amount of £1,746, being interest already paid into the account and showing as at 
July 2017. Suggesting this wasnt part of the penalty when it was deducted because of the 
penalty I think is simply playing with words.Nationwide has said that the figure of £4,191 can be seen on the statement of account as of 
7 November 2017. I acknowledge that this figure is shown as a deduction in the statement. 
But there are various other deductions shown, as well as additions. 
Nationwide may understand what is meant by the figures in the statement, but I dont think 
these wouldve been clear to Mr G. Nowhere in the statement does it show the total of the 
amount originally invested plus the interest payable to date of £682,175 or that £4,191 has 
been deducted from this to arrive at the amount paid out of £678,176.
I also think it is of note, as I said in my provisional decision, that Nationwide itself didnt 
appear to understand what it had done, as it told us when we contacted it initially that the 
penalty figure was £1,746. If the position wasnt clear to Nationwide in 2020, it cant expect it 
to have been clear to Mr G in 2017. 
Perhaps more importantly Nationwide is referring to a statement created after the bond was 
surrendered, whereas I think this complaint revolves around the information Mr G was given 
about the bond before he surrendered. So, even if the penalty amount was clear from the 
statement this doesnt affect my finding as this wasnt a figure Mr G was given when he 
spoke to Nationwide before surrender.
Putting things right
Nationwide Building Society must pay Mr G £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
which is in addition to the £75 payable for it providing the wrong interest certificate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons and to the extent I have explained above. Nationwide 
Building Society must pay the redress I have set out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman