DRN-3293987
The complaint
Mr C complains about the quality of a van he has been financing through an agreement with 
Moneybarn Limited (Moneybarn).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr C, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C acquired his van under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the van should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the supplier of the van, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a van the other relevant circumstances would include 
things like the age and mileage at the time the van was supplied to Mr C. The van here had 
already completed about 103,000 and was nearly seven years old so I think a reasonable 
person would expect quite a bit of wear and tear.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Moneybarn were responsible for the 
vans quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. 
Here Im persuaded that Moneybarn have been able to demonstrate otherwise. They 
commissioned an independent report and the engineer thought the issues identified with the 
steering and suspension were related to normal wear and tear for a vehicle of this age and 
mileage. He couldnt replicate some of the issues that Mr C complained of such as the 
warning lights or faulty door mechanism and, whilst I note he wasnt able to drive the van to 
consider if there was an issue with the gearbox, I dont think Mr C has brought any other 
significant evidence that there is such a fault. I note, in particular, that the job sheet from the 
garage that was provided in July 2021 only mentioned suspension and steering issues. That 
would suggest there wasnt a problem at that time and the absence of any related fault 
codes when the independent inspector looked at the van would support that finding.
So, overall, Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence this van was supplied in an 
unsatisfactory condition and I dont think it would be reasonable to ask Moneybarn to take 
any additional action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman