DRN-4331619
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy because Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Personal Finance 
declined his claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In December 2021 Mr D purchased a hot tub from a supplier and entered into a fixed sum 
loan agreement with Novuna.
Mr D was unhappy following the installation of the hot tub. He contacted the supplier in 
January 2022 and raised a complaint about noise from the jets, front panel clips, lights not 
working correctly, foam cover broken, kinked pipes and a faulty air jet.
Mr D was unable to resolve matters with the supplier. In December 2022 he contacted 
Novuna and asked to reject the hot tub.
Novuna investigated Mr Ds complaint. It contacted the supplier and obtained information.
In January 2023 Mr D had the hot tub inspected and obtained an inspection report. The 
report raised a number of issues but didnt confirm whether these issues were due to a 
manufacturing defect.
Novuna sent the report to the supplier. The supplier arranged to inspect the hot tub in 
February 2023. The suppliers engineer found some issues with the hot tub but said these 
werent manufacturing defects.
To resolve the complaint, the supplier offered to provide Mr D with a replacement hot tub.
Mr D didnt accept this resolution. He said hed lost faith in the supplier.
Novuna issued a final response in June 2023. It said it wasnt upholding Mr Ds complaint 
because it hadnt received any evidence which confirmed that the hot tub had a 
manufacturing defect. 
Mr D remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said she wasnt persuaded, based on the 
evidence shed seen, that the hot tub was of unsatisfactory quality. She said that although 
there were some issues with the hot tub which hadnt been resolved, she thought these 
issues were repairable, and that the suppliers offer to fully replace the hot tub was a 
reasonable resolution. The investigator said she didnt think that Novuna had acted unfairly 
or unreasonably when it declined the claim under section 75. 
Mr D didnt agree so Ive been asked to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
In order to uphold Mr Ds complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach 
of contract or a misrepresentation and that Novunas response to the claim under section 75 
wasnt fair or reasonable.
Mr D hasnt said that theres been a misrepresentation so Ive focussed on whether theres 
been a breach of contract.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant here. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. The quality of goods includes their general state and 
condition, as well as things like appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety 
and durability.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says that if goods are not of satisfactory quality, a consumer 
has the right to a repair or replacement. 
Ive thought about whether the hot tub supplied to Mr D was of satisfactory quality, and 
whether Novuna treated Mr D unfairly or unreasonably when it declined the section 75 claim.
In this case, Mr D says that the hot tub wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. 
He complained to the supplier and said there were a number of issues with the hot tub which 
included:
Front panel to be replaced because the supplier attached the clips in a wonky position 
Insulation on front to be replaced as torn by supplier to allow cabling to be fed through
Wrist jets rattling
Lights not working in correct colour order
Foam on cover lifer broken
Kinked air pipes
Air jet blowing intermittently
I can see that the supplier was in regular contact with Mr D about these issues. Visits were 
made to Mr Ds property and some repairs were carried out. The supplier provided Novuna 
with a timeline of all the visits it had made to Mr D and the repairs it had carried out. 
Mr D had the hot tub inspected in January 2023. Ive looked at the inspection report. This 
says that the hot tub has the following issues:
Damage to cover with stitching coming away from strap
Damaged cover lifter
Noisy diverter valve
Some jets in wrong place lights not working in correct colour orderWaterfall not working properly
Novuna looked at this report and said that although the report identified issues with the hot 
tub, it didnt say that these issues were manufacturing defects. Novuna sent the report to the 
supplier and asked it to comment, because several attempts at repairs had taken place. 
The supplier inspected the hot tub in February 2023. It found that one of the wrist jets was 
rattling but said this wasnt the same wrist jet that had been replaced previously. The 
engineer said the diverter valve was working as expected and the issues with the cover lifter, 
strap and torn insulation had either been replaced already or was replaceable.
Novuna asked the supplier to confirm whether the jets had been replaced because of a 
manufacturing fault. The supplier said the jets had been replaced due to wear and tear, and 
that there were no manufacturing faults with the hot tub.
Ive reviewed all of the available evidence about the issues with the hot tub. Based on what 
Ive seen, Im satisfied that there were faults with the hot tub. I say this because the issues 
identified by the report obtained by Mr D - such as the damaged cover, ripped insulation, 
rattling wrist jets and lights not working in correct order - are minor defects, which I dont 
think a reasonable person would expect to experience on a brand new hot tub. So I think its 
fair to say that the hot tub wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that theres been a breach of contract. So Ive gone on to 
consider what steps the supplier took to remedy the breach. Some repairs have been 
completed by the supplier and some are outstanding. I havent seen any evidence that the 
repairs which have been completed have been unsuccessful, so this isnt a case where Mr D 
has the right to reject because of a failed repair. The supplier has offered a replacement hot 
tub to resolve the complaint, but Mr D has declined this. Under the Consumer Rights Act 
2015 the supplier is allowed to offer a repair or a replacement to remedy a breach of 
contract. So Im unable to say that the supplier hasnt done what it is obliged to do under the 
relevant legislation.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Novuna has declined the section 75 claim 
unfairly or unreasonably. So I wont be asking them to do anything further.
I understand that Mr D is unhappy that Novuna has reported missed payments on his credit 
file. Mr D hasnt maintained his loan repayments because of the ongoing dispute about the 
hot tub. I can see that Novuna advised Mr D that he should maintain his repayments when 
he first raised his complaint. Novuna has an obligation as a lender to report accurate 
information to the credit reference agencies. Im unable to ask Novuna to remove the missed 
payment markers, because these accurately reflect the state of Mr Ds account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman