DRN-3330236
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a Total 
Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a TMPP in November 2003 when they applied for a further advance 
on their mortgage with Halifax.  They took out a further advance of £63,000 on a repayment 
basis over a 24-year term.
By way of explanation, TMPP can be split into sections  Mortgage Repayments Cover 
(which is a form of mortgage protection insurance - MRC), Life Cover, and Critical Illness 
Cover (CIC).
The MRC element of the TMPP covered Mrs S for accident sickness and unemployment. 
The life and CIC elements were set up on a level term basis and would pay a lump sum if 
either Mr or Mrs S died or were diagnosed with a critical illness. The TMPP provided for 
£63,000 worth of cover and had a 24-year term, the cost of the premium was £34.57 a 
month.
 
In April 2021 Mr and Mrs S complained to Halifax. They said that the policy was mis-sold 
because it was added without their consent and they didnt need or want the policy. 
Halifax looked into their concerns but didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said it was 
satisfied the TMPP was suitable. And that Mr and Mrs S were provided with sufficient 
information to enable them to make an informed choice as to whether or not to take out the 
TMPP. 
One of our investigators considered this complaint. He recommended we uphold the 
complaint. In short, he said Mr and Mrs S shouldve been sold a decreasing term policy and 
not a level term one. He didnt investigate the MRC part of the policy as this was looked at 
separately. In conclusion, our investigator recommended Halifax pay them the difference in 
premiums had it sold them a more suitable policy at the time.
 
Halifax agreed with our investigators opinion, but Mr and Mrs S remained unhappy. They 
maintained that the policy was added without their consent and they had no use for the life 
or CIC policy as they had a separate policy that wouldve helped in these events.
So, the matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to point out that the MRC does not form part of my decision, as noted above, it was 
investigated separately and therefore I will not make a finding about this element of the 
policy. All further references to the TMPP focus on the life and CIC only. 
I should start off by explaining that in order to uphold a complaint I need to see sufficient, 
persuasive evidence to safely conclude that a business did something wrong  and that a 
customer has suffered financially as a result. When the issue relates to something which 
happened a long time ago, there is often very little paperwork making it difficult, but not 
impossible in some cases, to safely assess what happened. 
In this case, I recognise Mr and Mrs S are adamant that they werent aware of what was 
being sold and they didnt need either element of the policy. But I simply dont consider there 
is enough evidence to conclude that Halifax, or its adviser, misled them into taking out a 
policy they didnt want. Whilst the paperwork from the time of sale is limited due to the 
passage of time, I think on balance, they were given sufficient information to know that they 
were purchasing life and CIC as part of their policy. 
I have therefore assessed whether, on balance, it was reasonable to recommend life and 
CIC for their mortgage and a protection plan as part of it. 
Halifax recommended the TMPP to Mr and Mrs S. This meant it had to make sure the policy 
was suitable, as well as giving them the information they needed to decide whether to take it 
out. Due to the length of time that has passed since the sale of the policy there is very little 
evidence from the point of sale. But I can see a point of sale document, a signed declaration 
by Mr and Mrs S before starting the plan, dated 5 November 2003 which does make 
reference to the policy. I think if this was something that Mr and Mrs S hadnt wanted or 
didnt realise, theyd been sold, they more likely than not would have raised this at the time. 
So, on balance, I think they were aware of the sale of the life and CIC policy.
Further, I dont think it was unreasonable for Halifax to recommend life and CIC to 
Mr and Mrs S, given that they were making an important financial commitment. 
Mr and Mrs S told us they had an existing assurance policy they couldve relied on. They 
have sent correspondence relating to an application for alternative cover with another 
provider, but I have not seen anything to suggest this cover was actually in place at the time 
of the advice. It follows that Im not satisfied they had alternative cover and/- or that it was 
drawn to the attention of the Halifax adviser at the time. 
I can see the cover with Halifax was set up on a level term basis  with the sum assured 
remaining constant throughout the term. 
That might have been preferable for Mr and Mrs S if, for example, they were paying their 
mortgage on an interest-only basis  where the mortgage amount stayed the same. But this 
wasnt the case; Mr and Mrs S had a repayment mortgage  with the mortgage amount 
decreasing over time. A better option for Mr and Mrs S would have been for the life and CIC 
on a reducing basis to coincide with their repayment mortgage. This would most likely have 
been a cheaper option for them. Given this would have been a cheaper option, I think its 
likely that if Mr and Mrs S were presented with this recommendation, they would have 
accepted it.
So, whilst I dont think it was unreasonable for Halifax to sell or recommend life and CIC, I do 
think it should have been done on a decreasing term basis. So, Im upholding 
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint in part. Putting things right
Halifax should put Mr and Mrs S in the position they wouldve been in had they taken out 
decreasing term life and CIC rather than level term cover. Bank of Scotland plc should: 
Pay the difference between the cost of an equivalent decreasing life and CIC term 
assurance policy and the cost of the life and CIC level term assurance policy which 
they have paid for.
Pay interest at the rate of 8% per year simple on the partial premiums refunded (as 
above) from the date each premium was paid to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. I require Bank of 
Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) to put things right for Mr and Mrs S as explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman