DRN-3013578
The complaint
Mr H (through a representative) has complained that Morses Club PLC trading as Morses 
Club (Morses) didnt carry out proper affordability checks.
 
What happened
Mr H took two home collected loans from Morses between August and November 2015. A 
summary of his borrowing, based on the information provided to us from Morses can be 
found below:
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)combined weekly 
repayment
1 £200.00 14/08/2015 outstanding 34 £10.00
2 £400.00 13/11/2015 outstanding 33 £30.00
Mr H had some problems repaying his loans and Morses has shown this Service that the 
loans were passed to a third-party collection agency in February 2017. Morses hasnt 
supplied any other information to suggest the loans have subsequently been repaid. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Hs complaint and he didnt uphold it. The adjudicator 
said, Morses had carried out proportionate checks and these checks showed it that Mr H 
was likely to be able to afford his loans. 
Morses appear to have agreed with our adjudicators opinion. 
Mr H (through his representative) disagreed asking for the case to be re-investigated. A copy 
of Mr Hs credit report was also provided at this time. 
The adjudicator went back to Mr Hs representative and explained why the credit report 
didnt change their mind about the outcome of his complaint. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the loan was provided.
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Mr H could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr H. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Morses was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
When these loans were approved, Mr H was committed to repaying Morses £10 per week 
for loan 1, and then for loan 2 he needed to repay Morses a total of £30 a week as both 
loans would be running concurrently. 
Morses, has told us Mr H had an average income of £150.00, expenditure of £37.50 and a 
disposable income of £112.50.
Based on the largest repayment to Morses of £30 per week, it wouldve looked like that Mr H 
would have been able to afford the repayments he was committed to making. 
When loan 2, was approved, Mr H still had some time left to repay loan 1, but up to this point 
there wasnt anything obvious in the repayment history for loan 1 that may have suggested 
to Morses that Mr H would struggle to repay his final loan. 
I appreciate that Mr H has provided this Service a copy of its credit report. It doesnt look like 
Morses did a credit search before these loans were approved. And it is worth noting that 
Morses wasnt required by the regulator to do a credit search before granting a loan. Neither 
is a credit search required to be conducted to a specific standard in terms of what information may or may not be gathered. But what Morses had to do was carry out a 
proportionate check as Ive outlined above. 
So, while I accept that Mr Hs credit report does show some adverse credit file information 
from around the time these loans were approved (for example, on a hire purchase 
agreement). I cant conclude, given that Morses doesnt appear to have done a credit check 
that it wouldve been aware of that adverse data. And I dont think an error was made just 
because Morses didnt do a credit search  after all, as Ive said above, it wasnt required to 
do one. 
For Mr Hs loans I think Morses carried out proportionate checks which showed Mr H was 
likely to be able to afford the repayments he was committing to making. I also havent seen 
any further information that shows its likely Morses was made aware of any financial 
problems Mr H mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to investigate 
his circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Morses to rely on the information 
it obtained and approve these loans. 
So, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed by this 
outcome., but I hope my explanation has been useful in explaining why Ive reached the 
outcome that I have.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman