DRN-4019518
The complaint
Mr K complains that Revolut Ltd did not refund all of the transactions he disputed.    
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. In summary, Mr K raised a disputed transactions claim for a series of transactions that 
took place between March and May 2022. Revolut did not agree that there was evidence of 
fraud on the account so declined to refund the transactions in question. 
Mr K referred the complaint to our service and our Investigator looked into it but did not 
agree the transactions should be refunded. They felt that it was more likely Mr K did not 
authorise the transactions himself, but that he had been grossly negligent when he did not 
safeguard his card and personal information, which was a breach of Revoluts terms and 
conditions.
Mr K disagreed and the complaint was referred to me. I issued a provisional decision in 
which I said: 
Ive considered whether it was reasonable for Revolut to hold Mr K liable for the transactions 
in question based on the information that was available to them at the time. And based on 
what Ive seen so far, I think it was.
As Revolut has pointed out, the transactions in question matched the general spending 
habits of Mr K and were not for large amounts, which is not typical of the spending on a 
compromised card. And the transactions spanned a relatively long period of time, during 
which Mr K accessed his mobile banking and made transfers from the account, so could 
have seen the transactions in question. Revolut has said this means it is unlikely fraud has 
occurred on the account. 
In addition to this, three of the transactions which Mr K flagged on 16 May 2022 as 
fraudulent and formed part of the chargeback claims were card present transactions with 
one of them being chip and pin. This means the physical card had to be used as part of the 
transaction. Mr K has been clear and consistent that his card was not taken and no other 
individuals knew his PIN number. Because of this, I can understand why Revolut has 
therefore not relied on Mr Ks testimony that another individual carried out these 
transactions, as they can see that at least three of them had to be carried out by Mr K 
himself.
On balance, based on what Ive seen so far, I currently think that it was reasonable for 
Revolut to hold Mr K liable for the transactions, based on the information that was available 
to them at the time. So I dont currently think that Revolut needs to refund the transactions to 
Mr K.
Neither Revolut or Mr K responded with any additional comments or evidence for me to 
consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party put forward any additional comments or evidence for me to consider, I see 
no reason to depart from the findings in my provisional decision. So, for the reasons set out 
above, I do not direct Revolut to refund the disputed transactions. 
 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint against Revolut Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman