DRN-2965980
The complaint
Ms P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc improperly accessed information shed given it in 
connection with a mortgage application. 
What happened
In January 2021, Ms P contacted HSBC on behalf of her employer. She then received a call 
from HSBC who asked her to confirm personal information shed previously provided HSBC 
as part of a mortgage application.
Ms P is unhappy that HSBC accessed this information. She complained to HSBC and 
referred the matter to us.
HSBC looked into this. It says that when Ms P applied for her mortgage, a customer number 
and profile was created to allow the application to be processed and recorded. In the normal 
way of things, this would remain on HSBCs systems for up to six years.
After Ms P contacted HSBC on behalf of her employer, a member of staff found and 
accessed this personal profile. HSBC agrees it shouldnt have done this  this information 
was provided for the purposes of a mortgage application, and not for other purposes. It has 
offered £250 for the stress and inconvenience it caused.
Our investigator looked at this and thought what HSBC had offered was fair. Ms P doesnt 
agree  she thinks she should get more. The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC agrees it has done something wrong  so I wont look further at that in this decision. I 
need to decide whether what HSBC has offered is fair. 
Im satisfied Ms P hasnt lost out financially because of what HSBC did. But I can also award 
compensation for pain and suffering, distress or inconvenience.
Ms P says she felt absolutely violated. She says she was extremely unnerved when the 
representative of HSBC contacted her knowing her date of birth and home address. Shes 
unhappy that HSBC allowed its staff member to access her personal data when she was 
calling on behalf of her employer. And she says that if the situation were reversed, and she 
used her own employers systems to access the personal details of people she was 
contacting at HSBC, she would be sacked.
I recognise the impact all this has had on Ms P. Equally, any award I make is not intended to 
punish HSBC. While I acknowledge what Ms P has said about HSBCs processes generally 
together with whether it has complied with its obligations under the General Data Protection 
Regulation (GDPR), the enforcement of GDPR and punishing HSBC for any breaches that 
may have occurred would be a matter for the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
Thinking about the impact of what happened on Ms P, Im satisfied that the £250 HSBC has 
offered is more than fair. I dont doubt Ms P found what happened distressing. But she hasnt 
lost out financially and I havent seen anything to suggest that this has had an ongoing 
impact on Ms P beyond what shes already mentioned. 
Ms P is concerned HSBC may have also accessed the personal information of her partner 
and children  as they were also mentioned in her mortgage application form. Weve asked 
HSBC about this. It says the only information accessed was Ms Ps individual profile  which 
included her details but not the entire mortgage application. And I havent seen any evidence 
to suggest Ms Ps partner or childrens details were accessed, so this doesnt change my 
conclusion.
In all the circumstances, HSBC has offered fair compensation. I make no additional award.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc has offered fair compensation for improperly 
accessing the information from Ms Ps personal mortgage application. It should now pay 
Ms P £250 if it hasnt already. I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman