DRN-3651994
The complaint
Miss W complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) didnt cancel a standing order in line with her 
instructions and says this caused her financial loss.
What happened
Miss W holds a current account and a savings account with TSB. At the time she opened the 
savings account, TSB was running an interest offer which meant that it would pay a certain 
rate of interest if Miss W met certain criteria. One of the criteria was that £500 needed to be 
paid into the account each month. 
In order to qualify for the offer, Miss W set up two standing orders. The first standing order 
was to pay £500 from the current account to the savings account each month. The second 
standing order transferred the £500 straight back to the current account on the same day. So 
the requirement for £500 to be paid into the savings account was satisfied, but the balance 
of Miss Ws accounts didnt change.
In November 2021, Miss W asked TSB to cancel both standing orders. But only the 
payments from the current account to the savings account were cancelled. TSB accepts that 
it didnt cancel the payments from the savings account to the current account. So, £500 was 
transferred out of Miss Ws savings account in December 2021 and again in January 2022. 
But there were no corresponding credits to the savings account. So the balance of the 
savings account reduced by £1,000. The current account was credited with these funds.
Miss W says she didnt notice the December payment into her current account and thought 
the January payment was from a third party who owed her money. She says she spent a lot 
of the money on Christmas and birthday presents, not realising it was her own savings. 
In January 2022, Miss W became aware that the standing order hadnt been cancelled and 
that her savings account balance was £1,000 less than she thought. She was very upset 
about this and says it meant she couldnt afford to buy a car which shed agreed to buy for a 
relative. She complained to TSB and asked it to pay £1,000 into her savings account.
TSB apologised for not cancelling the standing order and offered compensation of £50. Miss 
W wasnt happy with that and brought the complaint to this service. Our Investigator 
recommended that TSB pay compensation of £300. But Miss W says that TSB should give 
her the full £1,000. She asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB accepts that it made a mistake by not cancelling both standing orders. So my decision 
focuses on the impact of that mistake and what TSB needs to do to put things right. Its not 
disputed that Miss Ws savings account balance was reduced by £1,000 because the 
standing order wasnt cancelled. The money was transferred to Miss Ws current account. 
So it was still available to her and could have been returned to the savings account with 
minimal impact.
But Miss W didnt notice that the funds had come from her savings account and the money 
was spent before she realised. So the savings account cant easily be put back in the 
position it would have been in if the standing order had been cancelled. Miss W says that 
TSB should pay the £1,000 into her savings account and Ive thought about whether that 
would be a fair and reasonable resolution. I dont think it would and Ill explain why.
Although TSB made a mistake by failing to cancel both standing orders, I dont think its fully 
responsible for the fact that this money has been spent. I think its reasonable to expect Miss 
W to monitor her accounts and to have a good idea of how much money she has available in 
her current account for spending. 
Miss W has explained that December was an extremely busy time. She says she didnt 
notice the payment that month as she only looked briefly at her balance, not the 
transactions. I think thats understandable. But the amount credited was £500, transferred as 
one payment. That wouldve had a significant impact on the current account balance. I think 
its reasonable to expect Miss W to have known roughly how much money she had available 
to spend at that time and to have noticed that her balance was more than expected. 
If shed queried this at the time or looked at the transactions, she would have realised that 
the money had come from her savings account. This may have prevented it being spent in 
December and would likely have meant that the standing order would have been cancelled 
at that point, stopping the January one from going out.
In relation to the January payment, Miss W says she noticed the money in her account but 
thought it had come from a third party who owed her a significant amount of money. I think 
thats understandable, especially as Miss W was expecting to be reimbursed following a 
conversation about it in November 2021. But if shed looked at the entry on her account, she 
would have seen that the money came from her savings account, not the third party. 
Miss W says she spent the money thinking it was repayment of what was owed to her, not 
her own savings. But the savings will be recovered if the third party pays Miss W what they 
owe her. I understand thats looking unlikely now and I sympathise with Miss W about this. 
But its not TSBs fault if she cant recover that money.
However, I think Miss W should have been able to rely on TSB to cancel both standing 
orders in line with her instructions. She says it told her over the phone that the standing 
orders had been cancelled and she trusted it. I can understand that point of view. 
Also, I find it likely that the situation went unnoticed by Miss W because one of the standing 
orders had been cancelled. If neither standing order had been cancelled, the account 
balances wouldnt have been affected. And if the standing order paying money out of the 
current account had carried on but the payments from the savings account had stopped, I 
think its likely Miss W would have noticed early on. I think shed have seen that her balance 
was £500 lower than expected or wouldnt have been able to make purchases because of it. 
But the standing order from the current account had stopped. I wouldnt necessarily expect 
Miss W to check her savings account as frequently as her current account. So I think it was 
reasonable for her to assume that both standing orders had stopped. Essentially, I think the 
fact that the standing order from the current account had been cancelled made it less likely 
that Miss W would notice straight away that something had gone wrong.She says if shed known the funds were from her savings account, she wouldnt have spent 
them. I dont think Miss W would have spent all that she did if both standing orders had been 
cancelled. But I dont think TSB could have foreseen that she would spend all the money, 
nor that shed be unable to recover what shes owed from the third party. So I dont think 
TSB is responsible for the full impact here. 
I agree with our Investigator that £50 isnt enough to put things right. As well as being out of 
pocket, Miss W has had the distress of discovering that her savings have been diminished, 
making it all the more important that she is reimbursed by the third party and adding stress 
to that situation. She has suffered embarrassment and inconvenience in relation to the car 
purchase and has had to pursue the complaint as she wasnt satisfied with TSBs response. 
On balance, I think £300 would be a fair amount of compensation here. I realise Miss W 
doesnt think thats enough and Im sorry to disappoint her. But, for the reasons above, I 
dont think TSB needs to pay more.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. TSB Bank plc should pay Miss W 
compensation of £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman