DRN-4406315
The complaint
The estate of Mrs A has complained about BUPA Insurance Limiteds (Bupas) refusal to 
pay some NHS cash benefit under the late Mrs As private medical insurance cover. 
The estate is represented by Mr A.
What happened
Mrs A held private medical insurance cover with Bupa. This paid NHS cash benefit for NHS 
in-patient treatment of £100 a night (up to 50 nights a year).
Mrs A was admitted to an NHS accident & emergency (A&E) department on three separate 
occasions. On each of those occasions, she was transferred to a general NHS ward where 
she remained until being discharged. 
A claim was made for NHS cash benefit, and Bupa paid this for the nights Mrs A had been 
admitted as an in-patient. However, it refused to pay benefit for the nights where Mrs A had 
stayed in A&E. Unhappy with this, Mr A brought a complaint to this Service on behalf of 
Mrs As estate.
Our investigator ultimately recommended the complaint be partly upheld. She thought Mr A 
had provided evidence to support that Mrs A had remained in A&E for one night due to a 
lack of beds on the general ward. She therefore recommended that Bupa pay NHS cash 
benefit for one further night, plus interest.
Neither party accepted our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says:
We pay NHS cash benefit for each night you receive in-patient treatment provided to you 
free under the NHS. We only pay NHS cash benefit if your treatment would otherwise have 
been covered for private in-patient treatment under your benefits.
And 
We do not pay for any treatment, including immediate care received during a visit to an NHS 
or private accident and emergency department...
Bupa has already accepted that for each in-patient stay, Mrs As treatment would otherwise 
have been covered for private in-patient treatment (as NHS cash benefit has been paid for 
each admission). I therefore dont need to consider this point, and will only consider whether 
Bupa should pay NHS cash benefit for the nights that Mrs A spent in A&E. 
Ill consider each of these in turn.
27 October 
Mrs A was admitted to A&E on 27 October. She then moved to a general ward on 
29 October and was discharged from hospital on 30 October. 
Bupa paid NHS cash benefit for two nights (28 October and 29 October). It refused to pay for 
27 October as Mrs A had stayed in A&E that night. Although I understand that Mrs A 
remained in A&E overnight on 28 October, I see that Bupa has paid NHS cash benefit for 28 
October, so I only need to consider 27 October.
Information from the hospital says that October and November are two of their busiest 
months where delays are long, creating extreme bed pressures/reduced discharges within 
the trust. They confirmed that was the case when Mrs A was under their care in A&E, and 
she had to wait over 24 hours for a bed to become available. 
Later information from the hospital confirmed that Mrs A spent so long in A&E because there 
wasnt a bed for her on the ward, despite the indication for admission being identified on 27 
October. 
Bupa says this information doesnt explain what treatment was provided, nor why Mrs A was 
admitted to A&E. However, the hospital discharge summary makes it clear that Mrs A had 
attended A&E with a dislocated hip, and that she later had surgery for this.
I agree with our investigator that the evidence from the hospital supports that Mrs A would 
have been moved to a general ward and admitted as an in-patient on 27 October, if not for 
the hospital delays in allocating a bed. That being the case, I find that Bupa should pay NHS 
cash benefit for 27 October on a fair and reasonable basis. 
2 November 
Mrs A was admitted to A&E (at a different hospital to the 27 October and 13 November 
admissions) on 2 November. She then moved to a surgical ward on 3 November and was 
discharged from hospital on 6 November. 
Bupa paid NHS cash benefit for three nights (3  5 November). It has refused to pay for 2 
November as Mrs A had stayed in A&E that night. 
Ive read a letter provided by the hospital. This says that Mrs A arrived by ambulance on 2 
November, she was triaged and had x-rays and bloods taken in the evening. She was then 
waiting for a surgical review with a doctor. The surgical review took place on 3 November, 
and it was confirmed the hospital were waiting for a surgical bed/theatre slot. Mrs A was then 
admitted to the surgical ward later that morning. 
The evidence doesnt show that Mrs A was ready to be moved from A&E on 2 November, 
and that this didnt happen because of delays at the hospital. 
Mr A thinks it is clear from the hospital timeline that Mrs A was waiting for a bed. However, 
that was in the early hours of 3 November, and not the night of 2 November. I therefore dont require Bupa to pay NHS cash benefit for 2 November, as Mrs A wasnt 
admitted as an in-patient until 3 November. 
13 November 
Mrs A was admitted to A&E on 13 November. She then moved to the general ward on 14 
November and was discharged from hospital on 18 November. 
Bupa paid NHS cash benefit for five nights (13  17 November). Its not clear why Bupa paid 
NHS cash benefit for Mrs As overnight stay in A&E for 13 November and not for the earlier 
dates. However, I dont agree with Mr A that Bupa has set a precedent here, and should 
automatically pay for Mrs As A&E stays of 27 October and 2 November because of this. 
Bupa may well have paid for 13 November in error. However, as this has been paid, I dont 
need to consider this further.
Representative costs
Mr A says he wants Bupa to pay an additional £200 to recognise the cost of his time that he 
has spent on the matter. 
First of all, we dont usually award compensation for time spent on making a complaint or 
gathering evidence to support that complaint. But in any event, we can only award 
compensation to eligible complainants, and as a representative of an estate, Mr A isnt an 
eligible complainant according to our rules. That means we cant take into account any 
inconvenience caused to Mr A when representing Mrs As estate. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. I require BUPA Insurance Limited to 
pay NHS cash benefit for 27 October. Interest* should be added at the rate of 8% simple per 
annum calculated one month after the claim was made to the date of settlement.
* If Bupa considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell the estate of Mrs A how much its taken off. It should also give the 
estate of Mrs A a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs A 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman