DRN-2316133
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a package bank account (PBA). 
What happened
Mr and Mrs K had had a bank account with Lloyds since at least 1995. In 1999 they switched 
from a fee-free account to a Select account, which was a PBA. It cost £4 per month and the 
benefits included no fees or interest on any approved overdraft up to £50, and car roadside 
assistance insurance. 
Mr and Mrs K also changed to a different PBA in 2007, and they are unhappy with the 
information they were given about that. But my fellow ombudsman has decided that we cant 
look into that part of the complaint, because of the rules on time limits. So Im looking only at 
the sale of the Select PBA which started in 1999. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence about the Select account, and they said they 
thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs K didnt agree, and so the matter has 
been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs K are particularly unhappy that they didnt realise the Select account gave 
only basic breakdown cover. Ive considered this point, and also generally looked at 
whether the PBA was mis-sold. 
Ive not seen any evidence that Lloyds didnt make clear that Mr and Mrs K had a choice 
about taking the Select account; nor that it wasnt clear there would be a charge. And Mr 
and Mrs K arent saying this anyway. 
Its not clear to me whether Lloyds recommended the Select PBA to Mr and Mrs K  that is, 
in the sense of saying it had looked at their circumstances and thought the PBA was suitable 
for their individual needs. But, if Lloyds did recommend it, I dont think it was an 
inappropriate recommendation. The main benefit was the breakdown insurance, and Mr and 
Mrs K did have a car, so could potentially have benefited from this. 
I cant be sure how good the information was that Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs K about the PBA. 
Although, at the very least, it appears that the cost of the account, and that it provided 
breakdown cover, was explained to Mr and Mrs K at the time. 
I know Mr and Mrs K have said they didnt realise this was basic breakdown cover. But the 
Select account was sold to them over twenty years ago. So I think theres a likelihood that 
their recollections of the sale may not be strong  for example, in our questionnaire they say 
they dont recall how the account was sold to them. 
I also think its possible that their recollections of the sale may relate to the more recent PBA 
sale. I say this as Mr and Mrs K have repeatedly referred to them not being told about the 
need to declare pre-existing medical conditions to the travel insurer when the account was 
sold to them. But travel insurance was not a feature of the Select account. It was only a 
benefit on the Platinum account. And, as already established above, the sale of the more 
recent Platinum account is something that our service is unable to consider. 
In addition to my concerns about the strength of Mr and Mrs Ks recollections of the sale, I 
understand the Select account breakdown cover could have been upgraded for an extra fee. 
And I think its likely Lloyds would have pointed this out to Mr and Mrs K, had they asked 
what level of cover it provided, or said that having comprehensive cover was important to 
them.
So, when weighing everything up, I am unable to conclude that its likely that Lloyds misled 
Mr and Mrs K into thinking that the Select account provided higher levels of breakdown 
cover then it actually did. Because of this, I dont think the Select account was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman