DRN-3355899
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as P, complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc handled its 
applications for a Bounce Back Loan.
 
Ps director, Mr Z, brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
P applied for a Bounce Back Loan in May 2020. In the weeks that followed, Mr Z contacted 
HSBC for an update. Hed not heard back from the bank about the status of Ps application, 
and he wanted to know if it had been successful or not. 
As time went on, Mr Z became unhappy at the continued delay and lack of information about 
Ps application. So, in August, he complained. In response, HSBC said that Ps application 
would be reviewed as soon as possible. The bank couldnt guarantee when this would 
happen, though, because it said it had received such high demand for borrowing under the 
Bounce Back Loan Scheme.
 
Mr Z was still unhappy. He said he hadnt received anything from HSBC and felt that Ps 
application was being ignored. He also said that the banks delays had led to P incurring 
some losses. Specifically, that P had been unable to purchase a more economical vehicle 
and that it hadnt been able to hire additional staff to bring in more business. So, he referred 
Ps complaint to our service.
 
In due course, an investigator here looked at what had happened. He saw that HSBC had 
since acknowledged the delays and poor service, offering P £300 in compensation for the 
inconvenience. P had declined the offer. The investigator could also see that P had made a 
second application in November, but it hadnt ever received a Bounce Back Loan and the 
Scheme had now ended. 
The investigator found that the bank had, in fact, approved P for a Bounce Back Loan in 
September and November 2020. He could also see that the bank had sent P two 
Facility Offer Letters (loan agreements) at the time, but that neither agreement had been 
accepted and returned by P.
The investigator considered what Mr Z had said about not receiving any response from 
HSBC, and he thought that the bank shouldve done more to help. He referenced a particular 
call that was made to the bank in October. The investigator said that, in this call, Mr Z 
seemed to be unaware of the loan agreement that had been sent to P. So, HSBC shouldve 
resent it. But it hadnt, and nor had it taken any other action.
 
Further, the investigator also thought that the length of time P had waited for a decision was 
unreasonable even taking into account the unprecedented circumstances of the pandemic. 
He thought the bank hadnt ever been very clear on what was happening and, as a result, 
felt that P had been put to some considerable inconvenience. 
To resolve the complaint, the investigator asked HSBC to increase its offer of compensation 
to £500. He also said that the bank should let P reapply for a Bounce Back Loan. But the 
investigator didnt agree that the bank should cover the consequential losses P had cited, 
because Mr Z hadnt provided sufficient evidence to support the claim.
 
HSBC said it accepted the recommendation to increase the offer of compensation, but it 
didnt agree to let P reapply for a Bounce Back Loan. The bank said the Scheme was now 
closed, and it could show that it had sent two loan agreements to P by email  to the correct 
email address  but P hadnt taken any action to accept and return them, so the offers had 
expired. HSBC also said it had told Mr Z that P could reapply during a phone call in 
January 2021, but P hadnt done so. The bank had also double-checked Ps email address 
during the call, which Mr Z confirmed was correct.
 
In light of HSBCs comments, our investigator reconsidered what hed initially recommended. 
He agreed that HSBC had sent two loan agreements to Ps correct email address, but P 
hadnt then taken any action. He also accepted that the bank had explained to Mr Z that P 
could reapply in January 2021. But it hadnt done so.
 
So, overall, the investigator didnt think HSBC was responsible for P not receiving a 
Bounce Back Loan  and nor did he think it was unreasonable of the bank not to allow a 
further application after the Scheme had closed. Mr Z disagreed, he said that he didnt 
accept what the investigator had explained  and the amount of compensation offered didnt 
cover Ps expenses. 
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly similar 
reasons. Ill explain why.
P initially applied for a Bounce Back Loan in May 2020, before submitting a further 
application in November. Mr Z has said that he didnt receive any response from the bank, 
which caused P to miss out on a Bounce Back Loan and incur some financial losses as a 
consequence. 
Ive reviewed HSBCs internal records, and I can see that the bank approved P for a 
Bounce Back Loan in September and November 2020. HSBC generated and sent two loan 
agreements, which needed to be accepted within 10 business days, to Ps correct email 
address. But the offers expired because P didnt respond. 
Ive not seen anything which leads me to conclude that either email was returned or was 
undeliverable. In fact, HSBC has also been able to show that P did read the loan agreement 
it was sent in November, but not until February 2021 when it was too late to accept.
There wasnt any obligation for HSBC to chase P and confirm that it had received a loan 
agreement, or whether P accepted it or not. Nor do I think it wouldve been reasonable for the bank to do so, given the unprecedented demand that it faced for borrowing under the 
Scheme. And taking all of this into consideration, I dont think that HSBC was ultimately 
responsible for Ps Bounce Back Loan applications not progressing. Instead, it seems that P 
didnt take the necessary steps to complete the process  on both occasions  so the loan 
could be drawn down.
Aside from the two applications that P made in 2020, I know Mr Z has also said the bank 
later told him P couldnt reapply because hed referred a complaint to this service. But 
HSBCs contact notes show me that, during a call in January 2021, Mr Z was told P could 
reapply. And Ive not seen anything else which leads me to conclude that the bank wouldnt 
have allowed a further application from P because it had raised a complaint. 
With that in mind, Im satisfied that P had an opportunity to reapply when the Scheme was 
still open. So, I dont think the banks decision not to allow a further application from P after 
the Scheme had closed was unreasonable.
  
Having said all of that, I do think HSBCs overall handling of Ps initial application could have 
been better. While I know the bank was experiencing significant operational challenges at 
the time, it still took around four months for it to reach a decision. And I think P was entitled 
to expect a quicker response than that, as envisaged under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. 
Ive also seen that, while he was waiting, Mr Z contacted the bank on several occasions to 
chase things up. Our investigator referenced one particular call, which Mr Z made in 
October. Ive listened to a recording of it, and the adviser said shed organise for the loan 
agreement issued in September to be resent, but Ive not seen that it was  or that any other 
action was taken. So, although I dont think HSBCs lack of action during this call was the 
ultimate reason P didnt receive a Bounce Back Loan, I do think the bank couldve done 
more to assist at the time.
 
The bank already accepts that it couldve done better and that it put P to some 
inconvenience, so its now offered to pay P £500 in compensation. Mr Z has said that he 
doesnt think thats enough because it doesnt cover the consequential losses P incurred. 
Ive considered everything hes said on these points but, given I dont think HSBC were 
responsible for P not receiving a Bounce Back Loan, it follows that I dont think the bank 
should be liable for any costs that P incurred as a result of not getting one.
   
On that basis, all I can fairly require HSBC to compensate P for is the inconvenience it was 
caused. And to that end, I think the £500 already offered by the bank is a fair and reasonable 
amount to reflect the inconvenience caused by HSBCs actions.
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay P £500 to settle this complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, I uphold this complaint and I require 
HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay P a total of £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman