DRN-2743803
The complaint
Mr R complains that The One Stop Money Shop Limited was irresponsible in its lending to 
him.
What happened
In September 2020, One Stop Money Shop provided Mr R with a loan for £400. The loan 
was repayable over six monthly instalments. Mr R says that at the time of the loan he was 
already experiencing severe financial hardship and was surprised when his application for 
the loan was accepted. He says he had several other loans outstanding at the time and a 
very low credit score. He thinks that had adequate checks taken place the loan wouldnt 
have been provided.
Mr R also complains that One Stop Money Shop wasnt supportive when he couldnt make 
the repayments and took him to court without reasonable warning.
One Stop Money Shop issued a final response letter dated 21 January 2021. It says that 
before the loan was provided it undertook affordability and credit checks using information 
provided by Mr R and third parties. It says that Mr R declared a monthly income of £2,500 
and this was verified. It says Mr R provided information about his expenses and after 
carrying out a credit check these were increased to £1,550 to reflect the higher amounts that 
needed to be included to reflect his credit commitments. It says it was reasonable to rely on 
the information it had received from Mr R alongside its checks and that his credit score was 
safely above its minimum threshold. It says based on the information it had the loan was 
affordable.
One Stop Money Shop says that no repayments were made and so a default notice was 
sent and pre-action protocol letter.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that given the amount borrowed, the 
repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Rs circumstances at the time and that 
this was Mr Rs first loan, he didnt think it wouldve been proportionate for One Stop Money 
Shop to have asked for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable. He noted that One Stop Money Shop included a higher amount for Mr Rs 
expenditure than Mr R declared, and he didnt think there was anything in the information 
One Stop Money Shop received that shouldve meant it was required to carry out any further 
verification.
Mr R didnt accept our adjudicators view. He said that when he requested the loan he was 
asked to provide copies of his bank statements at which time he says he told One Stop 
Money Shop he didnt want the loan. But he says he was then told the loan would be 
provided without the statements.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
One Stop Money Shop needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to 
make sure that Mr R could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the 
repayment amounts and the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that One Stop Money Shop should fairly and 
reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that One Stop Money Shop was required 
to establish whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R was only provided with one loan by One Stop Money Shop and so there was no 
previous lending history. Before the loan was provided Mr R was asked about his income 
and expenses. One Stop Money Shop said Mr Rs declared monthly income was £2,500 and 
his expenses were £820. At this stage in the relationship it wouldnt be unreasonable for One 
Stop Money Shop to have relied on the information it was given unless it had concerns about 
this. In this case Mr Rs income was verified and following a credit search his expenses were 
increased to reflect this other credit commitments. I find these checks, and the action taken 
in response to the information received, reasonable.
Mr R has said that his credit score was very low at the time of the loan. I have looked at the 
credit information received by One Stop Money Shop. This shows that Mr R had several 
accounts that had defaulted. However, these were historic (mainly in 2018) and while I would expect this to be considered I do not find it means the loan shouldnt have been provided. 
One Stop Money Shop has said that Mr Rs credit score was at an acceptable level and 
based on the information I have seen I find the checks were proportionate.
The information received from Mr R and the external checks suggested the loan was 
affordable and based on what I have seen I do not find I can say that One Stop Money Shop 
was wrong to provide this loan.
Mr R has said that One Stop Money Shop hasnt been supportive of him while he is in 
financial difficulties. One Stop Money Shop has said that after Mr R missed his payments it 
tried to contact him by telephone, text and email but that Mr R didnt respond to its contact 
attempts. A default notice was issued, and Mr R was sent a pre-action letter. On balance, I 
find that Mr R was provided with the information he needed to understand the situation on 
his account and the actions that would be taken if payment wasnt made by the required 
time. I appreciate this has been an upsetting process for Mr R, but I havent got anything to 
show that he informed One Stop Money Shop that he was in financial difficulties before the 
default letter was issued or evidence that he has been treated unfairly. 
One Stop Money Shop has explained that since a judgement was obtained it has arranged 
to accept 75% of Mr Rs contractual payment. As One Stop Money Shop is aware of Mr Rs 
financial difficulties it should continue to ensure that he is treated positively and 
sympathetically regarding any outstanding balance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against The One Stop Money Shop 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman