DRN-2187084
The complaint
Mr L complains that U K Insurance Limited trading as Green Flags (Green Flag) service
provider allowed him to carry on driving following a call out on his roadside recovery
insurance. He says that this caused further damage to the car which he couldnt afford to
have repaired.
What happened
Mr L had a breakdown recovery policy with Green Flag, he paid for the higher level of cover
(recovery plus) when he bought the policy. The higher cover meant in the event of his car
breaking down he would be covered to have his car and its passengers recovered to his
preferred destination, he could also be entitled to choose between a hire car or the cost of
alternative transport or overnight accommodation.
Mr L was on a break with his family, around three hundred miles away from home when he
had to call on Green flag as the engine management warning light came on in his car. Green
flag attended Mr Ls call out and carried out a temporary repair to the camshaft sensor.
The following day, when Mr L was driving him and his family on the 300 mile trip home, the
car had a warning light come on. The warning light was for oil pressure and the onboard
computer advised to Stop and turn off engine. Mr L followed the instructions and called for
assistance from Green Flag through its online app. He took pictures of the warning light to
show the recovery agent. When the recovery agent attended the light had gone out.
Mr L says the recovery agent reset the sensor and asked him to sign an electronic job sheet
on a hand held device to confirm he had attended. He says when he was handed the device
to sign the screen was a blank box for his signature and there was nothing else showing on
the screen that he could see.
Mr L says that he asked if he would be ok to drive, as he still had the majority of his journey
left and the agent confirmed that it would be ok for him to continue driving. Mr L says he
specifically asked this as he had his wife and daughter in the car with him.
Mr L signed the electronic job sheet and carried on with his journey home. A short distance
on from this Mr Ls car broke down again and the engine had smoke coming from it. Mr L
called for assistance from Green Flag, it arranged to have the car recovered to local garage
and provided a hire car to Mr L and his family to continue their journey home.
Mr L was traumatised by the situation and decided to stay overnight in a hotel and continue
his journey the following day.
The local garage provided a diagnosis for Mr Ls car  it said:
the engine had failed due to low oil pressure which has seized and snapped cylinder
4 conrod and damaged the sump. Replacement engine required.
Mr L complained to Green Flag  he said that he felt that when he called for assistance on
the second occasion the recovery agent should have advised him not to drive and arranged
for his car to be recovered to his home at that point. He felt the damage to his car was worse
than it wouldve been had this happened.
To put things right Mr L asked for Green Flag to cover the cost of the damage as well as the
hotel and food costs, he incurred because of the breakdown.
Green Flag investigated Mr Ls complaint in relation to the damage, it said Mr L had signed
the electronic job sheet which had a number of tick boxes, two of which had been ticked 
these said:
PROVISIONAL DIAGNOSIS  I accept that the fault suggested is using the best
capabilities at the roadside, a full workshop diagnosis is necessary to confirm the
fault. I have been advised not to authorise any repairs or purchase any parts without
further diagnosis.
DO NOT DRIVE  I acknowledge that due to the nature of the fault with my vehicle I
have been advised not to drive the vehicle and that further damage may be caused if
I attempt to drive it
It checked with the recovery agent that attended and it said that Mr L had insisted on
continuing his journey despite the advice not to drive. It also said that as the oil light was no
longer on when the agent attended so the agent didnt check the oil as Mr L had advised that
the car had gone into limp mode.
Based on the above, Green Flag didnt think that it was responsible for any damage caused
to Mr Ls car by him continuing to drive, so didnt uphold his complaint in this respect but did
award him compensation for the length of time it took to deal with his complaint. Mr L
remained dissatisfied with this answer and so brought his complaint to our service.
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint  they felt that Green Flag was right to rely
on the electronic job sheet to show Mr L had been advised not to continue driving. As Mr L
didnt agree with the investigators findings the matter has been passed to me to decide.
Initial findings
My initial findings below, were originally set out in my provisional decision.
I have discussed this case with both Mr L and Green Flag to gain a better understanding of
what happened here and whats happened since. During these conversations I tried to see if
we could resolve matters informally, Mr L was open to mediation, but Green Flag maintained
its position.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
I havent seen a job sheet from the first call out, but I have seen the notes on Green Flags
system and the communication it had with the first agent. The notes from the first agent say:
good morning , we attended this one in a car park with amber warning light on eml
lamp , we scanned system and found a /intermitant crank shaft sensor fault , this was
cleared and engine ran no probs although we always recommend this may be worth
further investigation by members garage , the fault code was linked to a small
electrical sensor and in no way linked to anything mechanical. At the time of the test
there was no concern or any reason for any engine fault whatsoever just acompletely routine scan log fault and clear.[sic]
So, there was no reason for Mr L to think that his car wouldnt be ok to make the journey
home the following day.
This dispute centres around the second call out. Mr L says he was told it was ok to drive and
Green Flag, backed up by the electronic job sheet, says Mr L was advised against it.
I have considered the evidence provided by Green Flag including the electronic job sheet
and its own internal notes against the testimony given by Mr L. And Im more persuaded by
Mr Ls testimony, Ill explain.
In summary Mr Ls testimony to me was as follows:
He requested assistance through the Green Flag app as his oil pressure light had come on
and the display unit told him to stop the engine. The agent attended and reset a sensor and
asked him to sign an electronic document on a hand held device, he could only see the
signature box but signed as the agent said it just confirmed he had attended the call. Mr L
then asked if he was safe to continue his journey as he had his family with him and wanted
to be sure they would be ok. He says the agent assured him it was ok to drive. Mr L said the
agent did not check the oil level on the car. He says he paid for the highest cover available
for just this sort of thing happening so he and his family would never be stranded.
Although the job sheet has a box that was ticked by the attending agent the notes on the job
sheet also made by the agent are contradictory, they say:
Camshaft sensor on cleared sensor advised of fault customers happy to carry on
there journey at own risk [sic]
If the fault was just a sensor as the notes suggest and Mr Ls testimony supports this is what
the agent told him, then it seems odd that the agent would then advise Mr L not to drive
onwards.
Green Flags internal notes also suggest that this advice seems at odds with the
fault listed.
Mr L requested the assistance due to the oil pressure warning light coming on in his car, but
the agent didnt check the oil pressure on the car according to the notes, which again seems
odd given thats the reason for assistance being requested. When Green Flag investigated
this the agent advised he didnt check the oil as the light had gone out by the time he arrived,
and the car had gone into limp mode.
Given this statement I find it hard to believe that Mr L who:
i. had his wife and daughter in the car at the time; and
ii. had cover that would provide transport for him and recovery of his car
would choose to ignore the advice given by the agent and try to make the three hours plus
journey back home in a car that was in limp mode.
As I wasnt present at the time, I have no way of being sure of the conversation that took
place on the day, but Mr Ls testimony seems to me more plausible given all the
circumstances.
As we know following Mr L trying to continue his journey his engine suffered a failure and hewas eventually recovered home. The diagnosis from his home garage was that the car
needed a new or reconditioned engine.
Mr L accepts that there was a fault with the car at the point he asked for assistance, but he
feels if he had not driven on then maybe the engine wouldnt have failed so completely. As
Mr L has since disposed of the car there is no way to determine how much of the damage
was caused by this.
Mr L has provided evidence that he received £80 for the scrap value of the vehicle, he was
then without a vehicle for many months until a family member recently gave him a car, they
no longer used. Mr L has used public transport during this time.
Given that the car is no longer around and so the extent of liability cannot be looked into I
think the fairest way to settle this complaint is for Green Flag to pay Mr L the value of the
vehicle.
The trade guides show the cars value at the time to be: Cazana £1,467; CAP £1,672;
Glasses £1,990 giving an average of £1,709 which should be paid to Mr L. Green Flag is
entitled to deduct the £80 Mr L received for the scrap value of the vehicle, from this figure.
The policy entitled Mr L to either a hire car or overnight accommodation, as Green Flag
provided a hire car to Mr L it is not required to cover his hotel costs or expenses for that
evening.
Ive considered Mr Ls thoughts on his travel expenses, but I dont think Green Flag are
responsible for these as he would have always incurred some monthly cost to travel,
whether this be by car or by public transport.
Given the anxiety caused to Mr L by the event itself and the inconvenience caused to him by
having to use public transport Green Flag should also pay Mr L £150 compensation.
In my provisional decision I invited both parties to let me have anything in response they 
thought was relevant.
Mr L responded saying he accepted my findings and had nothing further to add.
Green Flag disagreed in summary it said:
It felt the signed job sheet confirming that policy holder was continuing at he own risk 
 and that it said not to drive would usually be enough evidence to rely on. It said it 
understood the point about the camshaft sensor but thought the commentary 
indicated a conversation about if the car was safe to drive had taken place.
If the case is going to be upheld, then it thought there should be a deduction from the 
market value as there was clearly a fault with the car before the final failing of the 
engine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as set out in my provisional decision and 
for the same reasons, but I will address the points raised by Green Flag.The signed job sheet and conversation
Mr L has always maintained that he signed the job sheet and has said throughout that all 
that was visible to him at the time of signing was the signature box, so he had no idea that 
the box to say dont drive existed or was ticked. He also has maintained that a conversation 
happened  he just says that it wasnt the same as the drivers commentary which he also 
said he had never seen. I am persuaded by his testimony, as I explained in my initial 
findings, because of the circumstances around this case which support what he is saying 
and to me makes it more likely such as:
He was cautious enough to stop the car and call for assistance when the warning 
light came on
He was still around 5 hours away from home
He had his family in the car with him
He had no reason to continue to drive and take such a risk as he had the highest 
level of cover  which afforded him the hire car and recovery of his car that he 
eventually had to use.
Value of the claim
When I initially spoke to Green Flag in an effort to resolve matters informally I explained that 
it would be difficult to place a value on this claim as the car was no longer in existence and 
so couldnt be examined to determine how much damage there was to the vehicle at the 
time of the call out and how much should be attributed to him being allowed to continue to 
drive.
At that time, I asked Green Flag if it would be willing to make an offer to Mr L of an amount it 
might think appropriate. Green Flag decided it didnt feel it should do this and so I had to 
work out a way that I thought would be fairest to put Mr L back in the position he wouldve 
been in if he wasnt allowed to continue with his journey.  
I still believe this is the fairest way to put things right because at the time of the call out Mr L 
still had a car  albeit one with a fault, but he now no longer has that car because he could 
not afford to replace the engine and so he lost the whole car. 
I have no way to know how much the repair for the fault would have been. The job sheet 
describes the fault as a sensor reset, which means that if the sensor was faulty its unlikely to 
have been a costly repair. I appreciate that its unlikely that was the case as it wouldnt have 
led to the failure of the engine, but I have no way of knowing what the actual damage was at 
that point in time and so the fairest way to put Mr L back in the position he was in is to award 
him the value of the car he lost at the moment of the second call out.  
Putting things right
To put things right Green Flag should pay Mr L  £1,709 for the value of his vehicle, (it can 
deduct £80 for the scrap value received) plus 8% simple interest from the date of the 
breakdown until the date of payment. It should also pay him £150 for distress and 
inconvenience
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint
against U K Insurance Limited trading as Green Flag. To put things right I require it to pay Mr 
L:£1,709 for the value of his vehicle, (it can deduct £80 for the scrap value received) 
plus 8% simple interest from the date of the breakdown until the date of payment
£150 for distress and inconvenience
 HM Revenue & Customs requires U K Insurance Limited trading as Green Flag to take off tax from this interest. U K
Insurance must give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman