DRN-1989571
The complaint
Miss C complains that a car acquired with finance from Moneybarn No 1 Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In November 2018 Miss C was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn.
Miss C experienced issues with the gears within the first few days. She contacted the 
supplying dealer and the car was taken to a garage for diagnostic tests, but no faults were 
found. The garage cleared the fault codes and told Miss C the car was fixed. The issue 
occurred again the next day, so Miss C took the car back to the garage. The garage said it 
had taken the car to a gearbox specialist but that no faults had been found.
Miss C continued to experience the issues. She complained to Moneybarn, who arranged an 
independent inspection of the car. The engineer road tested the car and found excessive 
hesitance between gear selection. He concluded the fault wouldve been developing at the 
point of supply and said that the attempted repairs had been unsuccessful.
Moneybarn told the supplying dealer what the engineer had concluded. The supplying dealer 
said the lagging whilst changing gears was a characteristic of the car. Moneybarn asked 
Miss C to have the car inspected by a main dealer. The main dealer found no faults but said 
that new software might make a difference.
Based on what the main dealer said, Moneybarn rejected Miss Cs complaint. It said the 
issue was a characteristic of the car.
Miss C remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said the car had a fault at the point of supply 
which made it of unsatisfactory quality. He said there had already been one attempt at repair 
which was unsuccessful so Miss C should be allowed to reject the car. he said Moneybarn 
should refund 50% of all monthly payments made by Miss C and pay £150 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience.
Initially Moneybarn and Miss C accepted the view. However, there was a delay in 
Moneybarn collecting the car, which meant Miss c had to make further monthly payments. 
Miss C wants these refunded in full, not at 50%. The investigator agreed but Moneybarn 
didnt respond so Ive been asked to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Moneybarn has already accepted a rejection of the car and made a settlement 
payment to Miss C, I wont be focussing on whether the car was of satisfactory quality. 
Instead, Ill look at whether the last two payments made by Miss C should be refunded in full, 
as this is the only outstanding issue.
Miss C says the only reason she had to make monthly payments in January and February 
2020 was because of the delay by Moneybarn in collecting the car once it had accepted the 
rejection.
Moneybarn hasnt explained why there was a delay in collecting the car and paying the 
settlement.
I can see that after Moneybarn accepted the rejection, Miss C told them the car had suffered 
some damage which was the subject of an insurance claim and which was being repaired. 
Ive thought about whether this caused delay, but I have seen any evidence to suggest that it 
did.
On balance I dont think the rejection and collection of the car was acted upon by Moneybarn 
within a reasonable time. As a result, Miss C has had to make two further monthly payments 
which she wasnt expecting to have to make. If the collection had been arranged sooner, she 
wouldnt have had to pay these, so I think its fair to ask Moneybarn to refund these last two 
payment in full.   
Putting things rights 
To put things right , Moneybarn should refund Miss Cs last two payments in full. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Moneybarn No1 Limited must refund Miss 
Cs last two payments in full (with credit to be given for any element of those payments 
already refunded) 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman