DRN-3467098
The complaint
Mr A and Ms G complain about charges applied by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited (MBFS) when they returned a car that MBFS supplied under a hire purchase 
agreement (HPA).
What happened
Ms G and Mr A acquired this car in January 2017 under a HPA. When the HPA ended in 
January 2021, MBFS arranged for a third party (that Ill call B) to collect it on 6 January 
2021. MBFS subsequently sent a bill for damage costing over £2,200 and Ms G and Mr A 
complained the charges are unfair. They think the damage present is normal wear and tear 
and theyre unhappy that charges were increased by over £800 after a second inspection. 
They think the car could have been damaged in transit between collection and the second 
inspection.
MBFS said its vehicle return standards (VRS) set out in the HPA make it clear that a second 
inspection may be carried out. It was satisfied the damage charged for was present and falls 
outside of fair wear and tear. MBFS rejected the complaint and Ms G and Mr A referred the 
matter to our service.
Our investigator considered the HPA terms and conditions as well as industry guidance from 
the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). She was satisfied that Ms G 
and Mr A were required to take care of the car and they had to either pay for repairs and/or 
refurbishment or the cost of the consequent reduction in the sale value, to compensate 
MBFS if they failed to meet their obligations.
Having checked the inspection reports, including photographs and video footage of the car, 
she was satisfied that all of the damage recorded at the second inspection was present and 
outside of the relevant standards. She thought it was unlikely this damage had occurred after 
collection so Mr A and Ms G were liable to pay for it. The investigator didnt think it was fair 
however that charges for two items had increased (from £210 to £260 and £160 to £223) in 
the second inspection report. And she recommended that MBFS should reduce the final 
invoice by £113 to reflect that.
MBFS disagreed. It said (in summary) the first inspection report made it clear that costs 
included were estimates and subject to variation - and the car might have another inspection 
when charges could increase. At the second inspection it was found that the damage was 
more extensive (and costly to fix) so the revised charges were properly applied.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her view and MBFS asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman. Having considered the evidence available I was not minded to 
uphold the complaint. I issued a provisional decision on 21 April 2022 to let the parties see 
my provisional findings and make further submissions (if they wanted to) before I made my 
final decision. Ive set out what I decided provisionally - and why  below and this forms part 
of my final decision. 
My provisional decision
I said the role of this service is to resolve disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers informally. Im not a regulator and I dont have the power to investigate the way 
MBFS runs its business on a day to day basis. My job is to consider the evidence provided 
by both parties, without taking sides, and decide what I think is a fair and reasonable 
outcome, in all of the circumstances of this particular complaint. And where evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I recognised Ms G and Mr A have strong feelings about what happened and it was really 
frustrating for them to receive an invoice for damage charges - when they felt the car was
returned in an acceptable condition - and then have those charges increase between the first
and second inspection.
Id read the HPA they signed when they got the car. I was satisfied this sets out the VRS and
explains that Ms G and Mr A were required to maintain the car in good condition and the
vehicles condition would be assessed on return. I thought Ms G and Mr A would also have
been reminded about that car would be inspected in correspondence MBFS sent several
months before the HPA was due to end. I could see that B recorded there was heavy rain 
and the car wasnt clean when it was collected on 6 January 2021 so a second inspection 
would be needed. And I wasnt persuaded it was unreasonable of MBFS to undertake a 
second inspection in the circumstances.
Did Ms G and Mr A fail to return the car in line with their obligations?
I considered the vehicle condition reports (VCRs) completed on 6 and 12 January 2021. I set 
out the damage recorded at each inspection - and the differences between the two. I 
underlined charges added and/or increased at the second inspection for ease of reference. 
At the first inspection, on 6 January 2021 (at 44,480 miles), B noted the following damage 
and estimated charges as follows:-
1. Spare key missing replacement and deactivation £260.00
2. Wheel LHF damaged Over 50mm Refurb £110.00
3. Wheel LHR damaged Over 50mm Refurb £110.00
4. Wheel RHF damaged Over 50mm Refurb £110.00
5. Front bumper scratched over 50mm Refinish £210.00
6. door LHF scratched greater than 25mm through topcoat £210
7. Qtr Panel LHR 15-50mm cold metal repair refinish £35.00
8. Rear bumper scratched over 50mm refinish £210.00 
9. Bumper moulding excessive damage not repairable replace £160.50
Total cost £1,425.50 (ex VAT)
At the second inspection, a week or so later (at 44,508 miles), the damage and charges
recorded were:-
1. Spare key missing £260.00
2. Left hand front alloy £110.00 - refurbishment required.
3 Left hand rear alloy £110.00 - refurbishment required.
4 Right hand front alloy £110.00 - refurbishment required.
5.Bonnet £260.00 - dent with paint damage that required a repair and refinish.
6. Front bumper £210.00 - scratch over 50mm that required a refinish.
7. LHR rear quarter panel £260.00 (increased from £35) - dent greater than 100mm repair
and refinish.
8. Rear bumper £260.00 (increased from £210) dent with paint damage repair and refinish.9. Rear bumper moulding £223.00 (increased from £160.50) - required replacement.
10. LHR reflector £21.20 missing and required replacement.
11. Tailgate £35.00 - dent 5mm to 50mm required cold metal repair.
12. RHR rear quarter panel £260.00 - dent greater than 100mm required repair and refinish.
13. RHR rear door £35.00 - dent 15mm to 50mm required a cold metal repair.
14. RHF door £35.00 - dent 15mm to 50mm required cold metal repair.
15. RH mirror lamp £76.65 - broken and required replacement.
16 V5 £30
Total £2,292.85 (excl VAT)
I thought it looked as if the car travelled about 30 miles between inspections. And, having 
considered the nature of the damage recorded at each one, I was not persuaded its likely 
the car was damaged after collection. I went on to consider whether the damage charged for 
was present and chargeable. I reviewed the two VCRs along with relevant guidance and 
said (insofar as its relevant) the BVRLA guidelines say:-
all vehicle documentations must be intact and available and a full set of keys,
including spares should be returned if originally supplied
scuffs up to 50mm on the circumference of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels are
acceptable
dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided there are no more than 2
per panel and the paint surface is not broken
surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are
acceptable provided, they can be polished out. A maximum of four surface scratches
on one panel is acceptable
dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided there are no more than 2
per panel and the paint surface is not broken
scuffs and scratches of 25mm or less are acceptable provided the moulding or trim is
not broken, cracked or deformed
all lamps and lamp units must work. Minor scuff marks or scratches of 25mm or less
are acceptable. Holes or cracks in the glass or plastic covers of lamp units are not
acceptable.
Like the investigator, I thought all of the damage recorded at the second inspection seemed 
to be present. Mr A and Ms G dont dispute that the spare key was missing and I was 
satisfied item 10 was missing as well. I appreciated Mr A and Ms G say that B wouldnt take 
the V5 when it was offered on collection but the report dated 6 January 2021 records the V5 
as unavailable. I was satisfied, in any event, that it was Mr A and Ms Gs responsibility to 
ensure this document was returned. And I was not persuaded I can fairly require MBFS to 
waive the associated cost.
I thought it looks as if items 2-4 have damage beyond the 50mm tolerance and the bonnet 
(item 5) has a dent thats more than 15mm plus paint damage. The front bumper (item 6) 
seemed to be scratched beyond the relevant tolerance and it looked as if item 7 has four 
dents greater than 15mm. The dent on item 12 appeared to be more than 15mm as is the 
dent on item 8 which also has paint damage and moulding on item 9 is broken/deformed. 
Items 11,13 and 14 appeared to have dents of more than 15mm as well and item 15, the 
mirror lamp is broken. I was satisfied this damage falls outside of relevant fair wear and tear 
standards meaning these items are chargeable. 
I considered MBFS is entitled to be compensated under the HPA, in this situation. I 
appreciated the investigator didnt think it was fair for MBFS to increase the charges for 
items 8 and 9 following the second inspection but I disagreed. I was satisfied the second 
inspection took place in better weather conditions after the car was cleaned and I didnt think it surprising that some additional damage and increased cost was identified. So I couldnt 
fairly find it was unreasonable of MBFS to apply the charges it did in the circumstances.
I realised Mr A and Ms G may feel these charges are unfair because the car was sold
without being repaired (meaning MBFS hasnt actually incurred this cost). But I was satisfied
that the BVRLA guidance says damage charges are applied at the end of this sort of
agreement - when a car was not looked after as agreed under the finance - to compensate
the lender for the cost of rectifying related damage. These charges can still be applied if the
lender decides not to carry out repairs before a car is sold. And I couldnt fairly find MBFS 
was obliged to undertake repairs before this car was sold on.
I recognised Ms G and Mr A may also feel the damage wouldnt have affected the cars re-
sale value - so the amount charged doesnt accurately reflect any loss MBFS may have 
incurred. But I didnt think impact on the re-sale price should be the sole factor in 
determining if the charges are reasonable. I thought a number of different factors are likely to 
affect the price a car sells for on any given day at auction (or elsewhere). And I couldnt 
reasonably find this sort of damage is the only factor that a prospective purchaser would 
take into account when deciding how much to pay for a car. I was satisfied that any 
prospective buyer would be able to see that this car had some damage present. And its fair 
to assume theyd probably pay less for this car - than another of the same model, age and 
mileage without this damage present  and the damage is likely to have an adverse impact 
on the re-sale price.
I was satisfied that Ms G and Mr A knew the car would be inspected on collection and they
could be charged for rectifying any damage present beyond fair wear and tear. So, they had 
the opportunity to have the damage fixed, if they wanted to, before the car was collected. I 
was satisfied the damage charged for is present and the charges applied seemed in line with 
indicative costs of common damage charges that MBFS sets out on its website. I wasnt 
persuaded that the charges applied are disproportionate or unreasonable. So I couldnt fairly 
find it was wrong of MBFS to apply these charges or reasonably conclude that it must waive 
or reduce them
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited both parties to consider what Id said and let me have any new evidence or
submissions by 6 May 2022. I explained Id review the evidence available after that and 
make my final decision. 
MBFS hasnt responded and Miss O and Mr C told us they have nothing further to add. I see 
no reasonable grounds to depart from my provisional conclusions in the circumstances. I 
remain of the view that I cant fairly find it was wrong of MBFS to apply the charges. And Im 
unable to reasonably conclude that MBFS should waive or reduce them. 
If Mr A and Ms G are likely to have any difficulty paying the charges in one go its open to 
them to contact MBFS about that. MBFS has confirmed that it will consider an appropriate 
repayment plan  which is what wed expect in this situation. 
I realise this decision is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr C and Miss O and Im sorry 
about that. Theyre not obliged however to accept what Ive said, in which case it remains 
open to them to pursue the matter by any other means available. My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Ms G to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman