DRN-2559088
The complaint
Ms E complains Lloyds Bank PLC will not refund some disputed transactions made to a 
gambling company.
Lloyds say it considers the transactions to be authorised.
What happened
Ms E complained to Lloyds about 26 transactions made from her account.  They were all 
made to a gambling company  B.  In total just over £6300 had been spent over two days. 
Ms E told Lloyds that she had made these payments and neither did she have an account 
with B.  In fact, she said B had confirmed there was no account held in her name during an 
online chat and she had proof of this conversation which she had sent to Lloyds.
The disputed transactions had taken place between approximately 7pm on the 10 January 
all the way through to approximately 11am on 11 January.  The money which had been used 
had come from a credit into Ms Es account from a student loan  but as a result, this had all 
now been spent and she was left with a balance of just under £150.
Ms E said she had been left in financial difficulties as she had a child to look after and could 
not now pay for nursery fees. Ms E had asked her partner if he had made the transactions 
and he had confirmed he hadnt. She said they were both in bed at the time they were taking 
place.
In its final response issued on 17 January 2020, Lloyds did not uphold her complaint.  In 
summary, it gave the following reasons:
- the device used for the disputed transactions was the same device Ms E had used 
for transactions she was not disputing
- the payments had been made using the same IP address Ms E had used to log onto 
her online banking
- a text message had been sent to Ms Es mobile phone because Lloyds had initially 
blocked the payments to B.  It had received a text back to confirm the payments were 
genuine
- the evidence from B stating it did not hold an account in Ms Es name was insufficient 
evidence for Lloyds to attempt a chargeback.
So, Ms E brought her complaint to this service and asked that we investigate matters for her.
Our investigator didnt think she could ask Lloyds to do anymore.  She concluded Ms E had 
authorised these transactions to B for the following reasons:
- Ms E said she had her card in her possession at the time so it was highly unlikely 
that a third person could have made the transactions
- the device ID used to make these transactions was the same device ID used to make 
non-disputed transactions
- Ms E had logged onto her online banking at least six times whilst the transactions to 
B had been taking place so she would have been aware of them leaving her account
- The call to Lloyds was made 19 minutes after the last transaction had taken place 
and six minutes after Ms E had last logged onto her online banking
- There had been no attempts to use Ms Es card once it had been cancelled.  The 
investigator thought this was unusual as there was still a small balance left on the 
account and typically, a fraudster would attempt to use the balance up
- Despite seeking confirmation from Ms E and B that the funds from the gambling 
transactions had credited an account not in MS Es name, this had never been 
received
- Ms E had alleged her step father might have been responsible for making the 
transactions  but the evidence didnt support this.
Ms E did not agree with our investigator.  She said she had reported the matter to the police 
and Action Fraud and would not have done this had she made the payments herself.  She 
also provided us with a further screenshot from B, sent to her email address, but addressed 
to someone else.  She didnt explain how this supported her case or why B would be using 
her email address if indeed the transactions were being carried out by a third-party fraudster.
The matter was then passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally speaking, if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Ms E authorised 
these transactions, then Lloyds is entitled to hold her responsible.  The relevant law here are 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs 2017).  Ive taken these into account when 
arriving at my decision, but Ive also taken into account regulator rules, guidance and 
standards, codes of practice and what I consider to be good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
Ive also reminded myself that authorisation is a two-stage test which requires evidence of 
authentication as well as consent  and that it is for Lloyds to show Ms E authorised these 
payments rather than for Ms E to show she did not.
From the evidence provided by Lloyds, I am satisfied that the payments were authenticated 
in that is the long card number, the expiry date and the CVV numbers were entered.  So, 
I then need to go on to consider whether the evidence suggests Ms E also consented to the 
payments.  For the following reasons, I dont think it is unfair or unreasonable for Lloyds to 
conclude that it does:
- Ms Es card details and account were registered and used on Bs website.  Any 
winnings made from the transactions would be paid back into the account registered 
 that is Ms Es account.  I cant see how a third party would benefit from doing this
- The evidence provided by Lloyds shows the same device ID was used when making 
the disputed transactions as well as non-disputed transactions
- The evidence from Lloyds shows the same IP address was used making the disputed 
transactions as well as the non-disputed transactions
- The first attempts to make payments to B were blocked by Lloyds fraud detection 
system.  A text was sent to Ms Es phone and a response was sent confirming the 
transactions to be genuine.  Ms E has never said someone else may have had her phone and neither is there any evidence in support of that contention
- Despite Ms E logging onto her online banking whilst the disputed transactions were 
taking place, she didnt raise any concerns with Lloyds until the last one had been 
made.
- Once Ms Es card had been cancelled by Lloyds, no further attempts were made to 
use the card.  From experience, a fraudster would continue to use the card until they 
were prevented from doing so
- Ms Es card was used to make genuine payments between the first two declined 
payments to B and the remaining payments to B.  Ms E says she had given her card 
to her partner to pay for some food  and I can see this payment on her account.  But 
she then said the card was returned to her so was in her possession during the 
relevant times
- The screenshot which Ms E provided to the investigator following the investigators 
view shows that B has Ms Es genuine email address registered on the account.         
I think it is unlikely that a third-party fraudster would register to use Ms Es account 
whilst all notifications would be sent to Ms E thereby alerting her to the fraud on her 
account. Equally, I dont think it is persuasive evidence that B did not have record of 
an account registered with Ms Es details.
So, Im afraid I dont find Ms Es account of events to be credible.  I must decide, based on 
the evidence I have seen, what is most likely to have happened here.  On balance, I think it 
is more likely than not that Ms E authorised these payments and therefore, I think it is fair 
and reasonable for Lloyds to hold her liable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman