DRN-3462775
The complaint
Mr K complains about his investment in his Scottish Widows Limited (SW) pension. He said 
the fund was misleading and he had lost out.
What happened
Mr K said he started an employer pension plan with SW in 2008. He was invested in a fund 
with the words pension protector in the title. He felt this should mean that his capital was 
protected. Using those words when it wasnt protected was misleading. He felt mislead in to 
believing his pension funds were safe.
SW didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. It said the fund may be suitable for those approaching 
retirement and intending to buy an annuity as it aims to reduce the risk of annuity 
conversions. The fund invested mainly in long dated UK fixed interest securities which are 
one of the key factors affecting the cost of buying a pension so the fund should rise and full 
broadly in line with change in the cost of buying such a pension in retirement. But the fund 
did not provide any guarantee of the level of pension in retirement or cost of buying that 
pension. It was normal for such funds to return negative performance when interest rates 
rise and vice versa. It said that if he was intending to buy an annuity then the cost of buying 
is likely to drop in a similar way to the fall  in value of the pension protected fund as both are 
linked to gilt yields. It supplied a copy of its Pension Investment approaches document.
The investigator said that SW was not responsible for the sale of Mr Ks pension plan. The 
plan was chosen by his employer. He considered the detail provided about the fund but 
couldnt see there was anything to suggest the capital was protected or guaranteed. He 
could also change his fund at any time. While the fund had fallen in value over a period of 
about 12 months the investigator didnt think this was SWs fault. He also thought it was 
reasonable for SW to assume he would have purchased an annuity given the funds he 
invested in. He didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr K didnt agree. He said who sold the pension was irrelevant. But the use of the words 
Pension Protector conveyed a particular meaning to investors, being that the pension fund 
for those approaching retirement is protected. In reality the pension protector element had 
been the most volatile in an extremely challenging market. Had the fund had a different 
name he would have looked at it more carefully and avoided a huge loss of value just as he 
was approaching retirement. He quoted the unit price in December 2021 at around 266.70 p 
and by spring 2022 it was 216p. This could not be said to be protecting his pension.
The investigator said the sale of the plan was relevant. SW was the administrator not the 
adviser. How funds were managed and operated was an issue for the Financial Conduct 
Regulator and this service did not have a regulatory role. He remained of the view that SW 
had not done anything wrong.
Mr K still didnt agree. He said he still thought the naming of the fund as Pension Protector 
was misleading. It implied some form of protection or guarantee otherwise why use it. If the 
fund was only suitable for those purchasing an annuity why not call it an Annuity Protector? 
This would at least prompt investors to take advice from an appropriate advisor should they 
be considering an alternative to buying an annuity. The name implies protection when the 
reality is a 20% reduction in something he was led to believe was safe. He had spoken to an 
IFA who agreed the name of the fund was misleading as the fund did not in any way protect 
his pension. This was the crux of his complaint  he had been misled He was not alleging 
mismanagement of the funds, he expected volatility in stock market investments. He did not 
expect volatility in a fund called Pension Protector. For this reason he did not accept this is a 
fair outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has been clear that he is not saying his pension was mis sold nor that the fund was 
mismanaged. His complaint is that he felt misled by the title of one of the funds he invested 
in. It was called Pension Protected which he felt implied some level of protection. I have 
therefore focused on this issue.
I can understand Mr Ks point. I think the title of the fund does imply that it is intended to 
provide protection in some form, but I dont think it implies there is any guarantee and I dont 
think the title alone is enough to understand what that protection might be and how it would 
work. I dont think it is reasonable to select a fund for investment based solely on its title 
without having read and understood the underlying nature of the fund and its objectives. I 
think it is essential to do so as it isnt possible to understand what protection is intended 
solely from the title.
I have seen copies of Mr Ks annual statements for 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018. The 
notes state that 
The funds in which our Adv targeting annuity Pension Approach invests will change as you 
near your chosen retirement age, with the aim being that you are fully invested in the 
Pension Protector and Cash funds at your chosen retirement age.
Please refer to our Pension Investment Approach guide for further details.
I have seen the document called the Pension Investment Approaches guide. 
Under the section for the Pension Protector Fund, it says:
The fund may be suitable for investors approaching retirement who intend to purchase a 
conventional pension annuity. The fund invests mainly in long-dated UK fixed interest 
securities. The prices of these are one of the key factors affecting the cost of buying a 
pension and so any investment in the fund should rise and fall broadly in line with changes in 
the cost of buying such a pension in retirement. The fund does not provide any guarantee of 
level of pension in retirement or the cost of buying that pension. It may not be effective for 
those who intend to buy an inflation linked pension and does not provide protection against 
changes in the cost of buying a pension that arise from changes in life expectancy.
Please note that, whichever fund you are investing in, the value of your investment can go 
down as well as up, and could fall below the amount(s) paid in. This also applies to cash 
and near-cash funds which invest in securities, as these securities can fluctuate more than 
a customer might expect. Cash or near-cash funds do not guarantee a positive return, nor 
do they provide complete protection for your investment. Please note that, whichever fund 
you are investing in, the value of your investment can go down as well as up, and could fall 
below the amount(s) paid in. This also applies to cash and near-cash funds which invest in securities, as these securities can fluctuate more than a customer might expect. Cash or 
near-cash funds do not guarantee a positive return, nor do they provide complete protection 
for your investment.
Under the section headed What if you want to change investment choice? It makes clear Mr 
K would change at any time.
Based on this explanation I think the underlying nature of the investments within the fund is 
clear. It also makes clear that  The fund does not provide any guarantee of level of pension 
in retirement or the cost of buying that pension. The notes also say that Please note that, 
whichever fund you are investing in, the value of your investment can go down as well as 
up,. 
So I dont think the fund said it would provide any level of guarantee not that it would protect 
investors from a fall in value. 
It does however suggest that the underlying investments are
The fund invests mainly in long-dated UK fixed interest securities. The prices of these are 
one of the key factors affecting the cost of buying a pension and so any investment in the 
fund should rise and fall broadly in line with changes in the cost of buying such a pension in 
retirement 
It suggested the underlying assets should move in value broadly in line with the cost of 
buying a pension. I can see that this could be seen as protection. But based on the fund 
description and what SW have said the fund never claimed to avoid any fall in value .
So I dont think the fund title was misleading but even if I am wrong I dont think it is 
reasonable or prudent to base an investment decision on a fund title rather than an 
understanding of the underlying nature of the fund. I think the guide explains what its nature 
is.
I have also read other documents provided including the terms and conditions.
There is also a section heading Your role which says:-
Important actions you should take:
 At the start of the plan:
 Check that the details in your application summary and the plan schedule are correct and 
let us know as soon as possible if any details are incorrect.
 You can choose a different investment option if you believe that how your payments are to 
be invested isnt suitable for you.
 Review your plan and your plans investments regularly.
Review your plan as and when your circumstances change and when approaching your 
selected retirement age. 
It is clear that it is up to Mr K to make investment choices and take advice if he needs to. It 
isnt SWs responsibility to give investment advice. 
Section 3.5 Investing payments also says Payments can be invested in:
 one of more of the pension funds from the range that we make available to your plan, or
 the scheme default strategy or any other investment strategy that we make available to 
your plan.
Details about each pension fund and investment strategy can be found on the website or by 
contacting us. If you need investment advice, please speak to a financial adviser.
I think that this makes clear that Mr K should look at the details and if he wishes, take 
financial advice. It wasnt SWs responsibility to give Mr K investment advice and it provided 
more detail of the fund in the Pension Investment Approaches guide.
So in conclusion I do think the fund title suggests some protection but not any guarantee. 
The fund title alone is not sufficient to explain what that protection is and I dont think it is 
reasonable or prudent to use the title alone without understanding the underlying assets of 
the fund and how that protection works. 
In this case it was to invest in assets that were aimed at more broadly tracking the cost of 
buying a pension. I think the fund description is clear that that there is no guarantee or 
protection from falls in value and  that it may be suitable for those wishing to buy a pension. 
I dont think the title is misleading. I say that because I think it does describe some protection 
which is seeing to track movements in the cost of buying an annuity. 
By implication the fund might not be suitable for someone not wishing to buy an annuity, as 
Mr K says was the case for him. But it was up to Mr K to pick investments that were suitable 
for his future plans and not SWs to advise him of that.
So I dont think SW did anything wrong.
For all those reasons I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman