DRN-3032915
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy with the service she received from Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited 
after trying to cancel her home insurance.
What happened
Ms H contacted Lloyds to cancel her home insurance policy in September 2020. She says 
she had to spend a considerable amount of time chasing for things to be resolved. And 
although she made a subject access request (SAR) for her information it wasnt actioned by 
Lloyds. Ms H said Lloyds offered compensation, but she doesnt feel it is enough for the 
considerable trouble and upset shes been put to.
Lloyds apologised after a system error meant Ms Hs cancellation request didnt transferred 
to the billing side of its business. Lloyds arranged a payment of £100 for the inconvenience 
caused to Ms H. And it paid a further £10 to cover the cost of her calls. Lloyds arranged a 
further payment of £50 a few weeks later. Ms H hadnt received her data following her SAR. 
And she was still receiving letters about her policy payments while the IT department 
investigated the system error. 
Ms H wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He said it was clear Lloyds had made some mistakes. 
And Ms H had been caused distress and inconvenience as a result. Although Lloyds did 
eventually cancel the policy Ms H continued to receive correspondence relating to potential 
default notices.
Our investigator could see Ms H had received a total of £160 compensation. And he felt that 
was reasonable in the circumstances. Our investigator felt Lloyds had acknowledged and 
resolved its mistakes and awarded suitable compensation as a result. Ms H should now 
have received the SAR. And he didnt think Lloyds needed to do anything more.
Ms H didnt accept his findings. So shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision. Shed 
made many calls to Lloyds and feels she was misled about the IT problems. Although Ms H 
had raised her complaint in June it hadnt been logged by Lloyds until the following month. 
And she feels they failed to follow their own complaints policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how upsetting this mustve been for Ms H. She asked Lloyds to cancel her 
home insurance policy. But there was a problem with Lloyds IT systems and Ms H 
continued to receive payment requests after she cancelled the direct debit.
Lloyds has accepted it made a mistake and apologised for the inconvenience caused to 
Ms H. So Ive looked at whether the compensation offered is fair and reasonable for the 
trouble and upset Ms H has been through. 
When Ms H spoke to Lloyds to cancel her policy she was told shed be called back to 
confirm if she owed any final payment. Unfortunately this call didnt take place and Ms Hs 
cancellation request didnt transfer properly across Lloyds systems.
Ive looked at Lloyds system notes. Following the cancellation request in September 2020 
Ms H was advised her policy would be cancelled with effect from 25 October. But Ms H 
began to receive non-payment letters and spoke to Lloyds a number of times during 2021 
asking why the policy still appeared to be active.
When Ms H spoke to Lloyds in June 2021 the system notes show a complaint reference was 
logged on its system. But Ms H didnt receive a response and a further complaint was logged 
at the beginning of July when Ms H also made a subject access request. Lloyds responded 
with a final response letter at the beginning of August, apologising for its error and explaining 
why an IT problem was causing payment chasing letters to be sent. By way of apology 
Lloyds paid Ms H a total of £110 for her inconvenience and call costs. 
I understand the SAR was sent to Ms H on 11 August. Thats about five days outside of the 
30 days a business is expected to respond to a customer request for data. I understand 
Ms H has now received the information. And Lloyds has paid Ms H £50 compensation for the 
delay in responding to her request. I think thats reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ms H has confirmed her credit file hasnt been affected by the incorrect requests for late 
payments. Im pleased to hear this. If Ms Hs credit file had been affected I would expect 
Lloyds to put things right immediately. 
Ive considered the time and effort Ms H has put into contacting Lloyds to ask what was 
happening. Its clear Lloyds made a mistake in not properly processing Ms Hs request to 
cancel her home insurance policy. 
I can see Ms H had to make a number of calls over a period of six months or so to try and 
resolve the matter. During that time, despite being reassured her policy had been cancelled, 
she continued to receive letters from Lloyds about outstanding payments while the IT 
department tried to resolve the issue.
But taking everything into account I dont think Lloyds needs to do anything more. Lloyds has 
apologised for its mistake. And its paid Ms H £100 compensation for her trouble and upset 
with a further £10 to cover the cost of her calls. Lloyds paid a further £50 when Ms H didnt 
receive the SAR information within the expected timeframe. 
I know Ms H will be disappointed with this outcome. And I appreciate how upsetting this has 
been for her. But I think thats a fair and reasonable response. And its in line with the sort of 
award our service normally makes in such circumstances. So I wont be asking Lloyds to do 
anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman