DRN-3735573
The complaint
Mr H complains about MBNA Limiteds actions following a series of disputed transactions on 
his credit card.
What happened
Mr H held a MBNA credit card. In September 2021, he reported fraud on the credit when he 
noticed it had been used without his consent. MBNA reviewed things and found that a 
fraudster had changed the address on Mr Hs profile, ordered a new card and PIN, increased 
the credit limit, and spent around £38,600 on the credit card illicitly.
MBNA agreed Mr H wasnt responsible and agreed to rectify matters within 72 hours. 
However, due to an error on MBNAs part, the details werent updated until December 2021. 
MBNA offered Mr H £350 compensation to recognise the delays and inconvenience.
Mr H said despite MBNA taking actions to put things right, his credit file still showed 
erroneous spending, and multiple cash advances which wasnt a true reflection of his credit 
history. He explained the impact of this situation had meant other credit card limits were 
significantly reduced, caused him to have sleepless nights and had an impact on his mental 
health. Mr H brought the complaint to our service and asked for £10,000 compensation.
Our investigator upheld Mr Hs complaint. In summary he agreed MBNA could have resolved 
things sooner than they did for Mr H  and he didnt feel £350 fairly reflected the distress 
caused. So, he asked MBNA to pay an additional £150  bringing the total compensation to 
£500.
MBNA agreed to this, however Mr H didnt. Mr H raised several points, but in summary felt 
MBNA shouldnt have allowed the details to be changed in the first place  he said MBNA 
had a duty of care which wasnt fulfilled. Mr H only noticed the issue because of a credit card 
held with another bank. Mr H also received statements of outstanding balances from MBNA 
after the fraud had been reported.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me.
In September 2022, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said;
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im 
satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome.
Mr H has rightfully pointed out that MBNA has a duty of care and should take actions to 
protect their customers. While I cant reasonably say MBNA are at fault for the actions of the 
fraudsters, I can appreciate why Mr H feels further steps could have been taken to prevent 
this fraudulent account takeover from happening in the first place. MBNA hasnt shared the 
level of detail with our service to show how the fraudsters were able to illicitly change the 
address, increase the credit limit and order a new card and PIN. But I dont think that makes 
an overall difference  I say that because MBNA have confirmed the activity was fraudulent 
and havent held Mr H accountable for it. So, theres no dispute here.
Ive also thought about whether MBNA could have taken actions to inform Mr H of the 
fraudulent activity before he brought it to MBNAs attention. I dont reasonably think they 
could. I say that because the contact details were assumingly changed, along with the 
address on file. And therefore, its likely MBNA wouldnt have contacted Mr H directly. 
However, Mr H says he hadnt used his card since around 2009 so I do think a sudden 
change of spending habits could have highlighted that something was amiss. MBNA could 
have taken steps to limit the card, which would have significantly reduced the impact the 
overall situation had on Mr H.
MBNA initially told Mr H theyd rectify the fraud within 72 hours. However, due to the fraud 
taking place over 12 months previously, MBNA were required to order historical statements 
which caused a significant delay. MBNA admitted to this delay and offered £350 
compensation. It appears following this there were further issues with the information held on 
Mr Hs credit file. MBNA confirmed in January 2022, that the fraudulent balance was still 
showing on Mr Hs credit file, the fraudulent address was still linked, and two late payments 
were reported. I can appreciate why Mr H says this caused him significant distress and had 
an overall impact on his other credit commitments. 
I recognise Mr H feels strongly that his credit cards with other banks were reduced because 
of the information held on his credit file because of MBNA. While it is reasonable to assume 
that, I havent seen anything to satisfy me this was definitely the reason. So, while Ive 
carefully thought about this point, I cant fairly uphold the complaint on this point.
To date, it doesnt appear that Mr Hs credit file is showing a true reflection of Mr Hs 
spending history. It appears the balances which related to the fraudsters spending, is still 
showing on Mr Hs credit file. I consider this should be removed and rectified without undue 
delay. 
Overall, I dont doubt this has been a significantly stressful experience for Mr H. And I 
appreciate the consequences he is continuing to suffer. I consider a compensation amount 
of £1000 is a fairer reflection of the overall impact this has caused. I say this because, 
although I appreciate a large part of the distress Mr H suffered was caused by the 
fraudsters, I think MBNA should have been more proactive when recognising the unusual 
activity on Mr Hs account. I also consider they should have responded to Mr Hs requests 
sooner than they did and should have ensured the credit file was updated when they 
rectified the transactions. This would have significantly reduced the impact on Mr H.
I recognise the amount I've suggested isn't in line with what Mr H wants. But, its not in my 
remit to punish businesses and based on what's happened, I don't think I can fairly ask 
MBNA to pay anything more than £1000.
So, overall, I thought MBNA should:
Pay Mr H a total of £1000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Im aware MBNA previously offered Mr H £350 compensation and therefore if they 
have already paid this amount to Mr H then they should pay him an additional £650.
Rectify Mr Hs credit file to show the only spending which was carried out by him 
directly.MBNA responded to my provisional decision and didnt have anything further to add.
Mr H responded and reiterated his version of events, supplying evidence in the form of 
letters from his alternative credit card suppliers to show credit limit decreases. In summary, 
Mr H felt MBNA were still holding him responsible for the fraud, he sees no other explanation 
as to why his credit limits with other banks were reduced, and doesnt think an additional 
£650 compensation is enough. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr H again that I have read, considered, and reviewed all of the 
information and evidence he has provided to our service throughout the time we have been 
reviewing his complaint. While I have considered everything, I dont believe its necessary to 
address each and every point that Mr H has made in order to meet my statutory duty to 
determine his complaint. Im required to do that with minimum formality, and so Ill address 
the issues that I consider to be the most important.
It's clear Mr H feels very strongly about whats happened and I can appreciate his concerns. 
I acknowledge Mr H feels MBNA are still holding him responsible for the fraud as the 
transactions, spending and repayment information being shown on his statements and his 
credit file are reflective of the fraudulent activity. I can appreciate why Mr H feels this way 
however Im satisfied, based on the evidence Ive received, MBNA are aware the 
transactions in question were carried out by fraudsters and theyre not holding Mr H 
responsible. I agree its disappointing some of the information on Mr Hs statements and 
credit files seem to contradict this, and therefore I consider MBNA need to rectify this.
Ive considered the letters Mr H has sent from his other credit card providers relating to the 
issues around his credit card limits. Mr H feels very strongly that the limits were reduced due 
to the issues with MBNA. I can appreciate why Mr H feels this way, however none of the 
letters specifically state any bank has made these decisions to the balance held with MBNA. 
I am sorry to hear Mr H couldnt rely on his credit card balances and had to use his overdraft 
facility. However, banks do make decisions on borrowing for a number of reasons, and while 
Ive seen that information on credit reference agencies formed part of the decisions, I cant 
fairly uphold Mr Hs complaint in the way hed like me to on this point alone; and thats 
because even if MBNA rectified the information with the credit reference agencies, there is 
no guarantee from the other credit card companies that Mr Hs credit limits wouldnt have 
been reviewed and amended due to other reasons.
Im aware Mr H would like significantly more compensation  and he doesnt feel £650 is 
enough to reflect everything hes been through. Firstly, Id like to point out that my 
suggestion of compensation in my provisional decision was £1,000  not £650. I recognise 
MBNA previously offered £350; however, I have reviewed things afresh and independently 
and feel £1,000 is a fairer reflection. Therefore, Id like to reassure Mr H that the level of 
compensation I have suggested has not been influenced in any way by MBNAs previous 
offer and I only require them to pay an additional £650 if they had already paid Mr H £350 to 
bring the total compensation to £1,000. 
Ive no doubt this situation had a significant impact on Mr H and his life  but I have to 
consider the actions of MBNA only. I am aware a lot of the distress caused to Mr H was 
because of the fraudsters  however, I do consider MBNA could have acted differently at 
times to prevent or lessen the impact on Mr H. Its important to note that the gravity of the 
error or how often it was made isnt something I usually consider. This is because I dont have the power to punish or fine a business for bad practice. What I look at is the effect the 
error had on the consumer.
Putting things right
Having carefully considered everything, I think it is important MBNA rectify all traces of the 
fraudulent activity from Mr Hs records  this should include his MBNA statements and 
correspondence, and the credit reference agency data.
I also consider a total payment of £1,000 compensation should be paid to Mr H to recognise 
the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint. To put things right, MBNA Limited 
must do the following: 
Pay Mr H a total of £1000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Im aware MBNA previously offered Mr H £350 compensation and therefore if they 
have already paid this amount to Mr H then they should pay him an additional £650.
Rectify Mr Hs credit file to show the only spending which was carried out by him 
directly.
Ensure all future correspondence relating to statements, or transaction history is 
limited to show the actions of Mr H only.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman