DRN-1990136
The complaint
Mrs W and Mr W complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs W and Mr W bought a regular premium MPPI policy in November 1996 alongside a 
mortgage. The policy covered Mr W only against unemployment, accidents and sickness.
Mrs W and Mr W say they were totally unaware that the PPI policy existed. They say at no 
time did Lloyds discuss the PPI policy with them. They add that Lloyds instigated the policy 
at inception of the mortgage without their knowledge.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs W and Mr Ws complaint. As they dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs W and Mr Ws case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold        
Mrs W and Mr Ws complaint because of the following reasons:
Mrs W and Mr W say the policy was added to the mortgage without their knowledge.
I acknowledge what Mrs W and Mr W have said about this. I cant be sure exactly 
what was discussed between Mrs W and Mr W and Lloyds when the policy was sold. 
Im also mindful that the sale took place many years ago, and that detailed 
recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Lloyds hasnt provided much documentation from the time the policy was sold. Thats 
not surprising either given the time thats passed, and its similar to some other cases 
Ive seen. 
Without anything else to support what Mrs W and Mr W have told me and based on 
what I know of sales conducted by Lloyds during that time, I cant safely conclude 
that Lloyds didnt make them aware of the policy or that it was optional and that they 
chose to have it. 
Moving on, Lloyds has said it recommended the MPPI to Mrs W and Mr W during the 
meeting and so, as this puts additional responsibilities on the business, I will proceed 
that this was the case. So, as it did recommend the policy to Mrs W and Mr W, it had 
to ensure during the sale that the policy was suitable for Mr Ws needs as the policy 
holder. 
After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy was 
unsuitable for Mr W based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr W 
says he would have been able to use 12 months sick pay along with an additional 6 
months worth of savings. Our adjudicator asked Mr W for further information about 
his sick pay as this would be an unusually high amount to receive but Mr W has been 
unable to provide anything. So, it is unclear to me what Mr Ws provisions would 
have been at the time of sale. I also needed to consider that the MPPI policy would 
have paid in addition to any provisions he would have had and more likely for longer. 
So, the benefit would have been of use to Mr W during a difficult time as he could 
have used his provisions to pay for other expenses. I think, on balance, Mr W had a 
need for this cover at the date of sale, for any extended period of unemployment or 
sickness. I also couldnt find any other reason such as a significant or limiting term 
that would make the policy unsuitable for him either.
Lloyds has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI policy that 
Mrs W and Mr W took out but even though it has provided information detailing the 
cover and how much it cost, I cannot be sure that these costs were disclosed to Mrs 
W and Mr W in a clear and fair way at the time of sale. That said, even if they were 
disclosed clearly, I dont think Mrs W and Mr W would have done anything different 
and decided against having the policy for the reasons that I have already given for 
the policy being suitable.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mrs W and Mr W wouldve been affected by any of these.
Ive also thought about the commission Mrs W and Mr W paid on the policy  and whether
Lloyds treated them unfairly.
Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the MPPI to Mrs W and Mr W because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs W and Mr W about that. Because Lloyds didnt 
tell them, that was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs W and Mr W.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mrs W and Mr W any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI policy. I understand it has already done this, 
so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman