DRN-4161984
The complaint
Mrs O complains that she and a family member were treated in an aggressive manner when 
they tried to register a power of attorney and she was then told her account would be closed. 
What happened
Mrs O has explained that she has needs assistance with her financial affairs and visited a 
Halifax branch in November 2022 with a family member to register a power of attorney. She 
says they were treated in a dismissive way and told they would need an appointment to 
register the power of attorney. She says she had been able to register a power of attorney 
elsewhere without an appointment and when she mentioned this the staff member became 
defensive and said he would get a manager. Mrs O made a comment as he left to which the 
staff member responded aggressively, and Mrs O says the manager then spoke to them in 
an aggressive way. Mrs O says that the manager then took the power of attorney saying that 
he would register it but instead took down her details and said her account would be closed 
as abuse wouldnt be tolerated. 
Halifax issued a final response saying it had zero tolerance for inappropriate or abusive 
behaviour. It noted Mrs O didnt think the situation warranted the action taken by Halifax, but 
it said it had a duty of care to its colleagues. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. They said that Halifax is under no obligation to 
continue offering an account to a customer if it doesnt want to do so and that closing an 
account is a commercial decision. They said that the account terms said the account could 
be closed without advance notice in certain circumstances including a customer behaving 
improperly. Our investigator noted that there were conflicting testimonies about the events in 
branch and said that they couldnt therefore reach a conclusion and so they couldnt say that 
Halifax was required to do anything further. 
Mrs O didnt agree with our investigators view. She accepted that the manager had the 
discretion to close her account but said the decision was based on deceit. She said the 
testimony from the manager was dishonest and that an internal investigation had found the 
manager to be unprofessional. She said the allegation that she was abusive was deceitful 
and that the treatment she received from the manager was disgusting. She said she hadnt 
been treated fairly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I make my decision based on the individual circumstances of each complaint. Where the 
evidence is inconsistent, incomplete or contradictory (as it is in this case), I make my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. That is what I consider to most likely to have 
happened given the information provided and the wider circumstances.
Mrs O wanted to register a power of attorney. Halifax has said that it was explained to Mrs O 
that due to staff absences it wasnt able to register the power of attorney at that time but that 
an appointment could be booked, or the power of attorney could be registered online or by 
telephone. I understand that Mrs O may have been able to register the power of attorney 
elsewhere without an appointment but as the branch staff explained why this wasnt possible 
and provided alternatives to Mrs O I cant say it did anything wrong.
There are conflicting versions of the events that then happened. I cannot say for certain what 
was said or what gestures were made but based on the testimonies I have read I accept that 
Mrs O and her family members actions and comments caused upset and offence to the staff 
members. This may not have been intentional and I understand that Mrs O feels she was 
being treated unfairly and being caused stress by the actions of the staff, but given the way 
the staff were made to feel, I find the manager acted reasonably by saying he could no 
longer deal with Mrs Os request and that he would be exploring options in regard to abusive 
customers which could result in Mrs Os account being closed.
As has been explained, Halifax isnt required to provide a customer with an account, but we 
would expect it to follow the terms and conditions of the account and to treat all customers 
fairly. In the account terms and conditions, Halifax can close and account immediately if a 
customer is behaving improperly. In this case, given the situation that arose in branch I do 
not find the manager did anything wrong by alerting Mrs O that her account could be closed. 
I understand that Mrs O then closed her account and switched to another bank.
I understand that Mrs O feels she wasnt treated fairly, and I note her comment about the 
manager taking the power of attorney under false pretences and Halifax acknowledging that 
he acted unprofessionally but given the overall circumstances of this complaint I do not find 
that I can say Halifax was wrong to say the account could be closed. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to do 
anything further in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman