DRN-3504484
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) unfairly declined their claim on their 
home insurance policy.
References to Mr or Mrs D, will include the other.
There are several parties and representatives of Lloyds involved throughout the complaint 
but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Lloyds.
What happened
In August 2021 Mr and Mrs D made a claim on their home insurance policy when they found 
damage to roof tiles on their house and some internal damage due to water getting in. Mr D 
said he believed the damage occurred on or around 1 August 2021.
Lloyds said it would consider their claim under storm damage.
 
Mr D confirmed that some repairs had already been completed by his own roofer. Two roof 
tiles that had slipped out of place had been refitted. This meant a full assessment of the 
damage could not take place.
Lloyds reviewed a report and photographs from Mr Ds builder and agreed to send out a 
loss adjuster to look at the damage.
Lloyds said there were insufficient weather conditions to have caused the reported damage. 
It was noted by the loss adjuster who inspected the roof that the damage to the fascia 
boards and soffits was not consistent with a one-off event. It was more likely the tiles had 
slipped due to nail fatigue and this had let water in causing the damage to the fascia boards 
and soffits, plus the internal damage. It said the external damage was gradual, over a period 
of time.
Lloyds declined their claim for external damage to the roof. The claim for the internal 
damage was accepted. Lloyds said the external damage was wear and tear and therefore 
not covered under the terms of their policy. It said the external damage showed varying 
degrees of deterioration which was not the result of a one-off incident.
Mr D said he felt the damage was not caused by a storm and should be reconsidered. He 
said wind had caused the tiles to lift allowing water to penetrate the roof and cause the 
damage. He said he was not sure when the damage had occurred but had first noticed it in 
June 2021. 
As Mr and Mrs D were not happy with Lloyds, they brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and felt the most 
likely cause of damage to the roof was wear and tear. And therefore the claim had been 
handled fairly by Lloyds and in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
As Mr and Mrs D are unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to 
me for a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ds home insurance policy covers them against the consequences of certain 
events occurring. These are called insured perils and the policy only covers damage or loss 
is as a result of one of the insured perils.
 
It is not in question that the roof had been damaged and that there was internal damage, but 
for Lloyds to accept and settle the claim it had to be considered under one of the insured 
perils.
In this case when Mr D initially made the claim, Lloyds considered it under storm damage. 
I understand Mr D is not certain exactly when or how the damage to the roof occurred. When 
Mr D made the claim to Lloyds he said it had happened at the start of August. And he had 
the damage repaired by his own builder before making the claim. While Lloyds were looking 
to see if the claim was covered under the terms of his policy, Mr D said he first noticed the 
damage in June 2021. 
I saw that Lloyds looked at Mr Ds builders report and pictures and then sent out its loss 
adjuster to look at the damage. It concluded the external damage was most likely to be wear 
and tear. Lloyds also considered if there was a storm recorded. It said that there was no 
record of a storm around the times Mr D thought the damage had happened.
After looking at the evidence I am reassured that that there was no wind or rain that would 
be considered as a storm in the months of June and July 2021. I am confident that the 
weather reports are of a reliable source. Therefore I agree that the claim cannot be 
considered under the storm peril. 
Since theres nothing to show the storm peril applies and there isnt any other applicable 
peril then the policy doesnt appear to cover the damage to Mr and Mrs Ds roof. 
I looked at the policy terms and conditions. Mr and Mrs Ds policy carries standard insurance 
exclusions for claims. It says;
Section 5  General Exclusions
b) Loss or Damage caused by or in connection with:
 Maintenance and normal redecoration;
 Wear and tear, settlement, shrinkage, depreciation, corrosion, wet or dry rot, fungus, damp,
beetles, moths, insects, vermin, infestation, rust, mildew, atmospheric or climatic conditions, 
the effect of light or anything that happens gradually;.
From the evidence I have seen, it would appear that the damage to Mr and Mrs Ds roof falls 
within the category of wear and tear which is excluded from the policy.
As Mr and Mrs Ds buildings policy includes accidental damage cover, I considered if this 
applies. But as there is no evidence of an accident to the roof this does not apply.Consequently, I think Lloyds has shown that the exclusion clause detailed above applies to 
Mr and Mrs Ds claim and therefore I think it fairly declined thier claim for damage to the roof.
Therefore, although I understand Mr and Mrs D will be disappointed, I do not uphold their 
complaint and I think that Lloyds fairly declined their claim in line with the policy terms and 
conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman