DRN-3626947
The complaint
Mr P complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua rejected his chargeback request.
What happened
In April 2021 Mr P booked a cottage holiday from a supplier and paid using his Aqua card. 
The holiday was due to begin on 7 May 2021.
After completing the booking, Mr P realised hed been overcharged. He contacted the 
supplier and was promised a call back, but this never happened. Mr P tried to cancel the 
booking via the suppliers website but found that he could only obtain a partial refund.
On 20 April 2021 Mr P heard back from the supplier. It asked him to provide a screen shot 
showing the price hed been quoted when making the booking. Mr P wasnt able to provide 
this.
Mr P subsequently raised a chargeback with NewDay. The supplier disputed the chargeback 
and ultimately it was rejected by NewDay.
Mr P was unhappy with the outcome and complained to NewDay. NewDay said it hadnt 
received any supporting evidence from Mr P and said it considered Mr P to be liable for the 
transaction.
Mr P remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said she didnt think NewDay had rejected 
the chargeback unfairly because the supplier had defended the chargeback with evidence. 
The investigator also considered whether there was a valid claim under section 785 but said 
there was no evidence of a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
Mr P didnt agree. He said that when he spoke to the supplier, it told him that there was a 
pricing error on its website and that the prices quoted are not what is charged. Mr P said 
hed requested a cancellation on 25 April 2021, and he didnt understand why his request 
hadnt been honoured. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps complaint is that NewDay rejected his chargeback claim so Ive considered this first. I 
will also consider whether there is a valid claim under section 75 because even though 
NewDay didnt consider this, its relevant in these circumstances.
Chargeback
A chargeback is a debit or credit card transaction that is reversed by the cardholders bank 
when they dispute a transaction. Theres no guarantee that the cardholder will be 
permanently refunded  this depends on whether the supplier successfully disputes the 
chargeback. 
In this case, Mr Ps account was temporarily credited. However, the supplier disputed the 
chargeback and provide evidence which led NewDay to decide that the chargeback was 
unlikely to succeed.
Based on what Ive seen, Im unable to say that NewDay didnt follow the chargeback 
process correctly. It asked both parties for information and made an assessment based on 
the evidence provided. I cant say that Mr P was treated unfairly or unreasonably.
Section 75
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Mr Ps complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation and that NewDays response wasnt fair or reasonable.
The suppliers contractual obligation in this case was to provide the service offered (a 
holiday cottage booking service). Theres an implied term that the service will be carried out 
with reasonable care and skill. Mr P was able to book the cottage, so Im satisfied that the 
contractual obligation was fulfilled. 
Ive taken into account what Mr P has said about being overcharged. It is arguable that a 
booking service which advertises one price and charges another isnt a service which can be 
said to have been provided with reasonable care and skill. However, in order to find this, I 
would need to see evidence that Mr P was offered one price and charged another. Mr P 
hasnt been able to provide this evidence, so I cant safely conclude that the price changed. 
Ive also taken into account what Mr P has said about his request to cancel the booking. I 
can see that Mr P sent an email asking to cancel on 25 April 2021. Theres been some 
discussion about whether Mr Ps request was sent to the correct email address. I dont think 
this is determinative of the matter, because under the terms of the suppliers contract, there 
is no right to cancel where there is 6 weeks or less before the holiday start date. So, in this 
case, Mr P had no right to cancel the booking. Because of this, Im unable to say that theres 
been a breach of contract.
Ive thought about whether theres been a misrepresentation here. Mr P says he was offered 
one price and charged another.      I appreciate that the price was likely to have been one of 
the main factors in Mr Ps decision to book. So, if the price changed as Mr P says it did, then 
he would have grounds to claim under section 75. However, in order to find that theres been 
a misrepresentation, I would need to see evidence to show that Mr P was offered one price 
and charged a higher price. Mr P hasnt provided any evidence to show this.
Based on everything Ive seen, there isnt enough evidence to persuade me that theres 
been a  breach of contract or a misrepresentation. I dont think NewDay rejected the 
chargeback claim unfairly, and I dont think a section 75 claim would be been successful. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman