DRN-3406851
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about TICORP Limiteds administration of their Staysure travel
insurance policy.
Staysure is a trading name of TICORP Limited. So for ease, Ill refer to Staysure throughout
this decision.
What happened
On 20 October 2020, Mr and Mrs M took out a single trip travel insurance policy through
Staysures website. The policy was to provide cover for Mr and Mrs Ms forthcoming holiday
abroad between 25 October and 1 November 2020. They paid £77.38 for the policy, which
was underwritten by an insurer Ill call G.
Mr and Mrs M flew abroad as planned, together with the other members of their travelling
party. However, unfortunately, one of the other party members tested positive for Covid-19
the day after Mr and Mrs Ms arrival abroad and ultimately, they were placed in a quarantine
hotel at the relevant governments expense.
So Mrs M called Staysure to ask for help and was directed to call Gs medical emergency
line. It seems Mr and Mrs M were told that as they didnt have Covid-19 themselves, there
was no cover under the policy. Gs emergency line said that it couldnt help Mr and Mrs M
and Mrs M says it told her that any claim wouldnt be covered. It told Mrs M to call Staysure
back to extend the cover, as Mr and Mrs M would still be in quarantine when their policy was
due to expire.
Mr and Mrs M got back in touch with Staysure and asked to extend their policy. Staysure
referred the request to G, which agreed to an extension until 11 November 2020. G said
cover would be excluded for any symptoms of infectious disease on the extended policy. On
this basis, Staysure arranged to extend Mr and Mrs Ms policy until 11 November 2020. Mr
and Mrs M paid an additional premium of £61.89 for the additional cover dates.
Ultimately, Mr and Mrs M flew back to the UK on 5 November 2020. They incurred significant
additional travel costs. They were unhappy with the way Staysure had administered their
policy and they were unhappy that theyd been told any claim wouldnt be covered. So they
made a complaint.
Staysure pointed out the relevant terms in Mr and Mrs Ms policy which it said would likely
apply to any claim. It said it had been Gs claims team which had told Mr and Mrs M that
they couldnt make a claim. Staysure had spoken to G, which had informed the complaint
handler that Mr and Mrs M could submit a claim to it for consideration, but that any claim
was unlikely to be successful. Staysure did refund the additional premium of £61.89 which
Mr and Mrs M had paid to extend their policy.
Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy with Staysures administration of their policy and that they
were out of pocket for their travel expenses, so they asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. Briefly,
she thought G had been entitled to decline the claim and that Staysure had administered Mr
and Mrs Ms policy fairly.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me to decide. I asked our
investigator to confirm whether Mr and Mrs M had made a claim on their policy. Staysure
confirmed with G that Mr and Mrs M hadnt done so. Therefore, we let Mr and Mrs M know
that this decision could only consider Staysures actions in administering the policy. Mr and
Mrs M told us that their complaint about Staysures actions related to the following issues:
It had been unhelpful in a stressful situation and had passed Mr and Mrs M on to G,
which in turn passed them back to Staysure;
Itd charged them more to extend the policy;
It hadnt offered them any assistance, other than extending the policy, which had
been pointless.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 March 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained why 
I felt Staysure had treated Mr and Mrs M fairly. I said:
First, its important I make it clear that this decision will only consider Staysures actions.
While Staysure sold the policy to Mr and Mrs M, it wasnt the policy underwriter. This meant
it wasnt responsible for making decisions about cover; for providing emergency assistance;
what price to charge for the insurance and whether to exclude certain things from cover; or
whether claims should be paid.
The policy underwriter was G, which has confirmed that Mr and Mrs M havent submitted a
claim to it for their additional expenses. While G has liaised with Staysure and indicated to it
that a claim isnt likely to be successful, it remains the case that Mr and Mrs M havent made
a formal claim for it to consider. This means G has never formally assessed any claims
evidence or declined any claim. And Mr and Mrs M havent made any complaint to it about
either its initial indications that a claim might not be payable or any subsequent decision to
turn down their claim. As such, G has never had an opportunity to investigate Mr and Mrs
Ms concerns. We can only look into a consumers complaint once the financial business
concerned has had a chance to look into it and issue a response to their complaint. Staysure
does not have the authority to deal with claims complaints on Gs behalf and so as the
investigator explained, before we could consider any complaint about G, a separate
complaint would need to be made to it. Its also still open to Mr and Mrs M to make a claim to
G for their costs for its consideration should they choose to do so and to complain about any
claims decision should they be unhappy with the outcome.
The sale of the policy
Ive next turned to think about Staysures administration of Mr and Mrs Ms policy. As a
broker, Staysure needed to give Mr and Mrs M clear, fair and not misleading information
about their policy  both at the time it was sold and when it was extended. Its clear that at
the time Mr and Mrs M took out their policy, G was only providing cover for Covid-19 related
claims for some sections of the policy. I think this was a significant restriction on cover and
so I think Staysure needed to clearly highlight this limitation at the point of sale.
Staysure has provided me with a copy of a screen Mr and Mrs M wouldve seen during the
online sales process. This said:
Important Cover Update
COVID-19 (Coronavirus) Cover Update Our policies cover Trip Cancellation, Emergency
Medical and Repatriation Expenses if you are affected by COVID-19 (coronavirus).Cover only applies if the FCO have not advised against all or all but essential travel to your
destination. Currently the FCO advises against travel to certain destinations such as Spain
(including Balearic & Canary Islands), France, USA, South & Central America, Africa,
Central Asia, and China. Please see gov.uk.foreign.travel-advice for full details.
If the FCO have advised against all but essential travel: Add our European FCO Travel
Advice Extension to validate your cover. In that case the COVID-19 Cover will apply before
you travel, but you will not be covered for COVID-19 or the reason behind the FCO travel
advice whilst travelling.
In my view, this information clearly explains that the only sections of the policy which might
provide cover if a claim arose because of Covid-19 were the cancellation and emergency
medical and repatriation expenses sections. Staysure also explained that policyholders
could add the optional FCO Travel Advice Extension if they wanted specific Covid-19 related
cancellation cover. On that basis, I think Staysure did highlight the extent of Covid-19 cover
G was offering at that time. Therefore, Im satisfied it met its regulatory obligation to provide
clear information about the cover during the sale. And as Mr and Mrs M chose to add the
FCO Travel Advice Extension to their policy, it seems to me that they most likely saw this
screen during the sale.
Staysures role also includes the obligation to send policyholders the policy paperwork on an
underwriters behalf. In this case, Mr and Mrs M have sent us copies of their policy schedule,
the policy terms and a policy summary. So it seems clear that Staysure did meet this
obligation.
The trip extension
Mr and Mrs M have described the situation they faced while abroad and the conditions in
their quarantine hotel. I dont doubt that they were worried about their party members health
and also their own health and I understand this mustve been a very worrying time for them. I
can entirely appreciate why they hoped for assistance from Staysure and from G.
As Ive set out above though, Staysure isnt responsible for handling claims or for providing
emergency assistance. Thats Gs role. So Staysure couldnt guarantee that Mr and Mrs Ms
costs would be met or provide them with the assistance they were seeking. I acknowledge
how frustrating it mustve been when Staysure initially transferred Mr and Mrs M through to
G, especially given G then directed them back to Staysure, but I think this was the
appropriate course of action for Staysure to take at that point. I say this because G was in a
position to assess cover and what, if any, assistance it could offer Mr and Mrs M. Staysure
didnt have the authority to do so.
It's also clear that Mr and Mrs Ms policy was due to expire on 1 November 2020, but that
due to their circumstances, they wouldnt be in a position to return to the UK on that date. In
order to have cover for any claims at all, they would need to extend their cover. I understand
why Mr and Mrs M feel it was unfair to charge an additional premium for this cover and that it
was unfair for cover for infectious diseases they developed after the policy had been
extended to be excluded. But these decisions were down to G.
Indeed, Staysure needed Gs authority to extend the policy at all. I can see that Staysure
contacted G to request a policy extension based on the initial return dates Mr and Mrs M had
given it and then followed this up again when it seemed Mr and Mrs M wouldnt be able to
return until 11 November 2020. I think Staysure acted reasonably and appropriately in trying
to extend the policy based on Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances. And I think Staysure
communicated Gs decisions about the agreement to extend the contract; the price it was
prepared to charge and the exclusions it had decided to apply to the extension to Mr and
Mrs M promptly and fairly. Id add that I think Staysure tried to assist Mr and Mrs M here byensuring they still had cover while they were forced to remain abroad.
In any event, as part of its response to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, Staysure agreed to refund
the additional premium Mr and Mrs M had paid for the policy extension. This was in spite of
some of the additional cover days being used. I think this was a very fair response from
Staysure to try and resolve Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and more than I wouldve directed it to
do.
I understand Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Staysures complaint handler told them any
claim to G was unlikely to be successful. Ive thought about this. I can see from Staysures
records though that it was in contact with G, which told Staysure that while no claim had
been made, were a claim to be considered, it was unlikely to be successful based on the
facts presented to it. I think then that Staysure was attempting to manage Mr and Mrs Ms
expectations if they did choose to make a claim. But I note that Staysures final response
also did make it clear that Mr and Mrs M could make a claim to G if they wanted to. So I
dont think Staysure led Mr and Mrs M to believe that they were precluded from making a
claim to G.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ms position, as I appreciate theyve been
through an upsetting situation, I think Staysure has treated them fairly. So Im not telling
Staysure to do anything more.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Staysure had nothing more to add.
Mr and Mrs M told us that they felt very let down by Staysure, the underwriters and us.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M and I sympathise with the 
situation in which they found themselves, as neither party has added any additional 
substantive evidence or comments, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Staysure met its regulatory obligations when it sold and extended 
the policy and that it treated Mr and Mrs M fairly.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman