DRN-3442293
The complaint
Mrs B complains Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) have placed an adverse marker on her credit file, 
which has led to difficulties in her obtaining finance elsewhere. 
What happened
Mrs B says in March 2021 she applied via her banking app, for a payment holiday on her 
credit card account with Lloyds, as Covid had affected her financial situation. Mrs B says 
instead of providing a one-month period of breathing space for her, Lloyds marked a three-
month payment holiday. Mrs B says Lloyds then registered this arrangement on her credit 
file, which she says has led to her not being able to secure preferential credit terms for car 
finance, and subsequently resulted in her mortgage application being declined. 
Mrs B says she wants Lloyds to remove the markers on her credit file and to compensate 
her for the trouble and upset caused. 
Lloyds says the payment holiday was correctly set up and Mrs B was made aware of the 
impact on her credit file. Lloyds say it has correctly recorded the arrangement on Mrs Bs 
credit file and do not feel it has made an error here. 
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold the complaint. He 
felt Lloyds correctly set up a payment holiday and it acted fairly when it registered the 
information about this, on Mrs Bs credit file, as she had been informed that would happen. 
Mrs B disagreed with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said :
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different outcome to that of the investigator and I will 
explain how I have come to my decision. 
I was sorry to hear of the issues surrounding Mrs Bs health and I can see this must be a 
difficult for time for her. I can also understand it would have been upsetting for her to 
discover a marker had been placed on her credit file, which she believes has caused her 
issues in obtaining credit elsewhere. 
When looking at this case, I will consider if Lloyds correctly set up the payment holiday 
arrangements on Mrs Bs credit card account as she requested, and if they were at fault in 
registering such an arrangement on Mrs Bs credit file. 
The first thing to say here is when making a full and impartial decision, I have to take into 
account the fact this happened during the Covid pandemic which affected both businesses 
and customers alike. 
As part of our investigation this service has been provided with numerous telephone call 
recordings and while these have been helpful, I wont be commenting on each call 
individually, thats not to say I havent listened to those calls  I have, but I dont think its 
necessary in order to come to a full and impartial decision here. 
Mrs Bs complaint centres around the fact that she only wanted Lloyds to give her some 
breathing space, given the impact Covid had on her familys income and not formally mark a 
three-month payment plan holiday on her credit card account. Mrs B believes as a result of 
this, Lloyds adversely placed a marker on her credit file which has led to her not being able 
to take a more beneficial car finance deal, and more recently the cause of her mortgage 
application being declined. 
Its worth mentioning that consumers could continue to apply for Covid support until 31 
March 2021, under the guidance provided to lenders from the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA).
Having reviewed the case notes and listened to various telephone call recordings, its clear 
in late March 2021, Mrs B discusses a payment holiday request as a result of the impact of 
Covid on the family finances. Mrs B then goes on to make the point to Lloyds she originally 
applied for this online, but it hadnt been confirmed to her. I have seen a letter from Lloyds 
dated 29 March 2021, addressed to Mrs B confirming the arrangement on her credit card 
account for up to three months. So, although Mrs B says she applied via her banking app for 
a temporary one month breathing space, I have seen no evidence to support that and the 
letter is quite clear that a three-month payment holiday had been agreed. With that in mind I 
am satisfied Lloyds have provided Mrs B with the payment holiday she requested, and this is 
confirmed in various telephone calls, when Mrs B refers to a payment holiday. 
In early April 2021 Mrs B telephones Lloyds again and is transferred to its financial 
assistance team where all of her bank and credit card accounts are discussed. In that call 
Mrs B specifically asks about the impact any arrangement may have on her credit file and 
the advisor from Lloyds initially confirms that provided Mrs B kept within her credit limit, her 
credit file wouldnt be affected. On listening to this telephone call, it doesnt appear the 
advisor was aware that Lloyds had already sent a letter on 29 March 2021 to Mrs B, 
regarding her credit card account and that a three-month Covid payment holiday had already 
been agreed. This letter confirmed Mrs Bs credit file wouldnt be affected by it. The letter 
stated : Taking a payment holiday won't directly affect your credit score, as it won't show as 
you having missed payments on your credit card during this time. 
Lloyds during the course of this investigation have advised there were no file notes regarding 
this agreement in late March 2021, but agree the letter it issued on 29 March 2021 does look 
to be a Covid payment holiday plan and that Mrs B hadnt previously applied for any Covid 
support. So, its reasonable to say Mrs B was eligible for Covid support at that time, in line 
with the guidance given to banks by the FCA.
Looking at the timing here its reasonable to suggest, in all probability the letter dated 29 
March 2021 hadnt been received when Mrs B called Lloyds again in early April 2021. This 
might have led to some of the confusion here, as Mrs B had queried why the previous 
arrangements she had discussed in her telephone call of 25 March 2021, hadnt been put in 
place. 
During the same telephone call in early April 2021, the advisor informs Mrs B that a payment 
plan arrangement will be seen on her credit file, contradicting his earlier comment that this 
wouldnt happen if she kept within her credit limit. From the information I have seen, Mrs Bs 
credit card borrowing was within the agreed limit at the time she called and as the card was 
blocked for the three-month period subsequently agreed with her, Mrs B stayed within her credit limit.
Its also fair to say having listened to the telephone call in early April 2021, its not entirely 
clear if Mrs B understood, what had been now agreed at that time, as the latter plan meant 
her credit file would now show a payment arrangement marker. 
While I can see a letter was sent to Mrs B following up the call on 2 April 2021 its 
reasonable to assume this would have been received around the same time as the Covid 
payment holiday letter dated a few days earlier, adding to what was an already confused 
picture here. What is fair to say is this would have been confusing for Mrs B, and while 
perhaps she could have done more to establish what had been agreed with Lloyds, I take 
the view Lloyds should have known it had previously agreed a suitable Covid payment plan 
with Mrs B when she rang in early April 2021. 
I can see Lloyds have provided forbearance to Mrs B when she needed its support, and I 
also accept the marker on Mrs Bs credit file was simply notice that a payment arrangement 
had been agreed and wasnt recording a missed payment. Nevertheless, its fair to say given 
the request from Mrs B was as a direct result of Covid affecting her finances, the initial Covid 
payment holiday plan agreed by Lloyds in their letter dated 29 March 2021, was in hindsight 
more appropriate here. I say this as although its possible the advisor at Lloyds in early April 
2021 may not have seen the letter dated 29 March 2021, it doesnt alter the fact the new 
arrangement agreed, albeit under the best intentions of Lloyds to assist Mrs B, meant her 
credit file would be adversely affected, which right from the start was something Mrs B was 
trying to avoid. 
Its fair to say, had the Covid holiday plan remained in place it would have meant Lloyds 
would have been entitled to continue to charge interest on Mrs Bs credit card account. But 
on balance and given the choice Im satisfied Mrs B would in all likelihood, have chosen the 
Covid payment plan option, rather than having her credit file marked, given how important 
that was to her.   
Mrs B says as a result of these markers on her credit file, it weakened her credit score and 
resulted in her not being able to obtain preferential credit terms elsewhere, and more 
recently it is the reason for her mortgage application being declined. While I understand the 
points Mrs B makes here, I cant say that an arrangement to pay marker, would have been 
the sole reason why her mortgage application was declined or that her car finance wasnt 
approved at a more beneficial interest rate. I say this because lenders will consider various 
lending criteria, not simply a credit score, before approving any finance terms. 
Thats not to say Mrs B hasnt been inconvenienced here - she has, but I also need to 
consider when deciding whats fair and reasonable here that Lloyds didnt charge Mrs B any 
interest on her credit card account during the payment holiday plan period, which wouldnt 
have been the case for a Covid payment holiday plan. With that in mind, I propose Lloyds 
simply remove the payment arrangement markers placed against Mrs Bs credit file relating 
to her credit card account for April 2021, May 2021 and June 2021.
While Lloyds will be disappointed with my decision, I am satisfied this is a fair outcome here. 
Both Mrs B and Lloyds responded to my provisional decision, so the case has been passed 
back to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Mrs B and Lloyds until 22 April 2022 to accept or reject my provisional decision. 
Both Lloyds and Mrs B have accepted my provisional decision, although Mrs B felt she 
should be paid compensation for the trouble and upset she has gone through. 
While I understand the point Mrs B makes, as I said in my provisional decision Lloyds did 
provide support and forbearance to her at the time. Although a payment arrangement marker 
was placed on her credit file, for the reasons I have already given Im not persuaded this 
alone would have been the reason for Mrs B having credit facilities refused. I have also 
taken into account that Mrs B didnt pay any interest on her credit card account during the 
payment holiday period, which wouldnt have been the case if a Covid payment holiday had 
been put in place. 
So with all that in mind, I dont feel further compensation is warranted here. I cant say this 
changes my original provisional decision and see no need to change or add to this, and so 
my final decision remains the same. 
Putting things right
I instruct Lloyds Bank plc to remove the payment arrangement markers placed against Mrs 
Bs credit file relating to her credit card account for April 2021, May 2021 and June 2021.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Lloyds Bank plc to remove the payment arrangement markers placed against Mrs 
Bs credit file relating to her credit card account for April 2021, May 2021 and June 2021.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman