DRN-4395944
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Vodafone Limited recorded a default on his credit file in relation to 
a fixed sum loan agreement hed taken out to buy a phone. 
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint are well known to both parties. So Im not going to cover 
off everything again in detail. But in summary, Mr M bought a phone for around £800 using a 
fixed sum loan agreement (device plan) from Vodafone. This was to be paid back over three 
years with monthly payments of £21. 
Mr M called Vodafone on 8 September 2022 to change the date of his direct debit. Vodafone 
told him hed need to cancel it and call back to set up a new one. I think his normal payment 
was usually required by around the 13th of the month. Vodafone explained it changed his 
due date to the 29th of the month as per Mr Ms request. 
It looks like Vodafone emailed Mr M to let him know the direct debit for 13 September had 
been returned unpaid and that there was no direct debit in place. Presumably this was 
because it had already started processing when Mr M asked to change his payment date. 
And it contacted him on 24 September 2022 to let him know his device plan was in arrears. 
During this time Mr M had been in touch with Vodafone about arrears on his airtime account 
as well as problems he was having with data speeds. 
No direct debit was set up, and so no payment was made on 29 September 2022. On 4 and 
9 October, Vodafone wrote to Mr M about the arrears on the device plan. It looks like 
Vodafone text Mr M on 17 October 2022 to say his service had been restricted. Mr M 
contacted Vodafone and it looks like it told him the device plan wasnt up to date. I think he 
mentioned hed changed the direct debit date. But Vodafones notes indicate he didnt want 
to be put through to the device plan team. 
I think Mr M spoke to Vodafone on 27 October 2022 because he was thinking of leaving the 
service. He wanted the early termination fee waived but didnt have time to go through 
troubleshooting for the service problems he was having. Vodafone sent Mr M a copy of his 
device plan statement and a direct debit mandate for him to complete with a payment 
starting in November 2022. 
Vodafone tried to speak to Mr M again on 28 October 2022 but couldnt reach him so 
referred the account to a debt collector. No payment was made on 29 October 2022, so by 
this point Mr M was two payments behind on the device plan. 
Vodafone sent a default notice to Mr M on 27 November 2022 saying he needed to pay £42 
by 13 December 2022. I think the debt collector contacted him the following day and again 
on the 30 November 2022. The default notice expired on 13 December 2022. The debt 
collector contacted Mr M again on the 14 December 2022 asking for payment, and I believe 
he brought things back up to date. But on 17 December 2022 Vodafone wrote to Mr M to say 
it had terminated the agreement on 13 December 2022 and the full balance was due. 
Mr M complained and Vodafone sent a final response. It said it had tried to contact him 
about the missed payments various times. And as he didnt clear the arrears by the date on 
the default notice it acted fairly by defaulting and terminating the agreement. 
Mr M referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator said he found it unusual the debt 
was passed to debt collectors technically only after one missed payment. And he said the 
agreement gave him the impression an account would only be passed to debt collectors 
after it was terminated. He said the debt collector gave a conflicting date the debt needed to 
be paid (16 December 2022) and that Mr M had said hed not received the default notice. 
Our investigator said there were postal strikes around this time which could explain why it 
wasnt received. So he thought the default should be removed and Mr M should be allowed 
to clear the arrears or pay it off in full. 
Vodafone didnt agree. It said Mr M made payment after the date on the default notice, and 
so the default was applied correctly.
I issued a provisional decision that said:
Vodafone is reporting information to the credit reference agencies in relation to a regulated 
fixed sum loan agreement and our service is able to consider complaints relating to these 
sorts of agreements. But, as has been pointed out, Im not able to consider complaints that 
solely relate to the airtime contract Mr M has with Vodafone. 
I can understand why Mr M is very unhappy Vodafone applied a default a day before he 
made payment towards the arrears. And hes highlighted that the debt collector asked for 
payment by the 16 December 2022. But what I have to bear in mind is that by the point 
Vodafone defaulted and terminated the agreement, Mr M was three payments in arrears. 
The guidance for reporting arrears says that, as a general guide, defaults may be recorded 
when the customer is three months in arrears. So I dont find I have the grounds to say that 
Vodafone defaulted Mr M too early. 
Ive also thought about whether there are any other reasons why the default might have 
been recorded unfairly. Mr M wanted to push back his payment date and Vodafone told him 
to cancel his direct debit and to call back and set up a new one. Its not in dispute Mr M 
didnt set up a new one. I think he mightve implied he couldnt get through to Vodafone. But 
what I have to bear in mind is that the evidence Ive seen indicates Vodafone wrote to Mr M 
with a direct debit mandate for him to complete. It also told him on the phone when he was 
discussing his airtime about the arrears on the device plan, but I cant see Mr M agreed to 
speak to the relevant team. 
Moreover, Vodafone wrote to Mr M various times about the arrears. And it did this by email 
and letter. I appreciate Mr M says he didnt receive the default notice, but I think by that point 
he ought to have known his device plan was falling further and further into arrears. I think he 
had opportunity to speak to Vodafone about the device plan. 
Ive also thought about what Mr M said about the debt collectors involvement. I agree the 
debt collector told Mr M he needed to pay off the arrears by the 16th. But the text messages 
Mr M has shown us about this are dated the 14 and 15 December 2022. So these were sent 
after the default notice had already expired and the agreement terminated. Mr M hasnt 
shown us anything sent by the debt collector before the default notice expired which may 
have caused confusion for him. So I dont think I can say Vodafone acted unfairly on 13 
December 2022 based on something its debt collector did wrong. 
I agree Vodafone seems to have referred debt collectors early on. And its sent a default 
notice sooner than other lenders might have. But ultimately it didnt record the default until Mr M was three months in arrears. And based on what Ive said above, I dont find I have the 
grounds to direct it to remove this.
Ive not received any substantive responses from either party.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Seeing as though Ive not seen any new material evidence, I see no reason to depart from 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman