DRN-3043414
The complaint
Miss R complains about interest being applied to her account when Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited, trading as Littlewoods, said goods bought on her Buy Now Pay Later 
(BNPL) account hadnt been paid for in time. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss Rs greenhouse purchase was transferred to her BNPL account in late June 2017, 
although the purchase was made earlier. 
She needed to pay off the balance by the end of the BNPL period in order to avoid attracting 
interest of £531.37.
She made payments towards that BNPL figure totalling £313.66 between 14 October 2017 
and the end of March 2018. But as the price of the greenhouse was £369.99 Miss R hadnt 
paid off the full balance before the end of the BNPL term. What was left to pay was therefore 
transferred to her flexible account along with the £531.37 interest that had now become due.
The terms of Miss Rs agreement with Shop Direct say:
If you want to make payment to a BNPL Plan, you must allocate your payment to that 
specific BNPL Plan. You can do this online in My Account by finding the specific BNPL Plan 
and making payment to it or by phoning us and telling our advisor which BNPL Plan you 
wish to make your payment to.
So, I think its clear it was for Miss R to allocate any payments she was making towards the 
requisite debt. She didnt do that, and I think Shop Direct have acted reasonably by 
subsequently reviewing her account and reallocating some payments to BNPL purchases. 
By doing that they have been able to refund some of the interest that had been charged, 
including the £531.37 that Miss R could have been charged in interest for her greenhouse 
purchase. 
  
Putting things right
I think Shop Direct have acted fairly here but they could have responded to Miss Rs 
concerns more readily, when their agent spoke to Miss R. In those circumstances, I would 
agree with the investigator that they should pay Miss R £50 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused to her, but Im not asking them to do any more than that.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I am upholding this complaint. In addition to the interest 
refunds Shop Direct Finance Company Limited have already agreed to (above) they should 
also pay Miss R £50 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman