DRN-1316751
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with the redemption figure they were given by 1st Stop Home 
Loans Limited in March 2019 as it was higher than the figure theyd been given in May 2018.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P have a loan with 1st Stop, and on 3 May 2018 they requested a redemption 
figure. Unfortunately due to a system error an incorrect figure was generated.
On 27 March 2019 Mr and Mrs P requested an up to date redemption figure and were 
quoted an amount about £300 more than theyd been told in May 2018. Mr and Mrs P 
immediately queried it and raised a complaint as they said all their payments had been made 
in full in the intervening period, so they couldnt understand why the figure had gone up.
Whilst it was investigating the complaint 1st Stop said it would honour the 2018 settlement 
figure, but Mr and Mrs P didnt accept that as they felt it didnt reflect the payments theyd 
made since then.
On 20 May 2019 1st Stop issued its final response letter in which it explained the 2018 figure 
was wrong, apologised for that mistake and reiterated its offer to accept the 2018 quoted 
amount in settlement of the debt. Mr and Mrs P told us they didnt receive that letter.
1st Stop told our investigator the offer would no longer be honoured as the settlement figure 
had changed. Our investigator felt the offer was fair so made no other recommendations and 
told 1st Stop that it should still be honoured. Mr and Mrs P didnt agree and so its been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Although Ive read and considered the 
whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it 
in order to reach the right outcome. 
Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a business makes a mistake, mistakes do 
happen. In this case it was a simple system error that meant Mr and Mrs P were led to 
believe in 2018 that the redemption figure would be lower than it actually was. This is a 
mistaken statement of facts; a misrepresentation. When were looking at complaints of this 
type we consider the appropriate remedy is to place the consumer in the position they would 
be in if the incorrect information hadnt been given. We dont put them in the position they 
would be in if it had been correct. 
If the correct information had been given, Mr and Mrs P would have been told in 2018 of the 
true redemption figure. Mr and Mrs P could never have been in the position where they could 
- in March 2019 - pay an amount lower than the incorrect 2018 figure (to take into account the payments theyd made in the interim period). As the 2018 mistake was corrected in 
March 2019, Mr and Mrs P have already had the appropriate remedy in that they now know 
the true position.
That said, I agree with our investigator that 1st Stop shouldnt have withdrawn the offer when 
the complaint was with us. Albeit that could simply have been a misunderstanding as its 
likely the true redemption figure is now lower than that quoted in May 2018 so the offer is 
moot.
Mr and Mrs P say they didnt receive the final response letter from 1st Stop. It was correctly 
addressed to Mr and Mrs P and Ive no reason to believe it wasnt sent, so 1st Stop did all it 
was required to do. I cant hold 1st Stop liable for Mr and Mrs P not receiving it.
Putting things right
If Mr and Mrs P choose to redeem their loan within one month of their acceptance of this 
final decision, 1st Stop should accept the May 2018 settlement figure if thats lower than the 
current settlement figure.
But thats only if theres no reason why the current settlement figure is higher than it should 
normally be at this point; for instance if there have been any payment arrears or fees or 
charges on the account since May 2018. If thats the case then this offer isnt valid, and 
Mr and Mrs P will need to pay the true settlement figure.
My final decision
My decision is that uphold this complaint in part against 1st Stop Home Loans Limited and 
order redress as set out above. My final decision concludes this services consideration of 
the complaint, which means well not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion 
of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman