DRN-2253576
The complaint
Mr M complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money unfairly removed the 
promotional interest rate on his credit card account.
What happened
Mr M says Virgin Money removed the promotional interest rate on his credit card account in 
January 2020 but didnt tell him. He says he found out what had taken place when he 
received the following months account statement. Mr M says the contract terms are unfair 
and he is concerned about Virgin Moneys practice and the impact its decisions have on 
consumers. He would like the interest he has been charged to be refunded and for the wider 
issue to be looked at.
Virgin Money says its not made a mistake and says it has acted in line with the account 
terms and conditions and in line with the information given on the account statements about 
the loss of a promotional offer. It says it e-mailed Mr M in December 2019 and told him he 
had reached 95% of his credit limit but he continued to spend and exceeded the credit limit. 
Virgin Money says its entitled in those circumstances to withdraw the promotional interest 
rate.
Mr M brought his complaint to us, but our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Virgin Money had acted in line with the account terms and conditions by withdrawing 
the promotional interest rate when Mr M exceeded the credit limit. The investigator also 
thought it wasnt our role to consider the wider implications of Virgin Moneys decision and 
thought Virgin Money had also made clear in the account statements what would happen in 
these circumstances.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and in summary says Virgin Money ought to have told him 
what it was doing and says the terms and conditions are unfair for a consumer contract.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that Virgin Money has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and hasnt made a mistake. I realise Mr M will be disappointed by my decision and 
I appreciate how strongly he feels about whats taken place. I also make clear that its not 
our role to consider the wider implications of Virgin Moneys practice or to consider other 
customers affected by this sort of situation.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Mr M would have agreed to 
when the credit card account was opened. Im satisfied those terms and conditions make 
clear that if as in this case a credit limit is exceeded then Virgin Money will remove a 
promotional interest rate. So, I dont think Virgin Money acted unfairly or made a mistake by 
doing that when Mr Ms spending exceeded the credit limit. Im also satisfied that Virgin 
Money made clear in the account statements that same information. 
I appreciate Mr M says Virgin Money didnt tell him that it was withdrawing the promotional 
offer. But for the reasons I have explained I find it did tell him what it would do in 
circumstances where the credit limit was exceeded in both the terms and conditions and the 
account statements. I dont think Virgin Money was obliged to tell Mr M that it had withdrawn 
the promotional offer and I think it acted fairly by telling him that he had reached 95% of his 
credit limit in December 2019. I think Mr M ought reasonably to have realised at that stage 
that he was close to the account credit limit and that it was his responsibility to manage his 
account.
I also make clear to Mr M that it would be for a court to decide if any of the account terms 
and conditions were unfair.
Overall, Im satisfied that Virgin Money has acted in line with agreed account terms and 
conditions and it follows that I can fairly order it to refund any interest Mr M has paid as a 
result of the interest rate change.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman