DRN-2082847
The complaint
Mr G complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to him 
alongside a hire purchase account in October 1999.
Although the PPI was sold by another business AXA France IARD has taken responsibility 
for this complaint. For ease of reference, I will refer to AXA throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr G applied for the PPI in the store when he took out his hire purchase account there. This 
policy covered him if he lost his job, was off work because he was sick, or if he had an 
accident. 
Our adjudicator said she thought this was a case that should be upheld. She explained that 
Mr G had a pre-existing medical condition. She didnt think AXA had made it clear enough 
that Mr G wouldnt have been able to make a claim if he was off work for this condition. If 
AXA had made it clearer, she didnt think Mr G would have bought the PPI. 
AXA disagreed with this view. It said that Mr Gs condition was not enough to make it 
unsuitable for him and it was unlikely that Mr G would have needed to make a claim for this 
condition. It asked that the matter be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why below.
I dont think AXA recommended this policy to Mr G. So, it didnt have to make sure it was 
suitable for his circumstances. Even so, it still had to give him enough clear information so 
he could make an informed decision and decide for himself whether he wanted to add the 
PPI to his account.
I dont think the information was as clear as it should have been. But that doesnt mean I can 
automatically uphold Mr Gs complaint. I have to decide whether Mr G would have acted 
differently if hed been given all the information he should have been given. 
To help me decide, Ive thought about the terms and conditions of the policy and Mr Gs 
personal circumstances. If the information about the limitations and exclusions set out in the 
policy about pre-existing medical conditions would have been made clearer, I dont think its 
likely that Mr G would have bought the cover at the time.
As our adjudicator has explained Mr G suffered with a medical condition which hed had for a 
number of years when he bought the PPI. This pre-existing condition wouldnt have been 
covered by the policy terms - so Mr G couldnt have made a claim if he was off work for any 
condition which he knew about or should have known about or if hed received any advice or 
treatment from a doctor during the 12 months before the start date.
 
I dont think AXA made this important exclusion clear to Mr G when he was sold the policy. 
Ive seen a copy of the credit agreement Mr G signed. Nowhere does it tell Mr G that he 
couldnt claim for his pre-existing medical condition. I dont know if AXA sent a policy 
document after Mr G signed or gave it to him at the same time but even if he got all the 
paperwork at the time he signed the credit agreement, I dont think the exclusions about 
medical conditions would have been clear. Mr G would likely have had to read the small print 
across a number of pages to understand that he could not claim for any condition which he 
knew about. I think this would have made a difference to Mr G.
After our adjudicator said this was a complaint which she thought should be upheld, AXA 
responded and said it didnt agree with this view. It said it did not dispute Mr G had this 
condition but that it was usually a manageable condition which could be treated with 
medication and would not affect the lifestyle of the customer. It also said that there was 
nothing to suggest the severity of the condition and the impact it would have had on Mr Gs 
ability to work. It said it didnt think the condition alone would be sufficient for the policy to be 
unsuitable as it may never have affected the customer and he wouldnt therefore have had to 
make a claim on the policy.
Ive thought carefully about what both parties told me. Our adjudicator asked Mr G for some 
more information about his condition. Mr G said through his representatives that he had 
been on medication and had regular check-ups and hospital appointments for his condition.  
From what Mr G has said Im satisfied in this case, at the time he bought the cover, that this 
condition was something which would likely have affected Mr G. If Mr G had been given 
clearer information about the exclusions in relation to any pre-existing conditions, Im 
persuaded on balance that it would have impacted his decision to take out the cover.
Overall, I think it was more likely that Mr G would have decided against taking out the policy. 
I think Mr Gs condition was probably the main reason hed have thought he would have had 
to take prolonged period of time off work. And on the basis that the policy wouldnt have 
covered him for this condition I dont think hed have wanted to take the PPI out. All in all, I 
think Mr G lost out because of something AXA did wrong and I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mr G in the position he would be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
So AXA needs to:
Pay Mr G the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year. 
If Mr G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what he got for the 
claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Mr 
G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint about AXA France IARD. AXA France 
IARD needs to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.   
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman