DRN-3735995
The complaint
Mrs C complains about Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) poor service, following a 
claim under her home insurance policy. 
What happened
Following a storm, Mrs C contacted Fairmead to make a claim. It sent a surveyor who 
assessed the damage and the claim was accepted. The surveyor estimated the repair cost 
to be £453.26 (less the policy excess of £250). Mrs C explained that she decided to pay the 
excess and asked Fairmead to obtain a contractor to carry out the repairs. 
It sent a contractor to carry out the repairs. Mrs C said that the contractor repaired a ridge 
tile and one other tile on the roof that had been damaged. But this wasnt all the tiles that 
Fairmeads surveyor had found had been damaged. 
Mrs C explained that she encountered many issues with Fairmead. These ranged from 
ignoring communications, failing to reply to requests, failing to carry out any repairs, erect 
and remove scaffolding and failing to complete the works as outlined by its surveyor. Mrs C 
raised a complaint to Fairmead but said that this was also ignored and that she didnt even 
received a final response from them. 
Mrs C said that her property was left exposed to the elements without the proper repairs 
being carried out. She explained that following a further storm, the tiles that had been 
replaced by the Fairmead contractor, were blown off again. And the roof was ultimately 
repaired by a different insurance company. 
As Mrs C had had no response from Fairmead, she referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought that it should be upheld. Her 
view was that Fairmead had provided poor service to Mrs C. In that,  Mrs C had to 
repeatedly chase for updates, sent multiple emails concerning the repairs, the erection and 
removal of scaffolding (particularly as Mrs C was concerned about her security) and several 
appointments were missed, which resulted in Mrs C having to take time off of work. Mrs C 
sought compensation of £1,500, which she broke down to be £750 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused, £500 for the loss of holiday pay due to the time off that she had to 
take and £250 for the excess that she had paid. 
During the investigation of this complaint, Fairmead made an offer of £150 as it accepted 
that the level of service, had fallen below its usual standards. Our investigator recommended 
that Fairmead increase its offer to a total of £350. This was made up of half the cost of the 
excess payment (£125). As well as compensation for the trouble and upset caused of £225. 
Fairmead accepted the view, Mrs C did not. She said that although she was happy for the 
complaint to be upheld, she felt that the level of compensation was too low. She believed 
that she should have had all her premium payments refunded.  And that at the very least 
Fairmead should refund her excess payment. So, she asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will uphold this complaint, but for much the same reasons as our 
investigator, which might be a disappointment for Mrs C. But I hope my findings go some 
way in explaining, why Ive reached this decision. 
The main issue of this complaint is whether the level of compensation recommended was 
fair, in the circumstances. I must point out that I have considered all the evidence and points 
raised by both parties. If I dont mention a point, it isnt because I havent considered it, I 
have. But as an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and 
reasonable conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it isnt necessary for me to 
respond to every point made, but to concentrate on the nub of the issue.
Mrs C described that she contacted Fairmead as there was damage to her roof following a 
storm. I note that Fairmead sent a surveyor out to assess the damage and there appears to 
have been a dispute as to how many tiles became damaged. 
In any event, Fairmead sent a contractor to carry out the repairs and Mrs C said that the 
contractor only found that two tiles were damaged (less than the surveyor said) which were 
replaced. Fairmead confirmed that the repairs were carried out. 
Mrs C was asked if there was any further evidence that she wanted me to consider which 
could have included expert evidence from the contractor who ultimately carried out the repair 
to the roof, but none like this was provided. But what I do note is that following the repair, I 
can find no mention from Mrs C that the repair was unsuccessful. In that, there was no 
mention that further damage was caused to her property in any way. 
Consequently, Im satisfied that the repair carried out by the Fairmead contractor, didnt 
cause any further damage to Mrs Cs property. And it is for this reason that I think Mrs C 
should only be liable for half of the excess payment and Fairmead ought to refund her £125. 
I say this also because, Mrs C still had the benefit of her policy until it expired and therefore 
could (if needed) made other claims upon it. Also, she made a claim for the repair to her roof 
and Fairmead carried out the repair. 
I accept that the level of service provided to Mrs C was well below Fairmeads standard and 
that it has accepted this. From the evidence, I can see that Mrs C had to chase Fairmead for 
updates, there was an avoidable delay in removing scaffolding from her property, there were 
a few missed appointments in which Fairmead said they would attend, and then didnt. 
Which resulted in Mrs C having to take holiday and time off of work. 
I am satisfied that Mrs C experience a poor level of service. And I understand that she 
wishes to claim for the lost time at work, the distress and inconvenience caused, as well as 
the excess payment. I have addressed the excess payment and why I think it is fair that 
Fairmead pay half of it. Turning to Mrs Cs lost holiday pay. Mrs Cs policy doesnt give her cover for loss of holiday 
pay  that is, its not something shes entitled to claim for under her contract of insurance. 
And I must also say any claim is going to involve a policyholder in some inconvenience 
including, almost inevitably, taking time off work for a contractor to come in and put things 
right.
I understand that Mrs C has asked for £500 for lost holiday pay. But in order to recommend 
this, we would need to see significant evidence to support this, which I have not seen. So, I 
cant recommend that Fairmead would have to pay £500 for the lost holiday pay. 
Furthermore, we dont directly compensate customers for lost hours of work/holiday. If we 
did, wed be compensating those with higher-paying jobs far more than others, which 
wouldnt seem fair.
Mrs C feels that she should receive around £750 for all the distress and inconvenience 
caused. I have had a think about this given the impact on Mrs C.
Our approach is that, if an error has caused the consumer more than the levels of frustration 
and annoyance you might reasonably expect from day-to-day life, and the impact has been 
more than just minimal, then an apology wont be enough to remedy the mistake.
Im satisfied that Fairmead apologised for the poor service, but Im not satisfied that this 
alone and the £150 offered is fair. Im satisfied that there were repeated errors, that required 
a reasonable effort for Mrs C to sort out. Im also satisfied that the impact of Fairmeads 
actions caused Mrs C some stress and inconvenience. 
I understand that Mrs C was seeking a far higher amount of compensation, but having 
considered our awards criteria, I think that it is fair that Fairmead pay half of the excess 
payment - £125. As well as £275 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. A total of 
£400. I think this sum fairly reflects the impact on Mrs C for the poor service she received.
Putting things right
I direct Fairmead Insurance Limited to put things right as I set out below. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint and direct Fairmead Insurance 
Limited:
To refund half of Mrs Cs excess payment of £125.
To pay Mrs C £275 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Fairmead Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mrs C accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest 
from the date of my final decision to the date of payment, at 8% a year simple. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman