DRN-1778693
The complaint
Mr K says Evergreen Finance London Limited trading at the time as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
(MoneyBoat) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about one loan MoneyBoat provided to Mr K on 26 March 2019. Mr Ks 
borrowing history is set out in the table below:
LoanDate Taken 
OutDate Repaid Instalments AmountHighest 
Repayment
1 26/03/2019 Outstanding 4 £800 £315.14
 
I understand that the loan is still outstanding.
Mr K told us in summary, that he was trapped in a loan cycle. In the previous six months 
hed taken ten payday loans totalling over £6,000, on top of substantial credit card debt. And 
he says proper checks would have revealed his situation.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ks complaint. She said the information MoneyBoat gathered 
about Mr Ks circumstances showed Mr K was having problems managing his money and 
this should have prompted more detailed checks. These checks would have shown it 
unlikely that Mr K would be able to sustainably repay this loan. MoneyBoat disagreed with 
this view and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr K 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include: 
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish 
whether Mr K could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint.
When Mr K took out his loan, he told MoneyBoat that his income was £2,800 per month. He 
also said his monthly expenses were £1,200 broken down as house expenses - £500, credit 
expenses- £500, utilities- £100 and food and transport - £50 each.
Money Boat also carried out a credit check. It has sent a copy of what it saw to us. I have 
looked through this carefully. Based on its own search MoneyBoat would have been aware 
that the total of all balances amounted to almost £40,000. This might not be an immediate 
red flag not to lend but the credit search which MoneyBoat carried out also revealed that this 
balance was made up of short-term high cost credit, revolving credit, budget credit and Mr K 
was using a high percentage of his available credit. Moneyboats search also showed 22 
active accounts and almost half of these had been opened in the last six months. This 
search set out a substantial amount of short-term loans. So, I think it is reasonable that 
MoneyBoat should have taken steps to verify Mr Ks circumstances further.
It could have done this in a number of ways  it could have asked the consumer for his bank 
statements to show his actual outgoings. Mr K has sent through a copy of his bank 
statements from the time. I think these showed Mr K was reliant on short-term loans. I can 
see that in the two months before he took this loan, he was paying at least nine substantial 
amounts to short term loans. If Moneyboat had taken account of its own checks, I think it would have noted that Mr K was 
reliant on short term loans and likely having problems managing money. Based on what it 
knew about Mr K, this loan for £800 was likely unaffordable and the repayments were 
unsustainable.
So Im upholding Mr Ks complaint.
putting things right  what MoneyBoat needs to do
MoneyBoat shouldn't have lent this loan to Mr K. 
I understand its still outstanding. If that is the case and MoneyBoat has sold the outstanding 
debt, it must buy it back if it is able to do so. If it is not able to buy it back, it must liaise with 
the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below:
a. MoneyBoat must remove all unpaid interest, fees and charges from the balance on 
loan 1, and treat any repayments made by Mr K as though they had been 
repayments of principal towards this loan. If this results in Mr K having made 
overpayments, MoneyBoat should refund these overpayments with 8%* simple 
interest calculated on the overpayments from the date the overpayments would have 
arisen to the date the complaint is settled. 
 
b. If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in (a) 
above should be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this 
results in a surplus, then the surplus must be repaid to Mr K. However, if there is still 
an outstanding balance, MoneyBoat should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr K. But Id remind MoneyBoat of its obligation to treat Mr K fairly;
 
c. MoneyBoat must remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ks credit file in 
respect of loan 1. 
 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint. Evergreen Finance London 
Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk, should pay Mr K compensation as set out 
above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman