DRN-3113337
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that a car finance agreement with WeFlex Ltd was mis-sold to him.
What happened
On 2 March 2018, Mr C was supplied with a used car through a finance agreement with 
WeFlex. He paid a £500 deposit and the agreement was for 156 weekly hire payments of 
£149 (inclusive of VAT). 
Mr C, a private hire driver, said he was involved in a road traffic accident, which meant the 
car was off the road for repair. He said he asked WeFlex to arrange a replacement vehicle, 
but he said he was told this wasnt possible because he owned the car. And hes said that 
the terms of the agreement meant hed own the car after 60 months, which isnt what he 
wanted  he wanted the lease the car and be able to terminate the agreement at any time.
Because of the situation, Mr C couldnt work, and he couldnt afford the monthly repayments. 
This meant he went into arrears and WeFlex terminated the agreement. The car was 
returned to them and Mr C says they invoiced him for the arrears. Hes also said this has 
affected his credit score, and he now cant hire another vehicle because of the information 
WeFlex recorded on his credit file. So, his financial difficulties have increased as a result.
Mr C complained to WeFlex, but they didnt reply in the timescale allowed. So, he brought 
his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said the agreement Mr C signed was a hire agreement, and the car wouldnt 
become his property. He did sign a separate option agreement which gave him the right, but 
not the obligation, to buy the car for a pre-agreed lump sum payment at the end of the hire 
agreement. But if he didnt exercise this option the car wouldve been returned to WeFlex. 
And the hire agreement gave Mr C the right to terminate at any time, with four weeks notice. 
So, the investigator didnt think the agreement had been misrepresented or mis-sold to Mr C.
The investigator also said that replacing the car in the event of an accident was something 
thatd be dealt with by the insurance company, not WeFlex. So, this wasnt something she 
thought WeFlex were responsible for.
The investigator said that Mr C first started missing payments in February 2019, and the 
arrears continued to accrue after this point. WeFlex issued a default notice on 29 May 2019, 
after which Mr C entered into an arrangement to pay an additional £50 a week. But, because 
he didnt maintain this arrangement, WeFlex terminated the agreement in May 2020, at 
which point Mr C was £11,883.60 in arrears. 
The investigator thought WeFlex had shown Mr C consideration and forbearance when 
dealing with his arrears, and that they acted reasonably by terminating the agreement when 
they did. So, she didnt think theyd done anything wrong.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator. He didnt think shed focused her investigation on the 
sale of the insurance. And he thinks this was mis-sold to him as he didnt have an option to 
select his own insurer. But hes also said, no other Car Rental Company would expect their 
customers to take out separate vehicle insurance policies they are hiring short term.
So, he thinks that WeFlex are the only ones whod know if the car was fully insured in the 
event of an accident. Hes also said that he didnt have any access to the dashcam footage 
from the accident, and only WeFlex had this. 
Mr C also said that the car wasnt covered for windscreen damage or tyre maintenance, 
which contributed to the arrears because the car was off the road, and he was unable to 
work as a result. So, if WeFlex had given him a replacement car, then the arrears wouldnt 
have happened. And its unfair to expect him to continue to make payments when the car 
was off the road being repaired.
Mr C asked that an ombudsman review his complaint and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr C was supplied with a car under a 
finance agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able 
to look into complaints about it. 
This is a complaint about misrepresentation. When considering misrepresentation, Im 
looking at two things  whether there was a false statement of fact and, if there was, whether 
it was the false statement of fact that induced Mr C to choose the car.
Mr C has made it clear that he only wanted to hire a car, for use as a licenced private hire 
taxi, and not enter into an agreement where he owned the car at the end. Ive seen an email 
WeFlex sent him on 13 June 2017, explaining what they offered. This email said that Mr C 
had the option for a rental only agreement (called FlexiLease), with a  £500 deposit, which 
included insurance, servicing and maintenance; or a car finance agreement (called 
FlexiBuy), with a variable deposit, which meant that Mr C would own the car once all 
payments were made, but which didnt include insurance, servicing or maintenance.
Mr C paid a £500 deposit on 13 February 2018. And, on 2 March 2018, he signed an 
agreement with WeFlex.
The agreement Mr C signed is clearly headed Hire Agreement. It goes on to explain Mr C 
was hiring the car for a period of 256 weeks, with weekly hire payments of £149. It also gave 
Mr C the option to terminate the agreement at any time (with four weeks notice) and upon 
payment of a termination fee and any arrears. The agreement also clearly stated, in the box 
containing Mr Cs signature, under this agreement the goods do not become your property.
After giving the terms of this agreement careful consideration, Im satisfied this is a 
FlexiLease hire agreement and not a FlexiBuy car finance agreement. Mr C was hiring the 
car for use as a licenced private hire taxi, and not purchasing the car. Which is exactly what 
hes said he wanted.
Given the terms of the agreement, and Mr Cs understanding of what the agreement was, 
Im satisfied there hasnt been any false statement of fact. And, as such, the agreement 
wasnt misrepresented to Mr C.The details of the FlexiLease plan, as provided to Mr C at the outset of the matter, say that it 
included servicing and maintenance. The agreement Mr C signed makes it clear that this 
was an option that was available to him. It also makes it clear that this was at an additional 
weekly cost. I havent seen anything to show me that Mr C opted for the maintenance plan, 
or that he paid WeFlex anything in addition to his weekly hire payment for this.
Because of this, Im satisfied Mr C didnt take out the maintenance plan that was available to 
him. I appreciate he says the car was off the road because of the windscreen and the tyres, 
and this added to his financial difficulties. But WeFlex werent obliged to cover the costs of 
these repairs as no maintenance plan was put in place. So, I wont be asking WeFlex to do 
anything more about this.
On 22 May 2018, almost three months after signing the hire agreement, Mr C signed an 
additional Option Agreement. The terms of this meant that, at any point between 19 and 26 
February 2021, Mr C had the option to pay WeFlex an additional £10,175 to purchase the 
car outright.
The option agreement is clear that Mr C was able to purchase the car if he wanted to, but 
that he was under no obligation to do so. This is a separate agreement to the one he signed 
on 2 March 2018, and Im satisfied that it doesnt change any of the terms of the original 
agreement. As such, Mr C was still in a hire agreement  the type of agreement he wanted. 
So, I dont think that the subsequent signing of this agreement means that the original 
agreement was either mis-sold or misrepresented.
Turning now to the insurance, Mr C has said that hed expect insurance to be included in this 
type of agreement, and no other Car Rental Company would expect their customers to take 
out separate vehicle insurance policies they are hiring short term. But hes also said that the 
insurance was mis-sold to him, as he didnt have the option to select his own insurer.
The terms of the FlexiLease plan, provided to Mr C at the outset, make it clear that 
insurance was included. And this was provided as part of the package. Mr C has made it 
clear that insurance is something he would expect to be provided, as similar companies to 
WeFlex also provide insurance. 
Whats more, I havent seen anything to show me Mr C wanted to select his own insurer, or 
that he asked WeFlex to remove the car from their insurance so he could arrange for his 
own insurance. Given this, Im satisfied Mr C was provided with what he expected  a built-in 
insurance policy  and that the inclusion or otherwise of insurance wasnt mis-sold to him.
As part of his evidence, Mr C has provided us with a copy of the insurance certificate for the 
car, which shows this was covered as part of WeFlexs fleet policy. Hes also provided a 
letter that WeFlex gave him showing he was covered under this policy. Additionally, hes 
provided a screenshot of WeFlexs customer portal, showing that he had access to these 
documents, and an email from WeFlex providing these documents to him.
Given this, I cant agree with Mr Cs comments that he was unaware of who he was insured 
with, or the terms of his policy. Even though it was a fleet policy, the insurance company was 
not an agent of WeFlex. So WeFlex werent responsible for any decisions made by the 
insurance company. While I appreciate the stress and inconvenience it caused him, it was 
the insurance company who said they wouldnt provide a replacement car while Mr Cs was 
off the road being repaired, not WeFlex. So, I wont be holding WeFlex responsible for this 
decision, or for Mr C not being able to work while he was without a car,The Statement of Account for Mr Cs agreement shows the account then went into arrears 
when the payment due on 21 December 2018 was missed. And, although it was brought up 
to date on 25 January 2019, the payment for 1 February 2019 was then missed. And the 
account remained in arrears until it was terminated on 19 May 2020.
In April 2020 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance as to how regulated 
firms that issue regulated motor finance agreements should provide exceptional and 
immediate support to customers facing payment difficulties due to circumstances arising out 
of the coronavirus. In his comments Mr C has referred to his income being affected by the 
coronavirus. While I dont doubt that was the case, its clear from the statement of account 
that Mr C was in arrears for a substantial period before coronavirus. So, Im satisfied that his 
guidance doesnt apply to his account.
Instead Id expect WeFlex to have followed the existing FCA guidance on customers in 
arrears and treat him with forbearance and due consideration. Its not disputed that WeFlex 
offered Mr C payment plans, but these failed when he couldnt keep up with the agreed 
repayments. And this resulted in WeFlex terminating the agreement after giving Mr C the 
required notice.
Given this, Im satisfied that WeFlex acted reasonably and fairly when dealing with Mr Cs 
arrears. So, I wont be asking them to reduce or waive the arrears. And I wont be asking 
them to remove the arrears from Mr Cs credit file, as they have a duty to report correct 
information. But I would expect WeFlex to continue to treat Mr C with consideration and 
forbearance and to try to agree a mutually acceptable payment arrangement to clear the 
outstanding balance.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about WeFlex Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman