DRN-3423456
The complaint
Mr U complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (Halifax) is unable to complete a request 
he made to sell shares on his behalf. He is unhappy that it didnt inform him sooner of a 
reduction in service and it has caused him hassle and expense.
What happened
Mr U holds a share dealing account with Halifax  and in 2015 purchased some shares in a 
Swiss company that he held in the account. In April 2021, Mr U called Halifax as he was 
seeking to sell the shares.  Halifax informed him it would not be able to trade on his behalf 
as it doesnt have a relationship with the Swiss stock exchange. Halifax informed Mr U the 
shares he wanted to trade, were only available on a market that it no longer had a licence to 
trade on. And the shares could only be traded directly on the Swiss exchange, so he would 
need to locate a new broker that can facilitate the trade. Mr U was unhappy he wasnt 
informed of this and raised a complaint. 
As Mr U wasnt satisfied with the response he received from Halifax, he referred his 
complaint to this service for an independent review. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He asked Halifax to provide information 
to show why it couldnt trade the shares as Mr U requested. As he didnt receive an answer 
from Halifax, he proceeded to consider the complaint with only the information provided by 
Mr U. He upheld the complaint. But Halifax responded and provided further information. 
Having reconsidered the complaint in light of the new information, the investigator changed 
his opinion and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he didnt find 
Halifax was at fault  he said:  
- The reason Halifax couldnt trade the shares was because of a decision made by the 
Swiss stock exchange in 2019 as a direct result of them no longer recognising 
trading venues from the EU. So, it wasnt as a result of a decision made by Halifax. 
- Because of this even if Halifax had advised Mr U at the time, he would still have had 
to transfer his shares to another broker to sell them. 
- Halifax didnt provide an advisory service to Mr U, so it wasnt under any onus to 
inform him of the Swiss exchanges decision to restrict trading. 
Mr U didnt accept the investigators revised findings and asked for his complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr U is unhappy that it is has proven difficult to sell his shares, but in order 
uphold his complaint I need to find that Halifax has made an error in the way it handled his 
request. Having carefully considered all of the information provided, Im not going to uphold 
Mr Us complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr Us share dealing account was able to receive the shares in question when he first 
purchased them in 2015  and were tradable. But changes imposed by the Swiss authorities 
in 2019 meant the ability to trade shares held in companies on the Swiss stock exchange by 
brokers in the EU (which the UK was a member of at the time) changed. Effectively this 
meant Halifaxs trading platform no longer had a relationship with the Swiss stock exchange, 
meaning it had no ability to trade Mr Us shares. So, when Mr U made his sale request in 
2021, it couldnt be completed. Im satisfied that it was matters outside of Halifaxs control 
that led to it not being able to trade on the Swiss stock exchange when the Swiss authorities 
restricted access to its stock market in 2019. And it doesnt appear that Halifax has ever 
applied to renew the licence to trade on the Swiss stock market. 
Mr Us account is an execution only dealing account. Halifax say this means it would execute 
the transactions he placed but didnt provide him with investment advice or discretionary 
management of the shares he held. Despite this, I do think it could have been clearer with 
how it made Mr U aware of the change in position with regards to his shares. I also 
appreciate why Mr U would like to have known sooner about the changes to allow him to 
understand the difficulty he would have in selling his shares. 
But Im not persuaded Mr U has lost out as a consequence of what has happened. It was 
only when he was looking to sell the shares that the issues with selling the shares became 
apparent. For the reasons explained, Mr U would always be in a position of having to find a 
new broker once Halifax no longer had a licence to trade on the Swiss stock exchange. I 
understand Mr U still holds the shares but doesnt feel he should incur the cost and hassle of 
transferring them. As it is not possible for him to use Halifaxs dealing service to sell the 
shares, I think if there are any associated costs with transferring his shares to a new broker 
he will have to bear them if he still intends to sell. Im also conscious Mr U has retained his 
shares and seen a positive movement in the share price since the failed request to sell - 
which he wouldnt have benefited from if his shares were sold in 2021. This further supports 
he hasnt lost out as a result of whats happened. 
In conclusion, I havent found that failings by Halifax have caused in a loss in relation to the 
request Mr U made to sell his shares. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman