DRN-2163699
The complaint
Mr P, who is represented by his mother, Miss F, complains that Hyundai Capital UK Limited 
refused his request to reject a faulty car. 
What happened
In March 2018 Mr P acquired a second-hand car costing £18,295 funded by a conditional 
sale agreement. It was 12 months old and had done some 7,000 miles.
In July Mr P encountered problems with the gearbox and took it to the local main dealer 
which said it was due the front two tyres being worn. It was taken back twice more to 
address the same issue and in August 2018 the local dealer reprogrammed the gear box. In 
August the electronic hand brake failed. He says he was told that this could happen with a 
car which had a lot of electrical components. He says he had other issues such as the 
touchscreen, door mirrors and locking system failing on an intermittent basis.
In October the car suffered problems with steering and Mr P called out the RAC. Its engineer 
couldnt identify the cause of the fault, but did note a number of faults recorded in the cars 
system. He complained to Hyundai. It said it was unable to uphold his complaint due to there 
being no documented evidence to show the faults were present at the point of sale.
Mr P brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. He obtained job cards for the main dealer which had dealt with the car. These 
included a card from shortly before Mr P purchased the car which showed erratic change 
down of gears using adaptive cruise control. This had been addressed by reprogramming 
the injection computer. 
He thought there had been a number of faults with the car  Mr P had confirmed this with a 
number of recent photographs and videos showing various electronic items malfunctioning. 
A number of issues had been covered under warranty and some had been paid for by Mr P. 
He though a relatively new car with only 7,000 miles on the clock shouldnt have suffered so 
many issues. He thought Mr P should be allowed to reject the car and be paid for those 
costs he had incurred on repairs. He also thought he should be refunded 20% of the monthly 
payments and be paid £100 compensation. 
Hyundai didnt agree and said Mr P hadnt informed it of the initial problems and had the 
work carried out by a third party garage. It said that as the faults occurred after 30 days Mr P 
didnt have the right to reject. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Hyundai Capital UK Limited is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, 
and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
Mr Ps car was only a year old and had only covered some 7,000 miles and so it is 
reasonable to expect it work properly without any problems. It seems, from reading the job 
cards, he has encountered a steady stream of electrical problems beginning with the 
gearbox. 
Since these first arose within the first six months the onus is on Hyundai to show they were 
not present at the point of sale. I appreciate that Hyundai wasnt made aware of the issues 
until late 2019. However, it remains the case that the job cards show problems arose within 
six months.
It is clear there was an issue with the gear box before the point of sale. I have also noted 
these electronic problems continue. The photos and videos submitted by Mr P in August 
2020 show a number of electronic items such as the parking brake and rear camera failing to 
work. 
It seems to me that the car has some inherent electrical issues and I note that the local 
dealer has recognised the faults, but has been unable to identify the causes with any 
certainty. It has carried out remedial work, but the problems persist. 
I am aware that the car had covered 15,633 miles in March 2020 which means that in two 
years Mr P had only driven the car for some 8,600 miles. That is well below the average 
mileage and he has told this service that he cannot travel too far from home because of the 
risk of the car breaking down.
Hyundai has suggested Mr P I isnt entitled to reject the car as it didnt fail within 30 days. I 
dont believe that to be true. The legislation allows automatic rejection within 30 days. 
Thereafter the seller has one opportunity to repair and if this is not satisfactory the goods 
may be rejected.  
In this case the car was sourced from a main dealer some distance from Mr P and for future 
work he used his local main dealer. Mr P has suggested this was done with the agreement 
of the selling dealer. In any event the car has been taken in to a main dealer on repeated 
occasions to effect repairs and I consider that sufficient to show that repairs have been 
attempted and not successful. I dont believe it appropriate to ask the selling dealer to make 
yet another attempt. 
Putting things right Hyundai shoed allow Mr P to reject the car and compensate him accordingly.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Hyundai Capital UK Limited to: 
Allow Mr P to reject the vehicle, unwind the agreement and collect the car at no extra 
cost.
Refund the cost of any repairs paid for by Mr P on provision of the relevant invoice. 
This does not cover routine maintenance or servicing or MOT costs. Interest at 8% 
simple should be added from the date paid until the date of repayment.
Refund 20% of the premiums paid towards the agreement due to impaired use.
Pay £100 for the distress and inconvenience of taking his car for repairs
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman