DRN-2688871
The complaint
 Miss Js complaint about ICICI Bank UK Plc (ICICI) relates to the delay she experienced in 
having access to her online account re-activated.
What happened
 Miss J received an email from ICICI in December 2019 to tell her that her account had been 
frozen. On 3 April 2020 Miss J rang ICICI requesting that access to her account be re-
instated. She says ICICI told her that couldnt be done over the phone and that she was 
given no alternative solution. 
In the light of that she decided to respond, by email, to the email shed received in December 
2019. As she received no response Miss J sent another email on 17 April 2020 but that too 
went unanswered. Miss J then rang ICICI on 12 June 2020 and fortunately it was able to 
deal with her re-activation request that day and restored her access.
ICICI said that the first email address Miss J replied to was a no reply address and 
therefore not a means for customers to contact them. And in so far as the second email 
address was concerned ICICI said it couldnt access that during the first part of the 
pandemic lockdowns meaning it could only provide a limited service through its Customer 
Service Centre. However, ICICI recognised the trouble and upset Miss J had endured and 
offered her £20 in compensation.
Miss J was unhappy with ICICIs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that the amount of 
compensation offered was insufficient and that a further £100 ought to be paid. ICICI agreed 
with that view but Miss J didnt and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 ICICI have provided documentary evidence to show that there had been no customer 
induced transactions on Miss Js account for a considerable period of time which had 
resulted in ICICI making her account inactive in line with their usual procedures. That 
resulted in an email being sent to Miss J advising her of her account being effectively frozen. 
The starting point to this complaint must be the response Miss J received when she first 
called on 3 April 2020. ICICI was unable to assist her at that point, stating that its service 
only extended to critical issues such as blocking lost/stolen debit cards, reporting fraud, 
stopping payments and UK funds transfers. In my view, especially given the sizeable sum of 
money Miss J held with ICICI, not having access to her account could easily be viewed as a 
critical issue and so I think more could have been done at that time to assist Miss J. That 
said, I note that Miss J did not respond immediately to the email she received in December 
2019 and over 3 months had gone by, leading me to the conclusion that for at least that 
period, access to Miss Js account, online, was not deemed by her to be a priority. 
There was nothing in the email address Miss J responded to on 3 April 2020 which would 
indicate that it is a no reply address. On occasions such email addresses contain the words 
noreply in the title  this one didnt. ICICI havent produced a copy of the email which might 
indicate in the body of the text that she should not reply, and so I cannot conclude that it was 
unreasonable of Miss J to respond as she did, and I accept it would have been reasonable 
for her to expect a response. I also note that ICICI did not issue an email in response, 
effectively bouncing her email back to her, which would have alerted her to the fact that the 
email had been sent to an unmonitored address.
Two weeks later Miss J sent another email but this time but this time to a different address 
and this was also not answered. This email address was being monitored but due to the 
effects of the pandemic the service ICICI was able to provide was limited. I cant find fault 
with ICICI for failing to answer this email given both the timing and the restrictions imposed 
by the pandemic and the obvious effect that these had on all forms of business operations. 
But it would appear that the absence of a response did not play too heavily on her Miss Js 
mind, since she took no further action for eight weeks, which was when she rang ICICI on 12 
June 2020 and her account was re-activated.
I know Miss J states that if she had had access to her accounts she could have moved her 
money around much earlier since she says she had anticipated a fall in rates once the 
lockdowns began to be introduced, but Im not satisfied that this would have been likely. The 
reason I say that is because of the relative inaction which occurred. Over three months 
elapsed after Miss J was told that she had no access to her account in December, before 
she contacted ICICI. I accept that was all largely before any interruption caused by the 
pandemic, but I think it indicates that certainly at that time Miss J was not looking to move 
her money around. 
There were then two weeks between her first contact on 3 April before her second contact. 
That again indicates to me a lack of any urgency to the position Miss J found herself in. 
Similarly, there was then a period of eight weeks before Miss J contacted ICICI again. 
Additionally, Ive not seen any evidence to satisfy me that Miss J had any intention, at the 
time, to have moved her money from ICICI to another account or investment. I can 
appreciate that in hindsight it is easy to now identify such places, but to make an award for 
any lost interest I would need to be persuaded that it was more likely than not that Miss J 
was going to move her money but could not.  
It is also clear that Miss J placed a lot of emphasis on security as she monitored her funds to 
ensure they enjoyed the FSCS protection limits and had also left her funds in her ICICI 
account for over two years.
So, for these reasons, Im satisfied that during the period Miss J didnt have access to her 
account she probably wouldnt have moved her money around in any event during the period 
she had no access to her account.
Putting things right
 ICICI has acknowledged it didnt get things right and following our investigators view it has 
agreed to compensate Miss J with a total of £120. As Miss J didnt think that was enough to put matters right, Ive given this some further thought, and I think that amount is fair and 
reasonable for failing to reactivate her account in a timely manner. 
My final decision
 ICICI Bank UK Plc has already made paid Miss J £20 to settle this complaint, and I think it 
should pay a further £100 making a total compensation payment of £120.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman