DRN-1491689
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage application Mr K and Mrs B made to Kensington 
Mortgage Company Limited. Kensington issued a mortgage offer in August 2019, but later 
withdrew it.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons.
Mr K and Mrs B have asked that I speak to them so they can explain things properly as they 
cant afford a solicitor to present their case. However, Im satisfied I already have all the 
information and evidence I need to reach a fair decision. This is a straight forward complaint, 
and both sides have made their points clearly. I can reassure Mr K and Mrs B that they dont 
need a solicitor - or other representative - to present their case to us.
Mr K and Mrs B are understandably unhappy and frustrated at the offer being withdrawn. Its 
unusual, but allowed in certain circumstances. Kensington says new information came to 
light that wasnt disclosed before the offer was produced, and had it been then the 
application would have been declined from the outset. 
Kensington is the mortgage lender and it relies on other professionals to do their parts in the 
process; this includes the mortgage broker giving the correct information and the solicitor 
carrying out the conveyancing with due diligence and letting the lender know if there is 
anything unusual that comes up in its checks. It is also the responsibility of the people 
applying for the mortgage to ensure all information is declared.
Ive studied the application file and at no time was Kensington told Mr K had been 
disqualified as acting as a director. Payments on a bank statement could be for anything and 
arent indicative of this particular issue. I understand the disqualification happened after the 
first checks had been completed, which is why a mortgage offer was then produced, but 
showed up on the second  pre-completion  checks, leading to the withdrawal of the offer. 
If Kensington had been informed of the disqualification when it happened then it wouldnt 
have issued the mortgage offer as that is outside of its lending policy.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied Kensington didnt act unreasonably when it 
withdrew the offer. It could do that, and Im satisfied it wasnt unfair of Kensington to exercise 
its judgement in the way it did.
Mr K and Mrs B raised two new issues in their response to our investigators assessment, 
they said:
Kensington undertook three credit searches, and
Kensington shouldnt have dealt with Mr S (who Mr K and Mrs B say sold the 
mortgage to them) as he wasnt an approved broker
These are new issues that werent previously raised with Kensington as part of this 
complaint. Our rules state that a business must be given the opportunity to investigate and 
respond to any issues first, so Mr K and Mrs B should pass this to Kensington as a new 
complaint if they want it looked into. Mr K and Mrs B may then be able to bring that as a new 
complaint to this service if they remain unhappy with the outcome (subject to our usual rules, 
of course).
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr K and Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 8 October 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman