DRN-3584990
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the poor service he received from AXA Insurance UK Plc when 
he made a claim under his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G made a claim to AXA in January 2021 as his car had been damaged. He reported 
damage to the roof and to the bonnet.
Mr G chased AXA for a date for an approved repairer (AR) to repair his car. In August 2021 
Mr G complained to AXA as his car still hadnt been repaired. 
AXA upheld Mr Gs complaint. It said the delays were outside of its control but the AR should 
have better managed the situation and offered alternative options to Mr G. AXA paid Mr G 
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr Gs car was booked in for repairs in August 2021. During this time the AR provided Mr G 
with a courtesy car. 
In October 2021 Mr G complained to AXA about the length of time it took to repair his car. In 
October 2021 AXA upheld Mr Gs complaint and said a revised estimated date for repairs to 
be completed was 14 October 2021. For the delay it paid Mr G compensation of £50. 
In February 2022 Mr G asked us to look at his complaints. He said he was also unhappy with 
the quality of repairs and had contacted AXA about his concerns. But he said AXA hadnt 
replied to him.
Mr G told us about his disabilities. He said he needed his car to drive to medical 
appointments and was without a car from January 2021 until his car was repaired. So Mr G 
said he had to ask family and friends for lifts. He says he had to replace the battery due to 
the length of time the car was idle as AXA advised him not to drive the car when he reported 
the incident in January 2021. Mr G says the compensation AXA paid him covered the excess 
so he doesnt feel hes received a fair amount of compensation. To put things right, Mr G 
wants the option to have an alternative garage inspect the repairs to his car as hes very 
unhappy. 
In June 2022 our Investigator recommended Mr Gs complaints should be upheld in part. He 
thought some of the delays were outside of AXAs control as they were due to staff illness at 
the AR and waiting for parts to be delivered. The Investigator didnt find any evidence to 
show Mr G had made AXA aware of his disabilities, so it could prioritise repairs to help meet 
his needs. However, he thought the impact on Mr G in light of his disabilities should be taken 
into account when considering the distress and inconvenience caused by AXAs failings. 
So the Investigator recommended AXA increase the compensation it paid Mr G to £400. He 
therefore recommended AXA pay Mr G a further £150. 
The Investigator found no evidence of poor repairs from AXAs notes and Mr G didnt provide 
any evidence to support this complaint. The Investigator said that if Mr G has proof of poor 
repairs, he should provide this to AXA so it can consider the matter. If Mr G remains 
unhappy with the outcome he can raise a new complaint. 
Mr G didnt agree. In summary he said he should have been given the option to use an 
alternative garage. He and his sister spent a lot of time in calls to both the AR and AXA. His 
daily life was restricted as he had to ask his sister for lifts to appointments and help with 
basics like food shopping. 
Mr G said the AR knew about his disabilities. He says his car lost value due to how long it 
was parked and not driven. 
Mr G says the repairs were poor and provided a copy of an email from the AR to him in 
October 2021. Mr G says he made AXA aware of his concerns but it hasnt responded. 
Mr G accepts that due to Covid 19 there were some delays in staff availability. But he 
believes AXAs service to him was very poor and he doesnt accept the Investigators view. 
So Mr G asked for an ombudsman to decide. 
AXA accepted the Investigators recommendation to pay Mr G a further £150 compensation.
I asked both parties for further information before issuing a decision. Both parties have 
replied and my comments on that are included in my findings below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For ease Ive set out the complaints under headings below.
AXA caused a delay arranging for Mr Gs car to be repaired
AXAs notes show it provided Mr G with contact details for the AR in February 2021. 
However, Mr G contacted AXA in August 2021 to complain as repairs hadnt started and he 
was unhappy with the lack of progress by the AR. 
AXA said the delays were due to a shortage of experienced mechanics at the AR to carry 
out the repairs and waiting for parts to be delivered. Mr Gs car was booked in for repairs in 
September 2021. 
I cant see any evidence that Mr G made AXA aware of his disabilities. So Im unable to say 
that AXA failed to prioritise his case to meet his needs. 
I asked Mr G to provide proof of calls he made to AXA and the AR. I also asked Mr G why he 
believes his car wasnt driveable, given the damage reported was to the roof and a dent to 
the bonnet. Id checked the engineer report and this described Mr Gs car as being mobile. 
So I couldnt see anything to suggest his car wasnt roadworthy before repairs were carried 
out.
In response, Mr G says he doesnt have proof of calls made to the AR or AXA. He said AXA 
advised him his car might not be driveable when he reported the incident in January 2021  
and at a later date when his sister called. 
Mr G has provided a copy of an invoice from a breakdown recovery agent in February 2021 
where a callout was required and a replacement battery was needed. 
I asked Mr G why recovery was needed if Mr G wasnt driving his car. He said his sister 
would start the car weekly while it was left parked. After a month the car wouldnt start and 
this is why recovery was called out. 
Ive checked AXAs notes and asked AXA if it had advised Mr G not to drive his car. 
AXA says it has no record of discussing this with Mr G. So based on the information available to me, I cant safely conclude that AXA advised Mr G 
not to drive his car. And so Ive taken this into account when considering the overall 
compensation award and the impact of the delay which Ill address later in my decision. 
Repairs completed in October 2021
I asked AXA to confirm the dates Mr Gs car went in for repair and when it was returned to 
him  and whether Mr G was provided with a courtesy car during this time. AXA says Mr Gs 
car was with the AR from 25 August 2021. AXA told us that Mr Gs car was returned to him 
on 13 September 2021 and during this time Mr G had use of a courtesy car. 
However, on 7 October 2021 AXA replied to Mr Gs complaint about the delays repairing his 
car. In this letter, AXA apologised for the delay and said the estimated time for his car to be 
ready was 14 October 2021. For the distress and inconvenience caused AXA paid Mr G £50 
compensation. 
So the response from AXA doesnt seem to match the information in its letter to Mr G on 7 
October 2021. Its therefore not clear to me when Mr Gs car was returned to him. However, 
at some point in October 2021 Mr G contacted the AR as he was unhappy with the repairs. 
So this shows that Mr Gs car was returned to him in October 2021. Its possible that the 
dates AXA refers to are a month out of time  as the dates seem to match if they were from 
25 September 2021 to 13 October 2021. 
In an email dated 14 October 2021 the AR responded to Mr Gs concerns about the repairs. I 
asked both parties if Mr G has emailed the AR and if so, to provide a copy of the email. Both 
AXA and Mr G says they dont have a copy of an email. AXA understands the AR replied to 
a call from Mr G. So I dont have any evidence of what issues Mr G raised with the AR about 
the repairs in October 2021. Mr G has listed issues hes unhappy about in correspondence 
to us and this seems to be more than the points the AR replied to on 14 October 2021. 
In response, the AR told Mr G theyd checked photos of Mr Gs car before they began 
repairs. They disagreed that damage to the roof remained as Mr G had described. The AR 
apologised for the trims being slightly loose and offered to put this right. They asked Mr G to 
let them know if they should order new clips and that Mr G could drop by when the clips 
arrive for the AR to fit. So the AR said it would wait for Mr G to advise and it would order the 
clips. 
I asked AXA to provide its notes of when Mr G raised his concerns with them about the 
repairs as well as asking Mr G for evidence of his calls to AXA and the AR. 
AXA says it has no record of Mr G contacting it to say he was unhappy with the completed 
repairs from October 2021. 
So from the information I have, I cant say that AXA failed to respond to Mr Gs concerns 
about the repairs. And it seems the AR provided Mr G with options in relation to the repairs. 
I have no evidence to show that Mr G raised a complaint about the repairs with AXA - and 
that it failed to respond. 
However, its clear that Mr G is unhappy about the quality of repairs. And so I think AXA 
should now look at this complaint and consider appointing an independent assessor to 
inspect Mr Gs car and assess the issues hes raised about the repairs. If Mr G is dissatisfied 
with how AXA investigate this complaint, he can raise his concerns with AXA  and contact 
us if he remains unhappy. 
The impact of AXAs poor service on Mr G
I cant see any evidence that Mr G made AXA aware of his disabilities  or that he was 
advised not to drive his car before it was with the AR for repairs. So it follows that I dont 
think AXA is responsible for the costs to have the car battery replaced while Mr Gs car 
wasnt being used. However, although there were restrictions during 2021 due to Covid 19, I think the delay 
caused by the AR was over and above what would be considered reasonable. And I think 
AXA should have been proactive in offering Mr G alternative options to have his car 
repaired. Mr G says a dealership garage was able to repair his car sooner. 
AXA accepts it failed to provide alternatives to Mr G and its AR caused a delay - paying Mr 
G a total of £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its poor 
service. 
As AXA accepted the Investigators recommendation to increase the compensation to £400, 
taking into account the impact on Mr G, I think this is fair to reflect the delay AXA caused in 
arranging repairs to Mr Gs car. 
I understand Mr G will be disappointed with my decision. But based on everything Ive seen; 
I think this is a fair outcome to resolve his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to 
increase the compensation it paid Mr G to a total of £400 for the distress and inconvenience 
its delay caused him. 
AXA Insurance UK Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr G accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman