DRN-4321038
Complaint
Miss K has complained about a loan Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) 
provided to her. She says the loan was unaffordable and that she wasnt required to validate 
her income or employment.
Background
Likely Loans provided Miss K with a loan for £2,000.00 in July 2017. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 24 monthly instalments of £138.22. One of our investigators reviewed what        
Miss K and Likely Loans had told us. And she didnt recommend that Miss Ks complaint be 
upheld. Miss K disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ks complaint.
Having thought about everything provided, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Miss Ks 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Likely Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Likely Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Miss K could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Likely Loans says it agreed to Miss Ks application after she provided details of her monthly 
income and some information on her expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and a copy of a bank statement Miss K provided. 
In Likely Loans view, all of this information showed Miss K could afford to make the 
repayments she was committing to. On the other hand, Miss K has said she shouldnt have 
been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Miss K and Likely Loans have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Likely Loans has suggested it carried out credit searches 
which showed that Miss K didnt have any recent difficulties with credit. It also obtained a 
copy of a bank statement, which Miss K acknowledges and confirms is key here. So it wasnt 
a case of Likely Loans simply accepting what Miss K said at face value when providing this 
loan.
Its fair to say that Miss K had had previous difficulties repaying credit in the form of a 
default. However, this was historic. Furthermore, Miss Ks existing commitments at the time 
werent unmanageable. I accept that Miss K appears to be suggesting that her actual 
circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the information she provided, or 
the information Likely Loans obtained. 
But its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a 
lender did something wrong. Given the amount borrowed, the relatively low monthly 
payments and crucially the lack of obvious indicators of current difficulties in the bank 
statement obtained, I dont think that Likely Loans decision to conclude that the loan was 
affordable was unreasonable. Indeed, in my view, the bank statement provided actually 
supports this being the case. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Likely Loans did anything wrong when deciding to lend 
to Miss K - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out 
which suggested the repayments were affordable. And, in any event, Ive not been provided 
with anything else that suggests Likely Loans doing even more, which on the face of things it 
didnt need to, would have prevented it from lending either.
So overall I dont think that Likely Loans treated Miss K unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing her with her loan. And Im not upholding Miss Ks complaint. I appreciate this will 
be very disappointing for Miss K. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision 
and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman