DRN-2211118
The complaint
Mr S complains that Advancis Limited, trading as Buddy Loans, lent to him irresponsibly and 
without carrying out proper affordability checks. He would like all the fees and charges 
associated with the loan refunded.
What happened
In September 2019 Buddy Loans approved a guarantor loan of £7,500 for Mr S, which was 
scheduled to be repaid at approximately £320 per month over a term of 48 months. The loan 
was intended to consolidate existing debt. When assessing the application, Buddy Loans 
discussed Mr Ss income and expenditure with him and carried out a credit check before 
approving the lending.
It isnt clear whether the loan has been repaid in full or not.
One of our investigators looked into this case and thought that Buddy Loans checks didnt 
go far enough. And that, if the checks had gone further, it would have seen that this lending 
wasnt sustainable for Mr S. So, she upheld the complaint.
Buddy Loans didnt accept that. It didnt provide any further comments specific to this case, 
but said its checks were fully compliant with FCA regulations and asked an Ombudsman to 
look at the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Buddy Loans is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the 
time of this lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I 
wont repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to 
ensure that Mr S would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. 
As set out in CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that he could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences
Essentially, Mr S needed to be able to meet his financial commitments and not have to 
borrow elsewhere to repay Buddy Loans for the loan to be considered affordable and 
sustainable.
Did Buddy Loans carry out proportionate checks before granting this loan?
Buddy Loans asked Mr S questions about his income and expenditure; used a tool to cross 
check his income disclosure; and carried out a credit check when considering his loan 
application. It carried out an income and expenditure assessment (I&E), identifying which 
of Mr Ss existing credit would be paid off. It assessed the loan on the basis that Mr Ss 
income was £1,500 per month; that his living expenses were £355 per month; and that, 
once hed consolidated certain debts, hed need about £925 per month to service all his 
debts. Overall, that would have left him with around £220 disposable income per month.
So, its clear that Buddy Loans did gather information on Mr Ss circumstances. But I dont 
think I can conclude that it responded appropriately to what it did see.
The regulations do not prescribe the nature of the checks that lenders need to carry out  
or the sources of evidence that must be pursued. The key thing is that lenders carry out 
proportionate checks: by definition, that must mean that the checks for one customer could 
look significantly different from checks for another. Or that checks in relation to the same 
customer could vary greatly over the time, depending on the circumstances.
So the question for me is, in all the circumstances of this case, and based on what it knew, 
did Buddy Loans checks go far enough for this application to render them proportionate? 
The answer is no, for several reasons.
Firstly, the amount being borrowed was fairly high, especially in comparison to Mr Ss 
assumed income (being more than a third of his estimated annual income) and he was 
signing up to a considerable loan term. That meant that he needed to be able to sustain 
repayments for a reasonably long time.
Additionally, he declared that he was self-employed in an obviously seasonal business. A 
responsible lender would need to be satisfied about a potential borrowers ability to 
sustainably make repayments over the full term of the loan. Particularly, here, taking into 
account what could be a significant variance in income across the course of a year and in 
effect a lack of security as to income.
Secondly, I think Buddy Loans ought to have had questions about Mr Ss expenditure, 
given he had declared that he was a sole trader running his own business. There appears 
to have been no consideration of how that business would be maintained, e.g. should 
equipment be necessary to keep it running. And Mr S declared a nominal amount of fuel 
expenditure to a work colleague for lifts. I cant see how the declared expenditures he 
gave were entirely plausible in all the circumstances, and this raises a clear flag.
Finally, Buddy Loans should have seen disparities between the results of the credit check 
it carried out and the information Mr S gave it about his monthly repayments. At a glance I 
can see that several amounts showing as regular payments on the credit check dont 
seem to be factored into the review of creditors contained within the I&E, while several far 
smaller monthly payments seem to have been listed. It was clear that Mr S had a high level 
of indebtedness overall, substantially with high cost lenders. And that he was at his limit on 
several credit cards and in his overdraft.
Taking all of these circumstances together, I dont think Buddy Loans checks went far 
enough so as to be proportionate in this case. In summary, given what Buddy Loans 
already knew about him, it was very clear that he had little to no financial flexibility or 
resilience. There were multiple and clear signs that Mr S was experiencing substantial 
financial strain, meaning that extra information would have been necessary to truly 
conclude that he could sustainably repay this loan over this term. 
So Buddy Loans should have done more to verify Mr Ss full and actual financial situation.
What would Buddy Loans have found had it done further checks?When considering this second question, our service has had the benefit of copies of Mr Ss 
bank statements from the time of the lending. However, there is absolutely no requirement 
on a lender to request bank statements: I accept that entirely. Lenders are permitted to 
source and rely on a range of evidence when assessing affordability, and so Buddy Loans 
could have opted to gather more information about Mr Ss circumstances in a range of 
ways. Bank statements is just one way, but in the absence of anything else provided as 
evidence of Mr Ss full circumstances at the time, Im happy to rely on them.
Mr Ss bank statements raise several significant concerns suggesting significant financial 
difficulty, including:
A monthly income far lower than £1,500, even at what could be assumed to be the 
busiest and most lucrative time of year for Mr Ss business. In reviewing this, I have 
discounted deposits from an account ending -794, as there appear to be a broadly 
equivalent number and overall value of debits to that account, meaning I would not 
consider it to be income, but instead a way that Mr S was attempting to manage 
things. Therefore, Mr Ss actual income appears to have been between £600 and 
£1,200 per month.
Regular borrowing from, and repayments to, many other high cost short term 
lenders.
Regular sizeable deposits from an account bearing the same surname, but different 
initials, to Mr S, indeed it is a reasonable assumption that it is from his mother, 
based on the electoral roll evidence. This raises the question as to whether he was 
having to borrow significant amounts from family members.
Regular transfers between, and a very substantial deposit from, an account 
seemingly belonging to an individual, not an organisation, and which are 
unaccounted for in the income and expenditure assessment. Based on the traffic, I 
dont think it is likely that this individual was a customer of Mr Ss. Again, repeated 
and substantial borrowing from friends and family is highly possible.
It is abundantly clear from the evidence provided that Mr S was struggling financially and 
that his income was substantially lower than that disclosed.
As Ive explained, needing to borrow to meet repayments means that the lending is not 
sustainable for the customer. I cannot see how, with proportionate checks, Buddy Loans 
could have concluded that Mr S could sustainably repay this loan without further 
borrowing. It therefore follows that I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr S, Buddy Loans must do the following:
A) Buddy Loans must remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the 
outstanding loan, and treat any repayments made by Mr S as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on the outstanding loan. 
B) If this results in Mr S having made overpayments then it must refund these overpayments 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the payments were 
made, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C) If there is still an outstanding balance following the actions set out in A, then Buddy 
Loans should agree a suitable repayment plan with Mr S.D) It must remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file in relation to this
loan, once it has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Buddy Loans to deduct tax from this interest. It should
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Advancis Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman