DRN-2455779
The complaint
Mr L complains that Gracombex Limited trading as The Money Platform (TMP) lent to him 
irresponsibly.   
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in December 2020 that I summarise below.
Mr L was given 5 loans by TMP between March 2019 and December 2019. The loans were 
payable in instalments varying from 1 to 3 months.  The amount borrowed varied from £250 
to £1000. 
A summary of Mr L's borrowing is as follows:
LoanDate TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount
1 22/03/2019 14/06/2019 3 £500.00
2 27/06/2019 13/09/2019 3 £250.00
3 16/09/2019 15/10/2019 1 £500.00
4 19/10/2019 29/11/2019 3 £750.00
5 04/12/2019 outstanding 3 £1,000.00
In my provisional decision I explained why I thought the complaint should be partly upheld. 
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks that 
TMP needed to do such as the amount being lent, and the consumers income and 
expenditure. With this in mind, I thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate in the early stages of the lending relationship.
TMP was required to establish whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The 
loan payments being affordable on this basis might of course be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
TMP carried out some checks before it gave each loan to Mr L including asking for details of 
his income. TMP says its checks included verification checks and affordability checks, as 
well as acquiring information from searches carried out by credit reference agencies. 
I thought that the checks TMP did before agreeing the first three loans were reasonable and 
proportionate. Mr L says the loans werent affordable for him but I thought it was reasonable 
for TMP to make its early lending decisions based on the information Mr L had provided and 
what it found through proportionate checks. I didnt think it wouldve been proportionate for 
TMP to ask Mr L for the amount of information that would be needed to show the lending 
was unsustainable before agreeing the first three loans. I didnt think greater checks were 
appropriate at the time. So I didnt intend to uphold Mr Ls complaint about the first three 
loans.
I thought it would have been reasonable and proportionate for TMP to ask Mr L about any 
other short-term loans outstanding before it agreed to his fourth loan. But on balance, I 
couldnt fairly say that I think TMP would have concluded that it shouldnt provide the fourth 
loan. So I didnt intend to uphold the complaint about loan 4 either.
However I thought TMP ought reasonably to have carried out further checks before it agreed 
to the fifth loan - to establish for itself whether continued lending was appropriate for this 
consumer at the time. This was Mr Ls fifth loan in around nine months; the amount he was 
borrowing was increasing for the fourth consecutive time and each previous loan had been 
taken out a fairly short time after repaying the previous lending. 
TMP says that although the loans were increasing in size, this doesnt mean Mr L was in a 
debt spiral. TMP says that as a customer builds trust in repaying TMP, they are offered 
increased credit.  TMP doesnt think that Mr Ls increased borrowing reflected any escalating 
difficulties for him. It says it monitored Mr Ls overall financial status and that his total 
unsecured debt had reduced by loan 5 and his disposable income was improving. TMP 
thinks that Mr Ls finances were not deteriorating and that the fifth loan was affordable for 
him. TMP also says it isnt proportionate to perform manual checks such as requesting a 
bank statement for automated loans up to £1,000.
But it seemed to me that after several months of borrowing from TMP, Mr Ls total unsecured 
debt remained high at over £21,000. It had only reduced by around £428, despite four 
previous loans from TMP. TMP doesnt think that Mr Ls increased borrowing reflected any 
escalating difficulties. I accepted this might have been the case, but I thought it could equally 
have indicated that Mr L might be finding it difficult to significantly reduce his unsecured debt 
and could be having financial problems. Despite Mr Ls apparent disposable income, he still 
had a need, after four previous loans, to take a fifth high cost, short term loan  which the 
regulations make clear should be to meet a short term, temporary cash flow problem, and 
not to meet an ongoing need.
Taking everything into account, I thought by the time Mr L returned for a fifth loan, TMP 
ought reasonably to have wanted to gain a full understanding of Mr Ls financial position - to 
reasonably establish for itself whether continued lending was appropriate for this consumer 
at the time. In particular I thought it would have been proportionate for TMP to have taken 
further steps to independently verify Mr Ls circumstances, and to check his regular monthly 
expenditure - for example by requesting bank statements - rather than rely largely on 
information that Mr L was providing about his expenditure. 
Mr L provided us with copies of his bank statements for the months leading up to his fifth 
loan application so I could determine what better checks might have shown TMP at that 
time. And I considered this information in light of what Ive set out above. 
Of course, different checks might show different things. But I thought if TMP had carried out 
what I consider to be proportionate checks, I thought its likely it would have discovered more 
about Mr Ls financial position. In particular I thought it would most likely have discovered 
that Mr L had been repeatedly taking short-term loans from a number of other lenders. TMP says its credit checks indicated that Mr L had only 2 short-term loans open when he 
applied for his fifth loan and that one of these was most likely with TMP. But I could see from 
Mr Ls bank statements that throughout the month prior to taking his fifth loan from TMP, Mr 
L had regularly been borrowing from at least 8 other short-term lenders and hed paid out 
over £1,600 in repayments that month, not including his repayments to TMP. Overall, I 
thought better checks are likely to have shown TMP that Mr L was having considerable 
difficulties managing his finances and that he was most likely borrowing to repay other 
lending  and would also most likely need to borrow elsewhere to repay his loan from TMP. I 
thought the lender ought reasonably to have realised that it was unlikely that Mr L wouldve 
been able to sustainably repay loan 5. So it ought reasonably to have concluded that it 
wasnt appropriate to lend any further to him.  
I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence. Mr L has told us he is 
disappointed in my decision but he can see why I reached my conclusions. Mr L also says 
that loan 4 was paid off and loan 5 was taken a few days later. 
TMP has told us it accepts my provisional decision to uphold loan 5. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both Mr L and TMP for responding to my provisional decision. Given that Ive 
not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about this complaint, 
and TMP has accepted my provisional findings, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision.
I am not upholding Mr Ls complaint about loans 1 to 4. 
But I dont think that TMP should have agreed to provide loan 5. So TMP needs to 
put things right.
Putting things right
TMP has told us that Loan 5 is outstanding and that following my decision it will put things 
right. 
TMP should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from loan 5 and treat all the payments that 
Mr L made as payments towards the capital. 
If reworking Mr Ls loan account results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then TMP should refund these overpayments 
with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
If reworking Mr Ls account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then TMP 
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr L - bearing in mind the 
need to treat him positively and sympathetically in those discussions.
TMP should remove any adverse information about loan 5 from Mr Ls credit file. 
*HMRC requires TMP to take off tax from this interest and provide Mr L with a certificate if he 
asks for one.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint in part and direct Gracombex Limited 
trading as The Money Platform  to put things right as set out above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman