DRN-2846657
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Aviva Insurance Limited has turned down a cancellation claim 
they made on their travel insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ls travel insurance policy is provided as a benefit of Mr Ls employment. Their 
policy renewed in July 2020.
In August 2020, Mr and Mrs L booked a holiday abroad. They were due to travel in late 
October 2020. However, a few days before they were due to depart, Mr L was contacted by 
the NHS contact tracing team. Mr L was told hed need to self-isolate due to contact with a 
person who had Covid-19. Around this time, the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) also 
imposed a 14-day quarantine period for travellers returning from the country they were due 
to travel to. Mr and Mrs L cancelled their holiday and made a claim for the costs of their 
flights.
Aviva sent Mr and Mrs L a claim form to complete. Mr and Mrs L had tried to get their flight 
costs back from their airline and made an unsuccessful attempt to claim the costs back 
through their credit card provider, so they included this evidence in the paperwork. 
Ultimately, Aviva turned down Mr and Mrs Ls claim. It said their policy specifically excluded 
claims which arose as a result of Covid-19. But it also accepted that its claims team 
shouldve explained this to Mr and Mrs L when they first made their claim. It also agreed that 
its claims handler had led Mr and Mrs L to believe that their claim would be covered. So it 
offered them £100 compensation to recognise its error.
Mr and Mrs L were unhappy with Avivas handling of their claim and they asked us to look 
into their complaint.
Our investigator considered the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ls policy. She thought 
that claims which happened due to Covid-19 were clearly excluded by the policy and that 
this had also been made clear in the policy summary. As Mr and Mrs Ls trip had been 
cancelled as a result of Covid-19, she felt it was fair for Aviva to turn down their claim. But 
she didnt think Aviva had met its regulatory obligation to handle claims promptly and fairly. 
Thats because she thought Aviva had caused Mr and Mrs L to suffer a loss of expectation 
and a degree of distress and inconvenience. So she recommended it increase its total offer 
of compensation to £150.
Aviva disagreed. It said it considered the £100 itd already offered was fair compensation for 
its mistake.
Mr and Mrs L said they understood the investigators findings about the cover the policy 
provided. But they didnt feel it was right that Aviva had treated them as it had.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Aviva must pay Mr and Mrs L total compensation of £150. Ill 
explain why.
As the investigator explained, the relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So in 
considering Mr and Mrs Ls complaint, Ive thought carefully about, amongst other things, the 
terms and conditions of their policy and the circumstances of their claim to decide whether 
Aviva treated them fairly.
Was it fair for Aviva to turn down Mr and Mrs Ls claim?
Mr and Mrs L appear to indicate that they accept the investigators findings on whether it was 
fair for Aviva to turn down their claim. So I dont propose to consider this point in detail.
Its clear that Mr and Mrs L cancelled their holiday for two reasons. Firstly, because Mr L was 
notified by NHS track and trace that hed need to self-isolate for 14 days. And secondly, after 
the trip had been booked, FCO guidance had changed to require travellers returning from 
the country Mr and Mrs L were travelling to to quarantine for two weeks on their return. So I 
think it was appropriate for Aviva to assess the claim under the cancellation section of the 
policy. This set out a list of exceptions  specific events Aviva had chosen not to cover. One 
of these says:
We will not provide cover for any claim in any way directly or indirectly caused by, resulting 
from or in connection with any of the following, regardless of any other cause or event 
contributing concurrently or in any other sequence:
a. any Coronavirus (including but not limited to SARS-CoV, SARS-CoV-2 and MERS-
CoV) or any disease caused by any Coronavirus (including but not limited to Severe 
Acute Respiratory Syndrome, COVID-19 and Middle East Respiratory Syndrome); or
b. any mutation or variation of any virus or disease referred to in a. above, or any other 
disease caused by any such mutated or varied virus, including, without limitation to 
the scope of the foregoing:
i. any measures taken by any governmental, public or other authority or any other 
person for the prevention, suppression, mitigation, cleaning or removal of any virus or 
disease referred to in a. or b. above; or
ii any fear or threat of a., b. or i. above.
The policy summary, which sets out the main things the policy does and doesnt cover also 
sets out the following significant exclusion, which applies to cancellation claims: 
Any claim directly or indirectly relating to any Coronavirus or any disease caused by
Coronavirus or any mutation or variation of the disease.
I think the policy terms, which form the basis of the contract between Mr and Mrs L and 
Aviva, make it clear that Aviva wont pay claims which are related in any way to a 
coronavirus. SARS-CoV-2 (Covid-19) is explicitly included in this exclusion. And I think the 
policy summary clearly highlights this significant restriction on cover. I understand Mr L had 
access to the policy documents through his employers system, so if he feels these werent 
made available to him, this is something that hed need to raise with his employer 
separately.Based on the reasons Mr and Mrs L gave Aviva for cancelling their trip, I think it was fair for 
Aviva to conclude that their claim was directly related to Covid-19. This means that I think it 
was fair for Aviva to decide that the claim wasnt covered. So Im not telling Aviva to pay Mr 
and Mrs Ls claim.
Did Aviva handle the claim fairly?
Aviva acknowledges that its claims handler shouldve identified and told Mr and Mrs L that 
their claim wasnt covered when Mr L first called in November 2020. Having listened to the 
call, I agree this was the case. The claims handler was aware of the type of policy Mr L had 
and was also aware of the reasons why the trip had been cancelled. So I think Aviva 
shouldve turned down the claim during the first call on 2 November 2020.
Instead though, it sent Mr and Mrs L a claims pack for them to complete. And I agree with 
the investigator that the claims handler did lead Mr L to think his claim would be covered. 
This led to Mr and Mrs L going to some effort to obtain the evidence Aviva indicated it 
needed to assess the claim  such as letter from their credit provider to show it wouldnt 
refund the payment and a no-show invoice from the airline.
It was only when Mr and Mrs L sent in all the completed paperwork in February 2021 that 
Aviva identified that the claim wouldnt be covered and let Mr and Mrs L know the outcome 
of it. I dont doubt how disappointing and frustrating this mustve been for them, given their 
expectation that the claim would be settled and that it had taken three months to give them 
this answer. So in these circumstances, I dont think Aviva handled the claim as promptly or 
fairly as it shouldve done. And I think the fair outcome would be for Aviva to pay Mr and Mrs 
L total compensation of £150 to recognise the trouble and upset its error had on them and to 
reflect their loss of expectation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
I direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs L £150 compensation (less any 
compensation its already paid relating to this claim).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman