DRN-3364899
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) has unfairly turned down 
her claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mrs M, alongside her partner, bought a timeshare membership from a business Ill call GH in 
June 2011. At the time they already had another timeshare at another resort, but Mrs M was 
told that GH would offer a trade in value for their old timeshare and the newer one had better 
benefits. In particular, they were told that in any year they didnt want to use the timeshare 
they would only have to pay a non-usage fee of €50 instead of the higher annual 
maintenance fee. Mrs M and her partner agreed to take out the timeshare and paid a deposit 
of €1,750 (£1,577.87) using her Tesco credit card, the balance of €1,750 (£1,596.42) was 
paid by bank transfer.
After a few years, Mrs M said the non-usage fee increased from €50 to €200 and it was 
being requested in November in advance of the following year instead of in February of the 
year that the timeshare wasnt used. So Mrs M thought GH misrepresented the benefits of 
the timeshare. Mrs M instructed a claims management company to represent her in bringing 
a claim against Tesco saying that, as she had paid for part of the timeshare using a credit 
card, Tesco could be held jointly liable under s.75 CCA. As the credit card was Mrs Ms, this 
complaint was brought in her name even though she bought the timeshare along with her 
partner.
Tesco responded to the complaint to say that the agreement with GH didnt explicitly say that 
the maintenance fee wouldnt rise over time and it was unreasonable to expect the same, 
and therefore it didnt accept the s.75 CCA claim. It also said that there wasnt the right type 
of arrangement in place for s.75 CCA to apply, as Mrs M paid a different named company to 
GH. Unhappy with the response, Mrs M brought her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought that Tesco should not have 
turned down the claim. They thought GH had said the non-usage fee would be €50 per year, 
but this had increased to €200.  The investigator thought there was a misrepresentation that 
the fee would stay at €50 and Mrs M had relied on this when deciding to take out the 
timeshare. They also thought there were the right sorts of arrangements in place for s.75 
CCA to apply. So they thought Tesco needed to pay compensation to put Mrs M in the 
position she would have been, had she not bought the timeshare from GH.
Tesco  didnt agree with the view, so the complaint was passed to me . Having considered 
everything I came to a different conclusion to our investigator, so I issued a provisional 
decision setting out my conclusions and I invited both parties to set out their responses to 
that decision.
My provisional findings
Mrs M brought a claim under s.75(1) CCA, which reads:
 If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 
12(b) or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any 
claim against the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of 
contract, he shall have a like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, 
shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
I noted that in this case Tesco said it wasnt liable under this provision as, firstly, there wasnt 
the right sort of debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement in place and, secondly, there 
was no misrepresentation or breach of contract.
I first considered whether there was a DCS agreement in place, so I looked at whether GH 
and the business named on her credit card bill were associates as defined in s.184 CCA. 
Having looked at all of the evidence, I thought GH was a trading name of the business that 
took payment and I thought there was the right sort of link between all of the parties that 
gave rise to a DCS agreement. It followed that I thought Tesco did need to consider the 
substance of the complaint.
I considered whether I thought there was either a misrepresentation or a breach of contract 
that Tesco could be jointly liable for under s.75 CCA. Mrs Ms representatives brought the 
claim on the basis that GH misrepresented the nature of the timeshare, in particular that the 
non-usage fee wouldnt rise above €50. I thought that claim wasnt correct.
I noted that comments made before someone agrees to enter into a contact can be a 
number of different things. Some statements dont have any effect, such as sales puff, but 
sometimes a representation is made that someone relies on to enter into a contract, but that 
representation doesnt form part of the contract. And some representations go on to be 
terms of the contract. 
Here I  noted that Mrs M said she was told that the annual non-usage fee was €50 and had 
pointed to a document titled ANNEX TO CONTRACT. That was dated 9 June 2011, the 
date she entered the agreement to take out the timeshare. On that document it said:
I understand that no maintenance fee to pay on this week, but the yearly 
contribution even if we dont use the week will be €50
So I said it was a contractual term that the non-usage fee was €50 and I couldnt see that the 
term was time limited in any way.
I looked at the rest of the contract to see whether there was any provision for this to rise over 
time. In the main body of the agreement it says the purchaser, here Mrs M and her partner, 
agreed:
To contribute to the financial support of the properties and the services rendered 
therein or to the owners thereof in general, by paying every year that you use an 
annual fee to the management company, which will be periodically updated, while the 
contract is in force, as set under the statutory rules and pursuant to the document 
relating to the contracts minimum content document.
So there was an annual fee that was charged to the timeshare members whenever they 
used the timeshare. I thought this was the maintenance fee and was something separate to 
the non-usage fee. But I couldnt see any contractual provision to allow the non-usage fee to 
be varied.
Mrs M said that it was important to her that she would be able to pay only €50 a year not to 
use the timeshare and not to have to pay the full maintenance fee, which was nearer to €400 on her earlier timeshare. But I thought the representation that the cost of the non-usage fee 
was €50 was a term of the contact, so if the fee increased she could bring a claim for breach 
of contract and not for a misrepresentation.
Tesco said it wasnt reasonable for Mrs M to expect the non-usage fee not to increase over 
time, especially as the timeshare was set to run until 2058. But I didnt think the 
reasonableness of the term came into it, rather it was an explicit term of the contract that the 
non-usage fee was €50 per year. So if she was charged more, there was a breach of 
contract. So I considered what Mrs M paid each year, and for what.
Mrs M said that they used the timeshare in the first year (2012), but then paid €50 the next 
year for non-usage. I saw that in November 2013 Mrs M emailed someone at GH to ask why 
the invoice for non-usage management fees for 2014 had gone up to €200 from the 
previous €50. The response was:
Thank you for your contact about the increased level of your fee for 2014. As 
mentioned in the letter accompanying the invoice, this is something that has been 
implemented across the board for this type of contract and has been necessary to 
ensure all administration costs are met.
I do understand that you are unhappy however the contract does not specify that the 
fee mentioned in the contract will remain unaltered.
I thought that response meant the person responding accepted the €200 was for non-usage 
as they didnt question what Mrs M had said. Having considered the response, I also didnt 
think the contract needed to specify that the fee wouldnt change over time as I thought the 
contract was clear that the annual non-usage fee was €50 and there was no provision to 
increase it.
I saw an invoice for the following year that was paid in November 2014. It asked for payment 
of the MAINTENANCE FEE for the period 2015 and was for €200. It doesnt say that this 
was a non-usage fee.
In March 2015, Mrs M emailed GH to say that she was unable to travel for the holiday that 
year, so tried to bank her timeshare week with an exchange company and use it another 
time. Mrs M said she was told that she couldnt as the annual maintenance fee hadnt been 
paid. The response was that the €200 was the non-usage fee and if Mrs M wished to use the 
timeshare she needed to pay a further €285. Mrs M replied to say she was confused as she 
paid the maintenance fee, not a non-usage fee, and expected to be able to use the 
timeshare in 2015. I did not see a response to this email
Having looked at the invoice and emails, I said I understood Mrs Ms confusion in 2015. The 
invoice was for a maintenance fee, not a non-usage fee, so I couldnt see that she would 
have needed to pay more to use her timeshare that year. But it appeared that GH were 
saying that the non-usage fee had increased to €200.
I also saw an invoice dated 31 October 2015 that said the maintenance fee for 2016 was
€200, but I couldnt see that this was paid.
From the evidence I saw, I thought there was a breach of contract when the cost of the 
annual non-usage fee was increased. I saw evidence that this was paid twice, to cover the 
years 2014 and 2015.
I thought Tesco were jointly liable for this under s.75 CCA, so I thought it needed to do 
something further. The remedy for a breach of contract is normally damages to compensate for that breach, so to put Mrs M in the position she would have been had the breach not 
happened. In other words, to refund the difference between what she paid and what she 
should have paid had the non-usage fee remained at €50.
In conclusion, I thought Tesco needed to pay Mrs M the pound sterling equivalent of the two 
€150 extra payments she made in November 2013 and 2014. It needed to add interest to 
that to compensate her for the time she had been out of pocket, the rate of that being 8% per 
year simple.
This was a different outcome to what our investigator suggested, as they recommended 
Tesco put Mrs M in the position she would have been in had she not bought the timeshare. 
But that is a different remedy for a misrepresentation claim and, for the reasons I explained, I 
thought this was actually a breach of contract claim.
Mrs Ms representatives also said that Mrs M was told that if she wanted to hand back the 
timeshare she could by simply not paying the fee of €50, but this was untrue as this had 
increased to €200. I didnt follow this point as I couldnt see that a change in the fee made a 
difference, as the fee remained unpaid whatever the cost. Here Mrs M didnt pay the fees 
demanded, as I understood it on her representatives recommendation, and I couldnt see 
that she has been asked to pay anything further, so it appeared that the timeshare 
arrangement had ended. I invited Mrs M to let me know if this understanding wasnt correct.
Mrs M also said that the timeshare was similar to the earlier one she had, so she paid for a 
product that, in effect, she already had. But the two timeshares were at different resorts, so I 
didnt agree that they were the same.
Mrs M said that the requests for payment had originally been made at the start of the 
relevant year, but this had moved to November of the preceding year. I couldnt see that 
there was any contractual term that dealt with this or any alleged representation when the 
invoice would have been sent. So I didnt think this made a difference to the outcome of this 
complaint.
Finally, Mrs M said that GH were in breach of various European Directives that regulated 
how timeshares were to be sold. I considered those provisions as well as the wider law that 
dealt with the sale, but I didnt think it made a difference to the s.75 CCA claim that was 
brought. The substance of the claim brought was about the change in cost of the non-usage 
fees and I explained what I thought Tesco should do to put things right in respect of that.
Tesco responded to say it had no further comments on what I said in my provisional 
decision, but it asked for proof that Mrs M paid the increased fees in 2013 and 2014 by way 
of bank or credit card statement. Mrs M didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party gave me anything further to think about, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
I have thought about Tescos request to see evidence of the payment made by Mrs M to GH 
in 2013 and 2014, but I think there is sufficient evidence to demonstrate payments were 
made. In my provisional decision I set out the correspondence between Mrs M and GH 
detailing the invoices raised and discussions about what the payments were for. GH emailed 
a receipt to Mrs M dated 11 November 2014 stating that €200 had been paid. I havent seen a similar receipt for payment in 2013, but I have seen the invoice which Mrs M said was paid 
and the email correspondence doesnt appear to contradict this. Given this, I have no reason 
to doubt what Mrs M said happened. So, on balance, I think its fair to conclude that Mrs M 
paid the €200 in both November 2013 and 2014. I do not have the date of when payment 
was made in 2013, so for the purposes of this decision I have assumed it was paid on the 
same date as the following year, 11 November.
Putting things right
If Mrs M accepts this final decision, I direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC to:
1. pay Mrs M the pound sterling equivalent of €150 on 11 November 2013 and €150 on 
11 November 2013.
2. add to those payments interest running from 11 November 2013 and 11 November 
2014 for each of the respective payments to the date payment is made to Mrs M. The 
rate of interest is 8% per year, simple.
3. if Tesco Personal Finance PLC by law has to pay tax on that interest, it must provide  
Mrs M a certificate setting out how much tax was paid.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ms complaint against Tesco Personal Finance PLC and direct it to pay 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman