DRN-1984948
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that their home contents insurer, CIS General Insurance Limited 
(trading as Co-op Insurance), have refused their claim for accidental damage to a mobile 
phone.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have had home contents insurance with Co-op Insurance (Co-op) since June 
1999. Each year theyve accepted the renewal offer from Co-op, and so their insurance has 
continued. In March 2014 they successfully claimed for accidental damage to a laptop 
computer.
In 2014, the Home Insurance  Important Policy Information booklet, sent with the annual 
renewal documents explained on the page headed Policy Cover Changes that the wording 
of the policy had been amended to exclude accidental damage to laptops or any other item 
designed to be portable.
In May 2019, Mr and Mrs M received the annual renewal documents as usual. The Renewal 
 Policy Schedule included the following:
Please note that our Home policy excludes accidental damage to Laptops or any 
other item designed to be portable  Youll need to arrange Personal Possessions 
insurance if you require accidental damage cover, or cover outside of the home, for 
these items.
And the accompanying two-page summary of the insurance cover included a text box on the 
first page labelled What is not insured?. It read:
Excess The amount youll have to pay towards a claim
Replacement locks if the keys to the locks are lost
Accidental damage to portable items such as laptops
The same wording was included in the May 2020 renewal documentation. Around this time, 
Mr M dropped his mobile phone and it was damaged. He made a claim under his Co-op 
home contents insurance policy, but Co-op told him he wasnt covered.
Mr M complained. He said hed specifically asked the salesman for mobile phone cover in 
1999 and pointed to his previous laptop claim as evidence of cover for mobile devices.
In response, Co-op explained that laptops had never been covered under the policy, but 
theyd settled his claim for the laptop in recognition of any misunderstanding which may 
have been caused by [the] previous policy documentation. They said that since 2014 the 
renewal documents had made it clear portable items werent covered.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. He said he couldnt make any comment on 
the original sale of the policy because there was no longer anything to confirm what had 
been said in 1999. He explained that at each renewal, Mr and Mrs M had a responsibility to 
review the policy information and decide whether to renew or obtain insurance elsewhere. 
And he found that Co-ops renewal documentation, since at least 2015, had made it clear 
that portable items were not covered. He also said that each renewal letter had invited 
Mr and Mrs M to consider whether they were happy to renew, and to discuss their options 
with one of Co-ops advisers.
Mr Ms response
Mr M didnt accept the investigators findings. He said; hed started out with an all risk 
policy in 1999, hed never been informed that it wasnt all risk, and Co-op shouldnt have 
changed it without his consent. He relied on the following wording in Co-ops response to his 
complaint:
Following the sale, we issued full policy documentation which confirmed the cover 
that had been taken out, and this cover would continue unchanged unless you 
advised us otherwise.
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons.
I cant say what Mr and Mrs Ms original home contents policy covered in 1999, or what was 
said when it was sold to them. Mr M says it was an all risk policy, but even these will have 
exclusion clauses, because no policy will cover everything. It might be that the policy didnt, 
at that point, exclude cover for accidental damage to portable items such as laptops. The 
evidence suggests that prior to 2014 the wording of the policy could be interpreted to include 
such items, as thats the basis on which Mr Ms claim for a laptop seems to have been 
successful. But what the policy covered in 1999 isnt really the issue here.
As has been explained to Mr M, its usual for the terms and conditions of an insurance policy 
to change each year because the contract of insurance is usually annual. Thats why 
businesses are obliged to give customers appropriate information about a policy at renewal. 
Customers can then make an informed decision about whether the level of cover offered by 
the renewal is suitable for their needs.
Since 2014, I think its been clear that Mr and Mrs Ms policy excludes cover for accidental 
damage to portable items such as laptops. Co-op havent further defined within the policy 
documentation what other portable items this exclusion applies to, but I think the mention of 
laptops is enough to indicate that portable electronic devices, such as mobile phones, are 
caught by the exclusion.
Ive seen the renewal letters sent by Co-op from 2015 onwards and on each occasion this 
exclusion has been highlighted in the summary of insurance. Mr M says that Co-op changed 
the policy between 1999 and 2020 without his consent. But by agreeing to the new 
insurance contract each year, Mr and Mrs M were accepting the changes.Mr M has highlighted a sentence in Co-ops response to the complaint that says the cover 
would continue unchanged unless you advised us otherwise. I think what the complaint 
handler was saying here is that at the point of expiry each year, if the renewal offer was 
accepted, a policy of the same nature and duration would continue. So, unless Mr and 
Mrs M advised Co-op that they wanted a different type of insurance, or advised Co-op of a 
change (for example, to the sum insured), a policy for home contents would continue.
But that doesnt mean Co-op werent entitled to make changes to the terms and conditions of 
the policy at each renewal. Co-op were entitled to make changes to the cover so long as 
their customers were given appropriate information about these changes and given an 
opportunity to accept or reject them.
Overall, I find that Mr and Mrs M were given appropriate information about the policy at 
renewal and their decision to renew was an acceptance of the terms offered. I appreciate 
that Mr M says he thought he had cover for his mobile phone, and hes extremely 
disappointed to find out that he doesnt. But thats not because Co-op didnt tell him about 
what the policy did and didnt cover. Indeed, Ive seen evidence that shows they highlighted 
this exclusion at every renewal between 2015 and 2020.
In summary, Im satisfied that Co-op have correctly declined Mr and Mrs Ms claim. Im sorry 
to add to Mr and Mrs Ms disappointment, but I cant say Co-op have acted unfairly and I 
wont be asking them to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman