DRN-1740715
 
The complaint
Mr T complains that Nationwide Building Society placed a block on his credit card account 
while he was on holiday, which caused him and his family inconvenience and 
embarrassment when transactions were declined.
What happened
Mr T has a credit card account with Nationwide, and his wife is an additional card holder on 
it. They went on holiday and intended on using the cards whilst they were away. They used 
their cards on their outward journey, as Nationwides advice was that this would let its 
systems know that they were travelling. 
But Mr and Mrs T found that their cards were blocked when they tried to use them at their 
destination. They didnt receive any communication from Nationwide about this, and Mr T 
sent a secure message through his online banking asking for the blocks to be lifted, which 
they were once he was able to confirm the transactions Nationwide was querying were ones 
made by him or his wife.  
Mr T complained. He said they had had to limit their expenditure which had ruined the first 
part of their holiday. He said the blocking of the cards had caused them distress and 
embarrassment. He felt this wouldnt have happened if Nationwide still had the facility to let it 
know when they would be travelling. 
Nationwide said Mr and Mrs Ts credit cards had been blocked as it had reason to believe 
theyd been compromised. It said that a restriction was placed on the cards. It said this same 
security process wouldve been followed even if Nationwide still asked a customer to notify it 
when they were travelling abroad. It said monitoring of an account is always completed 
wherever the card is used  in the UK or abroad. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that Nationwide had attempted to contact Mr T to confirm transactions were genuine, 
and the restriction placed on the account was removed once he confirmed they were. She 
said a financial institution is expected to have security measures and systems in place to 
protect both it and its customers from fraud, and the terms and conditions set out that it may 
refuse to authorise a transaction if fraud is suspected. The investigator said that although 
she understood how Mr T and his family wouldve been inconvenienced by the situation, she 
didnt think Nationwide had acted wrongly. 
Mr T didnt accept the investigators findings. He said that he hadnt received either a call or 
a text from Nationwide about the transactions and two of the purchases were from retailers 
hed bought from before with the card. He said that Nationwides website said that it would 
call or text straight away if it was unsure about a transaction, and it also suggested buying 
something at an air or sea port to let its systems know the customer was about to travel  
which he did. He felt that Nationwide had got rid of the facility to let it know when the 
customer would be travelling and replaced it with a system that didnt work. He questioned 
why both his and his wifes cards had been blocked, when the transactions wouldve shown 
that they were being used in the same place. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can fully appreciate Mr Ts frustration about both his and his wifes credit cards being 
blocked while they were away. And I do understand how this will have made things difficult 
when they were looking to use them to pay for goods or services during their holiday. 
However, I dont think that Nationwide has acted wrongly or unreasonably in the steps it 
took, when these were to protect the security of Mr Ts credit card account. The terms and 
conditions of this account set out when Nationwide may look to stop a transaction:
(b) We may, acting reasonably, refuse to authorise a transaction if:
(i) we have identified an unusual pattern of transactions with the supplier you are trying 
to pay;
(ii) it will take you over your credit limit;
(iii) we suspect unauthorised, fraudulent or illegal use of your card or account;
(iv) our security controls require you to produce additional identification, or prevent us 
carrying out the transaction before we can make the payment; and/or
(v) you have not made your minimum monthly payment by the payment due date.
And I can see that Nationwide did attempt to contact Mr T by text and phone when its 
systems initially declined the transactions through a concern that the card details had been 
compromised, but these attempts were unfortunately unsuccessful. Nationwide then placed 
Mr Ts account into a higher state of security, which I understand affected both his and his 
wifes cards, as her card was also for this same account. These restrictions were removed 
once Mr T had verified that certain transactions were genuine.
I do appreciate why Mr T may feel this situation couldve been prevented if Nationwides 
previous facility for a customer to let it know when they would be travelling was still in use. 
However, even if it was, it wouldnt necessarily mean that preventative measures wouldnt 
have been implemented if there were concerns about how the account cards were being 
used. So there was still the possibility that transactions may have been blocked while the 
genuine use of the card was verified. And this wouldve been the case even though the 
credit card may have been used to purchase from the same merchant before.
Overall, while I acknowledge the impact the blocking of the cards had on Mr and Mrs Ts 
enjoyment of their holiday and Mr Ts strength of feeling about the matter, I dont think that 
Nationwide acted unreasonably by looking to make sure the spending on his credit card 
account was genuine.My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman