DRN-3987052
The complaint
Mr W complains that Oplo PL Limited wont refund to him the money that he paid for some 
holiday club membership points. Hes being represented in his complaint by a claims 
management company.
What happened
Mr W and his wife had purchased a total of 350,001 membership points in a holiday club 
between about May 2009 and May 2016. They paid a total of £48,826 for those points. They 
entered into a purchase agreement with the holiday company in October 2018 to purchase 
3,000 more points. The purchase price of those points was £14,950 and they also traded-in 
40,000 of their existing points to the holiday company. Mr W entered into a fixed sum loan 
agreement with the finance provider for a loan of £14,950. He agreed to make 179 monthly 
repayments of £152.61 and a final payment of £152.95 to the finance provider. 
Mr Ws representative made claims on behalf of Mr W to the finance provider in March 2021 
under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and about irresponsible 
lending. It included particulars of Mr Ws complaint and a witness statement from Mr W. The 
finance provider didnt provide a substantive response to those claims so a complaint was 
made to this service. 
The finance provider then said that Mr W has been a member of the holiday club since 2009 
and that he was entitled to what was signed for on his last purchase in October 2018 when 
the holiday company waived some annual fees. It said that if he didnt want to carry on with 
the purchase, there was an option of a 14-day cooling down period which was stated in the 
contract that was signed. It said that it was unable to agree that the timeshare had been mis-
sold. Mr Ws representative provided its comments to this service on the finance providers 
response. 
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. He thought that it 
was likely that a court would conclude that there was an unfair debtorcreditor relationship 
as the evidence suggested that the points were marketed and sold to Mr W as an 
investment. He recommended that the finance provider should: refund all of the loan 
payments and cancel the loan; refund the proportion of the management charge relating to 
the purchase made in October 2018; pay interest on those refunds; and remove any adverse 
information in relation to the lending from Mr Ws credit file. As hed upheld Mr Ws 
complaint, he said that he hadnt considered Mr Ws claim under section 75 or about the 
affordability of the loan.
Mr Ws loan was transferred to Oplo in August 2022 and it has asked for this complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. It says that it doesnt believe that theres any evidence to 
support the claim made by Mr W that he purchased the points as an investment and that the 
sale was misrepresented. It says that Mr Ws recollection is unclear as evidenced by the fact 
that he cant recall certain events surrounding his reasoning for the purchase of a separate 
VIP holiday week or agreeing to the 15 year loan term. It says that he had the opportunity to 
exercise his right of withdrawal but chose not to do so and the pre-contract credit information 
is clear regarding the repayments being over a term of 180 months.
Mr Ws representative has provided a copy of a termination notice that Mr W has received 
from the holiday company following his failure to pay the management charges and says that 
it has now elected to enforce the foreclosure provisions in the contract and served 
termination notices. It says that the foreclosure clause and the steps taken by the holiday 
company to exercise the same gives rise to an unfair relationship and the foreclosure clause 
also falls foul of the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld for 
these reasons:
Mr W and his wife had purchased a total of 350,001 membership points between 
about May 2009 and May 2016 and in October 2018 they entered into a purchase 
agreement to buy 3,000 more points for a purchase price of £14,950 and they also 
traded-in 40,000 of their existing points;
the holiday company waived its points fees for 2020 and confirmed that Mr W and his 
wife would be able to surrender their points (partially or totally at no additional cost) 
from their fifth year of membership;
Mr W and his wife also signed the holiday companys memorandum of understanding 
which said that, after three years, they may trade 300,000 points against any future 
properties that might become available for sale through the holiday company or its 
partners;
Mr W and his wife also paid £3,000, using a credit card, for a VIP week - but Mr W 
says that he cant recall why they would pay £3,000 for it when they had 350,001 
points available on their account;
Mr W wrote at that time that he: wasnt planning on buying any more [points] 
however following a well explained sales pitch we agreed to move to [the] new 
scheme;
Mr W and his wife already had 350,001 points and Im not persuaded that its likely 
that they would have bought more points to use for their holidays unless they 
understood that theyd be able trade those points for an interest in a property;
nor am I persuaded that its likely that Mr W and his wife would have agreed to pay 
£14,950 and to trade-in 40,000 of their existing points for 3,000 more points unless 
they understood that theyd be able trade those points for an interest in a property;
Mr W says in his witness statement that, after the purchase in October 2018, he and 
his wife were liable for an annual maintenance fee of £2,832.31 and he provided a 
copy of the invoice for that amount from the holiday company  Im not persuaded 
that its likely that they would have been prepared to pay that amount each year 
unless they understood that theyd be able trade those points for an interest in a 
property;
Mr W has provided a detailed description in his witness statement of the scheme 
proposed by the holiday company;
the particulars of complaint say that the entry into the loan and the related purchase 
agreement has resulted in there being an unfair relationship between Mr W and the 
finance provider and that regard should be had to the misrepresentations (including that Mr W and his wife would be able to convert the points into an interest in land), 
the holiday companys sales practices, and breaches of the Timeshare, Holiday 
Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010;
those regulations prohibit a holiday company from marketing or selling a proposed 
timeshare contract or long-term holiday product contract as an investment;
section 140A gives a court the power, amongst other things, to require a creditor to 
repay any sum paid by the debtor under a credit agreement if it determines that 
theres an unfair relationship between the debtor and the creditor;
Im not determining the outcome of Mr Ws claim under sections 140A as only a court 
would be able to do that but Im considering whether or not the finance providers 
response to his claim was fair and reasonable in the circumstances;
Mr W electronically signed the loan agreement with the finance provider and, 
although he says that he would never have signed up for a 15 year loan, he 
confirmed that hed received the pre-contract credit information which said that the 
duration of the loan was 180 months and he agreed to make 180 monthly payments 
to the finance provider;
I consider it to be more likely than not the holiday company misrepresented to Mr W 
and his wife that the points were an investment, that they were induced into entering 
into the purchase agreement by that misrepresentation and that they suffered a loss 
as a result of the misrepresentation because they paid a further £14,950 for the 
points that its more likely than not that they wouldnt have paid if there hadnt been a 
misrepresentation;
I also consider it to be more likely than not the points and the purchase agreement 
were sold to Mr W and his wife in October 2018 as an investment, in breach of the 
applicable regulations;
I consider that the misrepresentation and breach of the regulations caused Mr Ws 
relationship with the finance provider to be unfair and I consider it to be more likely 
than not that a court would conclude that there was an unfair relationship between 
Mr W and the finance provider in these circumstances;
as I consider that there was an unfair relationship between Mr W and the finance 
provider, I havent considered any liability that Oplo may have to Mr W under section 
75 or his claim that the finance provider lent to him irresponsibly; and
I dont consider that the finance providers response to Mr Ws section 140A was fair 
or reasonable and I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Oplo to take the 
actions described below.
Putting things right
Our investigator recommended that the finance provider should: refund all of the loan 
payments and cancel the loan; refund the proportion of the management charge relating to 
the purchase made in October 2018; pay interest on those refunds; and remove any adverse 
information in relation to the lending from Mr Ws credit file. 
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Oplo to refund to Mr W all of the payments that 
hes made under the fixed sum loan agreement that he electronically signed in October 
2018, with interest, and that it should cancel the loan agreement at no further cost to Mr W 
and write-off any outstanding amount due from him.I find that it would also be fair and reasonable for Oplo refund to Mr W the proportion of the 
management charges that relate to the purchase of the points that he and his wife made in 
October 2018, with interest. 
Ive not seen any evidence to show that the finance provider or Oplo has recorded any 
adverse information about the loan agreement on Mr Ws credit file  but if any such 
information has been recorded, I consider that it would be fair and reasonable for Oplo to 
ensure that that information is removed.
Mr Ws representative has provided a copy of the termination notice that was sent to Mr W. 
Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Oplo to take any 
further action as a result of that notice.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint and I order Oplo PL Limited to:
1. Refund to Mr W all of the payments that hes made under the fixed sum loan 
agreement that he electronically signed in October 2018.
2. Cancel the loan agreement at no cost to Mr W and write-off any outstanding amount 
due from him.
3. Refund to Mr W the proportion of the management charges that relate to the 
purchase of the points that he and his wife made in October 2018.
4. Remove any adverse information about the loan agreement that the finance provider 
or it has recorded on Mr Ws credit file.
5. Pay interest on the amounts at 1 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple from 
the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Oplo to deduct tax from the interest payment to be made 
to Mr W and Oplo must give him a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks 
it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman