DRN-3710032
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy because Unum Limited stopped paying his claim. 
What happened
Mr T has income protection insurance cover provided by Unum through his employer. Mr T 
became unwell in March 2019 when he was hit by a car. He suffered fractures to his neck 
and suffered with pain in his right arm and hands. This was further compounded by another 
road traffic accident in July the same year. He claimed on the policy and in November 2019, 
his claim was accepted and backdated to coincide with the 26-week deferral period. 
In December 2019, Mr T continued to complain of neck and back pain, in addition to feeling 
anxious that he could potentially cause further injury to his neck. And so, in January 2020, 
an MRI scan went ahead, however, it found no anatomical explanation for the continued pain 
as the fractures in his neck had healed. Mr T was referred to a physiotherapist as his neck 
was weak and he needed to gently rebuild his strength. 
Mr T said hes unable to return to work because his continued neck and back pain means 
hes unable to sit for a prolonged period of time, no more than two hours and that his mental 
health is so poor that hes unable to access and apply the cognitive ability required for his 
role as a social worker. Mr T would like his claim reinstated.
Unum said it took the decision to cease paying Mr T benefit because there was no 
persuasive medical evidence to support any on-going issues with his neck. It highlighted that 
all scans showed the impacted areas had healed and that no surgical intervention was 
needed. Unum recognised that there were congenital issues with Mr Ts upper spine, but 
they didnt adequately explain the pain hed described because they were present before the 
accident. In addition, Unum said about Mr Ts poor mental health that hed stopped taking 
the medication hed been prescribed and that hed not engaged fully with further support 
hed been referred for. In summary, it said there was no evidence of a medical condition that 
would preclude him from work. And so, it ceased benefit in April 2020 with three-months 
additional payments in lieu of the cancellation.
Our investigator agreed with Unums decision to stop paying the claim. She thought itd 
acted fairly in its decision-making process and highlighted that it was decided on the 
available medical evidence, of which, there was limited information to support the presence 
of an on-going medical condition, mental or otherwise, that would satisfactorily explain why 
Mr T was unable to return to work. She said this because Mr Ts fractures had healed nicely 
by the beginning of 2020 and albeit for some continued soft tissue pain owing to Mr T 
leaving his neck brace on for too long, the medical evidence persuaded her that he was well 
enough to go back to work. 
Mr T disagreed. He made several arguments in response to our investigators opinion. Im 
not going to list them all here as both sides already know the background to this complaint. I 
also didnt think all of it was relevant, but Id like to reassure Mr T that Ive read and 
understood everything hes put forward. But to keep things clear, the only decision I need to 
make here is whether Unum fairly stopped his claim. And so, its for me to now make that 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. My reasons for doing so are similar to those 
already given by our investigator. The crux of the issue here is whether Unum has stopped 
paying Mr Ts claim fairly and I think it has because its based its decision on medical 
evidence. Im satisfied with the way this has been considered because its done so fairly. Ill 
explain why.
It's not in dispute that Mr T had a valid claim because he initially met the policy terms. Mr T 
was incapacitated from March 2019 because he was hit by a car which fractured the 
vertebrae in his neck. This was the initial cause of his absence. I acknowledge there were 
several other medical issues that occurred whilst he was incapacitated and that he had a 
complex medical history prior to the accident. This included congenital issues with his neck 
as early as 2017, but no surgical intervention occurred either prior to, or following the 
accidents in 2019. Mr T was given a neck collar to wear and Unum explained that, typically, 
it shouldve taken Mr T between six  eight weeks to recover from his initial injuries.
I think this is further supported by the MRI scan in January 2020 as it showed his fractures in 
his neck had healed. Mr T was referred to physiotherapy in order to rebuild the muscles in 
his neck because hed been wearing a neck brace, but that doesnt automatically mean that 
he was unable to return to work. The weakness had occurred partly because hed worn the 
brace slightly longer than he should have as he was unable to reach his doctor for four 
weeks. The evidence Ive seen showed that Mr T engaged with his physio exercises and 
although there was some mix up about his discharge date, he responded well to the 
exercises. Ive not seen any persuasive medical evidence that says Mr T cannot fulfil the 
material and substantial duties of his role because he was undergoing physiotherapy.
Ive seen there was some discussion with his doctor about post-traumatic-stress-disorder, 
but this was limited to his anxieties about causing further damage to his neck, given hed 
injured himself twice in 2019. The specialist reassured Mr T that his injuries had healed and 
that he was no more at risk of causing further damage to his neck than any other healthy 
person. And so, I dont consider the PTSD to be evidence of a significant mental health 
condition that would preclude Mr T from working. Unum reached the same conclusion on this 
point which I thought was fair. 
During the time Mr T was off work he was prescribed antidepressant medication in July 
2019. This was gradually increased over approximately four months to help alleviate some of 
the symptoms hed reported. But he appeared to have stopped taking the medication, 
without engaging his GP. Mr T said hed suffered with side-effects from the medication but I 
think Unums comments about an expectation of Mr T discussing this with his doctor fair. In 
summary, it said that had Mr T continued to suffer with a cognitive impairment that impacted 
his daily living, it wouldve been reasonable for him to reach out to his doctor. It surmised 
from his lack of engagement, that there was likely not a functional impairment on that basis. 
I understand the argument Unum made here and I think its a reasonable one, given Mr T 
had shown his ability to reach out for other problems he required support with throughout the 
life of his claim. Ive seen that Mr T was waiting for a referral to second-line support for his 
perceived mental health problems, but theres nothing that satisfactorily explained why he 
was unable to return to work. Indeed, Mr T was unable to articulate why he was feeling 
depressed or anxious during a conversation with Unums medical team and so I think it reasonable that it reached the conclusion that he wasnt suffering with a mental health 
condition that precluded him from work at that time. 
Further, Unums medical team made connections between the cognitive abilities required of 
Mr T in his role, and those he demonstrated during that conversation. It said that Mr T was 
able to speak at length and recall his medical history, regularly changing between subjects 
and cross-referencing accounts. Unum felt this further demonstrated that there was no 
obvious mental disorder with persuasive, or persistent side effects  which I thought was fair 
given these were comments made by a suitably qualified occupational physician and 
therefore I find persuasive.
There was also no clinical evidence to explain why Mr T was unable to return to work with 
his self-reported neck pain. Hed been completing exercises at home in order to rebuild his 
strength  this was administered by an application. But no further persuasive medical 
evidence to rationalise why he was unable to complete his role, which is predominantly 
sedentary. 
Ultimately, Unum stopped paying Mr Ts claim in April 2020 and with three months notice of 
payment  meaning he was essentially paid until July. I think that this decision was made 
fairly as the evidence suggested Mr Ts fractures had healed. I accept there were other 
issues subsequently, but there wasnt enough medical evidence to explain why Mr T was 
unable to fulfil his role as a result. I thought Unum considered these issues fairly and sought 
advice from its medical team before giving its answers.   
The rules say that Unum must not avoid a claim or stop one unfairly and for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont think it has. Therefore, Unum doesnt have to take any further action with 
this complaint because I dont think its made an error here. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman