DRN-3953708
The complaint
Mr H complains about the time taken to action his request to encash his ISAs  and obtain 
access to his money  by Financial Administration Services Limited, referred to as Fidelity 
or the business.
What happened
In late January 2023, I issued my provisional decision, a copy of which is stated below and 
forms part of my final decision. In the decision I said:  
subject to any further submissions, provisionally Im going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the parties say, I think the 
business should pay Mr H £250 compensation, plus 8% simple interest, comprised of the 
following:
The distress and inconvenience caused by delays/complications in processing his 
request to encash his two ISAs  especially given that he was resident abroad at the 
time and having to deal with the matter over the phone taking into account the 
different time zones. 
Interest, at 8% a year simple, to mark the lack of access to his funds in respect of the 
first ISA  for the period of July 2022 to August 2022  for which I think the business 
is responsible
Im aware that the first ISA was encashed shortly after Mr Hs instructions on 19 May 2022, 
but for various reasons  which I will discuss below  he didnt have access to the proceeds 
until 19 August 2022. Im aware that the second ISA, although it remained invested, wasnt 
encashed until 25 August 2022 and the proceeds paid shortly thereafter.
Based on what the business says, it seems that it has already paid Mr H £150 compensation
inclusive of interest. If that is correct, the business should pay him another £100
compensation to make up the balance.
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise the
strength of feeling Mr H has about this matter. He has provided submissions to support the
complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope that he wont take the
fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,
as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by him, and the business, and reach what I think is an independent,
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best
industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
In this instance, Ive only considered the actions of the business in respect of the delays
encashing the ISAs and Mr H having access to the proceeds. The other complaint that Mr H
had raised with our service  but not initially with the business  has now been resolved and
isnt the subject of referral for my consideration.
Im aware that Mr H submitted instructions to encash his two ISAs on 19 May 2022, and that
the first ISA was encashed shortly thereafter, although its not clear what happened to the
second at that stage.
Its likely that because Mr H also submitted a mandate for his bank details, the business was
obliged to carry out verification  I dont think it can be criticised for doing so. I note the
business attempted to do so, on 20 May 2022, and again a few days later on 23 May 2022,
when the business called the telephone number previously provided by Mr H.
I understand that Mr H was residing abroad at the time and was unable to provide/upload his
personal mobile number because the business wanted a valid UK number, so he provided
his home phone number instead. Based on what Mr H says, he didnt think that the business
would need to call him to verify his details. I note he says hes had his bank account for 15
years, and if the business needed to contact him, it could have done so on his mobile
number that he previously used to contact the business. This might explain why he didnt
volunteer any additional information about the (home) telephone number at the outset, and
who was likely to answer it in his absence.
In any case, I note the business spoke to Mr Hs father (erroneously concluding it was Mr H)
when it wasnt, and then his mother (erroneously concluding that it was his wife), neither of
whom were (unsurprisingly) aware of his instructions. I also note that Mr Hs parents have
their own account(s) with Fidelity, so they were suspicious and justifiably thought it was a
fraudulent call as neither of them had provided any online instructions in respect of their
account(s).
Whilst I appreciate what the business says about Mr Hs full name and security, on balance I
think it couldve done more to manage and control the call on 23 May 2022, and clarify who it
was talking to  without breaching security  in order to decipher/confirm that the associate
wasnt in fact talking to the correct Mr H.
Im mindful that other than asking if she was speaking to Mr H there was no other evidence
that it was the right person, and yet she concluded that it was, on the strength of the
recipients answer to only one question. Whilst I appreciate the business called the phone
number supplied, it was evidently a home number and therefore it was likely that other
persons (with the same surname) might answer.
In the circumstances it could be argued that it was apparent that the associate wasnt
speaking to the Mr H  who submitted the instructions  and therefore couldve done more
to establish this fact. Despite Mr Hs mother cutting the call short, the verbal exchange
leading up to that point wasnt clear or helpful, so Im not surprised Mr Hs mother cut the call
short.
Im also mindful of the subsequent confusion caused by the business, suggesting that it had
called and spoken to Mr Hs wife  who wasnt authorised to speak to the business on his
behalf either  which no doubt wouldve added to the distress and inconvenience caused.
Whilst on balance, Im unable to say that the business did anything wrong by placing a hold
on the account as a matter of process and reporting the matter to its FPT, on balance I think
this situation  and the need to place a hold on the account in the first instance  couldve
been avoided had the call in question been handled differently.Its arguable that if the call of 23 May 2022 had been dealt with better matters wouldve been
resolved at the end of May and not the end of June  as when Mr H called there would have
been no fraud marker, and no issue and so they could have proceeded. Having said that, Im
mindful that Mr H provided the telephone number in the first place  so I dont think matters
couldve proceeded sooner than Ive suggested.
On balance, I dont think the business needed Mr Hs email (dated 9 September 2022) to
work out that it had been speaking to his parents. Im mindful of the call from him dated 26
May 2022 in which he made clear that the telephone number supplied by him was his
home/parents number, and that the business shouldnt call that number because his parents
will answer, and presumably not have a clue about any instructions hed placed. Mr H also
asked for the time zone to be taken into consideration and explained that he has to file
paperwork  costing $100 a year for every ISA  and thats why he wants to close down the
accounts.
I appreciate that the hold, once placed, might explain why the business on subsequent
occasions wasnt able to discuss details more openly with Mr H. However, if the phone
associates on the subsequent occasion(s) had been aware of the history  on balance I think
they ought reasonably to have been  they couldve had a more productive discussion with
Mr H notwithstanding the fraud marker on the account. I also note Mr H agreed to a call back
on his mobile number once the system was back up, but this didnt happen, and matters
seemed to progress no further, despite his best efforts.
Whilst I appreciate what the business says about not being able to release funds until the
verification process had been completed, I think it wouldve taken a lot less time had the
business called Mr H back and/or issued its verification documents towards the end of May
2022, rather than wait until 17 June 2022 to even start the process.
In my opinion, and on balance, I think the business ought reasonably to have sent out the
verification request around late May 2022. I note Mr H is unhappy that it was sent by
seamail but I dont think I can blame the business for this, given that its a matter for the
business how it communicates with its customers, especially with those customers abroad.
If the business had sent the verification in late May 2022, notwithstanding Mr Hs complaint
in the interim, it probably wouldve received the verification information back by mid-June
2022, and the hold probably wouldve been removed by late-June 2022  when Mr H
wouldve received the proceeds of the first ISA. In other words, on balance, I think Mr H is
more likely (than not) to have received the proceeds a month and a half earlier than he did
for his first ISA. In the circumstances, I also think the business should pay interest for the 
above period that he was without access to his money, at a rate of 8% simple a year, which
is generally the rate applied by our service.
The compensation payment also includes the delay in encashing the second ISA. Although
Im mindful that ISA remained invested, and there was no financial loss to Mr H. Therefore, it
isnt necessary to consider what Mr H wouldve received had his ISA been encashed sooner
and so on.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think the sum of £250 compensation 
comprised of the payment for distress and inconvenience, and 8% interest for the period that
Mr H was without access to his funds  is broadly fair and reasonable. Im also mindful that
Mr H was in the middle of sorting out his taxes abroad, and thats why he was trying to
encash his ISAs in the UK. Despite what Mr H says, this also takes into account the time and
effort he spent trying to sort out the issues, whilst residing abroad.I appreciate Mr H may be unhappy that Ive reached a different conclusion to the 
investigator, but I still havent given him what he wants.
Whilst I appreciate his frustration, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im
unable to give him what he wants, other than the £250 compensation, plus interest, which I
think is broadly fair and reasonable.
I gave the parties an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision and provide any 
further submissions they wished me to consider before I considered my final decision. 
Mr H responded and accepted my provisional decision. He said:
Thank you for your mail and follow up.
I am happy with the statement and although frustrated at the situation, consider the 
conclusions fair and reasonable given the circumstances.
Thank you for all your help.
The business also responded and accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In light of the parties accepting my provisional decision, my decision to uphold this complaint 
remains the same, principally for the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision. 
In other words, and on balance, Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, and 
have been considered by me, in my provisional decision. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I still think the business should pay Mr H £250 
compensation, plus 8% simple interest, comprised of the following:
The distress and inconvenience caused by delays/complications in processing his 
request to encash his two ISAs  especially given that he was resident abroad at the 
time and having to deal with the matter over the phone taking into account the 
different time zones. 
Interest, at 8% a year simple, to mark the lack of access to his funds in respect of the 
first ISA  for the period of July 2022 to August 2022  for which I think the business 
is responsible.
As I mentioned in my provisional decision, Im aware that the first ISA was encashed shortly 
after Mr Hs instructions on 19 May 2022, but for various reasons  which Ive discussed in 
my provisional decision  he didnt have access to the proceeds until 19 August 2022. Im 
aware that the second ISA, although it remained invested, wasnt encashed until 25 August 
2022 and the proceeds paid shortly thereafter.
Based on what the business said, it seems that it has already paid Mr H £150 compensation
inclusive of interest. If that is correct, the business should pay him another £100 
compensation to make up the balance, plus the interest.Putting things right
Financial Administration Services Limited should pay Mr H £250 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the delays, and 8% simple interest on the value of the 
first ISA for the month and a half that he was without access to his funds.
I understand that £150 has already been paid, if thats correct, Financial Administration
Services Limited should pay Mr H another £100 to make up the balance, plus the interest.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
Financial Administration Services Limited should pay Mr H redress as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman