DRN-4131978
The complaint
Mr T and Mr T complain that Santander UK Ltd says it wont refund them money they 
transferred to a builder who has failed to complete the agreed work.
What happened
Mr T and Mr T hold a joint account with Santander. In early 2022, they were looking to 
renovate a property theyd purchased. The renovations were to be significant, and included a 
loft conversion, staircase, and a replacement kitchen and bathroom. 
They found a contractor which provided a schedule of works for the project. Given the size of 
the project, it appears they engaged an architect to help with the plans.
Mr T and Mr T paid the contractor in stages, with an initial payment in February 2022 for site 
set-up and scaffolding. The contractor was a limited company. Ill refer to it (and 
interchangeably to its director) as S. 
Work began, and S attended along with other some other workmen. The property was 
cleared and scaffolding erected. As the work progressed, Mr T and Mr T made further 
payments in March, May, August and ultimately September.
S then asked Mr T and Mr T for a further payment, which he said was for additional 
scaffolding costs. Mr T and Mr T didnt agree to this. They then say S stopped contacting 
them, leaving the work incomplete. S also failed to supply the items that had been agreed. 
Mr T and Mr T were unable to obtain a refund from S.
They were suspicious that S might never have intended to supply the items or complete the 
work. They therefore contacted Trading Standards, the Police, Action Fraud and Citizens 
Advice. However, none of these bodies took any action against S.
Being left considerably out of pocket, Mr T and Mr T reported the matter to their bank, 
Santander. They claimed it had been an Authorised Push Payment scam (APP scam). 
Santander looked into what had happened but didnt think it was liable to refund Mr T and 
Mr T. It didnt think it had been established that Mr T and Mr T had been the victim of an 
APP scam. Rather it thought this was a private civil dispute between them and S. Because 
the payments had been made by bank transfer, the protections that would apply against 
breach of contract or misrepresentation if Mr T and Mr T had paid by card werent available. 
That meant Santander couldnt help, and the bank didnt consider it was liable to refund 
them.
Mr T and Mr T didnt accept this. They referred their complaint about Santander to this 
service for an impartial review.
Our Investigator looked at everything afresh. During her investigation, she obtained evidence 
from various parties, including Ss bank, in an attempt to confirm Mr T and Mr Ts concerns 
that this had been an APP scam. However, she didnt think the evidence pointed towards S 
having had no intention to carry out the work as agreed. 
Based on the evidence presented and her investigation, she didnt think Santander was 
responsible for the money Mr T and Mr T had paid S. She explained that Mr T and Mr T 
could pursue the matter through the small claims court, mirroring the advice theyd been 
given by Citizens Advice.
Mr T and Mr T didnt accept the Investigators findings. They thought S had no intention to 
complete the work or supply everything theyd paid for. They thought the Police and Trading 
Standards should have taken action against S and should now do so. S had carried out 
some work but there had been extended and unjustifiable gaps in the progress of the work. 
When S had left the site, the work was far from complete, and the property hadnt been left 
in a habitable state.
In light of this disagreement, I have been asked to reach a final decision on their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the situation Mr T and Mr T have been left in. They have paid out a 
considerable sum of money, yet the work is nowhere near completion. While they have 
asked S to refund them, it appears the relationship has broken down to the extent that he is 
no longer in contact. 
Given this it doesnt seem at all likely that S will return to finish the work or provide the 
ordered items. Mr T and Mr T have tried to pursue S through the Police, Action Fraud, and 
Trading Standards, but none of these bodies appear to have thought there was a viable case 
to prosecute or investigate S further.
Based on everything Ive seen, it seems hard to argue other than that S has breached his 
contract with Mr T and Mr T and so owes them redress. But Im not deciding a dispute 
between them and S  I dont have the power to look into a complaint about S. Nor can I 
look whether the Police or Trading Standards should have taken action against S. My role is 
limited to deciding the dispute between Mr T and Mr T and Santander. 
Of course, Santander didnt contract with Mr T and Mr T for the building project they wanted 
done, and I cant hold it responsible for any breach of contract or other failings on Ss part. 
As a starting point in law, Mr T and Mr T are responsible for payments theyve instructed 
Santander to make. Unfortunately, theres little protection available to them for bank transfer 
payments, like these were. 
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code) 
does provide some protection to victims of APP scams. But it specifically excludes private 
civil disputes. 
There are a number of potential reasons (other than an APP scam) for a breakdown in a 
relationship between two parties and for such a dispute to exist. And unfortunately, 
businesses (such as Ss business) can fail or be mismanaged such that contracts are 
breached and agreed goods and services arent provided. But that doesnt necessarily 
amount to evidence of an intent to commit an APP scam.
Specifically, the CRM Code details that private civil disputes can include payments made to 
a legitimate supplier where the goods ordered, or services agreed, were not received. The CRM Code will not apply to payments that meet that definition. 
Instead for a payment to be covered by the CRM Code, it must meet the definition of an 
APP Scam under the CRM Code. In this context, that would require that the very purpose for 
which S procured the payment was different to what Mr T and Mr T believed due to 
dishonest deception.
Simply put, in order to find Santander was somehow liable to Mr T and Mr T under the CRM 
Code, Id need to find that the evidence was strong enough to show this had been a 
deliberate criminal scam from the outset rather than it being a private civil dispute between 
Mr T and Mr T, and S. That also means being able to exclude on the balance of probabilities 
the alternative possibility that this is simply a matter of S breaching its legitimate contract 
with Mr T and Mr T.
Or to put this another way, that means deciding whether the available evidence shows it is 
most likely that S set out to defraud Mr T and Mr T with criminal intent. That is a high bar to 
meet.
Its important to note that it isnt for Santander to investigate S, or somehow prove that S 
wasnt operating legitimately. It was for Mr T and Mr T to provide evidence to support those 
allegations. While Mr T and Mr T have provided evidence showing that the work was not 
completed and items werent delivered, this could be consistent with S broken a legitimate 
contract as much as with S never having intended to complete the work from before the 
payments were made.
In an attempt to shed some light on the matter, our Investigator contacted the firm holding 
the account that received Mr T and Mr Ts payments. While I cannot detail the information 
that the recipient firm has provided in response, that information is not consistent with S 
having set out to defraud Mr T and Mr T. Rather it suggests that the accounts use was 
consistent with someone carrying out this sort of work. 
Its also significant that up until now there have been no other allegations of fraud made to 
the bank or negative online reviews. If S had not been operating legitimately and had 
scammed other people, then I wouldve expected some customers would have contacted 
their own bank and alleged fraud, in the way Mr T and Mr T did. I think the fact that this 
doesnt appear to have happened, and that the reviews are instead mostly positive, support 
the argument Santander makes for this really being a private civil dispute.
All considered I simply cant safely conclude that S took Mr T and Mr Ts money without ever 
having any intention of carrying out the work or purchasing the items theyd paid for. The 
evidence available to me simply isnt enough to support such a finding.
I appreciate how frustrating and disappointing this answer will be. Mr T and Mr T have lost a 
lot of money as a result of Ss failure to complete the agreed work. But I cant exclude the 
possibility that S entered the agreement in good faith, intending to fulfil the work (as reviews 
suggest he had apparently done for other customers previously) and then was unable or 
unwilling to fulfil the agreement for some reason. The evidence doesnt allow me to conclude 
its more likely than these alternative possibilities that S intended to steal their money from 
the outset and never had any intent of fulfilling the arrangement in full or in part. 
That means that I cant fairly hold Santander responsible for the loss suffered here by Mr T 
and Mr T. It also means I find the bank had no ability or obligation to try and recover their 
money. 
In saying all of this, I dont underestimate the impact this whole matter has had on Mr T and Mr T  I am sorry they have lost out through no fault of their own. It does seem their trust in 
S was misplaced and he has badly let them down. But that fault lies with S, not with the 
bank. And its simply the case that I cant fairly tell Santander to pay them the money theyve 
lost, because I dont think Santander has treated them unfairly or was otherwise at fault 
here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman