DRN-3066899
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with how Insurance 4u Services sold a motor insurance policy to him. 
What happened
The main points relevant to this complaint are detailed below: 
When Mr G first contacted Insurance 4u Services, he told it he had one speeding 
offence, an SP30. However, the correct position at that time was that he had two 
offences, an SP30 and an SP50. He had also been notified of a further SP50 offence 
but had chosen to take a speed awareness course instead of being fined and having 
points put on his licence. Mr G had also made a claim in 2015 which needed to be 
mentioned
Insurance 4u Services placed Mr Gs policy with Insurer A. However, at the point 
Mr G called to pay for the policy, hed been notified about a new SP50 offence
When insurer A undertook its initial checks, it said it required an additional premium 
for the claim which hadnt been mentioned. Why at that point it didnt mention the first 
SP50 I dont know, it maybe it didnt check Mr Gs licence information or that it didnt 
affect the price of the policy
 
Mr G was unhappy about paying an additional premium so asked Insurance 4u 
Services to find him a cheaper policy. He also said having looked at the 
documentation from Insurer A, he realised the policy didnt cover him for commuting 
between different places of work  so he asked Insurance 4u Services to find a policy 
which provided this cover. However, he didnt correct any of the information 
regarding his speeding offences
Insurance 4u Services then arranged a policy for Mr G with Insurer B, using the 
information it had previously been given and including the claim Insurer A had 
highlighted. Mr G accepted the policy and paid the premium
When Mr G went to claim on his policy for the theft of his car, Insurer B found out 
about the true position of Mr Gs speeding offences and refused to pay the claim. It 
said it would have refused to offer cover at the start had it of known
Mr G argues Insurance 4u Services didnt ask him about his speeding offences or 
claims history and in any event, he didnt think he needed to declare any pending 
convictions 
Mr G wants Insurance 4u Services to pay him the value of his car
Insurance 4u Services says it did ask Mr G the relevant questions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mr G Ive considered and thought carefully about all of the points he has 
made. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties have raised 
or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by both 
parties to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator that the complaint 
should be rejected for the following reasons:
While I cant be certain exactly what was discussed at the time the policies were 
taken out, as there are no call recordings. Im satisfied there was some questioning 
around claims, convictions and speeding offences. As Mr G disclosed one SP30. 
Had no conversation taken place, as Mr G suggests, then he wouldnt have notified 
Insurance 4u Services of this offence
Mr G by his own admission read the paperwork from Insurer A as he noticed the 
policy didnt provide the level of cover, he required. I think it would have been 
reasonable, given that Insurer A had also identified a claim Mr G hadnt mentioned, 
that he should have checked at this point that all of the other information was correct. 
And given Insurance 4u Services any missing information 
Insurance 4u Services placed Mr Gs new policy with Insurer B based on the 
information it was aware of. While it appears, it may not have double checked if any 
information had changed at this point. As I mention above, I think Mr G also had a 
responsibility at this point to ensure all of the information was correct. Especially 
given in the meantime hed been notified of a further SP50 offence 
Insurer B provided Mr G with a statement of fact which listed the information it 
needed to know about, and the answers Mr G had given. There was a further 
opportunity here for Mr G to realise the information held was incorrect and take steps 
to put it right
I understand why Mr G may not have thought he needed to provide details of the 
pending speeding offences, however both the insurers policy documents set out this 
was required information 
Ive listened to the call Mr G has provided however this doesnt impact my decision 
for the reasons I have set out above. 
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint against Insurance 4u Services. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman