DRN-2955346
The complaint
Mr S complains about the level of service received from Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited (LV) following a claim against his pet insurance policy. 
Mr S wants to be compensated for the delays in settling the claim. 
What happened
Mr S submitted a claim against his pet insurance with LV on 8 February 2021. He expected it 
to be settled within ten working days, as he said this is what he was told when he took out 
the policy. The claim wasnt confirmed as settled until 26 February 2021 which was 15 
working days after he submitted the claim. LV said this was due to a backlog of claims. 
LV prioritised the claim after Mr S contacted them by phone on 24 February 2021. Mr S said 
he had to pay the treating vet due to the delays which caused him financial difficulties. 
Mr S complains the policy was mis-sold as LV were unable to settle the claim within a 
reasonable timeframe. He also raised services issues such as an email hed sent LV had 
bounced back.   
LV wrote to Mr S in March 2021. They said they typically allow five working days for a claim 
to be added to a policy, then a further ten working days for claim assessment. And a backlog 
of claims had caused delays. They also addressed the service issues and said Mr S had 
used an incorrect email address when trying to contact them. 
Mr S remained unhappy and brought the complaint to this service for consideration. 
An investigator here considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt 
think LV caused avoidable delays. A second investigator looked into things afresh as the first 
had left the service. She also felt LV settled the claim within a reasonable timeframe. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said LV only prioritised the claim after hed contacted them on 24 
February 2021 having already experienced unreasonable delays. He remained the claim 
should have been settled sooner, and the policy was mis-sold. 
As no resolution could be agreed, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr S, Im not 
upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr S said LV advertised 97% of claims are settled within ten working days. So, he thinks the 
policy was mis-sold because LV took 15 working days to settle it. I appreciate why Mr S 
expected the claim to be settled sooner, but overall, Ive not been persuaded LV caused 
avoidable delays here, or 15 working days from the claim being submitted to confirmation of 
settlement is unreasonable. 
I take Mr Ss point that he thinks the claim was only prioritised after he contacted LV on 24 
February 2021. But ultimately, the claim was settled within what I consider to be a 
reasonable timeframe from start to finish. And Ive not been persuaded the claim took longer 
than it should have done due to an error on LVs part, or inadequate claim handling. Rather, 
Im more persuaded a backlog of claims resulted in Mr Ss claim being confirmed as settled 
within 15 working days. 
So, whilst I understand Mr Ss frustration, Im unable to agree the policy was mis-sold due to 
this. I say this because the claim Mr S raised was  in my view  handled fairly overall and 
within a reasonable timeframe. 
Mr S also told us he experienced financial difficulties as he had to pay the treating vet due to 
the delays. Im sorry to hear of Mr Ss circumstances. But I dont find LV caused avoidable 
delays here, so I cannot say they treated him unfairly during the claim process. 
Mr S also raised service issues such as the email that bounced back. Im satisfied LV gave 
fair consideration to the service issues and addressed them within their final response. So, I 
wont be directing LV to do anything here. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr S. But my decision ends what we  
in attempting to resolve his dispute with LV  can do for him. 
My final decision
I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman