DRN-3657026
Complaint
Mr N is unhappy that PayrNet Limited (trading as Pockit) blocked his account and then said 
it would be closing it in seven days without telling him why. 
Background
In October 2021, Pockit found out that another financial institution had recorded a fraud 
marker against Mr N. As a result of this, Pockit took the decision to block and then close       
Mr Ns account with only seven days notice. 
Mr N complained to Pockit. Pockit looked at Mr Ns complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr N 
remained dissatisfied, he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ns concerns. He didnt think that Pockit had acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mr N and upheld the complaint. Pockit didnt respond to our 
adjudicators assessment so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman as per the next 
stage of our dispute resolution process.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered matters, Im upholding Mr Ns complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail. 
Pockit says that it was entitled to end its business relationship with Mr N in the way that it 
did. It has referred to its terms and conditions in support of its decision.
 
Ive thought about what Pockit has said. I accept that Pockit, or any other financial institution 
for that matter, is under no obligation to continue offering an account to a customer if it 
doesnt wish to do so. So Pockit was perfectly entitled to take the decision that it no longer 
wanted Mr N as a customer when it discovered the existence of Mr Ns previous fraud 
marker. 
But Pockits own terms and conditions, as well as good industry practice, required Pockit to 
provide appropriate notice before closing an account. This is to allow a customer to make 
alternative arrangements with a different institution. And, what Im concerned about here isnt  
Pockits decision to close Mr Ns account but its failure to provide him with appropriate 
notice. 
Pockit appears to be arguing that its discovery of the fraud marker meant that it was 
reasonably entitled to the account with immediate effect. However, in this case, the marker 
Pockit discovered was historic. And I dont see how the discovery of a historic marker clearly 
demonstrated that Mr N presented an immediate risk which necessitated his account being 
closed so quickly. I say this while especially mindful that theres no suggestion that Pockit 
had any concerns about the way that Mr N had been operating his Pockit account in the 
period that he had it either.  
So given the circumstances here, Im not persuaded that Pockits discovery of a historic 
fraud marker being registered against Mr N, meant that he presented an immediate risk 
which necessitated his account being closed without reasonable notice. I accept that the 
discovery of the fraud marker might have led Pockit to conclude it no longer wished to have 
Mr N as a customer. This was a commercial decision it was entitled to make. But Im 
satisfied Pockit ought to have provided Mr N with reasonable notice, in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account and good industry practice, in advance of taking this action. 
Mr N has explained that Pockit closing his account in the way that it did caused him distress. 
He has said hes not been able to open another account and has struggled with his day-to-
day banking. Ive also seen that Pockit hasnt returned Mr Ns funds despite it agreeing hes 
entitled to them and having been provided with account details to make the transfer. 
I appreciate that Mr N may be having difficulty opening another account. But I think that 
Pockit was entitled to close his account with reasonable notice. So its likely that Mr N would 
have encountered similar difficulties once the reasonable notice period expired. However, I 
do think that some of Mr Ns distress and inconvenience would have been avoided if Pockit 
had treated Mr N fairly and reasonably by providing him with reasonable notice before 
closing his account and releasing the remaining funds, which it accepts hes entitled to. 
As this is the case, I think that, if it hasnt already, Pockit should return Mr Ns funds with 
interest at 8% simple per year from the date it blocked the account to the date it returns 
them. It should also pay Mr N £300 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience its 
actions in acting unfairly and unreasonably towards him caused.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ns complaint. If PayrNet Limited hasnt 
already, it should return Mr Ns funds with 8% interest from the date it blocked Mr Ns 
account to the date the funds are returned. It should also pay Mr N £300 in compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman