DRN-3458484
The complaint
Mr D complains about a car he acquired via a hire agreement with Tesla Financial Services 
Limited (Tesla). He says the car had various issues with it that took several months to 
correct.
What happened
In December 2020 Mr D acquired a new car using a hire agreement provided by Tesla. The 
cash price of the car was £44,435. The agreement was taken over four years, with monthly 
repayments of £523.34.
Mr D says the car immediately had issues. He says there was glue residue on the door 
cards and passenger seat that the dealer couldnt remove. He says when he took the car 
home, a software update was applied and the car then displayed a battery fault and wouldnt 
start.
The issue with the battery warning was repaired by replacing a 12v battery. But, when Mr D 
collected the car it had another fault with a passenger side repeater camera. This was also 
replaced.
Mr D complained to Tesla. He said a new car shouldnt have had these issues. And he was 
unhappy the door cards had not yet been repaired. Tesla responded and offered Mr D a £90 
voucher. 
At the end of December 2020 Mr D contacted Tesla again. He asked to escalate the 
complaint. A few days later he got back in touch again and said both pillar camera were 
misting up and showing errors. Tesla responded and offered to cover some travel costs for 
Mr D. And it said it had booked the car in for a repair. Mr D remained unhappy with his and 
continued to complain. Tesla said it wouldnt offer anything further.
Around mid-January 2021 Mr D got in touch with Tesla again and said hed noticed issues 
with the paintwork on the car. And he complained that the door panels still werent repaired 
and the repair date had been delayed. 
Mr D remained unhappy with the situation. He asked Tesla to provide a final response to his 
complaint and referred the issue to our service. Tesla sent an email that it said should be 
taken as its final response to the complaint. It didnt offer Mr D anything further.
In February 2021 Mr D says he had further issues with the car. He says another camera 
began to have problems. The car was repaired in mid-February, with two cameras replaced 
and an air conditioning issue also repaired.
In March 2021 Mr D said the paintwork was getting worse and more marks were showing up. 
And he was unhappy the door cards were still not repaired. At this point he told Tesla he 
wanted to reject the car.
In May 2021 the door cards were replaced and Mr D confirmed this had resolved this issue. 
But, he said the paintwork problems were still outstanding.
In July 2021 the car was returned for the paintwork to be rectified. The car was given back to 
Mr D in September 2021, but he said the paintwork issues were still present. At the end of 
September 2021 the car was again returned for the paintwork to be repaired. 
In October 2021, the car was returned to Mr D and he said it was of the standard he 
expected it to be when he acquired it.
While the complaint was with us, Tesla offered Mr D £300 to reflect the issues with the car. 
Our investigator issued an opinion and upheld the complaint. He said, in summary, that he 
thought the car had multiple issues with it. He said Mr D should be reimbursed 10% of his 
repayments from December 2020 until the car was fully repaired in October 2021, in addition 
to the £300 Tesla had offered.
Tesla said it would accept the investigators recommendations. Mr D remained unhappy. He 
said the recommendation wasnt enough to reflect what had happened. He said the glue on 
the doors meant he sometimes couldnt drive the car - depending on what he was wearing. 
He said he was given an older model to drive when his car was being repaired. And he 
reiterated the other issues he had with the car. Mr D said he felt he should get back 50% of 
the repayments hed made.
Our investigator said this didnt change his opinion. So, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. While I was looking into things, I asked Mr D to provide some further details about 
the courtesy cars he was given. He confirmed he was given a larger model from the same 
manufacturer. But, he said this was older, and due to the size of the car it was hardly used 
and he instead mostly used a family members car.
I sent Mr D and Tesla a provisional decision on 13 April 2022. My findings from this decision 
were as follows:
Mr D complains about the quality of a car acquired under a hire agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts such as this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider 
Mr Ds complaint about Tesla. 
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I have regard for relevant law, guidance and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. This 
explains that under a contract to hire goods, the supplier  Tesla here  has to make sure 
the goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person 
would expect  taking into account any relevant factors.
In a case like this involving a car, it seems to me a court would consider relevant factors to 
include, but not be limited to, things like the cars age, price, mileage and description. So, Ill 
consider here that the car Mr D got was brand new, from a premium manufacturer and cost 
over £44,000. Its also relevant to note that Mr D was paying over £500 a month to hire the 
car. 
Considering all of this, I think a reasonable person would have very high standards for the 
condition of the car when it was supplied. And I think they would expect it to be free of even 
minor faults and/or minor cosmetic issues.
So, what I need to consider here is whether the car supplied to Mr D was of satisfactory 
quality or not. If it wasnt, I need to consider what would be fair and reasonable to put things 
right.As a starting point, I need to consider if the car had any faults that were present or 
developing at the point of supply. In this case, it doesnt seem in dispute that this was the 
case. But, I still think its worth me commenting very briefly on this. 
I can see from the correspondence, along with the job sheets provided by Tesla and the 
photos from Mr D, that the car almost immediately had issues with glue on the door cards, a 
battery and a camera. Shortly after this, the car developed further camera faults. And, within 
a few months of supply, the car had developed issues with the paintwork.
Im satisfied all of these faults were either present or developing at the point of supply. Im 
satisfied a reasonable person wouldnt have expected the car to have had any of these 
faults. So, it follows given the number of issues with the car that Im satisfied it was not of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr D.
I can see that Mr D at one point asked to reject the car. But, Im then satisfied from what Ive 
seen that he authorised further repairs. It appears the car was returned to Mr D on 5 October 
2021 where it was fully repaired. A repair is one of the remedies available to Mr D under the 
CRA. So, in the main, Im satisfied Tesla have met Mr Ds rights under the CRA.
But, that being said, I still need to consider if Tesla needs to do anything further to put things 
right. And, thinking about what happened here, I think it does.
Mr D immediately reported issues with the car. But these werent fully put right until roughly 
ten months later. I dont think this is an acceptable amount of time for Mr D to await a full 
repair. During this time period, I think its fair to say the car wasnt performing, and didnt 
cosmetically appear, as Mr D wouldve expected it to.
Given Mr D had impaired usage of the car, I agree with out investigator that it isnt 
reasonable for Mr D to pay the full rental amount under the agreement - and so he should 
get a proportion of the repayments back. Our investigator said he thought it would be fair for 
this to be 10%. Mr D said it would be fair to get 50%.
Ive carefully thought about this. I need to consider that, while frustrating for Mr D, the car 
could still be driven as intended for the most part. So, I dont think 50% is reasonable. But, I 
do think a slightly higher amount of 15% would be fair under all of the circumstances. 
There were also a couple of periods where Mr D was supplied with a courtesy car for more 
than a few days. I have considered that Tesla kept Mr D mobile here  which is what I would 
expect to see. But, I also need to consider that he was paying for a brand new car but was 
lent an older one, and it was an older model. 
I also take Mr Ds point that the car he was supplied with was bigger than the one he was 
paying for and could be considered a large size for UK roads. So, while theres limited 
information here, I cant see any reason to dispute Mr Ds version of events that he didnt 
drive the courtesy cars as much as he would have his own. Taking all of this into account, 
Im satisfied Mr D wasnt getting what he paid for when he was provided with a courtesy car.
So, I think its fair and reasonable for Mr D to be reimbursed 50% of the repayments due 
under the agreement for the longer periods he was without the car. Tesla have said these 
dates were from 30 July 2021 for 48 days and 27 September 2021 for seven days.
Finally, Im also satisfied that Mr D suffered distress and inconvenience because of what 
happened here. Ive thought about Teslas offer of £300 to reflect this. But, I need to 
consider that Mr D has told us he had to take various time off work, repairs were rearranged 
several times and he had various other issues during the time he had the car. Ive also thought about the fact it took around 10 months to resolve the issues.
Considering this, I think Tesla should pay Mr D an additional £200  making £500 total  to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience it caused Mr D.
I gave both parties two weeks to respond to my provisional decision with any further 
comments or evidence. Mr D got in touch and thanked me for the decision. Tesla didnt 
respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about everything again, I still think this complaint should be upheld. This is 
due to the same reasons I explained in my provisional decision and set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Tesla Financial Services Limited to 
put things right by doing the following:
Reimburse Mr D 15% of all repayments made towards the agreement from when he 
acquired the car until 26 September 2021*, excluding the period below where it 
should:
Reimburse Mr D 50% of 48 days prorated repayments from 30 July 2021*
Reimburse Mr D 50% of seven days prorated repayments from 27 September 2021*
Pay Mr D £500 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused**
*These amounts should have 8% simple yearly interest added from the time of payment to 
the time of reimbursement. If Tesla considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr D a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman