DRN-2070300
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about the way ERV handled a claim made on their travel 
insurance policy. 
Any reference to ERV includes it agents and representatives.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C bought a travel insurance policy, underwritten by ERV. They went on holiday 
to Greece where Mr C became unwell with pneumonia with heart and kidney complications. 
This led to an extended stay. Following a stay in hospital, he had to be repatriated to the UK. 
Mr Cs daughters both arranged to care for him whilst he was in the hospital. 
Mr C made a claim and wanted ERV to cover his costs including taxi fares for Mrs C to and 
from the hospital, the cost of additional accommodation and costs relating to his daughters 
flights, transport costs, food and loss of earnings.
ERV looked into Mr Cs claim but said some of the items claimed for werent covered under 
the policy. It said it would pay a proportion of the claim as he suffered from heart and kidney 
complications which were associated with his declared pre-existing medical conditions 
(PEMCs). However, Mr C had chosen not to pay an additional premium at the point of 
buying the policy. And so he wouldnt normally be covered for any of his PEMCs. But as Mr 
C had a primary diagnosis of pneumonia which had a knock-on effect on his heart and 
kidney, ERV wanted to assist Mr C by contributing costs by way of a proportionate (split) 
settlement. ERV paid a percentage of Mr Cs costs based on the premium he paid compared 
to the premium he would have paid had he asked for his PEMCs to be covered when he 
bought the policy. 
Mr C complained to ERV. ERV explained why certain aspects of Mr Cs claim werent 
covered and why they had settled his claim on a split basis. Mr C said ERVs decision was 
wrong and unfair. And he referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think ERV needed to do anything further 
as it had dealt with Mr Cs claim fairly by paying a proportion of his costs.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think ERV needs to do anything further. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidance say an insurer must deal with claims promptly and 
fairly. And shouldnt reject a complaint unreasonably.
The terms and conditions of the policy say:
Pre-existing medical conditions will not be covered unless they have ALL been declared 
and accepted by us in writing. And they would only be covered if an additional premium was 
paid. Mr C chose not to pay an additional premium. 
Mr C declared his conditions to ERV when he bought the policy which were confirmed in a 
letter to him as follows:
Chronic kidney disease
Gastro-oesophageal reflux
High blood pressure
Cholesterol levels
Prolapsed disc
Gout
The letter confirmed that as the above PEMCs were excluded and no additional premium 
was taken, the policy would not pay any claim that may arise directly or indirectly as a result 
of these conditions, associated conditions or complications. It then listed a number of 
conditions which wouldnt be covered including impaired kidney function, enlarged heart, 
heart attack, heart failure and stroke amongst others. 
ERV say that Mr Cs condition was related to the medical conditions he had declared, and 
which were excluded. So the claim could have been declined but ERV agreed to accept the 
claim on a proportionate basis instead. This means they calculated what the premium would 
have cost to find the percentage Mr C had paid. They then paid a percentage of the costs 
claimed, according to this calculation. 
ERV say they would have charged an additional £443.28 to cover the conditions declared. 
Mr C had paid £269.88 for his travel insurance representing 38% of the total premiums he 
would have paid (£713.16), had he asked for his PEMCs to be covered. And so 38% of the 
costs claimed were paid. 
ERVs medical team reviewed the medical evidence which showed Mr C had heart issues 
which were a knock-on effect of the pneumonia. And they were aware he didnt have a 
history of heart issues. Mr Cs primary illness was pneumonia, but all of the other traits were 
complications with his heart and kidneys. His PEMCs would have significantly contributed to 
his complications. He developed an acute kidney injury which resulted in him needing 
dialysis. 
Mr C has provided a letter from his GP to confirm that he has never previously had problems 
with his heart. But ERV say they didnt say Mr C had a history of heart issues but that the 
heart problems he suffered from were caused as a result of the pneumonia. And any heart 
problems were excluded due to his PEMCs. ERV say this is why they decided to split the 
claim - as his primary illness was pneumonia.
I can understand why Mr C feels all costs should be covered as he was suffering from 
pneumonia. But he also had to be treated for conditions associated with his PEMCs and so, 
it wouldnt be fair for ERV to pay all of his costs as Mr C had chosen not to be covered for 
those or any associated conditions. ERV has paid a proportionate amount based on the 
premium Mr C paid and I think this is fair in the circumstances. Mr C has also complained about the other items he claimed for and which were declined. 
ERV has explained why certain costs couldnt be claimed by reference to the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
The general exclusions which apply to all sections say: No section of this policy shall apply 
in respect ofCosts of telephone calls or faxes, meals, taxi fares (with the sole exception of 
the taxi costs incurred for the initial journey to a hospital abroad due to an insured persons 
illness or injury), interpreters fees, inconvenience, distress, loss of earnings, loss of 
enjoyment of holidayand any additional travel or accommodation costs unless pre-
authorised by us.
Taxis and food
Mr C claimed for Mrs Cs taxis to and from the hospital when she was visiting him and also 
food for the time he was in hospital. 
The policy says ERV will cover the cost of taxi fares, for travel to or from hospital relating to 
your admission, discharge, attendance for outpatient treatment, or appointments, or for 
collection of medication prescribed by the hospital only.
The general exclusions confirm that food and taxi fares for visits arent covered and so these 
items cant be claimed for under the terms of the policy. I dont think this is unfair. 
Flights, travel costs and loss of earnings for daughters
The policy confirms accommodation and travel costs for someone to stay and travel home 
with Mr C are covered if this is deemed necessary by a doctor and agreed by our medical 
officer.
ERV confirmed that as Mrs C was travelling with Mr C, her costs were covered and paid for. 
The medical assistance company didnt think it was medically necessary for Mr Cs 
daughters to assist and so their costs werent covered. I dont think this is unfair as its clear 
in the terms and conditions. 
Medication for Mrs C
Mrs C had to extend the length of her stay and a result, ran out of medicine she had taken 
with her. She then had to buy this locally for a cost of 36 Euros. 
Mrs C would need to make her own claim for medication she had to buy but an excess of 
£65 would be applied to any claim. And so as the amount of 36 Euros is below the excess, it 
wouldnt be covered by the policy as Mrs C is responsible for paying the first £65 of any 
costs she claims. 
Mr C also wanted to claim for the loss of enjoyment of his holiday but this isnt something 
covered by the policy as explained under the general exclusions. 
Overall, ERV paid Mr C 38% of any costs claimed due to the complications arising due to his 
PEMCs. I think this is fair in the circumstances taking into account the premium Mr C paid.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont think ERV needs to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman