DRN-2478611
The complaint
Miss L complains that a car that was supplied to her under a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Miss L under a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn that 
she signed in November 2019. She contacted the dealer about some power issues and then 
complained to Moneybarn about those issues in January 2020. It arranged for the car to be 
inspected by an independent expert later that month but no fault was found.
Miss L continued to have issues with the car and says that the issues became more 
persistent from June 2020 and that the car then started to regularly break-down and had to 
be recovered. She complained to this service and our investigator recommended that her 
complaint should be upheld. He thought that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied to Miss L and that she should be able to reject it. 
Miss L provided further information in January 2021 about the car breaking down and she 
says that the recovery service told her not to drive the car. Our investigator recommended 
that Moneybarn should: end the agreement and collect the car; refund Miss Ls deposit, 20% 
of rentals from January 2020 to January 2021 and all rentals after that (all with interest), pay 
her £200 for any trouble and upset caused; and remove any adverse information from her 
credit file in relation to the agreement.
Miss L has accepted those recommendations, though shes described the difficulties that 
shes likely to have in getting another car on credit and says that the compensation for her 
trouble and upset should be higher but Moneybarn hasnt responded to the investigators 
that were made in December 2020 or January 2021.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Moneybarn, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss L - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the car that was supplied to Miss L was about six years old, had been driven for 
74,793 miles and had a price of £4,600;
the car was supplied to Miss L in November 2019, she contacted the dealer about 
power issues and complained to Moneybarn about those issues in January 2020;
it arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert in January 2020 but 
no fault was found so Miss L continued to use it and continued to have issues with it 
 she says that those issues became more persistent in June 2020 and that the car 
then started to regularly break-down;
shes continued to use the car and it broke down in January 2021  the recovery 
services report records the cars mileage as 81,380 and says: cut out roadside, lost 
all power and wouldnt re start, engine turning not firing, has had several issues for 
same fault, coil pack and crank sensor have been replaced recently,  scan showing 
issue with crank sensor but live data showing rpm signal, suspect wiring or ecu issue, 
recovered to home address, will need further investigation at garage;
I consider it to be more likely than not that there was a fault with the cars power 
when it was supplied to Miss L and that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at that 
time because of that issue; and
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Moneybarn to 
allow Miss L to reject the car.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Moneybarn to end the conditional sale 
agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from Miss L both at no cost to her. I find 
that it should also remove any adverse information about the agreement that its recorded on 
her credit file.
The agreement and sales invoice show that Miss L paid a deposit of £100 for the car. I find 
that it would be fair and reasonable for Moneybarn to refund that deposit to her, with interest.
Miss L was able to use the car to drive about 6,500 miles between November 2019, when it 
was supplied to her, and January 2021, when she was told not to drive it.  but her use and 
enjoyment of the car will have been impacted by the issues with it. I agree with the 
investigator that it would be fair and reasonable for Moneybarn to refund to Miss L 20% of 
the monthly payments that she made under the agreement for the period from January 2020, 
when she complaint to it, to January 2021, with interest, to compensate her for that loss of 
use and enjoyment. 
I find that it would also be fair and reasonable for Moneybarn to refund to Miss L all of the 
monthly payments that shes made under the agreement since then, with interest, as shes 
been told not to use the car. I consider that its fair and reasonable for Moneybarn to keep 
the rest of the payments that shes made as payment for the use that shes had from the car. 
I sympathise with Miss L for the issues that shes had with the car and for the other 
difficulties that shes described. Its clear that these events have caused her distress and 
inconvenience. I find that it would also be fair and reasonable for Moneybarn to pay her £200 
to compensate her for that distress and inconvenience. Im not persuaded that a higher 
award of compensation is justified in these circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Ls complaint and I order Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to:
1. End the conditional sale agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from 
Miss L  both at no cost to her.2. Refund to Miss L the deposit that she paid for the car.
3. Refund to Miss L 20% of the monthly payments that shes made under the 
agreement between January 2020 and January 2021.
4. Refund to Miss L all of the monthly payments that shes made under the 
agreement since then.
5. Pay interest on the amounts at 2, 3 and 4 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
6. Ensure that no adverse information about the agreement is recorded on Miss Ls 
credit file.
7. Pay £200 to Miss L to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that 
shes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneybarn to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to at 5 above. Moneybarn must give Miss L a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman