DRN-2063466
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC declined his chargeback request when goods 
were not delivered to him.  
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr H purchased some goods from a merchant using his Barclays debit card. He 
says the goods were not delivered to him and he made a chargeback request to 
Barclays for the £555.39 he paid.
Barclays investigated matters and ultimately declined Mr Hs chargeback request. It 
said he hadnt responded to information it sent him in the specified time. And his 
request wouldve been declined as there was evidence from the merchant that the 
goods had been delivered to his address.
Overall, I think Barclays has acted reasonably in this case. It appropriately 
investigated what had happened, considered the available evidence including that 
provided by the merchant about delivery being made to Mr Hs registered address 
and reasonably concluded it should decline Mr Hs chargeback request. After 
completing its investigation, Barclays wrote to Mr H and said if he wanted to dispute 
its conclusions, he should respond within 10 days. But unfortunately, he didnt to do 
so in that time. 
Barclays has however paid Mr H £100 compensation for not enclosing some relevant 
documentation with its letter to him. That seems fair.
Mr H says the delivery company used by the merchant has recently confirmed the 
goods werent actually delivered to him. But that isnt something we can consider as 
the delivery company isnt regulated by us. That is something Mr H will have to raise 
directly with the delivery company and merchant.
Overall, although I recognise Mr Hs frustration and strength of feeling, I dont think 
on balance that I can fairly or reasonably ask Barclays to do anything more or 
differently, including refunding the money Mr H paid to the merchant on his debit 
card, as he would like.
For these reasons I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman