DRN-3709250
The complaint
Mr M complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
What happened
In May 2018, Mr M was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to talk about 
purchasing a solar panel system including battery and hot water controller (the system) to 
be installed at his home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr M decided to 
purchase the system and finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with 
Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In February 2021, Mr M made a claim under section 75 of the Act to Shawbrook. he said that 
P had made a number of representations about the system that had turned out not to be 
true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced Mr M to enter into the contract 
with P. He have made the following points:
Mr M was told that over a year the panels and battery would pay for themselves and 
even return him a profit. 
He is £300 to £400 better off on his energy bills for the year but paying £1,680 per 
year on the loan. 
The salesman had many charts and graphs to show exactly how Mr M would save 
money and get big kick-backs from the FIT scheme. 
He was told that the interest was very competitive (under 1%) but this wasnt the 
case.
He was keen to get the solar panels as he felt it would be a sound investment and he 
would also be doing his part to  help the planet. 
He is massively out of pocket and wishing that he had not listened to the 
salesperson. 
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr M or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented the 
system to Mr M and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
Mr M didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
The main point of his complaint was the selling on the day  the words used, and the 
promises made. 
After being presented with all the graphs and discussed how much money we would 
save he left us to think the deal over whilst he went outside to look at the roof. He 
was gone only a couple of minutes before returning and pressuring him to sign. 
The battery wasnt available yet and he had to sign there and then to secure the 
battery (of which there was limited supply), save £1,000 off its price, and that he 
wouldnt be back in the area for a while. 
The salesperson was incredibly insistent and told them they would be saving money. 
He doesnt have an issue with the product  more the high interest on the loan. He 
would be happy to refinance the loan on lower interest. 
The main complaint is about the thousands spent just on interest which he feels he 
was lied to about. 
He was told the panels would pay for themselves, provide free electricity and be 
better than free, which he feels exaggerated the benefits. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr M paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr M could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr M and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide what happened on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the 
evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr M says that during a sales meeting he was told that over a year the panels and battery 
would pay for themselves and even return him a profit  in other words that they would be 
self-funding from year one.
There are several documents that have been provided by both Mr M and Shawbrook. These 
include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive 
considered these, along with Mr Ms testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to 
decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the Mr Ms 
version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
On balance Im satisfied that Mr M was told that the cost of the system was £10,153.50. The 
quote sets this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which sets out that 
the cash price of the system was £10,153.50. The monthly payment was £106.65. The total 
amount of credit is £10,53.50 and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be 
£19,297.00.
I think the credit agreement is clear in terms of the above figures. It also clearly states the 
monthly rate of interest 0.8%, the fixed rate of interest (per annum) 9.5% and the APR (fixed) 
9.9%. Mr M recalls being told the interest rate was under 1%. But he also appears to accept 
that this must have been the monthly rate of interest rather than the annual rate. The sale 
was a long time ago and it is not clear whether Mr M was misled, or it wasnt explained 
clearly, or Mr M simply misunderstood or misremembers what he was told. With that in mind 
I dont think I can conclude that the interest was misrepresented to him, especially when he 
was at the same time given the loan agreement to read and sign, which made clear the 
interest rate and total interest payable over the course of the loan.  
Having considered all the evidence, including Mr Ms recollections, Im satisfied that he was 
told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, as set 
out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the credit 
agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £10,153.50, it would cost 
Mr M more than this as he had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan. 
Mr M has said that he was told that over a year the panels and battery would pay for 
themselves and even return him a profit. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P as 
well as the Mr Ms recollections of their meeting with Ps representative to decide what is 
most likely to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr M could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period. 
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr M could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £222.26, which results in an average monthly income of £18.52. As 
outlined above, Im satisfied that the credit agreement and the quote set out that there would 
be a monthly loan repayment due of £106.65. As a result, Im not able to conclude that the 
Mr M was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payment 
alone.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr M could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £391.47 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mr M the combined income and savings in year one is shown as 
£1,013.93. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together. The annual loan repayment 
was £1,279.80  which is more than the total benefit. So, it seems unlikely that Mr M 
wouldve been told that the benefits would cover the loan repayments in the first year.
The quote contains a graph titled your average annual returns over 25 years with RPI and 
increase in electricity costs against the monthly cost of the system. This clearly shows that 
the monthly payments exceed the savings and income in the first years of the loan. The 
table suggests that the annual loan repayments will be covered by the annual benefits by 
year six, and that the initial shortfall between the two will be recouped around year nine.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months because this 
is the length of the loan that Mr M entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £107.42. For each year of the 15-year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £107.42, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr M could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall annual benefits he could expect to receive 
by way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be sufficient to cover the loan 
repayments until year six. 
This supports my finding above that Mr M wasnt told that the FIT payment would cover the 
loan repayment. Ive carefully thought about Mr Ms version of events. However, as Ive 
found that the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went 
through at the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that he was told that the monthly 
loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr M that the system would be self-funding. In doing so Ill 
again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the start. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr M was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by year 14 the overall benefits that Mr M could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr M that the system would entirely pay for 
itself including the interest by year 14, and this is supported by the table above included in 
the quote. This is before the end of the 15-year loan. If that were an untrue statement of fact, 
and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the contract, and he 
subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr M. I have looked at Mr Ms FIT statements and Im satisfied that 
the system is performing as expected based on the statements provided.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2017 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between the sale 
and 2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I 
think this explains why Mr M hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2006 to 2017. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr M couldve 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr M entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr M to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
Mr M suggests that he may be interested in paying off the loan early to minimise the interest 
he pays. I understand that hes free to do that and can contact Shawbrook to discuss that. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman