DRN-3058887
The complaint
Mr Ts complaint concerns his Contracts for Difference (CFDs) trading account with FXPRO 
UK Limited (FX). He says FX provided him with unsatisfactory service  it didnt provide 
margin calls, he was unable to stay signed into its app, it took money from his account 
without his knowledge and it didnt provide him with an account manager. 
What happened
Mr T has referred two complaints to this service regarding FX. One has already been dealt 
with separately and resolved under a different reference. So, for clarity, my findings here 
concern solely the issues set out above. 
An investigator looked into these concerns, considered the evidence provided by both 
parties but didnt feel that the complaint should be upheld regarding any aspect. In addition, 
he looked generally at whether (or not) it had been appropriate for FX to provide 
Mr T with at trading account and concluded that it had been.
He said, in brief:
As part of the account opening process FX had sought information regarding Mr Ts 
knowledge and experience of leveraged trading, in accordance with its regulatory 
responsibilities. As the answers provided appeared to confirm that he had some level 
of both, FX had enabled the account to be opened. The investigators conversations 
with Mr T had also confirmed that he had some trading experience and held accounts 
with other providers.  
FXs service was execution-only, meaning that no advice was provided, and all 
trading decisions were Mr Ts own. Support was offered through provision of demo 
accounts and other educational tools. The risks associated with this type of trading 
were also clearly set out.
In respect of the problems with the app, while FXs response on this point was quite 
limited, the investigator felt it was ultimately for Mr T to decide whether to continue 
using the service in the knowledge that connectivity problems might occur.
In respect of the provision of margin calls, the investigator explained that FX had said 
that its client agreement set out that account holders were solely responsible for 
monitoring their positions via the trading platform. While other providers might 
choose to provide alerts, doing so was not a requirement and FX had made no 
commitment to provide such alerts. 
FX had also explained that its service did not include the provision of an account 
manager and, again, it had not indicated to Mr T that this would be the case.
There was no evidence to support the claim that FX took money without Mr Ts 
knowledge. Any losses that had occurred did not appear to be a result of FX acting 
incorrectly or unfairly, but rather they were a result of Mr Ts trading decisions.
Mr T didnt accept the investigators view. He explained that he wasnt asking for all his 
money back but felt FX should help with some of the losses. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the matters been referred to 
me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. As such, theres little I can usefully add to whats already been said. I 
understand that Mr T will have been very disappointed to have experienced losses trading 
on his FX account. But for me to direct FX to compensate him I would need to be satisfied, 
on balance, that it had acted incorrectly or unfairly in such a way that it should take 
responsibility for some of or all those losses. And having carefully looked at everything thats 
been provided, I dont think thats the case. 
FX carried out an account opening process in line with its regulatory requirements. It 
appears that Mr T was appropriately warned about the risks involved with this sort of trading 
and had experience of it, through other services and demo accounts. And, as had been 
noted, in providing an execution-only service, there was no obligation on FX to give any sort 
of advice or guidance. While it might have helped Mr T to have an account manager to 
whom he could direct queries, this wasnt part of FXs service and if its something he felt he 
needed he had the option of looking for a better suited alternative. The same applies to FX 
not providing email or other types or alert in respect of margin calls. 
Ive also not seen FX operated the account in such a way that led to Mr T incurring losses. I 
note what hes said about the functionality of the app  the issue of him being frequently 
signed out interrupting his trading. This was clearly unfortunate, but it was acknowledged as 
a bug by FX and an explanation given to Mr T in June 2020, in response to his raising of 
concerns, that it was a problem on which it was working with its software developers. 
Mr T said that hed been experiencing the problem for an extended period and while I 
understand it wouldve been frustrating, he did have the option of using a web platform, or a 
different provider while the problem persisted. FXs terms explain, in line with usual industry 
practice, that it doesnt provide an absolute guarantee of its service and there may be 
occasions where all or some aspects are unavailable. 
In summary, I recognise that Mr Ts trading with FX had led him into difficulties and that he 
will be disappointed I reached the same conclusion as that reached by the investigator. But 
in all the circumstances, Im not persuaded FX acted incorrectly or unfairly in respect of the 
issues involved in this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman