DRN-2886413
The complaint
Miss B complains that Clydesdale Finance Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
In January 2017, Miss B agreed to purchase a new bathroom and kitchen. The cost of the 
bathroom, kitchen and fitting was £12,000. Miss B took out a fixed sum loan agreement from 
BPF to pay for it. The loan was brokered by the bathroom and kitchen supplier. The total 
amount repayable under the agreement was around £22,500 over 15 years. Miss B was 
required to make 180 monthly repayments of around £125. The loan agreement says it was 
just for the supply and installation of the bathroom, but Miss B says it also included the 
kitchen too.
In June 2019, Miss B complained to BPF. She said she shouldnt have been granted the 
loan. She said she suffered from poor mental health and felt pressured into signing up to a 
finance agreement which she didnt understand and couldnt afford.
BPF didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said that Miss B hadnt provided anything to 
show she wouldnt have been able to understand the finance agreement. It said that Miss B 
was given 14 days to withdraw from the finance agreement if she changed her mind. It said 
its affordability checks showed that she could make the repayments in a sustainable way.
I sent Miss B and BPF my provisional decision on 24 February 2021. I explained why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. An extract of my provisional decision is copied below:
The total repayable on the loan was around £22,500 over a term of 15 years. Although the 
monthly repayments of around £125 were relatively low, the overall size of the borrowing 
and the term of the loan were fairly significant. The size of the borrowing appeared to have 
been larger than Miss Bs existing mortgage commitment (which BPF would have been 
aware of, through the credit check it completed). I think given all of this, a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of affordability ought to have been relatively thorough.
BPF says it asked Miss B what her income was and it completed a credit check to 
understand her existing credit commitments. It said Miss B declared a monthly income of 
around £1,500. It said the credit check showed she was contracted to pay around £211 per 
month towards a car finance agreement and £38 per month towards her mortgage. It said 
she had a credit card account with a zero balance, a mail order account with a balance of 
£76 and a communications and current account which were managed well.
Although BPF had an understanding of Miss Bs existing credit commitments and had asked 
her what her income was, I dont think this went far enough. I say this because the credit 
check showed some recent adverse information against her credit card account and this was 
a long term financial commitment in which Miss B was required to repay more than she 
currently owed on her mortgage. Further, her declared income was relatively modest and 
BPF had no understanding of what non-credit commitments she had on a monthly basis. 
I therefore think a reasonable and proportionate check ought to have included verifying what 
Miss Bs income was, as well as asking her about her other committed expenditure.
Ive reviewed Miss Bs bank statements in the months leading up to the loan. Im not 
suggesting BPF should have requested bank statements before approving the loan. 
However, in the absence of anything else I think these give a good indication of what 
information it would have likely discovered about Miss Bs income and other expenditure if it 
had explored this further.
I can see that Miss Bs declared income was broadly accurate. She had a number of other 
regular bills and commitments such as household bills and paying for essentials such as 
food and petrol. At face value, Miss Bs outgoings from her bank statements indicates that 
after taking into account the repayment to BPF, shed be left with around £50 in disposable 
income each month.
BPF argues this means the loan was affordable. However, I dont think this would 
necessarily leave enough room for any emergency expenditure or fluctuations in what 
Miss B might owe month on month with her credit card or mail order account. Particularly 
because at the time of applying for this loan she was utilising very little of her overall 
available credit.
However, Im mindful that taking into account the expenditure on Miss Bs bank statements 
at face value is unlikely in this specific case to give an accurate indication of what BPF would 
reasonably have concluded her disposable income to be. I say this because Miss Bs 
statements show she was paying £38 per month towards one of her mortgage commitments 
and £290 per month towards the other. This means she was paying significant 
overpayments compared to what she was contractually obliged to make. Her contractual 
mortgage payments appear to have been £38 and £16 per month. This means Miss B was 
overpaying one of her mortgages by £274 each month.
This additional £274 wasnt something Miss B was required to make, it was effectively a 
discretionary payment. This means it wouldnt be reasonable for me to take that additional 
amount into account when calculating what her committed expenditure was. This means her 
disposable income after taking into account the payment to BPF was actually around £325 
each month. I think this would have been more than sufficient to cover any emergency 
expenses or fluctuations in her revolving credit repayments.
I think had BPF asked Miss B about her other expenditure, its more likely than not it too 
would have concluded this was the level of disposable income Miss B had at the time. 
I therefore dont think the loan was unaffordable.
Miss B has also said that she felt pressured into entering into the finance agreement. She 
hasnt given any specific details about why she says she felt pressured into signing up to the 
finance other than to say that the salesperson was pushy and had tried to arrange a cheaper 
deal for her to get her to sign up.
Ive seen that Miss B initially applied for a different loan amount with BPF through the same 
supplier, but she didnt go through with that particular agreement or purchase. Instead, it 
appears she negotiated a lower price with the supplier and a new finance application was 
put through, so this does support in part what she says happened. But I dont think what she 
has described could reasonably be said to have been unfair pressure.
Im mindful that Miss B has told us that given her mental state at the time she would have 
said yes quite freely to almost anything that was presented to her and that she signed up to 
a car finance deal on a whim a short time before this BPF loan. Overall, this means Im not persuaded that BPF or its agent (the supplier) unfairly pressured her into entering into the 
finance agreement.
Lastly, Miss B says she didnt understand the finance agreement she was signing up to. She 
provided a letter to BPF from her doctor explaining how her mental health had affected her. 
I can see Miss B has clearly been struggling for a long period of time and can appreciate 
how this will have made things more difficult for her to manage.
In deciding whether BPF has done anything wrong, Ive thought about whether I think BPF or 
its agent knew or ought to have known about Miss Bs health at the time. The letter from her 
doctor does suggest Miss B may not have been in the best state of mind when applying for 
the finance. However, it doesnt say that she lacked the capacity to understand what it was 
she was entering into. Its also not clear whether it ought to have been obvious to someone 
that didnt know her that she was unwell and not fit to enter into a finance agreement. Taking 
everything into consideration, Ive not seen anything to make me think that BPF acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in approving the loan for Miss B.
BPF accepted my provisional decision but Miss B didnt. In summary, she said:
She doesnt remember being asked about her income.
The salesman took advantage of her due to her mental health condition at the time 
and she doesnt understand anything about the agreement she entered into. She 
says the salesman told her she could declare herself bankrupt if she couldnt afford 
the payments. 
She was living in her overdraft at the time and couldnt afford the repayments. She 
was paying extra payments towards her mortgage because she was on an interest 
only rate and had no means to pay off the capital. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion I reached in my provisional decision, and 
for broadly the same reasons. However, Ill address the additional points Miss B has made to 
explain why they dont change the outcome Ive reached. 
I note Miss B says the salesperson took advantage of her and told her she could declare 
herself bankrupt if the payments were unaffordable. However, I havent seen anything to 
persuade me that the salesperson or BPF ought reasonably to have known about Miss Bs 
poor mental health at the time. Further, from what shes previously described, I cant be 
reasonably satisfied any undue pressure was applied on her to enter into the agreement.
I can accept what Miss B says about her mortgage being interest only as her credit file 
appears to support that is likely. However, I cant be reasonably satisfied that the additional 
payments were required to be made or that she would have told BPF this had they asked. 
I say this because when our investigator asked how Miss B was able to clear her mortgage 
balance with a large lump sum payment in 2020, she told us it was because of an 
endowment policy. This would appear to suggest she did have a repayment vehicle in place 
for the interest only mortgage, which was due to mature only a few years after the BPF loan 
was taken out. Overall, Im not persuaded that had BPF completed reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks that it would likely have shown Miss B couldnt afford the repayments on 
the loan. I therefore dont think BPF acted unfairly in agreeing to lend to her. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman