DRN-3326322
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) lent 
irresponsibly when they approved her loan.
What happened
In May 2015, Mrs L applied for a loan of £18,500 over a term of four years with Tesco. The 
loan was approved and included an initial payment holiday so that the first repayment of 
£438.23 wasnt due until September 2015. 
Mrs L maintained repayments until December 2017, when she contacted Tesco to advise 
them of a change in her circumstances. Her working hours had been reduced and she was 
struggling to maintain her contractual payments. Tesco agreed a reduced payment plan of 
£220 a month for six months.
In May 2018, Mrs L contacted Tesco again. She said she couldnt maintain the agreed 
repayments and couldnt clear her arrears. Tesco reviewed Mrs Ls income and expenditure 
and agreed a further payment reduction to £60 a month for six months. Tesco also sent a 
default notice to Mrs L and made formal demand for what she owed.
In October 2018, Mrs L contacted Tesco as she had reduced her working hours further due 
to ill health. Tesco reviewed her income and expenditure again which showed her surplus 
income had reduced by £200 a month. Tesco agree a payment plan of £10 a month for 12 
months. Tesco passed control of Mrs Ls loan to a debt collection agency in March 2019.
In October 2021, having sought impartial advice about her loans and debt, Mrs L realised 
that the loan provided by Tesco was unaffordable at the time given her other financial 
commitments. Mrs L believes that had Tesco properly checked her credit record, this 
wouldve shown she had late payments and defaults together with other outstanding credit. 
She thought Tesco had lent irresponsibly, so complained to them.
Tesco didnt agree theyd lent irresponsibly. They said their decision was based on the 
information provided by Mrs L together with other checks they carried out. They said they 
were not obliged to verify Mrs Ls income and relied upon the information Mrs L provided.
Mrs L wasnt happy with Tescos response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
Having considered all the information and evidence, our investigator agreed that Tescos 
decision to lend here was unaffordable. Our investigator thought the level of disposable 
income calculated by Tesco was proportionally low and meant Mrs L was unlikely to have 
been able to sustainably make her repayments. 
Tesco didnt agree with our investigators findings. They said that when calculating Mrs Ls 
disposable income, they considered Office for National Statistics (ONS) data which takes 
account of general cost of living expenses. Tesco said Mrs Ls credit file showed her as a 
low credit risk and theyd used verified data to calculate whether the loan was affordable. 
They also said that Mrs Ls financial difficulties resulted from a change in her circumstances 
that they couldnt predict.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mrs Ls complaint has been passed to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules and guidance relevant at the time Tesco provided Mrs L with the loan were set by 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). These 
required Tesco to carry out an assessment using reasonable and proportionate checks to 
determine whether Mrs L could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable way. Those checks 
needed to be borrower focussed and consider whether making the repayments could result 
in financial difficulties for Mrs L.
This service believes that any checks needed to consider Mrs Ls personal circumstances 
and would usually need to be more thorough:
the lower a consumers income; and
the higher the amount due to be repaid; and
the longer the term of the loan; and
the greater the number and frequency of loans.
Conversely, a less detailed affordability assessment, without the need for verification, is far 
more likely to be fair, reasonable, and proportionate where the amount to be repaid is 
relatively small, the financial situation is stable, and the debt is for a relatively short period.
Tesco have provided details of the information used to assess Mrs Ls loan application. Mrs 
L stated her net monthly income as £1,400 with a monthly mortgage commitment of £200. 
Her application detailed no other commitments or outgoings. The credit reference and 
bureau information obtained by Tesco showed no evidence of delinquent accounts, arrears 
within the previous six months, or defaults. But the searches did reveal that Mrs L had 
unsecured debts totalling £18,790 and existing debt repayments of £395 a month, in addition 
to her mortgage. It also showed there was either a notice of correction or a dispute in 
existence. Tesco assumed living expenses totalling £320 a month based upon ONS data. I 
dont think its unreasonable to use this information. Their assessment suggested that Mrs L 
had a monthly surplus of £47 after paying these commitments together with the required 
repayment on her new loan.
While Tescos checks may suggest Mrs L could afford the repayments on the proposed new 
loan, I think there was sufficient to suggest that additional checks and assessments were 
required. I say this because there were clear differences between the information in Mrs Ls 
application, and the data received from the credit bureaus. In particular, relating to Mrs Ls 
existing finance commitments.
The proposed new loan (including interest), together with the existing unsecured debt 
revealed, meant that Mrs Ls total indebtedness would increase to almost £40,000, including 
interest. This is almost 2.4 times her stated net annual income. In addition, the monthly 
surplus calculated by Tesco of £47 equated to a very small proportion of her net monthly 
income. So, I think its reasonable to conclude that a relatively small change in Mrs Ls 
financial circumstances couldve resulted in her repayments becoming unsustainable.
So, with that conclusion, had Tesco undertaken further checks and tests, would this have 
resulted in a different outcome? Mrs Ls application states that the loan was for home 
improvements. But shes confirmed it was actually to consolidate existing debts that shed 
accrued. Further, Mrs L says shed recently raised a mortgage to repay other debts at the 
time. I appreciate that Mrs L didnt provide this information when she applied, but this does 
raise questions about Mrs Ls financial situation at the time.While Ive considered Tescos response to our investigators findings, I think there was 
enough to prompt them to have undertaken more detailed tests and checks and questioned 
the information provided by Mrs L. And had they, Im not persuaded that a responsible 
lender wouldve reasonably concluded that the new loan was sustainably affordable. So, I 
agree that Tescos decision to lend here doesnt feel appropriate.
Putting things right
Ultimately, its always difficult to put someone back in the position they wouldve been had a 
loan not been given. The money has been lent and Mrs L has benefited from that. So, I think 
its fair that Mrs L pays back what shes spent. But I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
to expect Mrs L to incur any costs associated with the loan. So, I will be asking Tesco to 
refund all interest, fees and charges from the point the money was first lent.
In the event that the refund of charges, fees and interest results in a balance being due to 
Mrs L (i.e. where theres been overpayments), Tesco should pay 8% simple interest from the 
date of each overpayment to the date of settlement. If there remains an outstanding debt, 
Tesco should ensure an affordable repayment plan is agreed.
Mrs L has asked for all associated adverse information reported to be removed from her 
credit file. I agree that my decision needs to be reflected in whats reported to the credit 
reference agencies. But equally, its important that other potential lenders are aware of Mrs 
Ls existing commitments and difficulties, including any amount she may still owe to Tesco. 
So, I think the fairest way to put that right is that once Mrs L has paid back the capital 
balance of whats outstanding, the adverse information is then removed. However, I will 
require Tesco to adjust the reported monthly balances to reflect the refunds.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
I require Tesco Personal Finance PLC to:
refund all interest, fees and charges from when the loan was first drawn; and
pay 8% interest on any overpayment from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement, if the effect of refunding all interest, fees and charges results in a credit 
balance being owed to Mrs L; and 
amend Mrs Ls credit file to reflect the new monthly balances after refund of interest, 
fees and charges; and
remove any related adverse information from Mrs Ls credit file once the outstanding 
balance has been repaid; and
arrange themselves, or through the debt collections agency, to agree an affordable 
and sustainable repayment plan for any remaining amount owed.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco to take off tax from this interest. Tesco must give 
Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman