DRN-3915942
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about the difficulties they had in arranging a new interest rate 
product on their mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax. Mr P spent hours 
trying to get through to someone who could help but, by the time he did, the product he 
wanted was no longer available and he and Mrs P had to accept a product with a higher 
interest rate.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P have a staff mortgage with Halifax, with two sub-accounts. On 28 September 
2022, Mr P says a new interest rate product became available to staff: a five-year fixed rate 
of 3.26%.
Mr and Mrs P wanted to apply for this rate on their first sub-account (the second sub-account 
was already on a fixed rate). The only way to apply for a product switch on a staff rate is by 
phone, so Mr P rang Halifax on 28 September. 
He found that the only number available was for Halifaxs general mortgage line and, if he 
managed to get through to someone on that, he was put through to another queue, for 
members of staff who wanted a new rate. 
Mr P made multiple calls to Halifax on 28, 29 and 30 September, and spent hours waiting in 
queues. He says Halifax cut his calls off several times, and any calls lasting over two hours 
were ended by his phone provider. 
On 1 October, Mr P finally got through and spoke to a mortgage adviser who could help with 
a staff mortgage. However, by that time the interest rate product he wanted had been 
withdrawn and replaced with a less favourable deal. He accepted the best five-year rate on 
offer to him, at 4.06%.
Mr P had by this time already complained to Halifax. He was unhappy that Halifaxs 
processes were stopping him from getting the product he wanted, and that he had no option 
other than to wait on the phone, only for his calls to be cut off.
Halifax apologised for the trouble Mr P had had in trying to contact it. It said it had faced a 
period of exceptionally high demand due to economic circumstances. It also said it requires 
staff who apply for new mortgage rates to take advice in order to take account of benefits in 
kind. Until Mr P had been through the advice process, it wouldnt agree a new rate.
Mr and Mrs P got in touch with us. Our Investigator didnt recommend that their complaint be 
upheld. She found that Mr and Mrs P had experienced delay and frustration, but she 
concluded that this was down to sudden high demand arising from the wider economic 
situation rather than anything Halifax had done wrong. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt accept that conclusion. They still felt they had been treated unfairly and 
that Halifaxs processes were to blame.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P ran into a number of difficulties in trying to arrange a new product on his and Mrs Ps 
mortgage: he had to apply by phone rather than online or at a branch, and he had to ring 
Halifaxs general mortgage line and then wait in a second queue for a specialist advisor. This 
was at a time when Halifax, in common with many mortgage lenders, was experiencing very 
high demand from borrowers wanting to secure new rates. 
Halifax operates a scheme under which eligible staff can benefit from a preferential 
mortgage product. Mr and Mrs P were eligible. Ive seen the details of Halifaxs staff 
mortgage scheme; they say it is liable for benefit in kind tax, and is only available by phone. 
Halifax says the tax implications are the reason it requires staff to apply for these products 
by phone. This is so that staff go through an advice process, to help them decide whether 
the benefit of a lower mortgage interest rate outweighs the impact on the tax they pay.
While I note Mr Ps point that he didnt want advice and the benefit in kind for his mortgage 
was £0, the same wont be true for all of Halifaxs staff who take a preferential mortgage 
deal. I think Halifaxs explanation about why it required Mr P to apply by phone is 
reasonable, and this requirement was the same for all other borrowers with staff mortgages. 
Mr P spent hours on the phone trying to get through, and Ive noted what he has said about 
being cut off a number of times as well as about the two-hour limit on calls. I can certainly 
see that this was very frustrating. I must, however, also bear in mind all the circumstances.
I accept Halifaxs explanation about why customers were having to wait so long to get 
through to an advisor in late September 2022. The wider economic situation was changing 
fast, and mortgage lenders were responding to that by changing their product offerings very 
quickly. As a result, many more mortgage borrowers than expected were trying to secure 
new mortgage products before they disappeared.
Its unfortunate that Mr and Mrs P didnt get the rate they wanted. But there was never any 
guarantee about that. Products change all the time and, as Ive already said, the market was 
moving fast at the time in question. Mr and Mrs P were ultimately able to take a new fixed 
rate within a few days of Mr Ps first call.
In all the circumstances, and bearing in mind the economic backdrop at the relevant time, I 
find I cant fairly require Halifax to apply the rate Mr and Mrs P originally wanted to their 
mortgage, and I make no order or award. I note that Halifax has apologised to Mr and Mrs P, 
and I think that was fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman