DRN-3848396
The complaint
Mr O complains he was mis-sold an investment he made in a bond issued by Basset &
Gold Plc (B&G Plc). Mr O says he was misled that the bond was a secure investment 
but has since lost his money as the bond issuer has gone into administration. 
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond
Mr O invested in a B&G Plc 5 Year Compounding High-Yield Bond. For a period of time, 
sales of these bonds were dealt with by Basset Gold Ltd (BG Ltd), a separate business 
from B&G Plc, the issuer of the bonds. BG Ltd arranged applications for investments in the 
bonds. And it was responsible for advertising and marketing the bonds. Potential investors 
were also able to call BG Ltd, to discuss the bonds.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited
(Gallium). B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17
February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Basset Gold Finance Ltd (BGF)  an independently authorised business, which was not
connected to Gallium  took over from BG Ltd at some point in 2018. Gallium says this
happened before the appointed representative agreement between it and BG Ltd came to an
end and has made submissions on this point  albeit inconsistent ones. For the remainder of
this background section I have referred to BG Ltd as the business Mr O interacted with, but
the point of dispute is noted, and I will consider in my findings whether Mr O actually dealt
with BGF instead.
Mr O and the investment in the bond
Mr O invested a total of £2,000 in the bond. This followed phone discussions between Mr O 
and a representative of BG Ltd. He said he was reassured by the representative and 
completed an online application.
The administrators of BG Ltd have provided some recordings of these discussions, but a 
number are missing  so I do not know the full detail of what was discussed. BG Ltds 
records include a log of applications records showing the following:
 
The certificate dated 2 January 2018 for the bond Mr O invested in confirms £2,000 was paid 
in the B&G Plc 5 Year Compounding High-Yield Bond with annual rate of 9.01%. 
Type Date Type Date
Everyday Investor 2017-12-30 12:59:48 KYC Completed 2018-01-15 10:00:42
B&G T&C Confirmed 2017-12-30 13:05:15
Completed Investor Questionnaire2017-12-30 13:02:55Investor Tags Legal TagsMr O has told us the funds he used to invest came from cash he withdrew from his credit 
card, as he hoped to gain an income from the interest. He was trying to provide further 
income for his family. He had limited investment experience at the time he took out the bond. 
He says after an online inquiry, he was contacted by a relationship manager at BG Ltd who
explained the process and reassured him that there was nothing to worry about. He said he 
was told his money was 100% secured and guaranteed, and it was then he agreed to 
progress with the application.
On 8 January 2019, BGF (which by that point had taken on the role of BG Ltd), sent an email
to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that nearly all the
money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay day lender. 
Following action by the FCA, the pay day lender went into administration in March 2020 - 
and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Mr O has
not had his invested capital returned to him.
The application process
From the available evidence, it is not completely clear how Mr Os application was made.
I have seen screen prints of each stage of BG Ltds online application process. These show
the online application journey that potential investors underwent. This consisted of two
stages, designed to meet the rules restricting who the bonds could be promoted to and on
how to test whether the investments were appropriate for the potential investor. The first was
certification. The second was the appropriateness test.
Galliums response to Mr Os complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mr Os complaint. It said Mr O had been given sufficient information
and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions, once Mr Os
complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also
considered what Gallium describes as its position statement, which sets out general
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mr Os complaint and concluded it should be upheld.
They said, in summary:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Mr O as a 
restricted investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bond 
for him - was misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply 
with the FCAs rules.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory 
obligations. Had it done so, Mr O wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd 
should have concluded that it shouldnt allow Mr O to invest. For these 
reasons, both cumulatively and individually, it was fair to uphold the 
complaint and for Gallium to compensate Mr O for the loss he has suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary:
The acts the complaint is about took place after B&G Finance Ltd  an independent 
business with which Gallium had no relationship - became authorised. Once B&G 
Finance Ltd became authorised it took over from BG Ltd and so B&G Finance Ltd is 
responsible during this interim period, not Gallium. 
Our findings went beyond the scope of Mr Os complaint.Regardless of label, Mr O was required to confirm that he met the requirements of a 
restricted investor and confirmed that he did. It is not fair or reasonable to conclude 
that the use of the word everyday contributed to Mr O giving an incorrect 
declaration, and it was reasonable for it to rely on the declaration. 
The appropriateness test answers and these confirmations were sufficient for Gallium 
to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and experience of 
the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
The investigator provided evidence to Gallium that supported that BG Ltd were involved in 
the arranging of investments during the interim period. They referred to specific 
correspondence Mr O had with BG Ltd and sent copies of correspondence from other cases 
we have reviewed that showed emails and paperwork in use at the time  which consistently 
set out prior to 1 March 2018 that belonged to BG Ltd as an appointed representative of 
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited. The investigator remained of the view the evidence shows 
BG Ltd promoted and arranged the B&G bond Mr O took out on in January 2018, and 
Gallium was responsible for the actions of BG Ltd here. 
Gallium didnt respond directly to the investigator  - but has also provided a witness 
statement from its former director, dated 16 February 2023 on the subject of who was 
responsible for arranging the bond, which says:
He understands that the only regulated activities that continued to be carried out by
BG Ltd in the interim period, were that BG Ltd remained responsible for the making
of telephone calls with investors or prospective investors concerning their bond
investments.
It is his understanding that in relation to telephone calls between Basset & Gold 
representatives and investors/prospective investors in the bonds, during the interim 
period all regulated activities relating to the financial promotions concerning the B&G
Plc bonds, as well as activities concerning the arranging of bond investments,
were conducted by BGF
BG Ltd continued to be responsible for the content of telephone calls between
Basset & Gold.
On 4 January 2018, he received an email from the owner of Basset & Gold, which
confirmed that Basset & Gold (he says this meant BGF) had been authorised by the
FCA. The owner requested a meeting to discuss the best way to transition the
regulatory business away from Gallium to the new firm.
He believes the meeting took place on 11 January 2018. No notes are available but
he recalls what was discussed.
This service has asked  on another complaint  for various points of clarification on what is 
said in the witness statement, and for contemporaneous evidence to support it. We have not 
received a response to that request. However, for the reasons I have set out below, I think I 
can proceed with this particular complaint without that further information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given what Gallium says about the interim period  that it is not responsible for the act(s)
this complaint relates to - I have first considered all the available evidence and arguments to
decide whether we can consider Mr Os complaint.
It is not clear how exactly Mr Os application came about  whether it was done online, overthe phone or a combination of the two. But, Im satisfied Mr Os complaint is about the 
arrangement of his investment in the bond and the exchanges he had with the 
representative in the period up to the arrangement of the investment being concluded. In 
short Mr O says he was misled during those exchanges.
Rule DISP 2.3.1R says we can;
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or omission by
a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, including advice,
carried on by the firm in connection with them.
And the guidance at DISP 2.3.3G says:
complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which the
firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which
the firmhas accepted responsibility).
This guidance is drawn from the relevant legislation, which is paragraph 3 of s39 to the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMSA):
the principal [here, Gallium] of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same
extent as if she had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative
in carrying on the business for which she has accepted responsibility.
So I need to consider whether Mr Os complaint is about a regulated activity, carried on by
an appointed representative of Gallium, for which Gallium accepted responsibility.
Is Mr Os complaint about a regulated activity?
I am satisfied Mr Os complaint relates to a regulated activity. The bond was a security or
contractually based investment specified in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
(Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (RAO). At the time Mr O made his investment, the RAO
said regulated activities include arranging deals in investments. Acts such as obtaining and
assisting in the completion of an application form and sending it off, with the clients
payment, to the investment issuer would come within the scope of Article 25(1), when the
arrangements have the direct effect of bringing about the transaction. So I am satisfied the
application process  whether it took place online or over the phone  falls within the scope 
of Article 25(1). It involved making arrangements for Mr O to invest in the bond, and had the 
direct effect of bringing about the transaction.
Was Gallium responsible for the acts the complaint is about?
Under the appointed representative agreement in place between BG Ltd and Gallium, in
relation to bonds, BG Ltd was allowed to carry out promoting activitieswhere the Company
has approved the financial promotion. And Gallium allowed BG Ltd the right under its
authorisation with the FCA to give advice in connection with advising, arranging, or dealing
in investment products for present and prospective clients and in connection therewith to
display, advertise, promote, . for the sole purpose of promoting the sale of the same.
This agreement was in force during the period up to the date of investment  2 January
2018. So, if BG Ltd carried out the arrangements, that is business for which Gallium
accepted responsibility and the complaint can therefore be considered against it.
I note Gallium says from 2 January 2018 BGF began to promote the bonds to investors and 
that the website and telephone line was the responsibility of BGF from that date. However  
save for the witness statement, which is unclear on several points and in any event 
inconsistent with the position set out in response to the view  it has provided no evidence to 
support this point.I will turn to the witness statement shortly. The evidence available otherwise all shows it was
BG Ltd  not BGF  which made the arrangements in this case.
Mr Os Bond certificate was issued on the same day that BFG became authorised. There is 
evidence that Mr O had discussed and completed his online application before this date  
when he had been dealing with a relationship manager from BG Ltd. Considering the 
proximity to the opening of the investment and the various interactions in the application 
process with BG Ltd  it seems clear to me that the business arranging the bond was BG 
Ltd, who were an appointed representative of Gallium at this time  and essentially the 
arrangement happened before BFG became authorised. 
There are also various emails both shortly before and shortly after completing the investment 
from BG Ltd to Mr O. These emails are from Mr Os Dedicated Relationship Manager
(the representative Mr O dealt with throughout), which confirms he was working for BG Ltd in 
his title and not BFG. The emails include things like confirming receipt of documents and 
completion of the investment. These emails also have a footer which confirms Basset Gold 
Ltd is an appointed representative of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited which is authorised and 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, reference number 487176. So whether 
arrangement was still happening on or after 2 January 2018, the evidence still supports that 
it was BG Ltd who was the party who was arranging the investment. I note Gallium was 
provided these emails during its investigation of Mr Os complaint as it sent them to this 
service in its file submission. 
Ive also reviewed the sample correspondence the investigator provided to Gallium to show 
examples of when BG Ltd were involved in arranging investments in bonds during the 
interim period. This includes copies of emails and paperwork in use around the same time as 
Mr O took out his investment which consistently set out BG Ltd, acting as an appointed 
representative of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited, as the business involved in arranging the 
investments. This evidence further supports the specific evidence mentioned above from the 
sale of Mr Os bond in January 2018 that Gallium is responsible for the actions of BG Ltd 
when arranging Mr Os investment. 
Gallium says the available evidence suggests that Mr O applied to invest through a website
process approved by BGF. But I have not seen any evidence of the type Gallium refers to. 
As I have set out, I have not seen any evidence specific to this investment which makes any
reference to BGF- all references are to BG Ltd.
The witness statement includes the following:
On 4 January 2018, I received an email from [name of the owner of the Basset Gold/Basset
and Gold businesses], the ultimate owner and controller of Basset & Gold, which confirmed
that Basset & Gold had been authorised by the FCA. I now know that it is BGF that was the
entity authorised by the FCA, and that BGF had become FCA authorised on 2 January 2018.
[name of the owner of the Basset Gold/Basset and Gold businesses] requested a meeting to
discuss the best way to transition the regulatory business away from Gallium to the new
firm.
I met with [name of the owner of the Basset Gold/Basset and Gold businesses] in the hotel
he was staying in London the week following his email. I believe the meeting took place on
11 January 2018 as [name of the owner of the Basset Gold/Basset and Gold businesses]s
email of 4 January 2018 mentioned that he would be in London the following Thursday,
which was the 11th. I recall that I made a note of what we discussed at the meeting, but so
long after it took place I cannot now locate my notes. I do, however, recall what was
discussed.At the meeting, [name of the owner of the Basset Gold/Basset and Gold businesses] and I
agreed that Gallium would cease monitoring and approving new financial promotions with
immediate effect, because Basset & Gold now controlled its own regulated firm, BGF.
[name of the owner of the Basset Gold/Basset and Gold businesses] also informed me that
BGF would update the Basset & Gold website and online application form, to reflect that
BGF was now responsible for the promotion of the bonds and arranging any investments
made in the Bonds.
As mentioned, there are a number of things about the witness statement which are unclear,
and we have not been provided with any evidence to support what it says. But, even I accept
what the statement says as an accurate reflection of the position at the time (and, to be
clear, given the available evidence otherwise, I do not) it does not in any event amount to
evidence BGF was responsible for Mr Os investment.
I say this because the witness statement says a meeting  to discuss a transition to BGF
from Galliums appointed representatives  took place on 11 January. Galliums ex-director
says his recollection of that meeting was that at the time of the meeting Gallium would no
longer be responsible with immediate effect and BGF now being responsible. Which
suggests, on Galliums ex-directors recollection, responsibility passed from Gallium to BGF
on 11 January 2018. That is not evidence of BG Ltd and therefore Gallium not being
responsible for arrangements which concluded on the same day.
To be clear, I have not seen any evidence to show BGF took responsibility from 2 January
2018, as Gallium says, or that it had any involvement in Mr Os investment. All the evidence I 
have seen supports a contrary position. All in all, I am satisfied Mr Os complaint is about 
acts for which Gallium accepted responsibility. They are therefore acts of Gallium and can 
be considered in a complaint against it.
The merits of Mr Os complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are
relevant here.
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant
here.
The bonds were non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting who they
could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the
potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I
have considered the relevant rules in full.
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered
these too.Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached similar overall
conclusions to the investigator, for similar reasons. In summary: 
BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Mr O into certifying himself as belonging in a 
category to which he did not belong (a restricted investor) by changing the term used in the 
rules to everyday investor and describing the category as being one anyone could fall 
into. This was not treating Mr O fairly or acting in his best interests. Had BG Ltd followed the 
rules and not misled Mr O, it is unlikely he would have certified himself as being a restricted 
investor.
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet the 
requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the bond was 
not an appropriate investment for Mr O. In the circumstances he would either not have 
proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have concluded it should not 
promote the bond to him.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Mr Os complaint 
should be upheld. I am also satisfied Mr O would either not have proceeded to make the 
investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably 
to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to 
compensate Mr O for his loss.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr 
O as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable 
advice.
I take the view that Mr O would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr O's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mr O fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mr O's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Pay to Mr O £200 for the upset caused by losing the money invested and worry of 
how it will be paid back.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
B&G Bond Still exists 
but illiquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private Date of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsnot settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date any asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr O agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the illiquid assets, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Yes to take ownership, 
then it may request an undertaking from Mr O that he repays to Gallium any amount he 
may receive from the portfolio in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any income from the Bond should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it 
was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If 
there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Gallium totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr O wanted Income with some growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr O's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr O into that position. It does not mean that Mr 
O would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some 
kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr O could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman