DRN-2760496
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Nationwide Building Society didnt tell them that there was a 
cheaper interest rate product available to them that would have met their need to have a 
product without an early repayment charge (ERC).
What happened
In 2018, Mr and Mrs W spoke to Nationwide about switching to a cheaper interest rate 
product. They explained that they planned to move home, so they didnt want a product that 
had an ERC. Mr and Mrs W said that they werent told about any products that met their 
requirements. So they left their mortgage on the standard variable rate.
In January 2020, Mr and Mrs W asked Nationwide if they could switch to an interest only 
mortgage. Nationwide said it didnt offer interest only mortgages. But it went to say that Mr 
and Mrs W could switch to a tracker interest rate, that had no ERC and would reduce their 
mortgage payments. Mr and Mrs W switched mortgage products.
Mr and Mrs W complain that Nationwide should have told them about the availability of 
interest rates without an ERC when they spoke to it in 2018. They said it has cost them 
around £1,200 in additional interest. They consider that Nationwide has unfairly withheld 
information from them. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that Nationwide gave 
Mr and Mrs W two options: go through an advised sale that would take about 90 minutes or 
choose a mortgage themselves on Nationwides website. Mr and Mrs W initially arranged an 
advice appointment with Nationwide. But they decided not to go ahead with it.
Mr and Mrs W didnt accept what the investigator said. They couldnt see how the 
investigator could reach a fair outcome without listening to a recording of the phone call in 
question, which wasnt available.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its unfortunate that the recordings of phone calls in question arent available. There is no 
requirement for Nationwide to retain such recordings. I dont consider that means Nationwide 
has made a mistake or acted unfairly. 
I am still required to make a decision based on all of the evidence available to me. Where 
the evidence is incomplete, I must make a decision on the balance of probabilities. That is 
what is most likely to have happened in view of the available evidence.
Mr and Mrs W have told us that their recollection is that in 2018 in an initial phone call and a 
follow-up appointment they told Nationwide they planned to sell their home and wanted an 
interest rate product that had no ERC. They said that they werent told that there was a 
product available that had no ERC and that would reduce their mortgage costs.
Nationwide has provided its notes of the conversations it had with Mr W on 5 and 7 
December. It seems more likely than not that these notes were completed at the time in 
question and represent an accurate summary of what was discussed in those calls, bearing 
in mind they were made during or soon after the calls were made.
The notes of the phone call on 5 December 2018 support that Nationwide told Mr W he 
could either go through an advised sale that would take around 90 minutes or choose a 
product themselves from the Nationwide website. The notes say that Mr W would talk to Mrs 
W about how to proceed.
Nationwides notes say that it spoke to Mr W again on 7 December 2018 and he told it he 
had emailed to say that he wished to cancel the appointment. So Nationwide didnt take any 
further action.
Looking at the evidence we have, I consider that Nationwides notes are more likely to be an 
accurate reflection of what was discussed. That is not to dispute Mr and Mrs Ws 
recollection. Rather it is that I have placed more weight on a detailed written account of the 
phone conversations made at the time in question.
On balance, I consider it more likely that Nationwide didnt tell Mr and Mrs W about tracker 
rate product in 2018 because they didnt go ahead with the planned advice appointment nor 
use Nationwides website to choose a new interest rate product. So I dont consider 
Nationwide has acted unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman