DRN-3798614
The complaint
Mr L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc affected his credit file and his ability to get a 
mortgage based on their delays in transferring a balance from his HSBC credit card to a third 
party bank.
What happened
Mr L attempted to make a balance transfer from his HSBC credit card to a third party bank. 
However, based on errors on HSBCs side, the payment did not credit his account with the 
third party, and they returned the funds to HSBC on 19 January. HSBC did not pick this up 
until 21 February and the second attempt was successful. But the third party recorded a 
missed payment on his credit file. Mr L made a complaint to HSBC. He wanted them to liaise 
with the third party bank to remove any adverse information from his credit file.
HSBC upheld Mr Ls complaint. They initially paid him £50 compensation, but they later 
increased this by another £250. They said they were unable to liaise with the third party bank 
and how they update his credit report is the third party banks decision, and it is not open to 
their influence. HSBC said the original issue was that the wrong option was selected when 
the balance transfer was originally requested. This caused the funds to be returned and a 
delay in processing meant that he could not try again for several days. They said there was 
no way for their telephone banking team to know that this issue had occurred, and they had 
provided information to Mr L based on the facts available to them at the time. They said they 
have acknowledged their failings in this process and had provided fair and reasonable 
compensation for the incorrect information and delays. 
Mr L brought his complaint to our service. He said he had lost out on thousands of pounds 
as a result of his credit file being negatively impacted by the missed payment. Mr L provided 
our investigator with his credit file, credit score and an email from his mortgage advisor, 
explaining he had been unsuccessful in securing Mr L a mortgage.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ls complaint. She said HSBC made a mistake in 
delaying his payment to the third party bank, which resulted in a missed payment being 
recorded on his credit file. She said although it was HSBC who caused this, she was unable 
to request for them to amend his credit file to reflect no missed payment. This was because 
it wasnt HSBC who recorded this information  it was the third party bank. She said 
although were not able to recommend that HSBC amend his credit file, her view expresses 
that HSBC accepts they made a mistake, and therefore he could use this as evidence to 
provide to his third party credit card provider, for them to consider what actions they wish
to take in relation to amending his credit file.
Our investigator said Its fair to say that HSBCs customer service fell short of the level wed 
expect to see, however as they awarded £300 compensation to apologise, she considered 
this a fair way to resolve matters. She said while Mr L provided additional evidence to show 
how HSBCs error impacted his ability to obtain a mortgage, she was unable to say that this 
evidence is enough to determine that the difficulties he experienced in obtaining a mortgage 
was solely because of HSBCs mistake. She said although the email he provided from his 
mortgage advisor states hes never experienced issues arranging mortgages for Mr L prior to 
the incident with his credit card, she was unable to say that HSBCs error was the sole 
reason for this because lenders consider a number of different factors. Mr L asked for an 
Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Its clear to me that HSBC have let Mr L down on more than one occasion. Not only have 
they admitted responsibility in the incorrect processing of the balance transfer, they failed to 
realise the third party bank had returned the funds for over a month and then didnt take 
ownership over the issue until Mr L had made multiple phone calls with them. So not only did 
Mr L suffer distress as a result of this, but he was also inconvenienced as he had to make 
several phone calls between both HSBC and the third party bank to find out what was 
happening.
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mr L has that HSBC are solely responsible for him not 
being able to be approved for a mortgage after the late payment. Ive looked at his credit 
score information hes provided me, and this does show that his credit score has fallen 
sharply (although there would be further factors which would be taken into account when 
approving a mortgage apart from a credit score). Ive also read what his mortgage adviser 
told Mr L when he said that as I have been arranging mortgages for you since 2014 and 
never had an issue in the past, the reason for this is due to an incident which looks to have 
occurred earlier this year with a credit card. And Ive looked at Mr Ls credit file he has 
provided us.
Looking at all of this information. I cant evidence that HSBC are solely responsible for him 
not being able to be approved for a mortgage. I realise this will disappoint Mr L, so Id like to 
explain why this is.
Mr L has mentioned that there was a missed payment on his third party credit card account 
as a result of HSBCs actions. But, from the credit file Mr L provided to us, this is not the only 
factor which may be considered as having a negative impact for the account itself. I say this 
as there are two entries which his third party bank have reported to at least two of the credit 
reference agencies (CRAs) which are showing what could be seen as adverse information. 
Page 15 of the credit report does show a missed payment  as indicated with a 1 for April 
2022. But two months earlier, in February 2022, there is an entry with two of the CRAs 
which show a status of AR  an arrangement to pay. 
So it appears that Mr Ls third party bank have reported to two CRAs that there was an 
arrangement to pay for one month. This is usually recorded on a borrowers credit report 
when the lender accepts a request to typically lower the cost of a scheduled monthly 
payment at the request of a borrower. This could indicate that the borrower could be 
financially struggling if they couldnt meet the scheduled cost of the payment and would likely 
have an impact on how potential lenders could view his creditworthiness. 
Different lenders will have different criteria in accepting a borrowers application for a 
mortgage. And their risk criteria will change from time to time, which could mean there are 
factors outside of just a credit score or credit report information which could result in them 
not accepting an application.  So Im not persuaded that Mr L was unsuccessful in being accepted for a mortgage solely based on HSBCs error  especially with there being an 
arrangement to pay marker on his credit file  which I cant say that HSBC would be 
responsible for the third party bank reporting both the arrangement to pay and a late/missed 
payment months apart. 
My understanding is that the third party bank have since amended Mr Ls credit file. But I 
would urge Mr L to check his payment history isnt showing any adverse credit information 
anymore from his third party bank. And if he didnt make an arrangement to pay with the 
third party bank, then he should contact them to amend his credit file if they havent already 
amended this particular entry. 
Ive considered what Mr L has said about how HSBC should have liaised with the third party 
bank and that the third party bank said HSBC should change his credit file information in 
respect to the late payment. However, since HSBC did not report this information to the 
CRAs, it would be down to the reporting bank to contact the CRAs regarding this. As HSBC 
had put in writing that they had made errors, this should have been sufficient for the third 
party bank to take this into consideration. HSBC have said that the third party bank wouldnt 
have discussed Mr Ls account due to data protection anyway. So I cant say that HSBC did 
anything wrong by putting their error in writing. Its my understanding that this admission by 
HSBC was enough for the third party bank to amend Mr Ls credit file after he brought this to 
them through our service. So Im satisfied that HSBC followed their procedure here. 
Ive considered the compensation that HSBC have paid Mr L for letting him down. As 
previously documented, this wasnt just one occasion where he was let down by HSBC. In 
considering compensation though, I can only look at the actions of HSBC only here, as this 
is who Mr Ls complaint is about. Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mr L believes £300 is 
insulting and embarrassing. But compensation is a discretionary remedy that we sometimes 
award if we feel that a business has acted wrongfully and therefore caused distress and 
inconvenience to their customer over and above that which naturally flows from the event. 
When we recommend compensation, it is often modest and within our established 
guidelines.
So Im persuaded that £300 is fair and reasonable for how HSBC have let Mr L down. Im 
persuaded it recognises the distress their delays caused Mr L and the inconvenience they 
caused him when it took multiple phone calls for someone to take ownership of the issue. 
The £300 is in line with what I would have awarded Mr L if HSBC had not increased their 
compensation to £300. So it follows that I dont require HSBC to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman