DRN-3536405
The complaint
Mr B complains that NewDay Ltd have irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr B was approved for two NewDay credit cards which I will refer to as A and B. NewDay
increased the credit limits on both cards, which I have detailed below.
Card A  approved December 2015, with an initial £600 credit limit:
June 2016 £600 to £1,600
December 2016 £1,600 to £2,600
May 2017 £2,600 to £3,350
November 2017 £3,350 to £4,850
Card B  approved December 2016, with an initial £600 credit limit:
May 2017 £600 to £1,500
October 2017 £1,500 to £2,250
February 2018 £2,250 to £3,000
Mr B complained that NewDay had irresponsibly lent to him. NewDay said that when Mr B
applied for A, Mr B had declared an income of £16,000, access to other household income
of £20,000 and unsecured debt of £300. They said that while there were two defaults
showing on his credit file, the latest default had happened 26 months prior to his application.
NewDay said when Mr B applied for B, he had declared an income of £25,000, access to
other household income of £25,000 and unsecured debt of £600. His last default was
showing as 38 months old. NewDay said B was passed to a third party debt management
company in March 2019. Mr B brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator partially upheld Mr Bs complaint. He said that the credit limit increase on A
was irresponsible from the November 2017 increase and the credit limit increase on B was
irresponsible from the October 2017 increase, as Mr B had taken an unsecured loan with a
third party company for £10,000 in April 2017. He said its unlikely NewDay wouldve known
about this when they increased his credit limit for A in May 2017.
Our investigator said that NewDay should refund all interest and charges that arose from the
credit limit increase in October 2017, to reduce the outstanding balance, but if there was a
positive balance after the repayment, then any positive balance should be paid to Mr B with
8% simple interest added to the repayment. He also said that NewDay should remove any
adverse credit from Mr Bs credit file as a result of the interest and charges.
NewDay asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. They said there was no
indication that Mr B would struggle financially from the credit increases and Mr B did not
have any active payday loans, no arrears, no overdraft, or late payment fees at the time of
the credit increases.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to approve or increase the credit available to Mr B, NewDay needed to
make proportionate checks to determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable
for him. Theres no prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I
expect lenders to consider include - but are not limited to: the type and amount of credit, the
borrower's income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well as
the consumer's personal circumstances. Ive listed below what checks NewDay have done
and whether Im persuaded these checks were proportionate.
Acceptance for A - initial credit limit:
Ive looked at what checks NewDay said they did when initially approving Mr Bs application
for A. Ill address the credit limit increases later on. NewDay said they looked at information
provided by credit reference agencies and information that Mr B had provided before
approving his application.
Im satisfied that the account opening checks were proportionate. I say this as the
information showed that Mr B had external borrowings of only £300 when he was approved
for A. Mr B had declared an annual income of £16,000 at the time, so it would appear that
the initial credit limit may be affordable for Mr B as the initial credit limit was only £600.
But thats not all NewDays data showed. The data also showed that Mr B had adverse credit
data in the form of two defaults. So NewDay would have been aware that Mr B had
previously not maintained his agreements  on more than one account. But the data also
showed he had no accounts in arrears, no repayment plans and that the adverse credit data
was over two years old.
It may help to explain here that, while information like a default on someones credit file may
often mean theyre not granted further credit  they dont automatically mean that a lender
wont offer borrowing. Here, NewDay considered the information that Mr B had on his credit
history and still made a decision to lend which, in the circumstances, I think was reasonable.
June 2016 credit limit increase for A - £600 to £1,600
Ive looked at the information that NewDay had available to them when they increased Mr
Bs credit limit. I can see that Mr B had incurred an overlimit charge a couple of months
before the credit limit was increased. This may suggest that Mr B may not be managing his
credit limit effectively here. So Ive looked at the data NewDay had around the time to get a
broader sense of how Mr B was managing his finances prior to his credit limit being 
increased  especially as the credit limit had more than doubled.
The data shows that Mr Bs external debt is fairly low. At the time of the credit limit increase
there were no external accounts he had showing arrears, there were no new defaults or new
adverse credit information showing against his credit file. As the decision to increase Mr Bs
credit limit was made only six months after they accepted his application, then little appears
to have changed during this period. So I am persuaded that despite the overlimit charge, the
increase from £600 to £1,600 would be affordable and sustainable at this time, therefore Im
satisfied the checks that NewDay made prior to increasing Mr Bs credit limit here were
proportionate.December 2016 credit limit increase for A - £1,600 to £2,600, May 2017 - £2,600 to £3,350
and November 2017 - £3,350 to £4,850
Ive looked at the information that NewDay had available to them when they increased Mr
Bs credit limit on A. I can see that since the last increase, Mr B had fully repaid his
outstanding balance. He paid £400 on 30 July 2016 and £1,130.45 on 1 August 2016, before
repaying the residual balance of £35.68 on 4 August 2016.
So this may appear to NewDay that Mr B had the affordability to make large repayments to
manage his credit limit in a sustainable way. But, based on the application data NewDay had
for A, Mr Bs employment income was recorded as £16,000. So the repayments that Mr B
made to reduce his credit card balance to £0 would have been more than his net monthly
salary if he had accurately declared his income on his application.
So its likely that Mr B would have needed to either use savings (if he had any) or rely on
borrowings to repay the balance. I can see that on his following statement to when Mr B paid
off the balance, he had spent £1,777.22 on his A card. NewDays data showed that Mr B
incurred cash transaction fees of £57 this statement month, mostly on gambling
transactions. While Mr B would be allowed to use his credit card in the ways NewDay
allowed him to do so, it is not clear why Mr B would choose to use the credit card to gamble
and incur several cash transaction fees as opposed to using his own money  if he had the
affordability to do so, to save him incurring cash transaction fees.
On 19 November 2016, again, Mr B makes a payment to clear his outstanding balance. The
amount he paid again would be more than his declared net monthly income and the payment
was for £1,527.09.
NewDays data shows that Mr Bs unsecured borrowings in the month prior to the credit limit
increase was £6,027. Apart from minor exceptions, NewDay could see that Mr Bs total
borrowings was on an upwards trend month on month since A had been opened. The total
unsecured borrowings were over 20 times more than the figure Mr B declared on his
application for A, only 12 months prior.
The credit limit on A had more than quadrupled from the approved credit limit 12 months
prior with this increase. This increase was for £1,000. So Im persuaded that because of all
of the factors Ive mentioned, that NewDay should have made further checks to ensure the
credit limit increase was affordable and sustainable for Mr B.
They could have done this by contacting Mr B to discuss his personal circumstances at the
time, or they could have asked for information about his income and outgoings, such as
requesting his recent bank statements, to see whether the credit limit increase would be
sustainable and affordable for Mr B. They could also find out how he was able to afford the
large repayments which would have been more than his declared net income.
So our investigator asked Mr B to provide his bank statements for the months leading up to
the increase in the credit limit to £2,600 in December 2016, which Im persuaded that
NewDay couldve done as part of a proportionate check, considering the concerns I listed
above.
The statements show that in both October and November 2016, that Mr B had bank charges
as he had direct debits returned for unpaid payments to a third party credit card. So this
could indicate that Mr B was struggling to manage his financial commitments prior to the
credit limit increase.
But thats not all Mr Bs statements show. They also show that Mr B had a credit into hisbank account for £3,500. This was partly from a loan with a third party for £3,750. Although
the payment doesnt come directly from the provider, it ties into when Mr B took out a
guarantor loan with a third party provider on 15 November 2016.
So while this would be unlikely to show on Mr Bs credit file when NewDay increased his
credit limit to £2,600, had they requested his bank statements as part of a proportionate
check, they would (or should) have made further enquiries when they would have seen the
£3,500 credit go into his bank account, and saw that Mr B had committed to paying an extra
£182 a month as a result of the loan.
But Ive also considered what Mr B had used this loan for. I can see that he made payments
totalling just over £3,000 to financial institutions. This included NewDay and this shows that it
was borrowed money being used to repay his credit card in November 2016. Its possible
that Mr B may have been able to restructure his finances to make a lower monthly payment
towards the loan as opposed to the combined debt he paid off.
But Im persuaded that if NewDay would have asked for Mr Bs bank statements as part of a
proportionate check, then they shouldnt have increased the credit limit on A to £2,600 when
they did. I say this as Mr B had just taken out a loan to consolidate his debts  but he didnt
close his accounts. NewDay would have been able to find this information out by contacting
him as part of a proportionate check to ensure any further credit increases would be
affordable and sustainable for him. And regardless of if he closed his external credit cards
(which it appears from his credit file he didnt), NewDay wouldve been aware he didnt close
his account with them, so he still had access to the previous credit limit.
So not only would he need to make his new loan payment, but if Mr B would use the
NewDay credit card, then he would also need to ensure he had the money to make at least
his contractual minimum monthly payment for A. Given that prior to taking out the third party
loan he had a direct debit returned in two consecutive months, then there is evidence that he
would struggle to be able to do so.
While I need to ensure that the credit is affordable, I also need to ensure that the credit
NewDay made available to Mr B was able to be repaid in a sustainable manner within a
reasonable amount of time. Mr B had already defaulted on two previous financial
commitments totalling £3,500, just over three years prior to the increased credit limit of
£2,600. His total debt at the time of this increase was substantially higher than that figure.
Once Mr Bs credit limit was increased to £2,600, based on how he managed his finances,
with the unsecured debt rising mostly month on month, Im persuaded that NewDay should
have taken this into account and not have increased his credit limit here to £2,600 as Mr B
would be unlikely to be able to repay his debt in a sustainable manner within a reasonable
time frame, for the reasons Ive given above. So I am persuaded that NewDay should not
have increased Mr Bs credit limit to £2,600 here.
In addition, As Mr Bs subsequent credit limit increases were added to his previous credit
limit, which includes the credit limit increase Ive already concluded was granted
irresponsibly for the reasons set out above, I think there is an argument for saying that Mr
Bs complaint about the subsequent lending decisions should be upheld without making a
finding on reasonable and proportionate checks. After all, if matters had played out as the
evidence suggests they should have done in December 2016, Im not persuaded Mr B
wouldve been able to add to the credit granted at that time, especially as he also took out a
further £10,000 loan in April 2017, a month prior to NewDay increasing his credit limit again
and his total unsecured balances rising over the longer term.
Acceptance for B - initial credit limit, increases to £1,500 in May 2017, £2,250 in October2017 and £3,000 in February 2018:
Ive looked at what checks NewDay said they did when initially approving Mr Bs
application for B. NewDay said they looked at information provided by credit reference
agencies and information that Mr B had provided before approving his application.
But Im not satisfied that the account opening checks were proportionate. I say this as the
information showed that Mr B had external borrowings of only £600 when he was approved
for B. Mr B had a declared annual income of £25,000 at the time.
But based on NewDays data on his application for A and the data they had gathered since
Mr B was accepted for A, Im satisfied that there was application data which should have
concerned NewDay and prompted them to make further checks. And Ill explain why.
It was only three days earlier that NewDay had increased Mr Bs credit limit from £1,600 to
£2,600. So with Mr B applying for a new credit card shortly after the increase, this could be
an indication that Mr B was hungry for credit and he could be in financial difficulty  even if
he hadnt utilised his credit on A yet after paying the credit card balance off.
The information on his application for B which Mr B provided should have also raised some
concerns. I say this as Mr Bs declared income had risen from £16,000 on his application 12
months prior, to £25,000 when he applied for B. While there might be a reasonable
explanation for this, such as a promotion or Mr B working more hours, this does represent a
rise of 64%. So Im persuaded that NewDay should have made further checks to investigate
this.
Also on the application for B, it shows a total unsecured balance of £600. But based on
NewDays own figures for A, they show that Mr B had total unsecured borrowings of £6,027
for the month prior, November 2016  10 times more than what Mr B had declared. This was
information which was already available to NewDay.
As with the previous credit increase for A to £2,600 as Ive mentioned in the section above,
had NewDay requested further information from Mr B, such as looking at his income,
outgoings and his total unsecured borrowings, then they would have realised he had recently
taken out a loan, had his credit limit increased by £1,000 on A and had been previously
struggling to meet his financial commitments as he had two returned unpaid direct debits
which were intended to pay a third party credit card provider.
So Im not persuaded that it would be reasonable to accept Mr Bs application for B on this
basis. If Mr Bs application was not accepted, then none of the subsequent credit increases
would have happened on this credit card either. So it follows I intend to ask NewDay to put
things right for Mr B here.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Mr B accepted the provisional decision. NewDay responded to my provisional 
decision. They said as per their normal process, they would only agree to refund a 
proportion of interest that has been charged to the balance above £1,600 for A. Similarly, 
they would remove any adverse that has been recorded on Mr Bs credit file from December 
2016.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what NewDay have said in response to my provisional decision. I agree with 
NewDays comments about removing any adverse information that has been recorded on Mr Bs credit file from December 2016, as this is when Im persuaded the lending to be 
unaffordable for Mr B. As my provisional decision did not have this date included within what 
I intended to ask NewDay to do, I asked our investigator to reach out to Mr B to explain that 
this date should have shown in my provisional decision. Mr B accepted this, and I have 
slightly amended the wording in the Putting things right section below to reflect the 
inclusion of the December 2016 date.  
In response to what NewDay have said about agreeing to refund a proportion of interest that 
has been charged to the balance above £1,600 for A, NewDay would be entitled to charge 
their standard interest on balances up to £1,600 for A, as Im persuaded that this would have 
been affordable for Mr B at the time the credit limit was increased to £1,600. But as Im 
persuaded that the subsequent lending was unaffordable for Mr B, then they should refund 
all interest and charges applied on balances above £1,600 on A and his account should be 
reworked to reflect this. As B was unaffordable from the start, then his account should be 
reworked to refund all interest and charges applied from the date B was opened to the date 
of settlement.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision, I said intended to uphold the complaint in part and I intend to 
require NewDay Ltd to do the following:
Arrange to transfer back to themselves any of the cards they have passed to a debt
management company and contact Mr B to put in place an affordable repayment plan;
Rework the account for A, refunding all interest and charges that have been applied to any
balances above £1,600. They should also refund all interest and charges applied from the
date B was opened to the date of settlement;
If this results in a credit balance, refund that credit balance to Mr B, and add 8% simple
interest per year from the date the credit card would have first gone into a credit balance to
the date of settlement;
Remove any adverse entries on Mr Bs credit file relating to A from December 2016 and B 
from account opening and ask any third party debt management company to do the same. 
Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. NewDay Ltd should settle the complaint in line with the 
instructions in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman