DRN-2901980
The complaint
 Mr B complains that he couldnt get access to Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118118
Money (118 Money) via its app. 
What happened
 Mr B had an account with 118 Money with a limit of £250. He couldnt easily access 
information using its app from March 2020. He closed his account in April 2021.
Mr B complained that he hadnt been able to use 118 Moneys app to access his account for 
nine months. He couldnt accept the offered increase in limit. He had to call 118 Money each 
time to get a one-time password (OTP). This involved long wait times  and usually, the OTP 
didnt arrive to his phone. He also couldnt access the website.
118 Money said that their app didnt form part of its customer agreement and was simply an 
additional service. They said Mr B could still use the website to access its services. They 
couldnt work out what the problem was. They provided him with paper statements and 
telephone access to his account  and agreed to pay £25 as a gesture of goodwill. This was 
then increased to £90.
Mr B brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked at what had happened. She said 
that the service provided by 118 Money had been poor and said they should pay him an 
additional £100 in compensation.
Both 118 Money and Mr B disagreed  118 Money said the compensation proposed was too 
high and Mr B said it wasnt enough.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
I take a slightly different view on the amount of compensation that should be paid in this 
case. While 118 Money argue that their app doesnt form part of its customer agreement  in 
todays world, the effective use of an app to access financial services is important to most 
customers, and its clear that Mr B couldnt use it as he wished  and the service provided by 
118 Money was inconsistent in this regard. However, there are conflicting views on what 
services Mr B could and couldnt access. Mr B says he couldnt easily access the app for 
nine months  and when he could, he had to call for an OTP each time. And, many times, 
this didnt arrive. He says he couldnt use the website. On the other hand, 118 Money say he 
did access the app using an OTP and he could use the website.
But  the information isnt clear one way or the other. So - this is a finely balanced case, with 
valid arguments on both sides. But - Mr B has consistently and persuasively argued his 
case. Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory (as some of it is 
here) I must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is  whats more likely 
than not to have happened in all of the circumstances here, based on the available 
evidence.
118 Money couldnt find a problem with using its app. They provided some data to show that 
Mr B received OTPs ten times between October and December 2020  but their data didnt 
go back beyond that. They said he could use the website  but could only show he accessed 
it once, in December 2020. In their final response, they said that a problem with the app 
could lead to a problem with its website access. They argued he could phone them for 
information - and also sent him paper statements. They said he must have been able to 
access his account using the app as hed made a payment into it in December 2020. They 
showed us information that wait times on inward bound calls averaged less than a minute 
during August and December 2020  so Mr B couldnt have had to wait long for an answer.
Against that, Mr B consistently argued he spent a long time waiting on the phone to get 
through to 118 Money to get an OTP, and invariably this didnt arrive to his phone. He spoke 
to his mobile provider who said it couldnt be a problem with them. He showed us evidence 
that OTPs received from other banks were arriving OK to his phone. The payment referred 
to by 118 Money was actually a faster payment originated by Mr B from his bank account  
so that argument fell away.
On balance, I am inclined to believe that Mr B suffered a serious loss of service over a long 
period of time. The OTPs didnt consistently arrive  and because he had to call up 118 
Money each time for a OTP  this was very inconvenient and time consuming. Its not clear 
that he could, or did, access the website though the period. I come back to my main point  
that the use of an app in todays world is an important part of service, and the evidence 
suggests to me that Mr B couldnt use it consistently for a long period of time.
So  for that reason, my provisional decision is that 118 Money should pay a further £200 to 
Mr B for distress and inconvenience. This, added to the £90 already paid by 118 Money, is in 
the middle of what this service would expect to see for what we define as moderate 
inconvenience. But I think thats justified in this case.
This is subject to any comments that either Mr B or 118 Money may have. In particular, if 
118 Money can provide specific data of when Mr B logged on through its website, or through 
its app, and that OTPs were delivered successfully between March 2020 and December 
2020  then I may change my view.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mr B accepted my findings. 118 Money provided some further information which showed:
Mr B was sent an OTP 81 times between 26 May 2020 and 16 December 2020. Of 
these, the previous data submitted by 118 Money showed that these SMSs were 
successfully delivered four times in each of October 2020 and December 2020. 
They said Mr B didnt need to call them for an OTP  this request was generated via 
his phone.
Mr B successfully made four calls to them in May 2020, June 2020, August 2020 and 
January 2021. Two were described as log in issues.
So  I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I dont think the further information provided by 118 Money changes my view. They havent been able to show consistent delivery of OTPs for the period between May 2020 and 
December 2020  only on eight occasions. And, theres no evidence to show Mr B could log 
onto the website either  which might have mitigated his problems. The fact that he made 
four successful calls to 118 Money isnt all that relevant in my opinion. Nor is the fact that 
requests for OTPs made through a phone  Mr Bs complaint is that he didnt receive the 
OTPs and he couldnt use the app.
So  my final decision is that 118 Money must do what I said in my provisional decision and 
for the reasons I gave in it.
Putting things right
 As I said in my provisional decision, 118 Money should pay an additional amount of £200 to 
Mr B for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint.  Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118118 Money must pay to Mr B 
£200 for distress and inconvenience. This is in addition to the £90 already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman