DRN-3356586
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way Lloyds Bank PLC dealt with his attempts to recover money 
hed paid for a holiday booking that he was unable to take due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr B booked a cottage with a third party, F. He paid an initial deposit, followed a few weeks 
later by the balance. On both occasions he used his Lloyds Bank MasterCard credit card. 
Unfortunately, shortly after Mr B paid the balance, his holiday was caught by restrictions 
imposed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. F contacted him to say it wouldnt be able to fulfil 
the booking. Mr B was unhappy that F didnt propose to refund him, so he turned to Lloyds 
Bank to see if he could recover his money through the bank.
Lloyds Bank responded to Mr B to say that it had considered whether he had a valid claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. This has the effect that in certain 
circumstances, a credit provider can be liable for a misrepresentation or breach of contract 
claim that the borrower might have against the supplier of goods or services. Lloyds Bank 
took the view that in this case, it had no liability to Mr B.
The bank said Mr Bs agreement with A states in respect of cancellations that no refunds 
would be given due to unforeseen circumstances. It took the view that this meant there was 
no breach of contract. Mr B was unhappy with Lloyds Banks position and made a complaint 
about its approach to his claim; however, the bank wasnt willing to change its stance so 
Mr B referred matters to us.
Our investigator didnt agree that As no refund cancellation policy applied in the 
circumstances at play in Mr Bs case. He felt it only applied in the event of Mr B cancelling, 
which wasnt what had happened  A had clearly been unable to provide the booked 
accommodation following the government lockdown. However, he noted that Mr B had in the 
meantime made use of a credit note A provided later in the year. So he didnt think the bank 
needed to take any further action to resolve matters.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators assessment. He pointed out that hed only accepted the 
voucher because Lloyds Bank was unwilling to refund him. In addition, he had to pay a 
higher price for the rebooking in order to redeem the voucher, so he was out of pocket by 
£188.
My provisional decision
I recently issued my provisional conclusions setting out the events leading up to this 
complaint, and how I thought matters should be resolved. I said:
Mr B was understandably unhappy that his holiday had to be cancelled. The 
circumstances in the UK at the time were such that A was unable to fulfil the contract 
it had with him. He sought to recover his money through Lloyds Bank. Although he 
did so by making a claim against it under section 75, that wasnt the only 
mechanisms by which he might have been able to get a refund. The bank could - and 
should  have considered whether this could be achieved through chargeback.
Lloyds Bank has told us it didnt look into chargeback, noting that Mr B had only 
raised a section 75 claim. I dont think that was a fair way for the bank to have dealt 
with Mr B. It should have explored both possibilities. If it had done so, there was a 
realistic prospect of securing a cash refund for Mr B. So I dont consider the bank 
dealt with him fairly, and I intend to require it to compensate him in light of this. Ill 
explain why.
Section 75
For there to be a valid claim under section 75, there needs to be a specific 
relationship between Mr B, A and Lloyds Bank. Im satisfied the relevant section 75 
relationship exists between the parties in this case. And the overall cash price of the 
booking meets the financial limits of section 75. None of this is disputed by the 
parties. The issue at hand is whether Mr B has a valid claim for breach of contract.
In this respect, As terms dont seem to be particularly well drafted. The cancellations 
policy isnt explicit about whether it applies only to situations where the customer 
cancels, or includes cancellation by A. If the terms were intended to include that no 
refund would be made if A was the cancelling party then that might well have created 
a significant imbalance between the parties, such that the term might be considered 
unfair under the Consumer Rights Act 2015. As such, it might well have been 
unreasonable for Lloyds Bank to seek to rely on the no refunds term to defend the 
claim.
That doesnt automatically mean there was a breach of contract, however. Its 
possible the pandemic circumstances that led to A being unable to fulfil the booking 
would be construed as a frustration event, rather than a breach of the contract. 
Where a contract is frustrated  that is, unforeseen circumstances have made it 
impossible to perform  the usual remedy is that the parties are released from their 
contractual obligations. So A wouldnt be obliged to fulfil Mr Bs booking, and he 
should be restored to his original financial position by having his money back.
Because of the way section 75 operates, Lloyds Bank wouldnt be liable to Mr B for a 
frustrated contract. So although the banks original argument wasnt an appropriate 
reason, Im not convinced Mr B would otherwise have been entitled to recover his 
money through a section 75 claim. However, that same line of argument doesnt 
prevent him from recovering via chargeback.
Chargeback
Because Mr B paid using his MasterCard, Lloyds Bank ought to have considered 
whether chargeback offered the opportunity of recovering his money. The bank has 
already confirmed to us that it didnt consider this option. The MasterCard card 
scheme rules say that where goods or services arent received, the card issuer can 
submit a claim on behalf of the cardholder.
Of note in this respect is guidance issued by MasterCard in May 2020 in response to 
the Covid-19 pandemic. Although Lloyds Bank issued its response to Mr Bs section 
75 claim in mid-April 2020, it should have had regard for this guidance when 
reviewing its stance before issuing its complaint response in late July. The 
MasterCard guidance suggests that in the circumstances at play in Mr Bs case, a 
chargeback right exists when services are cancelleddue to government restrictions, and that a voucher or similar alternative can only be 
offered when so provided in the agreement or by the government legislation.
At the material time, A hadnt offered a voucher or alternative to Mr B. And the UK 
government hadnt made any imposition on businesses to do so in lieu of a refund. 
As cancellation policy doesnt appear to be something that the card scheme would 
have accepted as a valid response to a chargeback claim  its not cited in the card 
scheme rules as a valid second presentment  and the issues of a frustrated contract 
wouldnt be fatal to recovery via chargeback. If anything, they would seem to suggest 
a refund would fall due.
Taking all of this into account, I see no reason to find that, had Lloyds Bank 
considered a chargeback (as I am satisfied it should have done), this wouldnt have 
resulted in Mr B recovering his payments. His claim was received within the 
applicable timescale. It follows that Im minded to conclude there were deficiencies in 
the way Lloyds Bank approached Mr Bs claim that led to him being treated unfairly.
Putting things right
Ive thought about how best to address that unfairness. While I understand Mr B 
reluctantly accepted the alternative booking A later offered him, he has had value for 
the money he paid. So it wouldnt be right now to say Lloyds Bank should reimburse 
him, even if that might have been the appropriate remedy at the time.
I do think hes been put to some distress as a result of the way the bank approached 
matters. I dont doubt there was a period in which Mr B thought he might have lost 
that money entirely, though thankfully that turned out not to be the case. And he has 
been put to some unnecessary inconvenience in pursuing matters that could have 
been avoided if Lloyds Bank had handled things correctly in the first place.
I realise that at the time, the pandemic situation made things much more difficult for 
businesses in general, and to some extent I can understand why the bank dealt with 
the claim in the way it did. However, its actions did cause trouble and upset to Mr B, 
and I think its only right that hes compensated for this.
Assessing fair compensation isnt an exact science, and theres no obvious scale by 
which appropriate awards can be measured. However, I am aware that Mr B has said 
he had to pay an extra £188 when he rebooked with A. Although that isnt a loss that 
Id ascribe to Lloyds Banks actions, it seems to me that if Lloyds Bank were to pay 
Mr B this amount, it would represent suitable compensation for his distress and 
inconvenience.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments they wished to make in response 
to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Response to my provisional decision
Both Lloyds and Mr B accepted my provisional findings. Id like to thank both parties for their 
prompt response and for enabling an amicable resolution.In such circumstances Ive no reason to reach a different conclusion from the one I proposed 
in my provisional decision. For the reasons I set out, its a fair and reasonable way to resolve 
this dispute.
My final decision
My final decision is that to settle this complaint, Lloyds Bank PLC must pay Mr B £188.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman