DRN-3127987
The complaint
D complains Liverpool Victoria Insurance Limiteds settlement of its commercial property 
insurance policy is unreasonable. 
What happened
In August 2018 D discovered a tenant had damaged one of its properties. It claimed for the 
loss against its LV commercial property insurance policy. LV accepted part of the damage 
claimed for as covered by the malicious damage by residential tenants peril in the policy. 
But it refused to cover other items where it felt any damage was caused by the tenants 
lifestyle and lack of care for the property  causes not covered by Ds policy.
D started to repair the property using its own contractors. But it was unhappy with the 
amount of cash LV proposed as settlement so complained. It had provided its own costings 
for the works. These totalled about £36,000. This was higher than LV believed reasonable 
for the damage covered by the policy. Discussions continued with LV providing a settlement 
of about £16,500 to cover repairs and a period of loss of rent. 
D was unhappy with this, so it came to our service. In September 2019, after involvement of 
our investigator, D and LV agreed to a proposal to resolve the complaint. This was based on 
something suggested by LV in its response to Ds complaint. It was agreed a representative 
of D would attend the property with LVs loss adjuster and contractor. A schedule of works 
would be produced. Consideration would be given to repairs already completed by D  and 
costs involved. LV would then decide if any further payment was due to D. That complaint 
file was then closed by this service.
The site visit took place in November 2019 after Ds contractor had completed the works. LV 
considered a report from the visit. But said it still wasnt prepared to issue any further 
payments to D. It said it would require invoices and receipts for completed - and additional 
photos taken before, during and after the works.
 
So D came to this service. A new complaint was opened. D provided a range of photos of 
the property before, during and after repair. Our investigator forwarded these to LV. In 
response LV said the photos didnt change its opinion on the settlement. It said that a 
significant amount of the repairs undertaken related to either tenant misuse, wear and tear or 
general improvement. It was of the opinion D was claiming for a renovation and upgrade of 
the property, rather than for repair to damage caused by the tenants.
 
Our investigator said, based the available information, LV hadnt acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by refusing to increase the settlement. She didnt recommend it pay D any 
more to settle the claim. D didnt accept that, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to require LV to pay D anything more to settle the claim or do 
anything differently. 
Ive considered the photos provided by D of the property before, during and after Ds 
contractors made the repairs. The early photos show some areas and items that might be 
considered malicious damage. However, they largely show a property in a poor state of 
repair and general untidiness. The after photos show a property that appears to have been 
significantly upgraded and refurbished.
Ive looked at the estimates provided by D for the repair works  totalling about £36,000. 
This includes some costs that might be necessary as a result of malicious damage. But it 
also covers a full rewire of the property, a new kitchen and bathrooms for example. The 
photos, beyond perhaps a damaged shower cubicle and a few other items, dont persuade 
me any of that work was required as a result of malicious damage. Neither has D provided a 
persuasive explanation.
LV feels a significant amount of the work claimed for wasnt required as a result of malicious 
damage or any other insured peril. Based on what Ive seen I cant say this is unreasonable. 
Neither can I say its decision to increase the settlement, beyond the £16,500 already paid, 
following the November 2019 property inspection is unfair. That seems to me a reasonable 
payment to cover any damage to the property caused maliciously. A fair amount of the other 
work does seem to involve an upgrade or general refurbishment.  
Ive considered everything Ds said about how LV handled this claim. It may have made a 
few mistakes. However, as far as I can see it offered a fair settlement some time ago. Im not 
persuaded it would be fair or reasonable to require it to do anything differently  like increase 
the settlement or pay any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman