DRN-2542142
The complaint
Mrs R complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) returned payments to her credit card account.
What happened
Mrs R had a credit card with TSB. In February 2020, she paid three amounts of £25 into the 
account. These were shown on her March 2020 statement. Her April 2020 statement 
showed two of the credits had been reversed. A late payment fee of £12 was charged. The 
statement dated May 2020 showed another late payment charge of £12. The account was in 
arrears by £52.41. Both fees were refunded. In May 2020 Mrs R repaid the debit balance on 
the card.
Mrs R complained. She said shed made the payments of £25 and couldnt understand why 
theyd been returned to her banks. She had also made a payment of £53.16 towards the 
May 2020 statement, but this wasnt received either. As a result, shed been charged late 
payment fees, her account was in arrears and her credit file had been marked with late 
payments. Her credit limit was reduced from £1250 to £900. She said she had spent a long 
time on the phone to try to sort things out. And the replies to her complaint from TSB  either 
in their letters or on the phone - were poor.
TSB replied in October 2020. This followed several other letters from them between May and 
October 2020.They said they couldnt explain why any of the payments had been returned, 
even though they had investigated why. They said the late payment fees had been refunded. 
They amended Mrs Rs credit file to remove the late payment markers. They said that the 
reduction in Mrs Rs credit limit wouldnt affect her credit status  theyd done that because 
she said she didnt want to use the card anymore. But they reinstated the limit of £1250. 
They apologised for not calling Mrs R back and for the service shed received when dealing 
with her complaint. They paid £100 compensation for the upset caused, and £25 to cover 
Mrs Rs call costs.
Mrs R brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator looked at what had happened. 
In December 2020, she said Mrs R clearly intended to pay the amounts into her account. 
TSB had been unable to work out why the payments had been rejected. Theyd refunded the 
late payment fees and removed the adverse entries on Mrs Rs credit file. She 
acknowledged the poor experience Mrs R had had in trying to sort out the problems, but 
eventually, following Mrs Rs letter to the CEOs office, theyd been deal with  even though 
they couldnt explain why the payments werent processed. TSB had put things right and 
apologised for their handling of the matter, and she felt that the payment of compensation of 
£100, plus £25 for the cost of calls, was right.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mrs R feels strongly about what happened. She paid three amounts of £25 
into her credit card account. Two were returned for reasons that TSB cant explain  and as 
a result she was charged two late payment fees. She was then told she was in arrears. Her 
credit file was marked. She then tried to repay the arrears and that payment wasnt credited 
either. And TSB also reduced her credit limit from £1250 to £900 at the same time. She got 
mixed messages from TSB as to what had happened  in her calls to them and in letters. 
She has said that the compensation paid isnt enough. She wants an amount in the region of 
£500.
The cause of Mrs Rs frustrations here seems to be that TSB couldnt say with any certainty 
what had happened  and she couldnt get any answers from them. I can see that her 
complaint wasnt well handled until she complained to the CEOs office.
Ive looked at the file  and weve asked TSB for the cause of the problem. Weve pushed 
them - but they just cant explain why the payments were rejected. Unfortunately, we must 
accept that. 
In deciding how much compensation is right, we must be satisfied about the cost to Mrs R of 
what happened. TSB refunded the payment fees and removed the late payment markers on 
her credit file  so her credit status wasnt affected. TSB put her credit limit back to £1250. 
She says that shes paid off the account because of what happened, but really that was her 
choice. So, there were no real losses or costs to Mrs R here.
So, it really comes down to the right amount of compensation for the hassle and time taken 
to sort things out. Mrs R say she wants £500. TSB have apologised for what happened, 
including the way that Mrs Rs complaint was handled. Theyve paid £100 and £25 for the 
cost of calls. I have thought about this. I must say that what TSB have paid is about the 
amount we would expect to see here  and its what we would direct if TSB hadnt paid it.
So  and I know Mrs R will be disappointed by this  I dont think that we can ask TSB to do 
anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman