DRN-1568814
 
The complaint
Mr J complains that The Protection Specialist Limited trading as The Fair Trade Practice - 
Claims Specialist  (FTP) have unfairly charged him for PPI claims after he'd cancelled his 
agreement with them. 
What happened
In January 2018 Mr J authorised FTP to investigate PPI claims on his behalf. He said he 
called FTP in May 2018 and told them he wanted to cancel his agreement with them. He 
said he didn't hear anything from FTP until November 2018 when he received an invoice for 
fees for work done on claims with one lender. He said he complained but they didn't 
respond. He said the next thing he received was another invoice, this time for work done 
with two lenders.
He said he complained again, and didn't hear anything until June 2019 when FTP told him 
they'd only charge him for the work done on the claim for one of the lenders. He said he 
didn't receive or hear anything from them until November 2019 when he received a call 
demanding payment.
He says they're unfairly charging him three fees for accounts with the same lender. He says 
the small print says he should only be charged one fee for each lender. He's also unhappy 
because he can't afford to pay the fees and FTP won't agree an affordable payment plan.
FTP said they submitted the PPI claims to his lender in February 2018. They said the lender 
told them in March 2018 it had already received a PPI claim direct from Mr J. FTP said they 
called Mr J in April to discuss this. They said that Mr J contacted his lender and it told him it 
was still looking into the claims submitted on his behalf by FTP. 
They said they next heard from Mr J when he called to question an invoice they'd sent him. 
This was for a claim they'd made to another lender on his behalf. They said in this call Mr J 
asked to cancel all his claims, and his request was submitted to the cancellations 
department. They said at this point they were due a fee as they'd identified PPI on his 
accounts with this lender.
FTP said they'd never confirmed with Mr J his claims had been cancelled. They said they'd 
tried to contact him on several occasions between May 2018 and November 2018 to discuss 
his claims and make him aware of the cancellation charges.
FTP said Mr J only cancelled after he'd received a PPI offer from his lender. They said Mr J 
hadn't paid the cancellation fee so they'd charged him for work done up to November 2018. 
FTP also said they could have charged him the full success fee because he'd received a PPI 
payout following the claim they submitted on his behalf. But as a gesture of goodwill 
they'd only charged him the cancellation fees.Our investigator looked into the complaint. She upheld his complaint and said FTP should 
recalculate their fee, agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr J, and pay him £100 for the 
trouble and upset they caused him.
FTP disagreed and asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I'm upholding this complaint. I'll explain 
why.
Cancellation
FTP say they are entitled to charge for work done up to cancellation. I agree - the terms and 
conditions provided to Mr J allow him to cancel "at any time after the cooling-off period
by contacting us verbally or in writing". And the terms also allow FTP to charge a 
"reasonable fee to reflect the work we have done on your behalf".
There's no dispute that Mr J called FTP on 8 May 2018 and cancelled his agreement. The 
issue I have to consider is whether or not FTP dealt appropriately with the cancellation 
request, and if the fee they charged Mr J was reasonable.
FTP say they contacted Mr J on numerous occasions after he cancelled. They said they 
called him and sent text messages to discuss the cancellation. They said they didn't cancel 
his claims because "we were unable to explain we would need to recover fees from them for 
the cancellation of the claims".
It's accepted that Mr J's cancellation was made verbally, and this was in line with the terms 
and conditions. I'd have expected FTP to acknowledge the cancellation request. 
They should have written to him straight away setting out the cancellation fee, and inviting 
Mr J to contact them if he had any questions. I'm assuming FTP thought it would be helpful 
to explain the cancellation charges to Mr J over the telephone. But they didn't write to him 
until six months later, when they told him if he doesn't contact them, they'll cancel his 
contract and charge him cancellation fees - information they should have provided to him 
when he cancelled in May 2018.
Cancellation fees
I've said above that FTP should have explained the cancellation fees to Mr J in May 2018. 
So I find that they are entitled to charge him the fees due at that time. At that point they'd 
sent the PPI questionnaire to the lender. In January 2019, they wrote to Mr J to explain the 
cancellation fees. They said charges were broken down into three categories: 
Customer fees represent the work undertaken during the initial stages of your claims. 
This is a single fee charged per customer, not per claim
Lender fees represent the work involved with contacting lenders to establish 
the presence of PPI. These are charged per lender group, so you will see one charge 
per lender group regardless of the number of claims you have within that group
Claim fees represent the work undertaken which is specific to each line of credit 
we have investigated on your behalf. The charge is based on where in the 
complaints process the claim is at time of cancellation
It appears to me that the purpose of the PPI questionnaire was to establish the presence of 
PPI with the lender.  And based on their own explanation of the fees due, I expect Mr J to be charged a single fee for the submission of his PPI questionnaire to the lender, not three fees 
as they have charged him.
I can see from their records that FTP wrote to the lender after Mr J cancelled. But they chose 
to do this knowing that he'd already cancelled the agreement. So it's not appropriate to 
charge Mr J for this extra work.
Repayment plan
Mr J says he can't afford to pay. They say he'd received a PPI refund from the lender, and 
he chose to spend the award before paying the cancellation fee.
As a regulated business, they need to treat their customer's fairly in line with the regulators 
requirements, the Financial Conduct Authority. I agree with our investigator, Mr J received 
the PPI refund some time before they wrote to him in November 2018, and he's entitled to 
use the payment as he sees fit. He may have used it to pay off higher priority debts - but that 
doesn't matter. He says he's in financial difficulty and both Mr J and FTP need to agree a 
fully affordable repayment plan.
Service
Mr J says he received poor service from FTP, including giving him wrong information, and 
didn't call him when they said they would. I've looked at the information FTP has provided 
and it supports what Mr J has told us. He called to cancel but didn't receive any cancellation 
information until six months later. They say they tried to call him - but as I've said, he told 
them in May 2018 he wanted to cancel, but they waited until November 2018 before sending 
him an invoice setting out the cancellation fee. I can see why this was upsetting - he 
exercised his right to cancel, and it was six months later he received an invoice demanding 
payment.
Putting things right
FTP should put Mr J into the position he would have been had they acted promptly and 
properly when he cancelled in May 2018. To do this they need to recalculate the fee and set 
this out clearly for Mr J. The recalculated fee should be based only on the cost of the 
submission of the PPI questionnaire to the lender, and no more.
They should treat any subsequent request from Mr J to enter into a payment plan fairly.
They should pay Mr J £100 for the trouble and upset they caused him.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct The Protection Specialist Limited trading as The Fair Trade 
Practice - Claims Specialist to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman