DRN-3135131
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the total loss settlement West Bay Insurance Plc (formerly 
Zenith Insurance) offered when he made a claim under his motor insurance policy. Mr S 
doesnt agree that West Bay should deduct an excess from the settlement amount as he 
says he isnt at fault for the incident. 
As Mr Ss complaint is about a claim, my decision is against the underwriter of the policy, 
West Bay. All reference to West Bay in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
In September 2020 Mr S was involved in an incident with another vehicle and he made a 
claim to West Bay. Mr Ss vehicle was declared a total loss by an engineer due to structural  
damage that wasnt deemed repairable. 
West Bay offered Mr S a total loss sum for his vehicle and this included a deduction for the 
excess payable. Mr S didnt agree that West Bay should deduct an excess as he said he 
wasnt at fault for the incident. He didnt accept the settlement sum. In December 2020 Mr S 
raised a complaint. He was unhappy with the settlement offer and lack of updates. 
In February 2021 West Bay replied to Mr Ss complaint. It said the valuation of Mr Ss vehicle 
was correct and it was entitled to deduct the excess, regardless of liability. 
West Bay said if it was able to recover the excess from the third party then it would be able 
to refund this to Mr S. But as at February 2021 it was unsuccessful in trying to obtain public 
liability insurance details of the third party despite requests.
West Bay said because Mr S didnt accept the settlement payment, it couldnt instruct 
solicitors to look to recover its claim costs  even if it was able to pursue the third party for 
liability. So it suggested Mr S accept the settlement sum minus the excess. 
For a lack of updates West Bay paid Mr S £50 compensation.  
Mr S asked us to look at his complaint. He said he wasnt offered a courtesy car. He said he 
was without a vehicle and needed one for work.
Our Investigator explained that Mr S wasnt entitled to a courtesy car as the policy only 
provided this as an option for the duration of repairs. This was explained to Mr S by West 
Bay on 12 October 2020. The Investigator thought West Bay had fairly applied the excess  
and so she didnt think it was responsible for Mr S not being able to buy a replacement 
vehicle as he had refused to accept the payment. As of writing her view, West Bay had sent 
Mr S a cheque for the settlement sum in March 2021 which he said he didnt accept. 
Mr S didnt agree. He hasnt provided any further reasons. So the case has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In all insurance claims, the first payment is the excess. If an insurer can obtain liability from a 
third party from the outset  or recover the claim costs in full from a third party, an insurer 
can either decide to waive the excess or provide a refund of the excess to the policyholder. 
But there is no guarantee that this will happen. In this case, West Bay didnt have any 
admission of liability from the third party. So it wasnt in a position to waive the excess. 
Mr Ss policy with West Bay sets out the amount of excess payable depending on the type of 
claim and who is driving. The policy provides a definition of the term excess as follows:
The excess is the amount you must pay towards any claim, this can include both 
compulsory and voluntary excesses in which case the insurer will add them 
together.
So Im satisfied that West Bay clearly explained under the policy how much the excess 
would be and that it was payable under any claim. It follows that I think West Bay was 
entitled to deduct the excess from the total loss settlement sum.
So as West Bay had no admission from a third party in February 2021 as it wasnt able to 
obtain details of appropriate insurance for them, I dont think its responsible for the delay in 
Mr S receiving a settlement and any subsequent losses Mr S incurred as a result. Mr S didnt 
want to accept the payment while the excess was deducted from it. This was his choice. I 
think West Bay properly explained how it would deal with the claim from the outset. As it 
acted within the terms of the policy, I think it treated Mr S in a fair and reasonable way.  
For the lack of updates to Mr S, I think the £50 compensation it paid is reasonable. I say this 
because I dont think more regular updates would have changed the outcome  as West Bay 
correctly deducted the excess from the settlement sum it offered  and Mr S didnt want to 
accept it while this was the case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman