DRN-3473039
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) plc trading as Post Office Financial Services (BOI) 
didnt apply an interest rebate when he made a payment to settle his loan early.
What happened
Mr C had a loan agreement with BoI. The loan was taken out in 2017 and was for a term of 
five years at a fixed annual rate of interest of 8.9%.
He contacted BOI in May 2020 and asked it to provide him with an early settlement 
quotation. He received the quotation which stated that the amount required to early settle the 
loan was £12,772.23. The letter said this included a rebate of £1,094.70. The settlement 
date was 17 June 2020.
Mr C says that BoI collected a direct debit from his account on 9 June 2020 and a further 
direct debit on 9 July 2020. He says he wanted to early settle the loan. He tried to contact 
BOI in July 2020 but was unable to get through to it because the telephone lines were busy. 
He says he was a key worker and didnt have time to wait. So, he decided to calculate the 
early settlement figure himself. He deducted the two direct debit payments from the early 
settlement figure hed been given previously and made a payment of £11,745.05 on 14 July 
2020.
He didnt receive any acknowledgement from BOI. He noticed that a further direct debit was 
taken from his account in August. He complained to BoI.
BoI investigated his complaint. It said that Mr C hadnt settled his loan by the date set out in 
its letter. He hadnt contacted it for a further early settlement figure. It acknowledged that its 
phone lines had been busy because of the pandemic. But, it said that the payment made on 
14 July 2020 couldnt be treated as an early settlement. It had been processed as an 
overpayment. This meant the term of the loan was reduced. It said it had collected further 
direct debits in August and September. It would collect the residual balance of £67.52 in 
October 2020.
Mr C didnt agree. He complained to our service. Our investigator looked into his complaint. 
He thought BoI had acted correctly when the early settlement figure was requested in May 
2020. On balance he thought Mr C couldve contacted BoI by telephone. He noted that the 
telephone centre was open from 8am to 7pm Monday to Friday and from 8am to 2pm on 
Saturday. Nevertheless, having considered everything, he thought it would be fair and 
reasonable, given all the circumstances here, including the large payment Mr C had made 
on 14 July 2020 for BoI to give Mr C an interest rebate from 14 July 2020.
BoI didnt agree. It said that the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations made clear 
that the settlement date for the calculation of the rebate is where the debtor has given notice 
to the lender, is provided with the settlement date and pays no later than that date. It said Mr 
C hadnt made his payment by the settlement date and he hadnt requested a new early 
settlement calculation. It said there was nothing to flag up to it that hed made a large 
payment. 
Our investigator considered what BoI said but he didnt change his view. So, the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that Mr C received an early settlement quotation in May 2020. It told him 
how much he would have to pay to early settle his loan and it told him he would have to 
make that payment by 17 June 2020. He didnt make the payment by that date and he didnt 
request a new early settlement quotation from BoI after that date.
Ive looked at the early settlement quotation he was sent. That letter included the following 
information:
 
- The interest rebate had been calculated having regards to the Consumer Credit 
(Early Settlement) Regulations 2004 (the Regulations). This assumed settlement will 
take place on the settlement date shown (17 June 2020).
- The settlement quotation remained valid until 17 June 2020. If payment wasnt made 
on 17 June 2020 the amount required to settle the agreement may change.
- If any direct debits are paid between the date of the letter and 17 June 2020 the total 
amount required to settle will be reduced by the aggregate amount of such 
payments.
So, having read the letter, I think it wouldve been clear to Mr C that if he didnt make the 
payment by 17 June 2020, a new quotation would be required and the new early settlement 
figure would be calculated having regards to the Regulations. 
That meant Mr C wouldve needed to contact BoI to request the new figure or he wouldve 
need to carry out the calculation himself using the formula in the Regulations. Even if he had 
done that, the agreement made clear he needed to contact BoI to inform it he wanted to 
early settle the agreement. He didnt carry out the calculation using the formula in the 
Regulations and he didnt contact BoI, before making the payment on 14 July 2020, to tell it 
that he wanted to early settle at that time. The previous early settlement quotation had 
expired. 
I think Mr C wouldve known, from the information in the early settlement letter he had 
previously been sent that the calculation was more complex than simply deducting the direct 
debit payments from the settlement figure  after the settlement date stated on that letter 
had expired. 
The terms for the loan made clear that to settle the loan early, and receive the statutory 
rebate of interest, Mr C was required to take certain actions:
-[You] must give us notice orally or in writing  
-Make the repayment within 28 days of the quotation being provided
For these reasons, if he wanted to receive the statutory rebate of interest, I wouldve 
expected Mr C to make every effort to contact BoI to get a new quotation before making a 
payment. 
Mr C says he couldnt contact BoI to ask it for a new quotation. He says its telephone lines 
were busy. He says the reason for this was covid  but he says he was able to speak to other financial firms at this time without any such delays. And, Mr C has told us that he was 
a key worker during the pandemic so he was busy and didnt have time to wait for lengthy 
periods on the telephone. That was why he decided to calculate the payment himself before 
making it.
I can understand how frustrating it is to have to wait for lengthy periods on the telephone. It 
wouldve been particularly frustrating for Mr C who was a key worker during the pandemic. 
BoI has provided more information about the telephone wait times it was experiencing 
around the time Mr C says he tried to contact it.
Having looked at the average wait times and the opening hours available, I can see that in 
the period from 10 July 2020 to 15 July 2020, which was the period when Mr C says he was 
trying to phone BOI, there was an unusually high number of calls. The wait times were often 
longer than 30 minutes and there does appear to have been a high volume of abandoned 
calls. 
It is the case that consumers can, on occasions, have to wait longer than might be expected 
to have a call answered. And, there can be reasons for that which are outside of the control 
of the financial organisation. However, the lengthy wait times in this instance appeared to 
persist over several days. Mr C says he tried calling on several occasions  so, its likely he 
wouldve experienced long waiting times each time he tried to phone. The information 
provided by BoI would support what Mr C has told us about his experience.
In these circumstances, I can understand why Mr C went ahead and made the payment 
without following the requirements set out in the terms and conditions to contact BOI before 
making that payment. He says he expected BOI to treat him fairly and give him the interest 
rebate when it received the large payment he made.
Ive considered whether, as a result of what happened, Mr C has experienced a fair outcome 
here. 
He made the payment of £11,745.05 on 14 July 2020. That was a significant overpayment. 
So, I think it wouldve been clear to BoI, taking account of the size of the payment and the 
earlier request for a settlement figure, that his intention was to early settle the loan. That 
wouldve been confirmed when Mr C spoke to it in August.
BoI has told us that if Mr C had requested an early settlement quotation on 13 July 2020, he 
wouldve been told that the amount to early settle his loan was £11,885.64 (this included a 
rebate of £954.11). And, Im satisfied that if Mr C had been given that figure, he wouldve 
paid the full amount to early settle the loan at that time.
In addition to the payment Mr C made on 14 July 2020, he paid a further amount of 
£1,094.70 before his loan account was closed. So, he paid £954.11 more than he wouldve 
had to pay if he had been able to contact BOI in July to get the correct settlement figure. 
Having taken everything into consideration, Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances here, for BoI to give Mr C the benefit of the interest rebate he wouldve 
received if he had been able to contact it in July before he made the payment. So, I agree 
with our investigator when he said BoI should refund the interest rebate to Mr C. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint about Bank of Ireland (UK) plc trading 
as Post Office Financial Services.I now require it to take the following action:
Pay Mr C £954.11 which is the amount of the interest rebate he would have received 
if he had been able to contact it in July 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman