DRN-3345863
The complaint
Mr G complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont provide a detailed breakdown of a 
business loan he believes was overpaid. He wants National Westminster to refund any 
overpayments with interest.
What happened
The loan in question was originally taken out by Mr G acting in a business capacity. The loan 
terms were set out in an agreement dated 10 February 2010, and signed by Mr G on 24 
February. Mr G completed a declaration stating that he was entering into the agreement 
wholly or predominantly for business purposes and that the agreement was not regulated by 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
In summary, the loan terms comprised a combination of the banks base rate loan terms 
(made available to Mr G separately) and the terms of the agreement set out in the document 
Mr G signed. That agreement specified the loan amount as £41,600 (inclusive of a £600 
arrangement fee), payable over 180 monthly instalments and calculated at a variable rate of 
5% above base. At the time the loan agreement was produced, base rate was 0.5%.
The loan didnt run the full term, being settled in October 2018. Around that time, Mr G 
brought a complaint to us about the loan, including the settlement figure, which he 
considered incorrect. He was supported in his complaint by H, a third party who is also 
representing Mr G in this complaint. That complaint was reviewed by one of my ombudsman 
colleagues, Robyn McNamee, who wasnt persuaded that National Westminster had made 
an error in its loan calculations.
Mr G and H were unhappy with the outcome of that complaint. They maintained that the 
calculations they carried out using online tools and with the assistance of banking experts 
result in different figures from those produced by National Westminster. On behalf of Mr G, H 
asked National Westminster to provide a detailed breakdown of how the loan was calculated 
over the loan term.
National Westminster hasnt provided this breakdown. Instead it has reiterated its position 
that the loan was correctly calculated, pointing to arrears that developed on the loan as a 
possible reason why the interest was different from that H anticipated.
Our investigator noted that Ms McNamees decision dealt with the issue of whether the loan 
had been calculated correctly. He thought that we could still look at the matter of whether 
National Westminster should have provided the breakdown H had asked for. But the 
investigator concluded that the bank wasnt under any legal, regulatory or contractual 
obligation to do so. He was satisfied that the information the bank had supplied  the loan 
agreement and statements  were sufficient to meet the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
high level principles on paying due regard to customer information needs.
H didnt accept the investigators conclusions and has asked for this review, referring again 
to online tools hes used to make his own calculations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It does seem to me that the information H is seeking might well be with the intention of being 
able to demonstrate the banks calculations are wrong. I do understand Hs concern that he 
is unable to reproduce National Westminsters figures himself, and I will comment on that 
issue later, although it forms no part of the reasoning for my decision in this specific 
complaint.
The complaint Mr G has referred to us, and that Im addressing in this decision, is a little 
different from the one considered by Ms McNamee. It is about National Westminsters 
decision not to provide the month-by-month breakdown of interest and payments on his loan. 
In this respect, Im satisfied this was a decision the bank was entitled to make for itself. It 
isnt obliged to provide this level of detail simply because a customer asks for it. As the 
investigator noted, theres no legal or regulatory requirement to do this, and the contract 
doesnt entitle Mr G to this information.
I can understand why H would like to have this, and how it might serve to set his (and Mr 
Gs) mind at rest. But that isnt enough for me to conclude that the bank was remiss in 
choosing not to produce it. The relevant information is set out in the loan agreement, 
statements and bank base rate details published on its website.
Because of this, I dont consider it appropriate to uphold Mr Gs complaint or require National 
Westminster to produce the breakdown sought.
the loan calculation - ombudsmans comments
My reasons for not upholding this complaint are set out above. But as Ive said, I recognise 
that H is having some difficulty in reconciling the banks figures with his own calculations. 
With this in mind, it might be helpful if I make the following observations in passing.
H has said his loan calculations are based on borrowing £41,600 over 15 years at an interest 
rate of 5.5%, and that this produces a total amount payable of £61,183.21 as opposed to the 
£61,963.79 indicated on the National Westminster loan agreement. Without knowing the 
loan amortisation structure on which the online tools are based, its not really possible to 
establish where the difference might arise.
But National Westminsters obligation was to calculate the loan and interest in line with the 
agreement between it and Mr G, not in accordance with any online calculator. And as has 
previously been observed, that is what the bank has done. By way of example:
As H says, interest on the loan was charged quarterly. It was calculated on the daily 
balance. The loan - £41,600  was advanced on 24 February 2010, with the first payment 
due one month later. So the first interest calculation (interest up to 1 March 2010) was based 
on a balance of £41,600 for the 5 days from 24 February, at 5.5%. That comes to £31.34, 
which is the figure the bank calculated and charged to the account on 31 March.
For the next 23 days between 1 and 23 March, interest continued to accrue on the £41,600 
balance (interest of £144.18).
On 24 March Mr G made his first payment of £344.24, taking the running balance down to 
£41,255.76 for the next 8 days (£49.73).The balance then increased by the £31.34 interest Ive already mentioned, to £41,287.10 for 
25 days (£155.53).
Mr G made his next payment on 26 April, reducing the running balance to £40,942.86 for 28 
days (£172.75).
He paid another instalment on 24 May, meaning the balance was £40,598.62 for the 
remaining 8 days of the quarter (£48.94).
That gives accrued interest over that charging period of £571.13. And that is the figure 
National Westminster calculated as applicable on 1 June 2010 and charged to the account. 
Similar calculations can be made at any point throughout the loan duration, noting the 
interest rate changes in 2016 (to 5.25%) and 2017 (to 5.5%). I hope this helps to reassure 
Mr G and H in respect of the earlier stated finding that the bank has calculated interest 
correctly.
My final decision
Im satisfied National Westminster Bank Plc didnt treat Mr G unfairly in declining the request 
for a detailed breakdown of interest calculations on his loan. It follows that I dont uphold his 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman