DRN-3933927
Complaint
Mr M has complained about a guarantor loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Trust 
Two.com) provided to him. He says that the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Trust Two provided Mr M with a guarantor loan for £4,000.00 in March 2019. This loan was 
due to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of £158.21.
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr M and Trust Two had told us. And he thought that 
Trust Two hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly. So he didnt recommend that 
Mr Ms complaint be upheld. Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint.
Trust Two needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is Trust Two needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Mr M could afford to repay before providing him with this guarantor loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Trust Two provided Mr M with a loan for £4,000.00 in March 2019. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 60 instalments of £158.21. Trust Two says it agreed to Mr Ms application after he 
provided details of his monthly income and some information on his expenditure. It says it 
cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out and all of this 
information showed Mr M could afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the 
other hand, Mr M has said he wasnt in a good financial position at the time.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr M and Trust Two have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Trust Two has provided a record of the results of its credit 
searches. Trust Two searches appear to show that he had previous difficulties with credit in 
the form of a historic default. However, Mr M active commitments were relatively low and 
were being reasonably well managed. 
Given this was Mr Ms first loan with Trust Two , the default was from a number of years 
earlier and the rest of the information obtained showed the relatively low monthly payments 
were affordable, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Trust Two to rely on what Mr M 
said. 
I accept that Mr Ms actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the other information Trust Two obtained. Equally I accept that if 
Trust Two had gone into the depth of checks Mr M appears to be saying it should have  
such as obtaining bank statements  it may have reached a different answer. 
But the key thing here is that Trust Two was providing Mr M with a loan with relatively low 
monthly payments  albeit at a high rate of interest. And its only fair and reasonable for me 
to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. Given the 
circumstances here, the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would have extended into the level of checks Mr M is suggesting. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Trust Two did anything wrong when deciding to lend to 
Mr M - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Trust Two treated Mr M unfairly or unreasonably when providing 
him with his guarantor loan. And Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr M. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman