DRN-4028495
The complaint
This complaint is about Mr and Mrs Ks four buy-to-let (BTL) mortgages held with Lloyds 
Bank PLC, through its mortgage division, Cheltenham & Gloucester. Mr K, who has dealt 
with the complaint throughout, has complained that when he wanted to arrange a new 
interest rate product for the mortgages, he was told by Lloyds that it was necessary to 
arrange new re-mortgages, which resulted in delay, distress and inconvenience.
Lloyds agreed to reimburse legal fees incurred for disbursements totalling £268.20 and £350 
for distress and inconvenience. Our investigator was satisfied this was fair and reasonable.
However, to settle the complaint, Mr K wants Lloyds to pay more compensation. He said that 
having to deal with this matter exacerbated a health condition and caused him additional 
stress. 
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. 
I understand that the underlying issue in the complaint  the arrangement of the new 
re-mortgages for the BTLs  has now been completed and the mortgages are now all on 
new BTL mortgages. The only outstanding issue is the level of compensation Lloyds has 
offered. 
Therefore, I dont need to analyse the events in detail in order to determine whether the bank 
has made errors  Lloyds has accepted it could have done better. What I need to decide is 
whether Lloyds needs to do anything more to put things right.
In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that 
might lead to Mr and Mrs K being identified. So for these reasons, I will concentrate on 
giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally arranging an existing mortgage onto a new interest rate product is straightforward, 
and can be done online. However, in the case of Mr and Mrs Ks four BTL mortgages, it 
wasnt possible to carry out a standard product switch. Thats because the mortgages were 
in a closed book portfolio, which meant that, other than the length of the term or the 
repayment type, no changes could be made to the mortgages, including new interest rates. 
Closing a mortgage book to new business is a commercial decision Lloyds is entitled to 
make as part of its business operations. Its not something that falls within our remit, so I 
wont comment on this any further.
Lloyds was able to offer new mortgages in an open portfolio, but this involved redeeming the 
existing mortgages and taking out new mortgages, which involved instructing solicitors and 
putting new security in place. The bank offered free legals using its own solicitors. 
I understand Mr K wasnt happy about having to go through this process for the four 
mortgages, but Im satisfied it was a necessary process, given that these were new 
mortgages. However, it took longer than expected, with delays and errors made by the 
solicitors which caused some inconvenience.
Mr and Mrs K also hadnt been made aware of various disbursements that arose  Land 
Registry fees, landlords fees for processing notices of the mortgages, etc. which totalled 
£268.20. Because the need to re-mortgage was at the instigation of Lloyds, it is only right 
that Lloyds agreed to reimburse these fees; had this been a straightforward interest rate 
product switch, these fees would not have been incurred.
Lloyds acknowledged that the process had taken too long and hadnt been as simple as it 
should have been. I understand Mr K struggled with the online portal, and found the service 
from the solicitors to be below his expectations. 
Ive taken note of what Mr K has told us about his health, and that of Mrs K (who, from the 
contact notes doesnt appear to have engaged in the re-mortgage process to any large 
extent). I wont divulge any details, in order to preserve Mr and Mrs Ks anonymity and 
privacy.
Overall, taking into consideration everything Mr and Mrs K have said about the effect of the 
delays on them, I think the compensation offered by Lloyds of £350 for distress and 
inconvenience is fair, reasonable and proportionate to the trouble and upset caused. We 
dont make awards of compensation that are intended to be punitive, or to compensate 
consumers at an hourly rate. Nor do we award damages in the way that a court would. 
Therefore, in all the circumstances, Im not going to order Lloyds to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, insofar as Im satisfied the 
compensation already offered by Lloyds Bank Plc (£268.20 for legal costs and £350 for 
distress and inconvenience) is fair and reasonable. I direct Lloyds Bank UK Plc to pay this 
amount to Mr and Mrs K in full and final settlement of this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman