DRN-4379394
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC did not refund a series of payments she lost to a 
scam. 
What happened
Mrs F searched online for investment opportunities and found a company Ill call K. She 
was contacted by a trader for the company and they discussed Mrs Fs goals and 
parameters for investing. She was advised to download a trading platform so she could view 
the live trades, as well as software called Anydesk. Mrs F was initially advised to invest just 
£2 so she could see how the trades and profits worked. She did this on 6 May 2022. When 
she was happy with the process, she invested £4,066 on 11 May, followed by a further 
£4,036 on 20 May. 
Mrs F began to ask for some of the returns to be withdrawn, and the trader initially released 
£80.02 to her account. However, soon after that, the trader began to make excuses as to 
why they could not speak with Mrs F and eventually stopped communicating altogether. It 
was at that point that Mrs F realised she had been the victim of a scam. She raised a claim 
with Lloyds who issued a final response. In this, they explained that the transactions did not 
fall under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code, which offers additional 
protection to victims of these kind of scams. And they felt Mrs F could have done more to 
ensure K was a legitimate company. So, they did not agree to refund the £8,021.98. 
Mrs F referred the complaint to our service and our Investigator looked into it. They 
explained that they did not think the payments themselves were of a value significant 
enough to warrant intervention by Lloyds prior to them being processed, that they were not 
made in quick succession of each other, and that the end balance after the payments was 
not unusual. So, they didnt agree Lloyds needed to intervene or that they therefore missed 
an opportunity to reveal the scam. 
Mrs Fs representative responded and disagreed with the findings. They felt that the 
payments were unusual when compared with Mrs Fs normal account activity, especially the 
second payment, and that Lloyds should have intervened.
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs F has unfortunately been the victim of a scam, the warnings on the Financial Conduct 
Authorities website about K highlight this and she has therefore lost £8,021.98. 
As has already been explained, the CRM code does not apply in this case, as Mrs F 
transferred the funds to a crypto exchange account that was in her name, in order to 
purchase cryptocurrency which was then sent on to the scammer. However, Lloyds still had 
a basic duty of care to its customers to protect them from fraud.
Broadly speaking, the starting position in law is that an account provider is expected to 
process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the account. And a customer will then be responsible for the 
transactions that they have authorised.
Its not in dispute here that Mrs F authorised the payments totalling £8,021.98 as she 
believed they were part of a legitimate investment. So, while I recognise that Mrs F didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, the starting position in law is that Lloyds was obliged to 
follow her instruction and process the payments. Because of this, Mrs F is not automatically 
entitled to a refund.
The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for 
account providers to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes 
monitoring accounts to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of 
financial harm, intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent 
customers falling victims to scams. So, Ive also thought about whether Lloyds did enough to 
try to keep Mrs Fs account safe.
Ive considered the transactions in comparison to Mrs Fs normal account activity, to see if 
Lloyds should have flagged them as potentially suspicious. I can see that Mrs F made an 
initial tester payment of £2 to the new payee, to ensure she was happy with the process. 
And this would not have been of any concern to Lloyds due to its small value. This also 
means that when Mrs F made the second payment of £4,066 five days later, this was now to 
an existing payee, which lowers the risk level of the payment. While I do accept that the 
amount is higher than Mrs Fs normal payments on the account, I dont think this alone is 
enough to warrant an intervention by Lloyds. And I dont think the value is significant enough 
to have flagged that Mrs F may be at risk of financial harm.
Ive taken on board the comments of Mrs Fs representative that the second payment of 
£4,066 should have been flagged as suspicious. Again, I dont consider that the value of the 
payment is significant enough to have warranted intervention for that reason alone. Each 
time, Mrs F credited the account from another account in her name prior to making the 
transfers, which follows the normal pattern of behaviour for her account. And the balance 
remaining after each payment was not particularly unusual. While I do recognise that this 
was the third payment to the same payee, though the first payment was minimal, it was nine 
days later. And I think this gap, along with the other factors discussed above, means Lloyds 
did not act unreasonably when it did not intervene prior to this payment being processed. So, 
I dont think it missed an opportunity to reveal the scam and I dont think Lloyds needs to 
refund Mrs F.
Ive considered whether the funds could be recovered. However, because they went to a 
cryptocurrency account in Mrs Fs name and were then exchanged into cryptocurrency 
before being passed on to the scammer, there was nothing further Lloyds could do to try and 
recover them.  
 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mrs Fs complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman