DRN-2858528
The complaint
Mr G complains that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In May 2020, Mr G approached Loans 2 Go and applied for and was given a loan of £1,000. 
It had an Annual Percentage Rate (APR) of 1,013.2% and was to be repaid in 18 monthly 
instalments of £228.56  a total of £4,114.08. At the time, Mr G tells us he had a severe 
gambling addiction, several payday loans and was struggling financially as a result. Mr G 
says to fund his gambling, hed convert money into cryptocurrency and transfer it from there 
to a gambling website. He says that if Loans 2 Go had properly assessed his application it 
should have refused to lend to him. Mr G says it was irresponsible for Loans 2 Go to lend to 
him.
Loans 2 Go looked into his complaint. It said it had followed its usual process for assessing 
his application including the use of an income verification tool, assessment of his 
expenditure and a credit check. It felt its checks were reasonable and proportionate as 
required by the regulators guidelines. Loans 2 Go said it was unaware of Mr Gs gambling 
addiction and may not have been aware of all his payday loans. It said payday loans are not 
always reported to the credit reference agencies, so they do not always appear on credit 
files. 
Loans 2 Go reviewed Mr Gs bank statements as part of the review of his complaint. It noted 
the volume of payments to a cryptocurrency provider but did not see any gambling 
transactions. It said that it felt the provider was used to exchange cryptocurrency and 
couldnt be considered gambling. In any event, it said it wouldnt have refused to lend to 
Mr G just because he was gambling. Loans 2 Go rejected Mr Gs complaint. 
Mr G was unhappy with what Loans 2 Go had said, so he referred his complaint to us. One 
of our investigators looked into it. She didnt agree that proportionate checks had been 
carried out based on what Loans 2 Go knew about Mr G at the time of the application. She 
upheld the complaint and asked Loans 2 Go to put things right for Mr G.   
Mr G accepted what our investigator said, but Loans 2 Go didnt. As there was no 
agreement, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending 
on our website  including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and 
law. Ive considered this approach when deciding this complaint.
The rules lenders must follow are set out by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority, in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Loans 2 Go needed to carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that it didnt lend to Mr G irresponsibly; it had 
to satisfy itself that hed be able to repay the loan sustainably. Its not about Loans 2 Go 
assessing the likelihood of it being repaid, but it had to consider the impact of the loan 
repayments on him.
There is no set list of checks that it had to do, but it could take into account several different 
things such as the amount and length of the loan, the amount of the monthly repayments 
and the overall circumstances of the borrower.
Loans 2 Go has provided a copy of Mr Gs application, evidence of the checks it carried out 
regarding Mr Gs income and expenditure, and a copy of the credit file it obtained. 
On the application, Mr G declared he was earning £2,259 per month and had expenses of 
£935 which left him with a monthly disposable income of £1,324. I think at the outset this 
ought to have made Loans 2 Go think further checks may be necessary, as Mr G was 
looking to borrow less than his monthly disposable income at high rates of interest over 18 
months. 
Loans 2 Go went on to follow its usual process. Its verification tools suggested Mr G actually 
earned £1,874 per month and had expenses of £1,419 rather than the figures hes quoted. 
These are significantly different and, again, in my view, ought to have led Loans 2 Go to look 
more closely at Mr Gs financial situation to understand the reasons for the discrepancies. 
Indeed CONC 5.3.7R says a lender shouldnt agree an application where it knows or 
suspects the applicant hasnt been truthful in completing the application. It seems 
Loans 2 Go at least suspected Mr G may not have been truthful. 
Loans 2 Go also looked at Mr Gs credit file. While I acknowledge that it caters specifically 
for people with impaired credit ratings, I think Loans 2 Go ought to have seen there were 
signs of financial pressure. I say this because he had a number of credit cards which were 
very close to their limits  one taken just six months earlier with a limit of £4,000 was up to 
£3,983  and another card had been opened just two months earlier. His current account 
which had an overdraft limit of £650 was showing a balance of £560. I think that these 
factors taken into account with the discrepancies Loans 2 Go had already identified in his 
application, ought to have led it to at least look more closely at Mr Gs financial 
circumstances. 
It follows that I dont think Loans 2 Go carried out reasonable and proportionate checks on 
Mr Gs application.
While different checks can show different things, one way for Loans 2 Go to get more 
information about Mr Gs circumstances would have been for it to ask to see some bank 
statements. It didnt do so at the time but did ask for them as part of its investigation into his 
complaint. It has noted a high volume of transactions to a cryptocurrency exchange which 
Mr G says he used to fund his gambling. As Ive said earlier, Loans 2 Go didnt think these 
transactions would have led it to reach a different lending decision, even if it had obtained 
the statements at the outset.
Ive looked carefully at the statements Mr G provided and thought about what Loans 2 Go 
has said about them. The statements show that from 4 February to 3 March 2020, £9,290 
was paid into his account and £9,343 was paid out. The vast majority of the outgoing 
transactions were to the cryptocurrency exchange. The income came from his salary of 
£2,260 and the rest largely from transfers from his wifes account. 
Between 4 March and 3 April 2020, there was a similar pattern  around £8,564 paid in and £8,865 paid out. Between 4 April and 4 May 2020, £7,910 was paid in and £8,102 paid out in 
similar transactions. On 22 April 2020, a direct debit of £33.66 to Mr Gs motor insurer was 
returned unpaid as he exceeded his overdraft limit of £650.
Im a little surprised that Loans 2 Go doesnt feel these statements would have led it to reach 
a different lending decision. I say this because it has an obligation to ensure that any lending 
it makes is repayable on a sustainable basis by the borrower. That is the borrower should be 
able to repay the credit without undue difficulty, while being able to meet other commitments 
and without having to borrow further. I dont think the statements show that Mr Gs finances 
are under control or give any kind of reassurance that hell have been able to repay £228 on 
a monthly basis for 18 months. 
Given the volume of transactions being made to the currency exchange, I think Loans 2 Go 
would have been obliged to investigate further what Mr G was doing with the money. If it 
believed he was simply buying cryptocurrency, then it doesnt make sense that he would 
need a loan of £1,000  particularly one attracting such a high rate of interest - as he could 
simply have sold some of the currency hed bought. It seems clear to me that Mr G was 
desperate for cash (as hes said himself) and it was very unlikely this new loan would be 
sustainable for him. After borrowing money from a family member, Mr G repaid this loan 
after four months or so.
Ive already said that I dont think Loans 2 Go carried out sufficient checks on Mr Gs 
application. If it had, for example by obtaining his bank statements, I think it ought to have 
refused to lend to Mr G.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business to 
put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the mistake it made hadnt 
happened, as far as is reasonably practical. 
In this case, that would mean putting Mr G in the position he would be in now if he hadnt 
been given the loan. But Mr G was given the loan, used the money and has already repaid 
the entire amount including interest due under the agreement up to that point.
So, I think Loans 2 Go should:
Calculate the total amount Mr G received from Loans 2 Go and deduct from that 
figure the repayments hes made to the loan. 
oIf this results in Mr G having repaid more than he received, any overpayments 
should be refunded to him. Interest at a rate of 8% simple per year should be 
added to any overpayments from the date they were made until the date of 
settlement*.
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Gs credit file regarding each loan. 
*If Loans 2 Go considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should put matters right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman