DRN-4144731
The complaint
Ms Rs complaint is about a mortgage account she holds with Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), 
which she took out in 1997. Ms R has raised a number of issues about which she is 
unhappy, including poor customer service, failure to offer her a new product since February 
2016 and mis-sale of the mortgage.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 12 May 2023. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. In addition, our decisions are published, 
so its important I dont include any information that might lead to Ms R being identified. 
So rather than setting out the history of the matter  which is well known to all parties - I will 
instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that on 22 March 2023 another ombudsman issued a provisional jurisdiction 
explaining which parts of the complaint were able to consider. I note that both Ms R and 
BoS accepted the ombudsmans provisional findings on jurisdiction. For the sake of 
completeness, I confirm I agree with the ombudsmans findings on which part of the 
complaint we are able to consider. 
I will now address the issues that are within jurisdiction in this complaint, from February 2016 
onwards.
Ms Rs preference to speak to BoS directly instead of its solicitors: Im satisfied that BoS has 
clarified to Ms R in a letter dated 26 June 2015 that she can discuss her account with the 
banks collections department. I therefore dont uphold this part of the complaint.
Customer service issues during phone calls since February 2021: I wont repeat the 
investigators explanation for what went wrong here, but Im satisfied that BoS has 
acknowledged there were problems in Ms R being able to speak to the bank and that she 
was left on hold for much longer than normal.
However, I also note that Ms R didnt always follow the banks directions about which 
numbers she needed to call (due to her account being held on an historic system). Ms R 
also declined to provide BoS with her current phone number.
Overall, I think the £50 compensation the bank offered for this in March 2022 (to include £12 
for the cost of calls) is fair and reasonable and Im not ordering the bank to do anything 
further.
BoS not offering a new interest rate product since February 2016: No significant payment 
has been made to the mortgage account since 2016. In the circumstances, Im not 
persuaded theres any basis on which I can fairly say that BoS should have offered Ms R a 
new mortgage interest rate product. 
First of all, due to the payment history, there is no evidence that Ms R would be able to pay 
any amount under the mortgage, whatever the interest rate. If she had shown a consistent 
payment history without any arrears, then I would probably have though it unreasonable for 
BoS not to offer her a new rate. But given that shes paid virtually nothing towards the 
mortgage for seven years, theres no evidence shed be able to do so if the interest rate was 
different. 
But in any event, given the state of the account, it wouldnt have been in Ms Rs best 
interests for BoS to have put her on a new interest rate product at any point after 2016. This 
is because such products generally come with early repayment charges (ERCs). There is 
already a suspended possession order on the property (granted in 2012). Therefore if the 
property was to be repossessed, the ERC would only increase the amount owed to the bank. 
This would put Ms R in a worse, not better, position than being on the banks Standard 
Variable Rate. I therefore dont uphold this part of the complaint.
Ms Rs complaint that the mortgage was mis-sold: The investigator has provided Ms R with 
the documentation that shows the mortgage was arranged via a financial adviser. Its 
possible Ms R could complain about this direct to the broker, but I think its worth explaining 
that the complaint probably wouldnt fall within the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service in any event.
The Financial Ombudsman Service has been in existence since 2001. When a complaint is 
about something that happened before that date, we look to see whether the business 
was covered by a former ombudsman scheme. However, the Financial Ombudsman Service 
can only consider complaints about events that happened before 2001 if that complaint 
could have been considered by an equivalent ombudsman scheme. 
In this case, the documentation shows that the broker which arranged the mortgage was a 
member of the Personal Investment Authority (PIA), and so would have been covered by the 
Personal Investments Authority Ombudsman Bureau (PIAOB). 
But the PIAOBs terms of reference only cover complaints in connection with, or arising out 
of the carrying on of investment business in the United Kingdom (within the meaning of the 
Financial Services Act 1986) on or after 29 April 1988 or any other business which is 
regulated by the Personal Investment Authority.
The types of business regulated by the PIA in 1997 excluded mortgages  which did not 
become regulated until 31 October 2004. Although the Mortgage Code (a voluntary code of 
conduct for lenders) was in existence in 1997, it didnt cover mortgage brokers until 1998. 
Im explaining this because, although Ms R is free to raise her complaint about the 
arrangement of the mortgage directly with the brokers (and she has been provided with their 
details), it is unlikely that the Financial Ombudsman Service would be able to consider a 
complaint about it, because it doesnt appear that it would fall within our rules.
In any event, Im satisfied that BoS didnt sell or arrange this mortgage and so wasnt 
responsible for any advice Ms R was given to take it out. Im therefore not upholding this part 
of the complaint.Other matters: The mortgage is substantially in arrears, with no significant payment having 
been made for seven years. I would not want Ms R to underestimate the seriousness of the 
situation she is in, as BoS is entitled to enforce the possession order it holds on the property.
I think it is also important to explain here that lenders will generally agree to put recovery 
action on hold whilst we look at a complaint, but they dont have to and we cant force them 
to. If the Financial Ombudsman Service had that power it would undermine our impartiality 
between the parties to a complaint. It would also create the potential for consumers to use 
(or mis-use) our service to bring complaints with the sole intention of having any legal action 
put on hold, thereby obstructing businesses that were trying to take action through the courts 
to recover money legitimately owed by the borrower. 
I do not wish to alarm Ms R, but I would not want her to be under any misunderstanding that 
we would tell BoS that it must suspend any legal action in the event of any new complaint 
being raised about the mortgage. It is a matter for a court to decide whether it is appropriate 
to suspend a warrant of possession, not the Financial Ombudsman Service. We have no 
power to interfere in court proceedings.
It might assist Ms R to take some advice from one of the free debt advisory services such as 
Citizens Advice, StepChange or Shelter. We can provide her with contact details for those 
agencies, if shed like us to do so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman