DRN-3465171
The complaint
Mr B says Barclays Bank UK PLC (BB) lent irresponsibly to him in relation to a credit card 
account. 
What happened
Mr B applied for a BB credit card in 1994. The application was accepted although very littles 
known about the circumstances at the time, including what the credit card limit was. Mr B 
believed it to be £250.
Several credit limit increases took place from that time up until 2010  about which, again, 
informations limited. The following credit limit increases took place from 2010 onwards:
Date Existing credit limit New credit limit
February 2010 £6,850 £8,750
May 2011 £8,750 £10,250
October 2012 £10,250 £11,750
June 2014 £11,750 £12,000
February 2017 £12,000 £13,000
September 2017 £13,000 £16,000
 
In 2020 Mr Bs account defaulted and he complained to BB that it had lent to him 
irresponsibly. He said the credit was unaffordable for him based on his annual income at 
those times and that BB would have realised this had it carried out proper checks and asked 
for proof of his income and expenses. Mr B said he was left with a debt of £16,000 due to 
BBs actions.
BB didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint at first. It said its decision to lend to Mr B was appropriate 
based on the information it had gathered about him from credit reference agencies (CRAs) 
and how hed managed the credit card account prior to each lending decision. 
Around a month later, BB wrote to Mr B to say it had recently reviewed the way it had set 
some customers credit limits. It accepted the limits provided from 2014 onwards may have 
been higher than they should have been. To put things right, BB refunded relevant interest, 
default fees and charges to the account which amounted to £1,888.94.  
Unhappy with BBs response, Mr B complained to us. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint and ultimately recommended that it shouldnt be upheld. They believed BB had 
lent responsibly in the light of the available evidence regarding Mr Bs income in the relevant 
period and his relatively healthy current and savings account balances. 
Mr B didnt accept the investigators findings. In summary, he said the suggested outcome 
wasnt fair and reasonable and was based on inaccurate assumptions made by BB, for 
example, that he received more than one regular income. Mr B said that not enough 
emphasis had been placed on his struggles with his mental health and the impact on him at 
that time. As a result, the complaint was passed to me to review afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to date, to decide what I thinks fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website  including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
I should emphasise that Ive not specifically addressed the credit limit increases made prior 
to 2010 or from 2014 onwards in any detail in this decision. Thats because much of what 
Ive considered and found below applies by extension to those credit limit increases. In 
addition, I can see BBs already offered Mr B a refund of the relevant interest, default fees 
and charges from 2014 onwards. Thats broadly in line with what wed typically ask a 
business to do if wed found it hadnt lent responsibly. 
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if BB treated Mr B fairly 
and reasonably when it provided him with the credit card lending. Bearing in mind the times 
of the lending and the industry codes of practice and rules in place at the times the most 
pertinent of these include:
1) Did BB complete a reasonable assessment of whether Mr B would be able to repay 
the credit advanced? 
2) If not, what would a reasonable assessment have shown at the relevant times? 
3) Ultimately, did BB make fair lending decisions?  
4) Did BB act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ill consider each of these in turn.
Did BB complete a reasonable assessment of whether Mr B would be able to repay the 
credit advanced?
The factors involved in considering whether BB completed a reasonable assessment before 
making each lending decision vary depending on when the decision was made. For 
example, when the credit limit was increased in 2010, BB should have made an assessment 
in line with established good industry practice at the time  such as the Banking Code jointly 
published by the British Bankers Association, the Association for Payment Clearing Services 
and the Building Societies Association and which BB was a subscriber to.
For the credit limit increases in 2011 and 2012, BB should have made an assessment in line 
with the Office of Fair Tradings (OFT) Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG).  
The specific checks BB needed to carry out in 2010 werent set out, but there were a number 
of factors it might want to have taken into account in line with good industry practice. 
Amongst other things, these included considering matters such as income and expenditure, 
how the borrower handled their finances in the past and information from CRAs etc. There wasnt an obligation to take all factors into account. But I think what this meant in practice 
was that the scope and extent of BBs checks needed to reflect the nature of the lending, 
bearing in mind things such as the amount of credit, the interest rate and the monthly and 
total amounts repayable.  
Above all, the checks BB ought to have carried out as part of its assessment needed to 
satisfy itself that Mr B would be able to repay any credit advanced. 
As with BBs decision in 2010, the rules dont set out what specific checks BB needed to 
carry out in 2011 and 2012, but they did set out that those checks needed to be 
proportionate to the circumstances of the application. I think what this meant in practice was 
that the scope and extent of BBs checks needed to reflect the nature of the lending, bearing 
in mind things such as the amount of credit, the interest rate, the monthly and total amounts 
repayable, and any indications of customer vulnerability.  
The checks BB needed to carry out as part of its affordability assessment had to be 
borrower focussed. What I mean by this is that the checks needed to address whether 
paying the credit back would cause Mr B any difficulties or have any adverse consequences 
for him. They would also need to take account of factors such as the amount of money being 
lent, the monthly repayments, total charge for the credit and the interest rate being charged. 
This isnt an exhaustive list.
I think theres a reasonable expectation that a lender would need to do more before it could 
feel that someone on a low income  such as Mr B here  could repay any credit advanced. 
This would reflect that it could be more difficult for him to meet the credit card repayments 
with a low income. 
BB would also need to be more thorough the higher the amounts Mr B had to repay, as it 
would be more difficult to make higher repayments depending on his income. 
With these principles in mind Ive thought about whether BB completed a reasonable 
assessment in 2010 such that it could be satisfied Mr B would be able to repay his credit 
card balance. And whether it completed reasonable and proportionate checks in 2011 and 
2012 to satisfy itself that Mr B would be able to repay his credit card in a sustainable way.
In summary then some of the circumstances of, and leading up to, the credit limit increases 
are as follows:
Mr B applied for the credit card in 1994. He believes it was accepted with an initial credit 
limit of £250, which I thinks plausible. The annual percentage rate (APR) hasnt been 
confirmed.
Mr B was recorded by BB as having an annual income of between £3,501 and £5,000 
when the credit card was taken out. 
The initial credit limit was, as Mr B accepts, manageable given his circumstances but 
says the gap between his income and the credit grew to such an extent over the years 
that the account ceased to be affordable for him.
I cant be sure what information BB assessed  if it did carry out any assessment  prior to 
proactively increasing Mr Bs credit limit in 2010. Given how long ago the increase (and 
those that came before it) was made I think its understandable that BB no longer holds 
much information about it. 
Mr B believes BB didnt carry out appropriate checks and, in the absence of much evidence 
to the contrary, I think its a least possible that thats the case. In terms of the credit limit increases in 2011 and 2012, BB says it instructed a CRA to carry 
out an affordability assessment at those times. It said the CRA created a view of income and 
expenditure each month to establish affordability at the current credit limit and to check 
eligibility for any increases.
BBs provided a summary of the data obtained and reviewed by the CRA in 2011 and 2012. 
BB says the summary doesnt indicate that there were any delinquencies on Mr Bs credit file 
or suggest he was over indebted for the existing or intended credit limit increases.
Im not clear as to how BB could adequately determine whether Mr B would be able to repay 
the borrowing when I can see no evidence that there was a detailed assessment made of his 
overall income and outgoings. Mr Bs income at the point of application was relatively low 
and I understand it remained low when the later credit limit increases were made. If Mr B 
was on a low net wage of around £167 a week, a new credit limit of £10,250 would easily 
represent more than 100% of his yearly net pay. Thats not even taking into account any 
other borrowing Mr B may have had at that time. 
The credit limits represented considerable amounts for Mr B in relation to his income. So, Im 
satisfied BB should have carried out further checks before offering the credit limit increases 
made in 2010, 2011 and 2012. 
I think this should have put BB on notice that further information ought to have been sought 
before a reasonable conclusion on whether Mr B could afford to repay the credit card 
balance was reached. 
As Ive already alluded to, BBs internal lending policy isnt a determining factor in this case. 
The question is more one of whether it acted in accordance with industry codes of practice 
and lending rules at the relevant times. Bearing in mind the above, I dont think that BB did 
enough to assess whether Mr B could afford to repay the credit limit increase in 2010. Nor 
do I think that BB carried out borrower-focussed affordability checks to satisfy itself that Mr B 
could sustainably afford the extra credit he was offered in 2011 and 2012. I dont think that 
BB did enough such that it could reasonably conclude these things. 
What would a reasonable assessment have shown in 2010 and reasonable and 
proportionate checks in 2011 and 2012?
I think BB should have ensured that the scope and extent of its assessments were adapted 
to the circumstances of its offers to Mr B. Credit limits of the scale offered by BB would 
represent a relatively substantial extra financial burden to most people in addition to their 
existing commitments. Given this and the information BB had about Mr B, further checks 
would, in my opinion, have needed to verify things like his income and expenditure, assets 
etc. These would have been in addition to the checks it carried out to establish that he was 
able to repay or afford the credit. 
One of the difficulties given the length of time since the credit limits were offered is 
understanding what a reasonable assessment might have shown if BB had carried one out. 
Our investigators asked Mr B and BB for what information they could provide from the time 
and Im grateful to Mr B especially for whats been sent. But there are still gaps in whats 
available.
In particular, theres some dispute as to the precise level and source of Mr Bs income over 
the course of the credit limit increases. As I say, I broadly accept that it appears Mr B was on a low income for a prolonged period of time. I also accept what hes told us about what he 
was earning through paid employment as opposed to what he was receiving by other 
means. 
Theres little doubt in my mind that, based on what we know of Mr Bs income alone, it would 
be difficult to argue that any reasonable assessment or check would have shown he could 
repay the credit offered in 2010 or that the credit offered in 2011 and 2012 was sustainably 
affordable for him.
Having said that, I can see that Mr B didnt just have access to his monthly income. 
According to copy bank statements, Mr B had a current account balance of no less than 
£5,300 (in July 2009) and going as high as around £7,703 (in December 2009) in the lead up 
to the increase in 2010. Immediately before the credit limit increases in 2011 and 2012, Mr B 
had consistently held a balance of between £13,000 and £15,000 in the account.
Im aware that the total credit limit was, on occasion, more than Mr B had in his current 
account during that period. But this indicates to me that he was in a relatively health position 
financially to at least maintain the monthly repayments on the card. 
I cant see anything untoward in terms of how Mr B was managing the existing levels of 
credit on the account such that this ought to have given BB cause for concern.
Importantly, I can see from copy savings account statements that Mr B also had access to 
considerable savings. For example, he held over £100,000 in savings when the 2012 credit 
limit was applied. By the time the account had defaulted in 2020, he still held more than 
£75,000 in the account.   
Ive thought carefully about what Mr Bs said regarding his savings not being known to BB at 
the times of the lending and being used retrospectively to justify the credit limit increases. I 
agree that its unlikely BB took those savings into account in reaching its lending decisions. 
But what Ive tried to do is piece together what ought to have happened had BB 1) assessed 
Mr Bs ability to repay the borrowing as at 2010 and 2) carried out borrower-focussed checks 
in 2011 and 2012 to consider whether he could sustainably afford the repayments. 
Ive also thought about Mr Bs argument that his savings consisted largely of money hed 
inherited and that he was reluctant to use this to pay off his debts due to the distress that 
would have caused him. I understand the point Mr B makes and have sympathy for his 
situation. Nevertheless, it remains that Mr B was provided with the borrowing and had the 
benefit of it. I think BB was entitled in the circumstances to require that he pay it back 
(together with the contractual interest, fees and charges) and to expect that hed use some 
or all of his savings to help him do that if needed.  
Did BB make a fair lending decision?  
That Mr Bs income appears to have been low, and that the credit limits offered were 
relatively high, indicates to me that BB was taking a risk in providing him with additional 
credit based on the limited information it had gathered. 
That said, I cant see anything in the information BB ought to have obtained that would have 
given it reason to believe the new credit limits were unlikely to be affordable or sustainably 
affordable for Mr B.  I recognise how strongly Mr B feels that BB treated him unfairly. And Im sorry that it was 
necessary for us to ask him to elaborate on his personal circumstances during that period. I 
realise that must have been difficult for him given what hed been through and I appreciate 
his co-operation. But, from what Ive seen, I cant fairly say that it was irresponsible of BB to 
offer him the borrowing.
Did BB act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr B in some other way? 
Ive carefully thought about everything provided  including the mental health problems Mr B 
was suffering with. But Ive considered that BB wasnt  and had no reasonable cause to 
become  aware of those issues during the period in question and so couldnt have known 
about the potential need to do anything differently for Mr B. So, Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that BB acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr B in some other way. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman