DRN-4258591
The complaint
Mr C is one of the trustees of a trust, which Ill refer to as N. In this capacity, he complains 
that National Westminster Bank Plc has acted unreasonably in carrying out a business 
review of the trust. He says that the bank unfairly restricted the trusts account and refused 
to specify part of the reviews requirements in writing. 
What happened
NatWest began a review of the trust in February 2022. 
In May 2022, Mr C provided a copy of Ns trust deed at the banks request. The bank 
decided the trust deed didnt contain everything they needed, so asked for a letter about the 
trust in a prescribed format, signed by an accountant or solicitor. Amongst the pieces of 
information they asked for in this letter were the names of all beneficiaries. 
Mr C was reluctant to provide this letter, but eventually did so in November 2022. In a 
covering letter, the trusts lawyers explained that it was a discretionary trust covering all 
descendants on a discretionary basis. The lawyers therefore didnt list all beneficiaries, since 
new ones could be added. The lawyers also provided a deed of appointment and retirement 
to the bank, confirming the appointment of a new trustee. 
Also in November 2022, the bank put a restriction on the trusts account because the review 
wasnt complete. 
Identification documents for the new trustee were provided on 23 December 2022. The 
restriction on Ns bank account was removed on 4 January 2023.
In January 2023, the bank telephoned Mr C to say it required a further letter, confirming, in 
summary, that all trustees agreed to provide full identification information for any new 
beneficiaries before making a distribution to them. Mr C asked for this request to be put in 
writing, but the bank said this wasnt possible. 
Mr C complained in January 2023 about the account restriction. The bank responded 
apologising for poor service and crediting the trust with £100 (as well as refunding an unpaid 
item charge). 
Mr C says that he has also complained about the requirement for an additional letter about 
future beneficiaries and the banks refusal to put this request in writing, but the bank just 
reiterated its previous response. NatWest dispute whether this complaint was made, but 
havent objected to us looking into it. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, but didnt recommend that the bank 
should take any further action. 
Mr C disagreed and made the following points, in summary:
NatWest had clearly put the required wording about beneficiaries in writing when 
corresponding with our service. So why couldnt they provide it to him? 
Surely financial institutions should resource themselves appropriately so they can 
provide the required level of service. 
Did our service think it was reasonable that the bank wouldnt put the required 
wording into their client portal, where all other information requests were made? 
We should take into consideration the countless phone calls hed made to try and 
deal with the review amicably and efficiently. It had taken huge amounts of time and 
effort for more than a year.  
In the course of the review, NatWest had twice suggested he escalate his concerns 
as a complaint as that would be the only way to resolve the matter. 
Our investigator was condoning the banks inconsistency in making some information 
requests in writing and others only verbally, without any recourse to a clients 
understanding. 
Financial loss should not always relate to a monetary loss. And £100 for all his time 
was derisory. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to further disappoint Mr C, but there is very little I can add to what 
our investigator has already said.
I think all parties agree that banks have regulatory obligations to fulfil, which require reviews 
to be carried out. Mr Cs frustration is with the inconsistent manner in which the requirements 
of the review were communicated. At the time of the restriction of the trusts account, he 
says he was unaware of what requirements were outstanding. He says he has been forced 
to make many lengthy phone calls at each stage to understand this. 
I appreciate that this has been a lengthy and frustrating process. The duration is not in my 
experience uncommon for trust reviews and to an extent, I think this is an inevitable part of a 
review. I say this because the process is that the bank gets some information, reviews it and 
then decides based on that information whether they need to ask more questions. The 
answers to those might then prompt further enquiries. It is part of the nature of this process 
that they cant ask for everything they want upfront. 
Alongside general frustration with the process, Mr Cs major specific concern at this point is 
the fact that the bank wont provide the wording regarding beneficiaries in writing. He has 
told us that he wanted it in writing so he could consult his lawyers and make sure it was 
correct. NatWest have chosen for reasons of efficiency to require customers to use a portal to upload 
the information required during the review. I consider they are entitled to use this approach. 
However, its clear that this portal has limitations. In particular, it only has a standard range 
of the most commonly required templates that customers are asked to complete. Where, as 
in this case, a non-standard letter is required, the bank cant provide a template through the 
portal. Neither do the agents carrying out the review have the power to provide this other 
than verbally. 
I consider banks are generally entitled to choose the methods by which they communicate 
with their customers, provided they havent contracted to do otherwise and they arent 
dealing with customers with known vulnerabilities or communication needs. I also note that 
the required letter is only one sentence long (albeit a fairly long sentence). Mr Cs 
communications with our service dont suggest that he would have any difficulties 
transcribing this accurately. I can also see that, in the spirit of helpfulness, our investigator 
provided the required wording some time ago to Mr C in writing.
That said, it would undoubtedly have been better service for the bank to put their 
requirements in writing when requested. But Im afraid I dont think they breached anything in 
the terms and conditions governing the account by not doing so. Nor did they breach any 
regulations in my view. 
Ultimately, the trustees arent obliged to maintain the trusts account with NatWest if they 
dont like the way the bank have chosen to communicate. 
I do agree that the bank should have communicated the review requirements more clearly 
and on occasions in a more timely manner. At the time the account was restricted, the 
banks records suggest they had already decided they needed the further letter about new 
beneficiaries, but they hadnt communicated this in any way. Its also not clear whether they 
had told Mr C they needed identification documents for the new trustee until he phoned 
them. I can see that the bank accepted their service had been poor and apologised in their 
last complaint response letter. 
NatWest also accept that the account was restricted for a short period longer than it should 
have been. This unfortunately coincided with Mr C writing a cheque on behalf of the trust, 
which was therefore returned unpaid. The bank have paid compensation of £100 for this and 
refunded the unpaid item charge. Given that the trusts account isnt very active and the 
period of the restriction was relatively short, I think this is sufficient to compensate Mr C for 
this issue.
I realise that this process, which still isnt as far as I know complete, has been onerous for 
Mr C. I sympathise with the amount of time he has had to spend on it. The bank could 
certainly have made it easier. But I dont think any of their requests were unreasonable. I 
know Mr C thinks the £100 compensation NatWest have paid is derisory. But overall I 
consider that the review, which is a regulatory requirement, would always have taken some 
time and effort on Mr Cs part, even if communications had been smoother. For this reason, 
Im not going to ask NatWest to pay any more.
It may also be worth me pointing out that the Financial Ombudsman can make awards for 
financial loss or for distress and inconvenience. Mr C has confirmed there is no financial loss 
here and our awards arent designed to make a point or punish the bank. 
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc doesnt need to do anything more 
beyond the compensation already paid. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman