DRN-3924409
The complaint
Ms C complained about incorrect financial information she was given about her pension 
value, by The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential).
Ms C says this caused her distress and inconvenience and thinks the higher pension quotes 
she was originally given should be honoured.
What happened
Ms C says Prudential originally led her to believe that her pension value was worth more 
than it actually was. She says it then exacerbated matters by getting the figure wrong again 
and it then made sorting all this out very difficult and drawn out. She says when she was 
later trying to resolve the accuracy of the previous pension quote, Prudential even told her 
that she didnt have a pension.
Ms C has been in periodical contact with Prudential about these matters since 2018 when 
the issue first arose. Shes complained to the business which has admitted some mistakes 
were made and shes been offered a total of £450 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Ms C wasnt happy about the offer so complained to our Service. She said the original, much 
higher pension quote, ought to be what she gets. One of our investigators looked at Ms Cs 
complaint. However, they said we shouldnt uphold it because the offer by Prudential was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
As Ms C still doesnt agree with this, the complaint has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Having considered all the circumstances in this case, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Cs 
complaint. 
Introduction
I dont intend to set out every occasion where Ms C was either quoted an incorrect pension 
value or part thereof. Nor do I intend to list where shes otherwise been failed by Prudential 
over the last few years. Ms C herself provides a helpful chronology and theres no real 
dispute that what she says is accurate in terms of the timeline of what happened. 
Also, in their short form View, our own investigator listed most of the events and the 
reasons why Ms C isnt happy. Ive also spoken to Ms C myself to help gain an 
understanding of what she is seeking. So, Ms Cs complaint has now been looked into with 
care. 
The crux of Ms Cs complaint is that she wants the outcome to be that Prudential honours 
the original higher pension value she was given, rather than the recalculations she has now. 
However, Im afraid I dont think thats reasonable.
I will explain why.
I think its fair to say that Ms Cs pension type and pension history with Prudential does 
contain elements of complexity. There are particular issues around her Guaranteed 
Minimum Pension (GMP) and an element of redress added to the pension following an 
historic review; these issues, in my opinion, have added to the difficulties in obtaining the 
correct overall value for her. 
Thats not to say Prudential hasnt done several things wrong  I think its very clear that it 
has. Overall, I think the way it dealt with Ms Cs case was poor. For example, it quoted her 
an overall pension value based on her being male instead of female, which was a basic, 
although financially significant, mistake. It also later entered incorrect dates which affected 
one of the issues Ive mentioned above (the redress part) which again, caused significant 
errors in the overall value estimate. And in what must have been a frustrating turn of events, 
it later said during one phone call that no pension records could be found at all in relation to 
Ms C.
Prudential also seemed continually unable to provide trained members of staff with the right 
knowledge and experience to field the reasonable questions Ms C was asking about her 
pension. I think that ultimately, bringing her complaint was also problematic and Prudential 
was slow to act on it. All this must have been very frustrating for her.
However, as our investigator implied when they issued their View, what Ms C wants now as 
an outcome, isnt something I can give her. 
What has Prudential done?
Whilst Prudential got many things wrong in her case, its offered Ms C £450 and has 
apologised for its errors. Its not our Services job to go through everything Prudential has 
done to recalculate her pension, but its told us this has been done by a person with the 
correct skills and that Ms C now has the accurate pension information she needs to move 
forward. 
Even so, Ms C said the amount offered for all the distress was derisory. Ive seen quite a 
few similar issues to those experienced by Ms C. And looked at through a particular lens, I 
accept one could potentially argue that the distress and inconvenience this all caused her 
should merit a slightly higher award.
However, Ms C has specifically said she isnt interested in a modest uplift to the amount 
offered, even if Prudential was asked to reconsider. So, having looked at everything thats been written and said in this case with care, we havent been able to informally resolve this 
complaint. 
The issue I therefore need to make clear here is that the original pension amount that was 
quoted to Ms C from 2018 was wrong. Its unfortunate that other inaccurate information 
followed, again implying shed get a higher pension value, as this value too was wrong. 
However, Im afraid I dont think its right that Ms C should ultimately receive the full value of 
any of these initial quotes. Thats because they are known now to be inaccurate and based 
on incorrect data. It therefore wouldnt be right to pay Ms C these extra amounts.
Part of our role is to see that consumers are put back into the position they would have been 
in if a financial business had not done something wrong. Ms C has certainly suffered a poor 
service from Prudential and I completely accept how distressing and inconvenient this would 
have probably been for her. But she hasnt lost any money. And saying she should get the 
higher quotes offered initially would, of course, be giving her something she wasnt entitled 
to.
Summary
As Ive explained, Prudential made repeated mistakes about important aspects of Ms Cs 
pension value. It responded poorly to her enquiries and it failed to provide access to staff 
with the right skills to quickly resolve its failures.
However, given the context of what Ive explained above, I think the total offer of £450 shes 
had, is fair. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Ms C, but this means her complaint that Prudential should 
honour the original inaccurate pension quotes, isnt one which I can uphold. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
I do not require The Prudential Assurance Company Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman