DRN-2650916
The complaint
Ms J complains that TSB Bank plc texted and called her partner when it identified a 
suspicious transaction on her sole account. 
  
What happened
During the autumn of 2020 a payment Ms J tried to make from her current account was 
blocked by TSBs systems. TSB sent a text message and made a call to the telephone 
number it had on file for Ms J. Ms J called TSB a short time later and confirmed the 
transaction was genuine but went on to complain. 
Ms J has explained that TSB called her partners phone number, not hers. But the payment 
in question was made from an account Ms J holds in her sole name. Ms J complains that 
TSB should only have had her phone number linked to the account. And Ms J has told us 
that, by contacting her partner, TSB caused some difficulties. 
TSB responded on 28 October 2020 but didnt uphold Ms Js complaint. Due to systems 
changes, TSB couldnt say why Ms Js partners phone number was linked to the account. 
TSB said there was a record of Ms J visiting a branch in early 2016 to update her contact 
details but couldnt say whether that related to her address or phone number. TSB said it 
had correctly used the number it held on file for Ms J when it tried to contact her about the 
blocked payment. 
Ms J referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They upheld 
the complaint and asked TSB to pay £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. The 
investigator said Ms J had explained she has had the same phone number for several years 
and accepted she didnt give her partners number to TSB in relation to her sole account. 
TSB didnt accept, so Ms Js complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB has told us that after it switched to new systems theres no way to check when Ms Js 
partners number was added to the account or who made the request. TSB has pointed to 
systems notes from 2016 that say a branch updated some element of Ms Js contact details, 
but it cant say what was changed or if the telephone number was amended. TSB also says 
that in 2019 it contacted all its customers and asked them to ensure they had up to date 
contact information registered to their account. 
Like the investigator, I think the testimony Ms J has given is important. Ms J has specifically 
told us she has had the same phone number for over a decade and that she wouldnt have 
visited a branch to link her partners number to her sole account. I agree that its very 
unlikely someone would link another persons phone number to their sole account, even their 
partners. 
Because of systems changes, TSB cant say why or when Ms Js partners phone number 
was linked to the account. Where information is incomplete or disputed, Ill base my decision 
on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I consider most likely to have happened based 
on all the available information. In this case, I dont agree with TSB that it is more likely that 
Ms J added her partners phone number to her sole account. I think its more likely than not 
that an error by TSB linked the wrong phone number to Ms Js account. 
TSB has told us it contacted customers in 2019 and asked for contact details to be checked. 
Whilst that may be the case, Ms J has told us she has had the same number of over a 
decade so I can understand why she may not have realised TSB had the wrong number 
linked to her account. 
In response to the investigator, TSB asked how Ms Js partners telephone number could be 
linked to her account. Ms J has suggested that their number is held by TSB in relation to a 
joint product they hold. But its not clear from the information provided how that happened. 
As TSB has told us, following its systems migration its now not possible to tell when the 
telephone number was added, who added it or why. As Ive said above, Im satisfied, on 
balance, Ms J didnt link her partners telephone number to her sole account. 
Our investigator recommended TSB pay Ms J £100 to reflect the trouble and upset caused. 
Ms J has explained TSBs call to her partner caused difficulties between them. Its clear Ms J 
was very upset by what happened and Im satisfied the situation did cause some trouble and 
upset. Ive considered how to fairly resolve this complaint and I agree that £100 fairly reflects 
the impact of this situation on Ms J. So, Im going to endorse the investigators award and 
uphold Ms Js complaint.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct TSB Bank plc to pay Ms J £100.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman