DRN-2456190
The complaint
Mr H complains because AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA) has refused to refund some 
of the premiums he paid for his private medical insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr H holds a private medical insurance policy, provided by AXA. The policy renews in June 
every year and is paid for by way of one annual premium.
In June 2020, Mr H asked AXA to extend his policy by three months  or to refund the 
premiums equivalent to the last three months of cover  as he felt his policy had been 
unusable due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
AXA said Mr Hs policy could still have provided benefits to him but said it would be 
reviewing the total value of claims paid over 2020 and 2021, and if the value of these fell 
compared to 2019 because of the coronavirus crisis, it would pass any refunds due back to 
members by March 2022. AXA apologised for failing to call Mr H back when it said it would 
and offered a discount on Mr Hs renewal premium for the policy year beginning in June 
2020.  
As Mr H remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to the attention of our service. Our 
investigator looked into what had happened, but she didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Mr H didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making my decision about what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr Hs complaint, Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of Mr Hs contract with 
AXA as well as other relevant considerations such as the law and industry guidance. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy say his plan is for one year, and that premiums 
must be paid for AXA to provide cover during that year. Insurance policies are intended to 
cover the risk of an uncertain event happening over the duration of the contract. An insurer is 
entitled to retain the benefit of the premium paid to cover the risk during that time, even if no 
successful claim has been made under the policy. AXA provided cover under Mr Hs private 
medical insurance policy from June 2019 to June 2020. Mr H didnt need to claim under his 
policy during that year, but AXA is entitled to retain the premium it charged to cover the risk 
of Mr H making a claim during that time. 
Even if Mr H had needed to claim during the last three months of the 2019/2020 policy year, 
I dont think its accurate to say his policy would have been unusable. Depending on the type 
of medical treatment or services Mr H required, AXA could have pre-authorised treatment to 
be carried out at a later date. Mr H had access to AXAs clinical support services without any 
excess or outpatient benefit limits, as well as to its remote GP services. Mr H would also 
have been eligible to claim enhanced benefits if hed been hospitalised during that time. 
I wouldnt ordinarily expect an insurer to refund premiums if medical treatment or medical 
services were unavailable due to circumstances outside of its control because of, for 
example, the lack of availability of certain medical professionals. AXA doesnt own or 
operate the private facilities its members use and the requisitioning of insurer-approved 
private facilities for use by the NHS was something which was outside of AXAs control. 
Mr H has queried why AXA would have offered him a suspension of premiums if hed been 
paying for his policy on a monthly basis. AXA offered this option to monthly customers in 
certain circumstances. Mr H didnt pay for his premiums monthly, he paid annually. But, even 
if Mr H had paid his premiums monthly, based on the information which AXA has provided to 
our service, Mr H wouldnt have been offered the option to suspend monthly premiums  as 
he didnt fulfil other criteria needed for this offer to be made. AXA may have made equivalent 
offers to annual customers in certain situations. But Mr H also didnt meet AXAs criteria for 
this offer to be made to him. AXA is entitled to decide in what circumstances it is prepared to 
use its discretion to refund customers, and Im satisfied Mr H hasnt been treated any 
differently to any other policyholder who was in the same situation as himself. 
Overall, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable in the circumstances to require AXA to 
refund any premiums to Mr H. 
AXA has said it intends to review the value of claims made in 2020 and 2021. If the 
combined value of claims has fallen compared to 2019 then any difference will be passed 
back to its members by way of a refund, with calculations verified by an independent auditor. 
I dont think this is an unfair position for AXA to take. I understand Mr H wants this process to 
happen now, but AXA wishes to assess the impact of the coronavirus situation on its claims 
over a two-year period and I dont think this is unreasonable. There is no guarantee that 
Mr H will be entitled to any refund in 2022  this is for AXA to calculate when it has the 
information it needs about claims values over the relevant period.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but I wont be asking AXA to do anything more.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman