DRN-1619164
 
complaint
Mr B complains that he was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) when he took out 
a loan with Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds).
background
Mr B took out a loan with Lloyds in 1995. At the same time he was sold a PPI policy which 
wouldve covered the repayments on his loan for up to 12 months at a time if he was made 
redundant, or for up to the full term of the loan if he was too ill to work. It also provided life 
cover for any outstanding balance. 
The cost of the policy was added to his loan and he paid interest on it.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. Mr B disagrees, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Bs 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
The loan and PPI were sold over 24 years ago, so its not surprising that neither party has 
retained any documents from the time. Mr B says he wasnt aware that the PPI was added 
and that it wasnt discussed with him. But he also thought the sale took place over the 
phone, when it actually took place in a branch, so I dont think I can safely rely on Mr Bs 
recollections. 
Lloyds has provided a sample of the credit agreement that was in use at the time of sale. I 
think its likely this is the same one that Mr B completed. I can see that the form made it clear 
that the PPI was optional. I can see that Mr B wouldve had to give his consent for the PPI to 
be added, too. Mr B later told this service that due to circumstances in his personal life he 
may have.forced myself to sign something I didnt fully understand. But this isnt 
something that Lloyds did wrong.
On the limited information I have I think its most likely Mr B bought the PPI knowing he had 
a choice about it.
Lloyds says it likely gave Mr B a personal recommendation to buy the PPI. So it had an 
obligation to take reasonable steps to make sure it was right for him. The original terms and 
conditions arent available, which isnt surprising given many years have passed since the 
sale. So Ive looked at an available policy document from shortly after the sale which I think 
is likely to reflect similar policy terms.Looking at Mr Bs circumstances at the time I think it was suitable for him. I say this because:
 
Mr B was eligible for the cover and wouldnt have been affected by any terms which 
mightve made it more difficult for his to make a successful claim  such as those 
related to existing medical conditions or elf-employment;
Mr B says he wasnt entitled to any contractual sick pay. The policy wouldve paid out 
in addition to any statutory sick pay for as long as Mr B was unable to work. It also 
wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy pay Mr B received. So I think the 
policy provided a useful additional benefit.
The cost of the policy was comparable to other policies on the market offering a 
similar benefit around the same time. While I can see that Mr B may not have 
received a proportionate refund of the premiums if he cancelled the PPI or paid the 
loan off early, I havent seen anything to suggest this was something he was 
contemplating at the time of sale. 
I havent seen anything to suggest the cost of the PPI was unaffordable for Mr B.
 
Lloyds also had to make sure it gave Mr B enough information about the policy so he could 
make an informed decision about buying it. I can see that its likely Mr B wasnt clearly told 
how much interest hed pay on the PPI premium. But it was a comparatively small amount 
and I dont think if hed known this figure it wouldve put his off buying it. 
So, on balance, I dont think Mr B lost out as a result of anything Lloyds mightve done 
wrong. 
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint so it follows that Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman