DRN-2336827
The complaint
Miss M complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has declined her buildings 
insurance claim for accidental damage to services. 
What happened
Miss M owns a property which is one of seven on a small development which all share a 
septic tank. She has owned the property since the 1990s and the tank is emptied about 
once a year.
The residents of the development became aware that their tank could be damaged in early 
February 2018 when it required emptying again when it had only been emptied a week or so 
before. The owners of the seven properties jointly instructed an expert drainage company 
(P) to report on the nature of the damage and potentially manage any subsequent insurance 
claims that needed to be made. 
Miss M made Lloyds aware of the damage in the spring of 2018 and contacted it again 
around June 2018 to say that she had sold her property subject to contract and was seeking 
assurance that any claim would still be valid once the sale was finalised. In the meantime, P 
tried to find a resolution to the problems being experienced. 
The sale of Miss Ms house eventually fell through because of the septic tank damage. P 
produced its report in March 2019. It said that about a week after the tank had been emptied 
in January 2018 the system had surcharged causing the tank to need emptying again. It said 
a large return of effluent from the soakaway (located in an adjacent third party owned field) 
back into the tank was noted. After the tank was emptied an inspection identified that there 
was a fracture to the wall at the top of the tank and that the baffle was damaged with 
numerous fractures and was broken in places. 
Having explored all options to provide a permanent and compliant drainage solution P 
concluded the only viable option was the most expensive, namely to connect the drain to the 
main sewer. It recommended the home owners claim under their buildings insurance for 
accidental damage to the tank. It noted that Miss M would need to demonstrate that the 
damage met the policy definition of accidental damage and it set out why, in its opinion, she 
was able to do so. The total cost of the works was estimated at over £211,000 of which each 
of the seven homeowners was liable for an equal share in excess of £30,000. 
Ps report was sent to each of the property owners insurers in March 2019 (one of the seven 
was uninsured). One of the other insurers instructed another drainage specialist to report on 
the damage. It thought the damage was accidental and said it could carry out the repair for 
significantly less than Ps estimate. The insurer accepted liability. 
Miss M spent the following months chasing Lloyds claims handler for a decision on the claim 
speaking to him only once in August 2019. So, Miss M complained to Lloyds about not being 
kept updated. Lloyds upheld her complaint and paid her compensation of £100. 
Lloyds then instructed its own drainage specialist (N) to empty the tank and report on the 
damage. It concluded that the need to empty the tank more frequently was due to the failure 
of the soakaway. It said the leach field had likely failed which was causing the back 
charging to occur. It said there was grazing damage to the internal structure of the tank likely 
caused by the suction hose. 
Miss M continued to chase Lloyds for a decision on liability and it wasnt until the end of 
October 2019 that the claims handler called Miss M and said the damage may not be 
accidental. Miss M told the claims handler that one of the other insurers had already 
accepted the damage was accidental and the policy wordings were identical. 
In mid-November 2019 Miss M made a further complaint to Lloyds about its failure to 
communicate with her, the other insurers, the other experts and the fact there was no 
resolution to the claim. Lloyds claims handler said he would contact Miss M in writing about 
the claims decision. Miss M continued to chase for a decision on liability and it wasnt until 9 
December 2019 that the claims handler phoned her to say the damage wasnt accidental so 
the claim wasnt covered. This was followed by a letter setting out the reasons why. 
Lloyds upheld Miss Ms complaint regarding the lack of communication from its claims 
handler and it paid Miss M compensation of £250. But it said it wouldnt be changing its 
decision about the claim. 
Miss M then made a complaint to this service and made a subject access request to Lloyds. 
Miss M also made a third complaint to Lloyds when it sent her data to the wrong 
correspondence address. Lloyds upheld Miss Ms complaint and paid her compensation of 
£100.
Our investigator looked into Miss Ms complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. He 
didnt think Lloyds has unreasonably declined Miss Ms claim on the grounds that the 
damage hadnt been caused accidentally (as defined in the policy). 
Miss M disagreed with our investigators findings. She said the tank showed no damage 
when emptied in January 2018 so she thought the damage had been caused suddenly 
(given it needed emptying again shortly after). She said P had said it was caused by an 
outside force be that hydrostatic pressure or impact within the tank. She said there was no 
dispute the tank was damaged, that it was unexpected and not caused deliberately. She said 
it was unfair that some of the other properties insurers were covering the claim given the 
policy wordings were all the same. 
The case was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regret for the disappointment it will cause Miss M, I dont think I can reasonably uphold 
her complaint. Ill explain why. 
The policy terms contain the following definitions: 
Accidental damage
An accident that causes physical damage, which is caused suddenly by an outside force and 
is not expected and not deliberateServices
Underground cables, pipes, drains, tanks and their inspection covers serving your home and 
for which you are legally responsible.
The claim was made under section 13 which provides cover for loss or damage caused by 
Accidental damage to services.
Im satisfied that the septic tank falls within the definition of Services. So, to be covered, the 
damage:
1. Must be an accident that causes physical damage
2. Must be caused suddenly by an outside force
3. Must not be expected
4. Cant be deliberate.
Its the policyholders duty to show they have a valid claim under the policy terms. Providing 
they can do so then the insurer must pay the claim. If they cant, then the insurer need not 
meet the claim. If they can, but the insurer can show that one of the policy exclusions can be 
successfully relied on to defeat the claim then the claim also fails. 
Here, Lloyds has said the damage hasnt been caused accidentally as required by the policy 
terms. So, it says its not required to meet the claim. Ive reviewed all the available evidence, 
and I dont think, having taken it all into account, that that was an unreasonable decision for 
Lloyds to have reached in the circumstances. 
Lloyds has relied on Ns report which says theres been a failing in the drainage field which 
has caused the waste in the pipes to back up. Lloyds said any failing of the pipework is a 
consequence of the ground (in the field) not draining. So, it says the failure of the service 
wasnt accidental but rather because of a failing elsewhere (i.e. the drainage field) beyond 
the service (as defined) itself. Soakaways and leach/drainage fields are not included within 
the policy definition of Service. Lloyds has also said that its inevitable that at some point 
after being installed the field/soakaway will come to the end of its serviceable life. 
A brief search of the internet would appear to confirm this to be the case. The failure of a 
drainage field/soakaway (when it becomes inundated) manifests itself in a number of ways, 
namely the septic tank requiring emptying more frequently and backed up drainage. 
So, Lloyds has said the drainage field has failed and, as this doesnt form part of the 
Services as defined in the policy, isnt covered. And P reports something similar too. It says 
that when it visited, the system was fully surcharged. It was also noted that, during the 
emptying of the septic tank, a large return of effluent from the soakaway back into the tank 
was observed. 
I cant ignore the contents of two reports, that wouldnt be reasonable. Having taken them 
into account I think the conclusion Lloyds reached about the damage to the soakaway not 
being damage to Services as defined in the policy was a reasonable one for it to have 
reached. 
Its not in dispute from either party or either expert that the tank itself has sustained damage. 
Ive set out above what that damage is. In order for Lloyds to be liable for the damage to the 
tank, it must have been caused accidentally as defined in the policy terms. Lloyds maintains 
that it wasnt.Taking each aspect of the definition in turn, I dont think its in dispute that theres physical 
damage to the inside of the tank. Lloyds accepts that the damage wasnt expected or 
deliberate. But, Lloyds says theres no evidence it was caused suddenly and/or by an 
outside force. Here the reports from P and N differ. P says the damage was sudden and 
manifested itself by the sudden surcharging of the system. But it doesnt explain how the 
surcharging was responsible for causing the physical damage it describes earlier in the 
report  the fracture to the tank wall and multiple fractures to the baffle. N suggests the 
grazing damage it observed was caused by the introduction of the suction hose when 
emptying the tank. 
So, P hasnt explained how the surcharging suddenly caused physical damage and N 
suggests it couldve been caused by the contractor emptying/cleaning the tank.
P says the outside force that caused the damage was either hydrostatic pressure or an 
impact. But it offers evidence of neither. Both are indeed classified as outside forces but its 
not enough to suggest they mayve caused the damage without explaining how or why. So, I 
dont think Lloyds reliance on Ns report  suggesting the outside force that caused the 
damage could be the suction hose introduced by the contractor engaged to empty the tank 
was unreasonable. 
Whilst Lloyds hasnt accepted that theres any evidence to prove the damage was caused 
suddenly, it has said that even if it were to accept that the damage had been caused by an 
outside force the only occasion that couldve occurred is during the process of emptying, 
maintaining and servicing the tank as that is the only time the tank is opened. And if it were 
to accept that the damage had been so caused then it would rely on the policy exclusion 
which states that any damage that occurs as a result of Any process of cleaning, dying, 
washing, reproofing, re-styling, restoring, renovating, altering, maintaining or repairing is 
excluded from cover. I cant reasonably say thats unfair.
Ive thought too about what Miss M said about nearby road construction and piling 
operations causing the damage by vibration, however, theres no evidence to support this 
was what caused the damage
Taking all the circumstances into account, I dont think that Lloyds unfairly concluded that the 
damage reported by Miss M wasnt covered by the accidental damage to services peril 
provided by her policy. This means that I cant require Lloyds to accept liability for Miss Ms 
claim and to fund the remedial works that are now needed. 
I appreciate that Miss M has said that some of the other owners insurers have accepted 
liability for their share of the cost of remedying the situation and that she says the relevant 
policy terms and conditions are the same. Unfortunately, I can only consider here whether 
Lloyds has reached a fair decision to decline Miss Ms claim based on its policy terms. Most 
home insurance policies contain similar cover but I have seen many different variances 
between policies so that the cover offered isnt always identical. And Ive seen many different 
definitions of accidental so, without seeing the policy terms of the other policies I cant 
reasonably say they were identical to Miss Ms. In any event, each insurer is entitled to 
consider the claims it receives against its own policy terms in order to decide liability. 
In respect of Miss Ms complaint about the poor service and communication she received 
from her claims handler I can see that she has received compensation of £450. I think 
Lloyds dealt with these aspects of Miss Ms complaint fairly and reasonably. The 
compensation Miss M has received is in line with awards this service has made in similar 
complaints so I cant reasonably ask Lloyds to do any more. Indeed, if Miss Ms complaint 
had passed across my desk without Lloyds having already paid her any compensation its 
unlikely Id have awarded any more than this. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 December 2020. 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman