DRN-2301596
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with Vitality Health Limited because he feels its mis-led him.
What happened
Mr S had a health insurance policy with Vitality that offered a fitness watch as an incentive 
for lower monthly premiums, determined by the amount of exercise he did. The fitness watch 
was then paid for, on a monthly basis, over a fixed term. Having successfully settled the 
payment plan, Mr S decided to purchase a second fitness watch under the scheme, but this 
time, the upfront fee payable cost him more. 
Mr S said he was mis-led by Vitality because the second watch should have been a similar 
price as the first. He said this wasnt made clear to him by Vitality and that all promotional 
material suggested he could buy the product at a much lower price. Mr S also believes that 
Vitality altered the material on its website following his complaint in an attempt to conceal its 
actions. 
Vitality said the lower price was an introductory offer exclusively for new customers. And that 
because Mr S was an existing customer who had already benefited once from the 
promotion, he didnt qualify for it this time around. Vitality paid Mr S £10 as a goodwill 
gesture for any confusion caused. 
Our investigator agreed with Vitality. She also said that whilst she cannot consider the 
adverts Mr S highlighted in the same way as the Advertising Standards Agency (ASA) she 
thought the promotional material was clear and didnt find anything mis-leading. 
Mr S didnt agree. He acknowledged there was small-print which set out Vitalitys stance on 
this, but he said Vitality should be much clearer about the upfront costs for existing 
customers. Hed like Vitality to change its promotional material to reflect this. Hed also like it 
to make a higher compensatory award for the trouble hes been through. And so, its for me 
to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr S complaint. I say that because I dont agree 
with the arguments hes made about Vitalitys promotional material being mis-leading. Ill 
explain why.
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS), says an insurer should ensure 
that a communication or a financial promotion is clear, fair and not misleading. I think Vitality 
has adhered to this because the promotional material for the fitness watch explains that 
upfront costs start from £99. It goes on to quote higher costs depending on other plans that 
consumers are already members of. 
The terms also give a detailed breakdown of price depending on the generation of fitness 
watch and further explains that prices are subject to change. I know Mr S has made 
comments about the small print, in summary, saying that the difference in pricing isnt given 
due prominence, but I disagree for the reasons Ive explained. I also think its unrealistic to 
expect the insurer to list all costs associated with the product on its promotional material 
given there are several different options available. 
However, I would expect it to provide its customers with a more detailed breakdown of 
pricing when a consumer either requests it, or at the point of sale. The evidence Ive seen 
satisfies me that this was made clear to Mr S prior to any purchase. And so, I dont think 
Vitality has mis-led him as hes suggested. 
Vitalitys terms make a distinction between new and existing customers. It sets out the higher 
costs for an existing customers second-generation fitness watch, depending on the model 
selected. I thought this was also clear.  
I should also highlight that its Vitalitys commercial right to decide how to apply its incentives 
and its pricing model. I accept Mr S argument that hes had to pay more for his second-
generation fitness watch, but Ive not seen any evidence that says hed be entitled to the 
introductory offer as an existing customer. I note Mr S arguments about the information on 
Vitalitys website having changed following his complaint, but, again, Ive not seen any 
evidence that persuades me that was the case.  
As Vitality made the necessary information is available to Mr S, I dont think it needs to do 
anything more here.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman