DRN-3497567
The complaint
Mr M complains because U K Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt paid a claim for a cancelled 
trip under his travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M holds a travel insurance policy as a benefit of his packaged bank account. The 
insurance is provided by UKI. 
Mr M was due to travel abroad on 4 January 2021 to a country which Ill call F. His 
accommodation and lift passes were booked on 7 September 2020. 
In January 2021, Mr M travelled to a ferry port to depart to F but was told that the Covid-19 
test he presented wasnt being accepted for travel. Mr M says he was told to return home 
and complete a different Covid-19 test and then return to the ferry port. However, a UK 
national lockdown was subsequently announced, so Mr M was unable to arrange a further 
test or to return to the ferry port. 
Mr M made a claim with UKI for his irrecoverable losses but UKI said the claim wasnt 
covered because his accommodation and lift passes were booked when the UKs Foreign, 
Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly the UK Foreign & Commonwealth 
Office (FCO)) was advising against all but essential travel to F. 
Unhappy, Mr M complained to UKI. He said hed contacted UKI both before and after 
booking his trip and he was told hed be covered if he had to cancel due to Covid-19. Mr M 
also said he was travelling for what was considered an essential reason and, therefore, the 
FCDO advice didnt apply to him. UKI said it had listened to a call made by Mr M and Mr M 
had been told hed need to contact the claims team to confirm if hed be covered. UKI said it 
was unable to locate a second call, but that if Mr M could provide the date and time on which 
this second call was made, it would look into the matter further. However, UKI acknowledged 
there had been delays in telling Mr M that his claim wasnt covered so it offered him £100 
compensation for any trouble and upset caused. This compensation has since been paid to 
Mr M. 
Mr M then brought his complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into what 
had happened. Our investigator said he didnt think UKI had acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in the circumstances by declining Mr Ms claim. Mr M didnt agree with our investigators 
opinion, so the complaint has been referred to me to review independently and impartially, 
as the final stage in our process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers should 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into 
account when making my decision about Mr Ms complaint. 
No insurance policy covers every situation. The terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy set out 
the listed, insured events for which cover is provided by UKI under each section of cover. In 
this case Mr Ms trip, as defined under the policy, had already started as hed left his home 
address. So, both the cancellation and/or the curtailment sections of Mr Ms policy are 
potentially relevant to his claim. 
Based on what Mr M has told us, I think the reason why he was unable to travel to F as 
planned was based on the Covid-19 testing requirements in F. Regardless of whether or not 
the information he was given was an error by the French border control agents at the ferry 
port, these arent reasons for a valid cancellation or curtailment claim under the terms and 
conditions of his policy. Neither is a national lockdown imposed by the UK government. I 
dont think this is unusual. These arent things which Id expect to have been insured under 
most travel insurance policies available on the market at the time Mr M booked his 
accommodation and lift passes. 
Mr M did have cover under his policy if FCDO advice changed in certain circumstances. This 
was if a trip was cancelled because the FCDO advised against all but essential travel within 
28 days of the intended departure date, after a trip was booked. The policy also covers 
cutting short a trip if the FCDO advised against travel after departure. 
At the time Mr M booked his trip, the FCDO was advising against all but essential travel to F. 
And, this advice remained in place until he was due to travel to F. So, Mr Ms claim doesnt 
meet the criteria for cover. 
I understand Mr M says the reason for his trip was essential, so the FCDO advice didnt 
apply to him. But I dont think the reason for his trip is relevant to the outcome of his claim. 
His policy only covers situations where FCDO advice changes after a trip is booked or the 
policyholder departs on a trip and this isnt what happened here. Regardless of whether Mr 
Ms trip was considered essential or not, the FCDO advice about travelling to F didnt 
change after his trip was booked. 
Ive considered the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy in their entirety. But I dont think 
the circumstances he found himself in meet the requirements for a claim to be paid by UKI. 
I understand Mr M says he was told by UKI that his claim would be covered twice. I only 
have access to one of the calls. This took place on 29 November 2020, after the 
accommodation and lift passes had already been booked, when Mr M contacted UKI to ask 
if a claim would be covered due to ski slopes being closed. Mr Ms eventual claim didnt 
relate to the closure of ski slopes, and UKIs advisor didnt say that Mr Ms claim would be 
covered  she said that Mr M should contact UKIs claims department and that hed need to 
contact the companies who hed booked with directly to see if he could receive a refund from 
them first. 
Theres no record of any further calls from Mr M to UKI about his policy on UKIs system 
notes and Mr M hasnt provided UKI with any details of the date and time on which a further 
call may have been made. But, the precise details of Mr Ms eventual claim couldnt have 
been known before his trip was booked. In my experience of dealing with complaints like 
this, it would be unusual for an insurer to be in a position to confirm cover based on a 
hypothetical situation, without having knowledge of all the facts as well as the opportunity to 
assess supporting documentary evidence. And, Mr M would have had cover under his policy 
for certain Covid-19 related claims  I just dont think he had cover for the circumstances of 
this one. So, overall, I havent seen any evidence that would lead me to conclude that UKI misled Mr 
M about the cover available under his policy. 
UKI has acknowledged that it could have identified and told Mr M that his claim wouldnt be 
covered when he first made his claim on 7 January 2021. Instead, UKI didnt communicate 
this to Mr M until 9 March 2021. UKI has since paid Mr M £100 compensation for the delay 
and Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable for any distress and inconvenience experienced 
by Mr M while he was waiting for his claim to be assessed. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M. But, in making my decision I need to be fair to both parties  
not just to Mr M. Mr Ms claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of his policy and I 
dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask UKI to pay this 
claim outside of those terms and conditions. So, I wont be directing UKI to do anything 
further.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman