DRN-3975996
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy with AXA PPP Healthcare Limiteds handling of her claim.
What happened
Ms S had private medical insurance with AXA. In May 2021, she contacted AXA to arrange a 
follow up/diagnostic mammogram having been told there were some anomalies with her 
breast screening mammogram. Ms S was diagnosed with ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) 
and needed surgery with reconstruction. Ms S ended up having her treatment on the NHS 
which she said was because AXA made several errors throughout the handling of her claim, 
as well as it taking too long to arrange appointments. She also said she felt abandoned by 
AXA because it left her to source her own potential surgeons privately. 
AXA said there was some initial confusion around Ms S diagnosis but this was caused by 
Ms S giving incorrect information. It also said it wouldnt recommend surgeons, rather, itd 
give a list of those that specialise in her area of treatment and itd be for Ms S to decide 
which specialist shed prefer. AXA also said Ms S had a treatment path through the NHS 
and, on this occasion, the NHS was able to offer appointments more quickly. It accepted the 
overall service Ms S received could have been better and referred to it providing dates for 
potential surgery whilst she was away and so offered £100 compensation. 
Our investigator said AXA made more errors and recommended it pay Ms S an additional 
£500 compensation to rectify the situation. She said AXA was unclear about the available 
dates for diagnostic treatment, in addition to it encouraging Ms S to go through treatment on 
the NHS. She felt the distress and inconvenience caused was significant, which is why she 
recommended a higher award. 
AXA disagreed with the increased compensation. It said itd increase its original offer by 
£150, making the total award £250. Ms S declined the offer saying it was derisory and 
highlighted AXA had saved thousands of pounds by not having to fund her diagnostic tests 
and treatment, both of which should have been covered by her policy. 
I issued my provisional thoughts on this complaint as I reached a different outcome to that 
recommendation of our investigator. I accepted AXA had made some errors, but I didnt think 
it should pay as much compensation recommended by our investigator. I said £250 for the 
overall trouble and upset caused was fair. I noted AXA had already paid £100 and so it 
needed to pay an additional £150 in the circumstances. 
AXA didnt respond to my findings, but Ms S did. She didnt accept my provisional thoughts 
and said, in summary, that the list of surgeons she was sent to choose from werent suitably 
qualified. She explained she needed treatment from an oncoplastic surgeon, and that AXA 
didnt have access to the correct support nurses to complete the treatment. And so, its now 
for me to make a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to depart from my provisional findings for the same reason Ive already 
explained. I agree AXA made some mistakes, however, I dont consider its actions to be 
consistent with such a poor level of service that would fairly justify an increased 
compensatory award. I think £250 for the overall distress and inconvenience is fair for the 
reasons Ive explained. Ill now address the additional arguments made in response to my 
provisional decision. 
The list of specialists suggested by AXA
Having carefully reviewed the list, Im satisfied the specialists put forward by AXA were 
suitably qualified and held special interests in the area of cancer that affected Ms S. I accept 
this wouldve ultimately been subject to a conversation between Ms S and the suggested 
surgeon, but I see no obvious reason to conclude AXA made a mistake with its 
recommendations. As Ms S chose to have treatment on the NHS, theres nothing more I can 
helpfully add here as theres no persuasive evidence to suggest those surgeons were not 
suitably qualified. I also note AXA explained to Ms S that its the specialists responsibility to 
ensure its qualifications and bio is kept up to date and not AXAs. In any event, Im satisfied 
those specialists recommended were suitable. 
AXA not able to supply support staff
Ms S said that when she discussed her proposed treatment with the NHS specialist, she was 
told not to have the treatment privately. According to Ms S, she said that she was told AXA 
doesnt pay enough for the treatment to be carried out properly because there wouldnt be 
enough money to pay for the support staff. I should say that other than Ms Ss testimony, 
Ive not seen any evidence of this. And, therefore, Im not persuaded by it. AXA, through its 
approved network has access to specialists that offer the treatment she needed. 
The fees are commercially sensitive and so I wont disclose information about that here. But 
Im satisfied it wouldve covered the treatment and those costs. AXA told Ms S that if there 
was ever to be a shortfall in treatment costs, then this would typically be discussed between 
the surgeon and the consumer. But this was a more general explanation and it reassured Ms 
S that wouldnt be the case in her circumstances. Ms S wasnt treated through AXA and so 
theres nothing more I can helpfully add here either. 
My final decision
My final decision is that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited must now pay Ms S the remainder of 
her compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. The total compensation due is 
£250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman