DRN-4512640
The complaint
Miss G complains that NewDay Ltd (trading as Pulse) was irresponsible to approve her 
credit card applications.
What happened
Miss G was approved for two credit cards with Pulse as follows:
Card Name Date Amount
Argos 6 Dec 2019 £900
Pulse 14 Jan 2020 £600
Miss G says Pulse should not have given her either credit card. She says she had been out 
of work since 2015 and her credit file would have shown arrears and missed payments. 
Miss G says the card repayments were unaffordable and the situation has now worsened 
due to the cost of living and having three children to support. She adds that she has severe 
anxiety about the situation, and it is now affecting her mental health.
Pulse says Miss Gs unsecured debt was a small proportion of her income at the time of both 
applications and there was nothing in her credit file to suggest that she was struggling 
financially. It says the credit limits were modest and appropriate and were not increased after 
the accounts were opened.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He found the checks 
carried out by Pulse were proportionate and that there was nothing in the available 
information that indicated the lending was irresponsible.
Miss G responded to say that she was never asked for bank statements which would have 
shown her financial situation. She says she applied for the cards as she couldnt afford to 
pay for food for herself and her three children. Miss G adds that shes been making regular 
payments to Pulse, but the balance never reduces as she is just paying off the interest and 
fees.
Provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Miss G and to Pulse on 20 November 2023. 
Ive summarised my findings below:
Argos Card
I wasnt satisfied that Pulses checks went far enough as a credit card is a long-term 
commitment, and it hadnt verified Miss Gs income or living expenses;
Using Miss Gs bank statements, I found:
oShe had around £160 per month remaining after her regular expenditure, with 
which to buy food for herself and her three children;
oMiss G regularly used short-term lenders and had taken out three such loans, 
totalling £270, in the week prior to the credit card application;
So, although I accepted the card was approved with a modest credit limit, I found 
Miss G was already struggling financially and further lending was unsustainable for 
her.
Pulse Card
Miss G applied for the Pulse card less than six weeks later and the evidence I saw 
showed that her circumstances hadnt changed;
I noted she borrowed almost £700 from a short-term lender the day before this credit 
card application, with which to repay what appeared to be a debt recovery company.
In summary, I found Pulse was irresponsible to have approved both of Miss Gs applications,
although I couldnt see it acted unfairly in any other way.
Miss G responded with additional evidence about the state of her mental health at the time 
of the lending.
Pulse responded to say, in summary, that it believed its lending decisions were appropriate 
based on the information it had at the time but acknowledges that Miss G has now provided 
further evidence in the form of her bank statements.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any additional information that affects the provisional decision, I 
see no reason to depart from it. I would remind Pulse of its obligations to make any 
appropriate reasonable adjustments for Miss G going forwards given what it now knows 
about her mental health.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. NewDay Ltd (trading as Pulse) should:
Rework the accounts removing all interest and charges that have been applied;
oIf the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss G 
along with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. Pulse should also remove all adverse 
information regarding the account from Miss Gs credit file;oOr, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Pulse should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Miss G for the remaining amount. 
Once Miss G has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to 
the account should be removed from her credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Pulse to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Miss G a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one. If it intends 
to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman