DRN-3214512
The complaint
Miss M complains about Amtrust Europe Limited and the way they handled her insurance 
claim after she discovered a fault with her boiler.
What happened
Miss Ms boiler was insured on a policy underwritten by Amtrust for several years. In 
December 2020, Miss M made a claim on this policy when she was unable to start her 
boiler. Amtrust sent an engineer to inspect the boiler and after doing so, decided the parts 
that needed to be replaced were obsolete. So, Amtrust explained they were unable to 
complete the repair or insure Miss Ms boiler any further. 
But Miss M was unhappy with this, so she raised a complaint. Miss M didnt think the 
engineer who attend her property had inspected her boiler properly. She said the engineer 
had only looked at the boiler and not investigated its parts inside. She explained shed since 
arrange for another engineer to attend whod diagnosed the issue and sourced parts to 
complete the repair. So, she wanted Amtrust to reimburse her for this amount and 
compensate her for the time she was left without heating and hot water.
Amtrust responded and upheld Miss Ms complaint. They agreed their service couldve been 
better and refunded Miss M the premiums shed paid so far for that years term as well as a 
full refund of the previous year. But the policy wasnt re-instated due to the boiler being 
deemed obsolete. And Amtrust didnt agree to refund Miss M the costs shed incurred 
arranging for her own repair. Miss M remained unhappy with this so she referred her 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He was satisfied Amtrust had 
declined Miss Ms claim fairly as the parts required to complete the repair as diagnosed by 
the attending engineer werent available. So, he thought Amtrust were fair to decide the 
boiler was obsolete and didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Miss M didnt agree. She maintained her view that the engineer sent by Amtrust hadnt 
diagnosed the issue correctly as her own engineer had managed to source parts that 
repaired the issued. So, she wanted the costs of this to be reimbursed.
Our investigator replied again, acknowledging Miss Ms comments. He accepted there 
appeared to have been a difference in diagnosis and why Miss M would be unhappy with 
this. But he explained Miss Ms boiler had been declared obsolete when it was service in 
September 2020, before the engineer attended following the breakdown. So, he didnt think 
the engineer should have attended at all as the policy shouldnt have been in place at the 
time. Because of this, he didnt think Amtrust should cover the costs of the repair as Miss M 
shouldnt have been insured at the time. Miss M remained unhappy with this, so her 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to set out clearly what Ive considered. Im aware Miss M raised another 
complaint about the sale of her policy which has been decided upon by this service 
separately. So, I wont be commenting on the sale and renewal of the policy any further. But 
this decision focuses on the service Miss M was provided by Amtrust and the way her claim 
was handled and eventually declined. And as part of this, the validity of Miss Ms policy must 
also be considered and I recognise this may create some overlap between whats been 
discussed in the complaints. 
And before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I want to recognise the impact this 
complaint has had on Miss M. I recognise Miss M contacted Amtrust after her boiler had 
broken down. And I appreciate this happened in December 2020, when the need for heating 
and hot water is greater due to the weather. Ive got no doubt it wouldve been inconvenient 
and upsetting for Miss M to be without heating and hot water at this time and I recognise this 
wouldve been made worse when her claim was declined by Amtrust. While I also recognise 
Miss M was able to arrange for her own engineer to attend and repair the issue, and so limit 
the suffering she was caused, I can understand how this would also have added to her 
inconvenience. So, because of the above, I can appreciate why she thinks Amtrust should 
compensate her for the upset and her financial loss.
And having looked at the evidence provided to me, alongside Miss Ms testimony, I think its 
clear there is a difference between the diagnosis made by Amtrusts attending engineer and 
the engineer Miss M arranged independently. Amtrusts engineer stated the parts needed to 
repair the boiler were obsolete, meaning they couldnt be obtained. And Ive seen Amtrust 
spoke to the boiler manufacturer, who also confirmed this was the case.
Yet Miss M has confirmed her own engineer was able to complete a repair to her boiler. 
Although I havent seen exactly what work was completed, I think its reasonable for me to 
assume the parts replaced were different to those diagnosed by Amtrusts attending 
engineer. So, Im satisfied the diagnosis by Amtrusts engineer was incorrect. And this 
satisfies me the way Amtrust handled the claim was unfair. So, I do understand why Miss M 
is unhappy with this and feels as though the costs she incurred should be reimbursed.
But as well as deciding whether Amtrust has acted unfairly, I also then need to consider 
what Amtrust should fairly do to put things right. And to do this, any award or direction I 
make is intended to place Miss M back in the place she wouldve been, had the service 
shed received been fair.
In this situation, Ive seen that Miss Ms boiler was serviced by Amtrust in September 2020, 
around three months before her boiler broken down. And Ive seen the engineer who 
completed this service stated the boilers was obsolete due its age and the inability to obtain 
replacement parts. So, he recommended for the insurance to be cancelled at this point. Ive 
seen the policy terms and conditions which explain a policy will be voided in this situation. 
So, while I recognise Amtrust didnt acknowledge this and cancel the policy as soon as they 
shouldve done, Im satisfied the policy shouldnt have been in place from this date. So, 
when Amtrust attended Miss Ms property in December, I dont think a valid policy was in 
place. So, even if Amtrusts engineer had diagnosed the issue correctly and managed to 
source a replacement part, I dont think this work shouldve been covered by the policy. And 
I think its likely Amtrust wouldve realised this before confirming any repairs they may have been undertaken as the recommendation from the engineer who attended in September 
were clearly available on their system. So, I think Miss M wouldve found herself in the same 
position she is in now. 
Ive then thought about whether Miss M was likely to have found another insurance policy to 
cover her boiler, had Amtrust cancelled the one she had within a reasonable amount of time. 
And I think this is unlikely considering the age of the boiler and the difficulty any insurer 
would find when trying to obtain replacement parts. So, I think Miss M was always likely to 
incur the costs of the repair and so, Im unable to say Amtrust should cover the cost of this 
on this occasion.
And Amtrust have already refunded Miss M the premiums she paid for policy period at the 
time she made the claim and for the full year before. I think this refund reasonably addresses 
the upset Miss M wouldve felt when she realised her claim was declined. So, I dont think 
any further award is necessary on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Miss M was hoping for. But I hope it goes some way to 
providing Miss M with some closure to the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint about Amtrust Europe 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman