DRN-3626708
The complaint
Mr P complains about the advice given by Chequers Wealth Management Limited (CWML)  
to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme with 
British Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension arrangement. He says the advice was 
unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss. 
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ps employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
On 11 August 2017, scheme members were told that terms had been agreed for a 
Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) (under pensions law, a RAA is a 
restructuring mechanism which allows a financially troubled employer to detach itself from its 
liabilities in respect of a DB pension scheme) and that when it took affect they would have a 
choice - either move into the new scheme - BSPS2 - or remain in the existing scheme and 
move with it to the PPF.
Mr P was concerned about what the recent announcements by his employer meant for the 
security of his pension so he sought advice. Mr P met with CWML in August 2017 having 
been referred to them by another financial adviser. CWML completed a fact-find to gather 
information about Mr Ps circumstances and objectives. This, along with an email sent to 
CWML from the other financial adviser, recorded that Mr P was 56 years old; he was 
married; he and his wife owned their own home, which had an outstanding mortgage of 
around £30,000 costing £700 a month; he had around £30,000 in saving; he had around 
£30,000 unsecured debt; he wanted to access a cash lump sum to repay his debts and 
continue to work for another two to five years; and his target retirement income was £20,000 
a year. CWML says it also carried out an assessment of Mr Ps attitude to risk, although it is 
not included in its business file submission, which it deemed to be balanced.
During the same month, CWML advised Mr P (in an undated report) to transfer his pension 
benefits into a personal pension arrangement and invest the proceeds in a fund CWML 
deemed matched Mr Ps attitude to risk. In summary, the suitability report said the reasons 
for this recommendation were to provide Mr P with flexibility and the ability to access part of 
his tax-free cash to suit his requirements and to allow him to nominate the beneficiaries of 
his pension fund remaining upon his death at his discretion.
Mr P duly accepted the recommendation and in October 2017 around £450,000 was 
transferred to his new personal pension.
Mr P complained to CWML in 2022 about the suitability of the transfer advice. In summary 
Mr P said that as a result of the transfer his wife would no longer receive a widows pension; 
he was anxious about having lost the security of his DB pension; he thought the advice 
process was hurried and he felt pressured; he didnt think the advice was suitable given he 
wanted security and stability in his life; and he believes he will be financially worse of in 
retirement.
CWML didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. In summary, it set out Mr Ps circumstances and 
objectives and said that the benefits available to Mr P through the existing scheme and PPF 
were illustrated to him because the BSPS2 scheme details werent available. It said it 
confirmed its belief that the PPF was the better option when taking benefits at age 60. It said 
Mr P didnt believe he could meet his three objectives by remaining in the DB scheme  he 
couldnt take an initial lump sum to pay off his debts and even deferring things until 
retirement, the lump sum available wasnt enough to allow him to pay things off and 
subsidise a higher income in the early years of his retirement. It said it reiterated to Mr W 
that it was unrealistic to expect the transfer option to provide a secure income equal to or 
better than the existing scheme  this was the best option to provide a secure income. It said 
it fully discussed Mr Ps attitude to risk and it disputed that it hurried its advice. It said all 
costs and fees were discussed. It said in relation to Mr P feeling anxiety over his pension  
given hed started taking benefits in 2021 at a greater level that his BSPS scheme wouldve 
provided, it said this is inconsistent with his concerns about the future and it believes Mr P 
was fully aware of the implications of transferring and that it met his objectives.
Dissatisfied with its response, Mr P asked this Service to consider his complaint. One of our 
investigators upheld the complaint and required CWML to pay compensation. In summary 
they said it was unclear why Mr P needed to transfer at this time or that he needed flexibility 
with his pension. They said in relation to death benefits, the recommendation should have 
been given in the context of Mr Ps best interests not those of his family or a desire for 
legacy planning. They said Mr P had lump sum death benefits already through his death-in-
service benefits and his DC pension  but that any additional need couldve been met 
through life assurance. They also said that the growth rates required to match Mr Ps DB 
scheme benefits wasnt realistically achievable. So they said for these reasons and because 
Mr Ps capacity to absorb losses was low, they didnt think the advice was suitable. They 
said if suitable advice had been given Mr P wouldve likely remained in the DB scheme and 
then opted into the BSPS2. 
CWML disagreed. It said the investigators decision had not taken account of the additional 
information provided by Mr P that his transfer value was increased. It said the only way Mr P 
could secure his transfer value was to transfer before the Time to Choose process closed. It 
said while it agreed the purpose of a pension is to provide an income, if sufficient income 
can be taken while allowing a member to leave a legacy, this can put them in a better 
position. It said the investigators comment about Mr Ps death-in-service benefit was 
irrelevant as he would shortly retire and so would no longer be available. It said the cashflow 
modelling completed at the time showed that Mr P could take his required £20,000 and at 
age 87 hed have a residual fund of around £275,000 to pass on to his family tax-free. It said 
Mr P also had his DC scheme which he could use to supplement his income. It said if Mr P 
had remained in the DB scheme, he was likely to incur unnecessary income tax on excess 
income from the scheme. It said overall Mr P required flexibility and that he has fully utilised 
the flexibility afforded to him by taking partial tax-free lump sums  something he wouldnt 
have been able to do within the scheme or the PPF.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me for a final decision.
Following the referral request, CWML said that, while it maintained the advice it gave Mr P 
was suitable, it carried out a loss calculation, which showed that Mr P had not incurred a loss as a result of the advice. Mr P said that he still wanted his complaint to be decided by an 
Ombudsman, so it falls to me to decide the matter.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of CWMLs actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, CWML 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Ps best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
Financial viability 
CWML carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing 
how much Mr Ps pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the 
same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). And this was based on his existing 
scheme benefits. But at the time of the advice Mr P didnt have the option to remain in the 
existing scheme.
 In light of the agreed terms for the RAA, CWML ought to have known that Mr P would soon 
have a choice - either move into a new scheme (BSPS2) or remain in the existing scheme 
and move with it to the PPF. This means that at the time of the advice, basing the analysis 
on the existing scheme was somewhat redundant and so wasnt helpful to Mr P. I think its 
reasonable to say that, in light of the announcement CWML shouldve waited for the details of the new scheme and based its analysis and advice on the benefits available to Mr P 
through the BSPS2 instead. That way Mr P wouldve had all the relevant information to make 
a properly informed decision.
I accept that BSPS2 was far from being a certainty at the time of the advice. But in my view 
all of the information from the scheme trustees indicated that the new scheme would go 
ahead. So I still think CWML shouldve waited and taken the benefits available to Mr P 
through the new BSPS2 into account in formulating its advice.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
Mr P was 56 at the time of the advice and its recorded that he wanted to retire in the next 
year or so  the fact-find and covering email from Mr Ps existing adviser suggested he might 
continue to work for the next two to five years. The critical yield required to match Mr Ps 
benefits under the existing BSPS at age 65 was 10.75% a year assuming he took a full 
pension and 8.24% a year on the basis of taking a cash lump sum and a reduced pension. 
At age 60, the critical yields were 20.41% and 14.19% respectively. The critical yields to 
match the benefits available through the PPF at age 65 was quoted as 5.31% a year and 
4.61% a year respectively. CWML did not produce critical yields to match the benefits 
available through the PPF at age 60.
But as Ive said above, Mr W remaining in the BSPS wasnt an option. So, CWML shouldve 
waited and provided the critical yields applicable to the BSPS2 benefits instead. The lower 
annual increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical yields somewhat. 
But I still think they wouldve likely been higher than those reflecting the PPF benefits.
This compares with the discount rate of 2.8% per year for three years to retirement in this 
case (age 60). For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 
8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ps 
assessed balanced attitude to risk (Ill come back to this further on) and also the term to 
retirement. In my view there would be little point in Mr P giving up the guarantees available 
to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the 
scheme.
But here, the lowest critical yield based on a retirement age of 60 (so closest to when Mr P 
indicated he wanted to retire) was 14.19%, which was based on Mr P taking a cash lump 
sum and a reduced pension. As I said above, CWML didnt produce a critical yield figure for 
taking the same benefits through the PPF at age 60. But based on taking the same benefits 
through the BSPS2, , I think the critical yield wouldve been somewhere between the figure 
for the PPF had it been produced and the existing scheme, and likely closer to 14.19%. And 
this was significantly higher than both the discount rate and the regulators upper projection 
rate. 
So I think Mr P was most likely to receive benefits of a significantly lower overall value than 
those provided by the BSPS2 if he transferred to a personal pension, as a result of investing 
in line with a balanced attitude to risk. 
If the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead, Mr P wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. As Isaid above, no critical yield was produced based on the benefits available through the PPF 
at age 60. But at 65 it was 5.31% (full pension) and 4.61% (reduced pension) - so at age 60 
it was likely to be higher given the shorter investment term. Given this, I think its likely Mr P 
would receive benefits of a lower overall value than the PPF at retirement, as a result of 
investing in line with his stated attitude to risk.
While Ive considered this on the basis that Mr Ps attitude to risk was balanced, I have 
some concerns about how CWML arrived at this. CWML has said that an assessment 
questionnaire was completed to arrive at the overall assessment. But Ive not had sight of 
this  it didnt form part of its business file submission  so I cant see what questions were 
asked of Mr P. But Im mindful that Mr P was very close to his intended retirement age; his 
DB pension accounted for almost all of his private retirement provision so I dont think he 
had much, if any capacity for loss; he still had outstanding liabilities; and he appears to have 
limited knowledge and experience of investing  CWMLs suitability report referred to Mr Ps 
experience as only being in relation to his pensions. So it strikes me that Mr Ps 
circumstances describe someone who ought to be more cautious or low risk in their 
approach  I think this is a more appropriate description and fit with the level of risk I think 
Mr P was prepared and ought reasonably to have taken.
I can see that CWML produced a cashflow analysis / model, which it says shows how Mr W 
could meet his objective of taking £20,000 a year despite the high critical yield and that he 
would still have a significant amount remaining in his fund to pass on to his family at age 87 
 his life expectancy. Firstly, this assumes that drawdown was appropriate or suitable for 
Mr P. But given that Im not persuaded a balanced attitude to risk was a reasonable 
assessment of the level of risk I think Mr P was prepared or needed to take and that a 
cautious approach was more appropriate, Im not persuaded a drawdown arrangement was 
suitable in the circumstances. In any event, CWMLs analysis assumes a consistent year on 
year growth rate of 6.2%, which Im not persuaded was reasonable. It also assumes that at 
age 66 Mr P reduces his income withdrawal once his state pension became payable. Im not 
sure how realistic that would be. Furthermore, there is no stress testing of the model to show 
how Mr Ps fund might be impacted due to periods of lower-than-expected investment 
performance or increases in inflation. So Im not persuaded this analysis demonstrates the 
financial viability of the transfer or that it was in Mr Ps best interests to transfer out of the 
scheme.
So based on financial viability alone, I dont think a transfer out of the BSPS was in Mr Ps 
best interests. Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer 
advice as CWML has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean 
a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income need
It seems that the primary reason CWML recommended Mr P transfer his DB scheme 
benefits was to provide him with flexibility  specially to allow him to take a portion of his tax-
free cash so he could repay his debts including his mortgage before his retirement.
But I dont think Mr P truly required flexibility in retirement. This is because based on the 
evidence Ive seen, I dont think he had a genuine need to access his tax-free cash at this 
point and leave his funds invested until he retired and needed to draw an income. 
I say this because, while on the one hand I accept repayment of debt might generally be 
seen as a prudent approach to take, it doesnt necessarily follow that accessing tax-free 
cash before retirement to do so is suitable. And in Mr Ps circumstances Im not persuaded it 
was. Mr P said he wanted to repay his debts before he retired  but CWML didnt question 
Mr P as to why he felt this was necessary. There is no evidence to show that Mr Ps debts, 
including his mortgage were unaffordable or that he was coming under any financial pressure. The evidence indicates that Mr P intended to continue working for at least the next 
couple of years, which means that he could continue to make his debt repayments from 
earned income thus continuing to reduce the outstanding balances. 
Mr Ps mortgage balance was recorded as being around £30,000 and his monthly repayment 
was around £700 a month. So on this basis, it appears within the next few years  i.e. within 
the period Mr P indicated he would likely continue working  it would be repaid anyway. 
Furthermore, Mr Ps income and expenditure comparison appears to indicate he had surplus 
income, which he couldve been advised to direct towards either overpaying his mortgage or 
towards his credit card debt, which was more likely being charged at a higher rate of interest. 
Im mindful too that Mr P had around £30,000 in savings, which he couldve used part of to 
reduce his unsecured debt  particularly if that debt had a high interest rate. He could then 
use his surplus income to replenish some of those savings while he continued working. It 
doesnt appear that CWML considered these options in giving its advice.
So I dont think Mr P genuinely needed flexibility and access to part of his tax-free cash 
entitlement before he wanted to retire and start taking an income  I see no reason why Mr P 
couldnt have retained his DB scheme benefits and accessed a cash lump sum and income 
at the same time when he decided to retire. The tax-free cash available to Mr P at age 60 
was around £75,000 based on the benefits available to Mr P through the existing scheme. 
So it seems this wouldve been more than sufficient for Mr Ps needs  I think he couldve 
used this to repay any remaining outstanding debt at this time and still have some left over to 
supplement his income, which is what he said he wanted to do. So I dont think flexibility was 
a genuine need of Mr Ps  I think it was simply a feature or a consequence of transferring to 
a personal pension arrangement.
Turning to Mr Ps income need  it was recorded that his household expenditure was 
currently £1,500 a month, or £18,000 a year, and that he would like a retirement income of 
£20,000 a year. And based on this, Ive seen nothing to indicate that the income from either 
the BSPS2 or the PPF (if the new scheme didnt go ahead) wouldnt have provided Mr P with 
what he needed to likely meet his overall income need when taking into account the other 
provision available to him.
For example, through the existing scheme at age 60 CWMLs analysis showed that Mr P 
would be entitled to an annual pension of around £16,300 (full pension) or £11,200 on a 
reduced basis  the most likely option given Mr P would still probably have some 
outstanding debt to repay. Because of the reduced revaluation factors, under the BSPS2 
these figures would be lower, but in my view still close to it. Although this alone wouldnt 
meet Mr Ps income need, Mr Ps wife was already in receipt of her full state pension, which 
combined with Mr Ps DB scheme income would likely meet their household expenditure 
need. Mr P could then use his excess tax-free cash to supplement things. CWML has 
argued that the scheme lump sum wouldnt have been enough to meet Mr Ps objectives. 
But as I said above, if Mr P continued working as he indicated was likely (and if CWML had 
advised him accordingly) Mr Ps mortgage would be cleared or significantly reduced through 
its normal monthly repayment. And Mr P might have been able to make inroads into his 
unsecured debt too before he stopped working. So I think it's likely that with suitable advice 
the schemes cash lump sum offering wouldve been sufficient to enable Mr P to repay any 
outstanding debt at this time as well as giving him funds to supplement his income.
Im mindful too that Mr P had savings and it was also recorded that he was contributing to 
his workplace DC pension. And while CWML didnt record the level of contribution here, I 
think this wouldve provided an additional source of funds Mr P could draw on flexibly to 
supplement his income at least until his state pension became payable at age 66.
If the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead, Mr P wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. And while the income Mr P would receive was likely lower than the pension hed be entitled to 
under the BSPS2, I dont think it was substantially lower (particularly if Mr P did take the tax-
free cash and reduced pension option) such that it wouldve made a difference to the 
recommendation. As Ive said above, Mr P had other means together with his wifes pension 
to supplement things until his state pension became payable.
So overall, I think Mr P couldve likely met his income needs in retirement through the 
BSPS2 or the PPF. And I dont think it was in Mr Ps best interests for him to transfer his 
pension just to have flexibility to repay his debt before retirement that Im not persuaded he 
really needed.
Death benefits
CWML also recommended the transfer to enable Mr P to pass on what remained of his 
pension fund to his children in the event of his death.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr P. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr P might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr P about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement  not as a legacy planning tool. And I dont think 
CWML properly explored to what extent Mr P was prepared to accept a lower retirement 
income in exchange for higher death benefits.
The advice paperwork recorded that Mr P didnt just want his pension to merely provide a 
reduced pension for his spouse. But I think the spouses pension provided by the DB 
scheme wouldve been useful to his spouse if Mr P predeceased her  it was 50% of Mr Ps 
pension. And just because Mr P was younger than his wife by more than 10 years, it doesnt 
automatically follow that she would predecease him. I dont think CWML made the value of 
this benefit clear enough to Mr P. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it would also be 
calculated as if no tax-free cash had been taken. Furthermore, it was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. 
CWML has argued that its cashflow modelling showed that Mr Ps pension fund would have 
still have a value or around £250,000 at age 87 after allowing for his required income 
withdrawal. But as I said earlier on, this was based on certain assumptions, including an 
annual growth rate that Im not persuaded was realistically achievable on a consistent basis 
and it was dependent on Mr P reducing his income withdrawals once his state pension 
became payable. Periods of lower-than-expected investment performance, increases in 
inflation and/or if Mr P maintained his income withdrawal rate of £20,000 wouldve likely had 
a material impact on the value of his pension fund - so its possible there may not have been 
a large sum left, as CWML has argued, to pass on when he died. In any event, CWML 
should not have encouraged Mr P to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through 
a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Im mindful that CWML recorded in the fact-find (handwritten notes) that Mr P was expecting 
an inheritance of £250,000, which it appears from the age of the person Mr P was expecting 
this from, might not be too far in the future. I dont think CWML took this into account when 
considering Mr Ps desire to pass on a legacy to his children. 
But that aside, if Mr P genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his children, which didnt 
depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think CWML couldve explored life insurance. And this couldve been written in trust for the 
benefit of his children if thats what he wanted to do. The starting point here neednt have 
been to base the sum assured on the full transfer value  that would assume Mr P would day 
on day one following the transfer which isnt realistic. Ultimately Mr P wanted to leave 
whatever remained of his pension at his death, so this ought to have been considered in 
terms of how much Mr P ideally wanted to leave his family. And this couldve been explored 
on a whole of life or term assurance basis, which was likely to be more affordable to provide.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr P. And I dont think 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Suitability of investments
Because Im not persuaded that Mr Ps attitude to risk was balanced, I think the investment 
recommended was unsuitable. But, as Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a 
transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr P, it follows that I dont need to consider 
the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because Mr P should have been 
advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable 
advice had been given.
Summary
I accept that given the broader situation and circumstances at the time, including the 
increased transfer vale Mr P received in August / September 2017, Mr P was likely 
motivated to transfer out of the BSPS. And I dont doubt that the flexibility and the potential 
for higher or different death benefits on offer through a personal pension would have 
sounded like attractive features to Mr P. But CWML wasnt there to just transact what Mr P 
might have thought he wanted or seemed like a good idea. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr P needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr P was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income, whether through the proposed BSPS2 or the
PPF. By transferring to a personal arrangement Mr P was very likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr P shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme just to repay debts that there is no evidence to demonstrate werent affordable, and 
the potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with 
his DB scheme. And just because Mr Ps transfer value might have been higher at the time 
was not of itself a compelling reason to recommend the transfer.
Overall, I dont think it was in Mr Ps best interests for him to transfer his BSPS benefits to a 
personal pension at this time.
So, if things had happened as they should have and CWML had waited until the details of 
the BSPS2 were known before formulating its advice, which in the circumstances I think it 
was fair and reasonable for it to do, I think it shouldve recommended that Mr P opt into the 
BSPS2.
I appreciate that the BSPS2 wasnt guaranteed to go ahead at this time. But I think 
everything pointed to it going ahead, so this ought to have been the position CWML adopted. 
While Im mindful that Mr P indicated he wanted to retire within a couple of years or so 
because his original adviser said that he might look to continue working for up to five years, I 
don't think that it would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've 
faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr P wouldve retained 
the ability to transfer out of the scheme at a later date - if he needs demanded it. 
Also, because Mr P was married his wifes pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the 
date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if 
Mr P chose to do so, which it appears was likely). The annual indexation of his pension 
when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2.
Im mindful that CWML has said that it confirmed to Mr P that the PPF was more beneficial 
to him based on a retirement age of 60. But Ive not seen anything within the evidence 
presented to support that. As I said earlier on, CWMLs TVAS report did not show the 
benefits available to Mr P through the PPF at 60 and theres also no reference made to this 
in the suitability report. So, for the reasons above, I still think the BSPS2 was the suitable 
option for Mr P in his circumstances. 
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr P would've gone ahead anyway, against CWML's 
advice.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr P wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the BSPS, against CWMLs advice. I say this because, while as Ive 
already said Mr P was likely motivated to transfer when he approached CWML, I still think he 
wouldve listened to and followed CWMLs advice if things had happened as they should 
have and it recommended he not transfer out of the scheme. Mr P was not, in my view an 
experienced investor. CWMLs suitability report referred to Mr Ps investment knowledge 
being limited to having a pension. So I dont think Mr P was someone who possessed the 
requisite skill, knowledge or confidence to against the advice they were given, particularly in 
complex pension matters. Mr Ps pension accounted for almost all of his private retirement 
provision and I think his attitude to risk was cautious. So, if CWML had provided him with 
clear advice against transferring out of the BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best 
interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ps concerns about his death benefits were so great that he 
wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he 
had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. 
If CWML had explained that Mr P could likely meet all of his objectives without risking his 
guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr P 
wouldve insisted on transferring out of the BSPS against CWMLs advice.
In closing I can see that CWML has argued that Mr P has gone on to access his benefits 
flexibly, which the personal pension allowed him to do and hes taken a greater level of 
income than was discussed at the time of the advice. It says it believes Mr P understood the 
implications of the transfer and that this shows it was suitable. But just because Mr P has 
accessed his benefits flexibly as his pension allows him to do, does not in my view 
demonstrate the advice was suitable for at the time. And while Mr P might be drawing a 
higher income than was contemplated at the time and greater than his DB scheme would 
provide, this is something which has happened subsequent to the advice. And its possible 
this is due to a subsequent change in circumstances. So for the reasons Ive set out in detail 
above, Im not persuaded the advice was suitable and Mr Ps subsequent actions do not 
alter my decision.
In light of the above, I think CWML should compensate Mr P for the unsuitable advice in line 
with the regulators rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice 
And as per the above, it is the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 that should be 
used for comparison purposes.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr P, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr P would most 
likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if 
suitable advice had been given. 
CWML must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
CWML should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr P and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what CWML based the inputs into the 
calculator on.
For clarity, Mr P started taking his pension benefits in April 2021 at age 60. So, 
compensation should be based on him taking benefits at this age.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ps 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, CWML should:
calculate and offer Mr P redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr P before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr P receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr P accepts CWMLs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr P for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ps end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr P as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, CWML may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ps likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus anyinterest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Chequers Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr P the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Chequers Wealth Management Limited pays Mr P the balance.
If Mr P accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Chequers Wealth 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr P can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr P may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman