DRN-3898868
The complaint
Mrs T complains about the outcome of a claim she made to Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
(Tesco) under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
Mrs T ordered security doors from a company Ill call F in October 2021. She paid the full 
contract price of £7,200 upfront using her Tesco credit card. Despite several promises the 
doors werent delivered. 
Mrs T therefore raised a claim to Tesco. She said that section 75 held them, the creditors, 
jointly liable for the breach of contract. She said shed incurred other costs as a 
consequence of the breach because quotes shed received to fit the doors had now risen 
sharply. She also said shed been deprived of the £7,200 so should be paid interest on any 
refund.
Tesco initially processed a chargeback claim through which the £7,200 was paid back into 
Mrs Ts account. They then considered the section 75 claim for consequential losses and 
interest. They offered to pay Mrs T £496.15 in interest but didnt feel they should be 
responsible for price rises.
Our investigator thought Tesco had done enough. She didnt think they were wrong to 
initially process the claim through chargeback and she didnt think they needed to refund the 
difference in price as she explained Tesco had put Mrs T back in the position she would 
have been in had the payment not been made.
Mrs T disagreed. She said she did not understand how it had been held that Tesco acted 
reasonably, when being faced with a s.75 claim, to undertake a chargeback, which is not an 
enshrined legal right, would not (and has not) satisfy my claim and which was never set out 
to me would happen, before it was actioned. She also said the investigator had applied the 
wrong test and that the correct one was to put her back in the same position as if the 
contract had been performed. 
Mrs T therefore asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs T, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a credit card, as is the case 
here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit 
Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a 
like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
Mrs T is upset that Tesco raised a chargeback claim initially but I dont think they did 
anything wrong when doing that. Its usual for banks to raise a chargeback before they 
consider section 75. The chargeback allows them to restore the money temporarily and 
quickly whilst the claim is being considered by the chargeback scheme administrators. There 
are also tight timescales set by the scheme administrators for a chargeback to be raised and 
arbitrated. It would therefore seem good practice to raise that claim first.
Chargeback doesnt allow the business to consider consequential losses, but section 75 
does, and I can see that Tesco raised a section 75 claim for Mrs T once the chargeback had 
been considered. I dont think Mrs T has lost out as a result of this process and Im not 
persuaded that Tescos approach has been unreasonable.
Tesco refunded the £7,200 Mrs T paid for the doors, through the chargeback process and 
theyve now agreed to refund £496.15 that they say represents the interest that would be 
due on that money. Theyve not agreed to pay Mrs T the difference she says it will now cost 
her to have similar doors fitted.
When we consider a section 75 claim where theres been a misrepresentation it is this 
services approach to try to put the consumer back in the position they would have been in. 
But when we consider a breach of contract wed usually try to put the consumer in the 
position they would have been in if the contract had been performed. 
Theres been a breach of contract here as the supplier hasnt provided the goods they were 
contracted to provide. So, I think the correct resolution is, as far as possible, to put Mrs T in 
the position she would have been in if the contract had been performed.
When Mrs T first contacted Tesco, she wanted her money back with interest. Tesco 
refunded Mrs Ts money quite quickly through the chargeback scheme and theyve now 
agreed to pay interest on that sum. But Mrs T had always warned F and subsequently 
warned Tesco, that she may wish to claim consequential costs if it turned out that the doors 
couldnt be sourced at the same price.
Mrs T has provided three quotes to complete the work that F were originally contracted to 
do. Ive looked at those quotes and think they are quotes for doors of a similar specification, 
although I note some slight differences which I think are likely to be because the supplier 
hasnt access to the exact components the initial supplier had access to i.e. number of keys.The cheapest of those quotes is £12,816 which is almost 80% more than the price Mrs T 
paid for the doors in October 2021 only 15 months ago.
Ive thought about whether it would be fair to ask Tesco to fund that difference and I dont 
think it would be. Tesco did what it was asked to do. It refunded Mrs Ts capital outlay shortly 
after the complaint was referred to them and as F didnt defend the chargeback claim I think 
the contract can fairly be considered to have come to an end when that refund was provided 
and was accepted by Mrs T. Whilst I understand that Mrs T disputes the vehicle by which the 
refund was achieved (the chargeback), Ive already explained that I dont think Tesco were 
wrong to use the chargeback process. 
At that point, as Tesco had done what Mrs T had asked, albeit that the interest refund would 
still need to be decided through a section 75 claim, I think theyd done what could be 
expected and I dont think it would be fair to expect them to cover any increased costs Mrs T 
may incur when getting the work done again.
So, Im not asking Tesco to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman