DRN-3235050
The complaint
Mr S complains about the advice he says he received in 2015 to transfer his personal 
pension to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice wasnt suitable and 
he holds Wellington Court Financial Services Limited responsible for the loss to his pension.  
What happened
In 2015, Mr S transferred the benefits he had in a personal pension to The Orbis SIPP 
administered by Guinness Mahon Trust Corporation Limited (GMTC). He says he was 
advised to transfer by Wellington Court.
In September 2015 £56,701.57 was transferred to the SIPP bank account. The funds 
remained in cash until Mr S transferred the funds to another pension provider in 
August 2016.
Mr S complained to Wellington Court in 2019. He said, in brief, that Wellington Court should 
not have advised him to transfer his pension to a SIPP, which exposed him to higher risks. 
In response, Wellington Court said Mr S has never been its customer, so it has no case to 
answer. It says any paperwork linking Mr S to Wellington Court is fraudulent.
Mr S referred his complaint to us. His representative added that Mr S had previously 
pursued a claim with the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) in respect of 
investments made through another financial adviser - C. The representative explained Mr S 
received some compensation for this.
Our investigator said, in brief, that an advice fee was taken from Mr Ss SIPP and paid into 
Wellington Courts bank account. This advice fee was in keeping with the paperwork from 
the transfer, which showed Mr S had agreed to pay Wellington Court 1% for its advice. He 
concluded that there was enough evidence to show Wellington Court was responsible for 
Mr Ss pension transfer and, therefore, that this was a complaint that we could look at.
As Wellington Court maintains it has never dealt with Mr S, the matter was passed to me for 
a decision. On 9 December 2021, I issued a provisional decision in which I outlined in detail 
the evidence that was available to me. I repeat what I said here. 
Review of Evidence
In making my provisional decision I will be referring to the following:
1. Documents provided by Mr S and GMTC
The following were provided by Mr S and GMTC:
I. An undated letter to GMTC, sent on Wellington Court headed paper, applying to the 
Orbis SIPP on Mr Ss behalf. The letter said it was enclosing an application for the 
SIPP and an invoice. It was date-stamped as being received by the PAN Group 
(administrators and trustees of the SIPP) on 11 August 2015. The letter is signed on 
the behalf of Mr P from Wellington Court. The signature is indecipherable. 
II. The Orbis SIPP New Application Checklist. This was a series of tick boxes of the 
various documents (such as a SIPP application form and transfer discharge form) 
that the adviser had to check had been provided for the transfer to proceed. Like the 
covering letter, this was signed on the behalf of Mr P from Wellington Court rather 
than by Mr P himself. The signature is indecipherable but looks to be the same as the 
one on the covering letter. Under the signature, Mr Ps name has been printed by 
hand. Mr Ps first name was spelt incorrectly at first but was then corrected. An 
incorrect Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) reference number was also provided  
the number used was actually Wellington Courts Irish company registration number. 
The form was signed on 10 August 2015.
III. The Orbis SIPP application form, signed by Mr S on 3 August 2015.
IV. The Orbis SIPP Important Risk Notices document. This was a nine-page document 
that outlined the various risks of the SIPP. It was signed by Mr S on 3 August 2015.
V. An Adviser Remuneration Form. This set out the advice fee that Mr S had agreed to 
pay Wellington Court. It said the following:
I have appointed [Mr P] of Wellington Court Financial Services Ltd ("the Company")
to provide me with advice in relation to The Orbis SIPP (the SIPP') and any related 
investment advice in respect of assets held within the SIPP
Initial Fee Renewal Fee Fixed Fee (£)
Transfers into the 
Scheme1% to a maximum 
of £800 plus VATNIL NIL
Single Premium NIL NIL NIL
Regular Premium NIL NIL NIL
I confirm my agreement to these charges and authorise Guinness Mahon Trust
Corporation to debit the fees from the SIPP Bank Account and pay them on my 
behalf, this agreement replaces any existing agreement.
Mr S signed the form on 3 August 2015.
VI. The Orbis SIPP Transfer Details Information Form. This set out the details of Mr Ss 
transfer, including the policy number of the pension he was transferring from and the 
transfer value. This was signed by Mr S on 3 August 2015.
VII. Various documents from Mr Ss transferring scheme.
VIII. Screen-shots showing the entries made into an advisers portal for Mr Ss transfers. 
The portal records the details of the individual transferring (name, address, details of 
transferring scheme and so on) as well as the advisers name  Mr P  and the name 
of an introducer.
  2. Mr Ss recollections
Mr Ss recollections are not detailed. He says he recalls being contacted by an 
introducer who told him about the possibility of investing his pension funds in more 
attractive investments which would produce higher returns. In order to receive advice on 
this he says he was referred to Wellington Court, who were regulated. Mr S says he was 
advised by Wellington Court to transfer his pension to a SIPP with GMTC as he would 
be able to get better returns. 
3. Documents from Wellington Court
Wellington Court hasnt provided any documents in relation to Mr Ss transfer because it 
says it didnt advise Mr S and that Mr S has never been a client of Wellington Court.
Wellington Court has, however, said (in relation to a different complaint) that it did some 
consultancy work on behalf of GMTC in relation to the transfer of pensions into the Orbis 
SIPP. It says the work was limited to checking files to ensure there were no transfers of 
safeguarded benefits into the SIPP because GMTC didnt want to receive that type of 
transfer. It has also recently stated that all payments it received from GMTC were for 
administrative consultancy work carried out by Mr P and nothing else.
Wellington Court added that its regulator, the FCA, contacted it in 2016 in relation to 
some GMTC pension cases which led to it meeting with the FCA on 10 August 2016. 
The attendees at that meeting were Mr P from Wellington Court and two representatives 
from the FCA. It says evidence of the administrative work carried out by Mr P was 
produced at the meeting with the FCA. Wellington Court provided some notes relating to 
the meeting but I havent included the notes here as ultimately they are not material to 
the outcome of this complaint.
We asked Wellington Court to provide us with a copy of the consultancy agreement it 
had with GMTC and further details about its work  for instance the fees it earned  but 
it hasnt done so. Wellington Court says further details about the meeting with the FCA 
and the evidence provided in relation to the work carried out by Mr P can be provided by 
the FCA.
4. Payment to Wellington Court in relation to Mr S
Mr S transferred £56,701.57 from his personal pension to the Orbis SIPP on 
14 September 2015. A 1% fee on this amount (along the lines of the initial fee in the 
Adviser Remuneration Form described above) would equal £567.02. According to his 
SIPP transaction statement, this exact amount was taken from Mr Ss transfer value on 
6 October 2015. It was recorded on his SIPP statement as a Wellington IFA fee and 
was paid from the SIPP deposit account (with Bank M) to the GMTC client account (with 
Bank N) on 6 October 2015. The £567.02 was included with 1% fees for 30 other 
individuals and the total amount, which came to £12,672.03, was then paid from the 
GMTC client account to Wellington Courts bank account (with Bank H) on 
7 October 2015. The £12,672.03 appeared on Wellington Courts bank statement as 
GM IFA FEES.  
5. Evidence from similar cases
Im aware of a significant number of other complaints about Wellington Court which 
have very similar features to Mr Ss case. Whilst Im deciding here on whats fair and 
reasonable in the particular circumstances of Mr Ss case, for context I think its reasonable to consider the evidence from these other cases alongside the evidence that 
has been collected in relation to Mr Ss case. Specifically:
I. Paperwork from other cases show a number of introducer firms were involved in 
these cases.
II. The recollections of the complainants in other cases havent been particularly 
detailed. But its apparent that for many other individuals, they invested in Dolphin 
Trust (a German property investment that has since failed) and that they signed a 
one-page investment instruction in order to make that investment. There is no such 
instruction in Mr Ss case, which accounts for why Mr Ss SIPP remained invested in 
cash (although why Mr S didnt complete an investment instruction isnt clear). 
III. Other payments to Wellington Court 
Information provided by GMTC in relation to other complaints shows that 1% 
payments along the same lines as Mr Ss were made to the same Wellington Court 
bank account in relation to many other individuals, including (but not necessarily 
limited to) the following:
£9,239.74 on 30 March 2015 in relation to thirty-two transferred policies (for 22 
individuals  some individuals transferred more than one policy). The payment 
reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts statement was GM 
ADVISER FEES.
£8,588.76 on 24 April 2015 (the number of policies and individuals this payment 
relates to isnt clear). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington 
Courts statement was OR ADVISER FEES.
£9,503.33 on 20 May 2015 in relation to 31 transferred policies (for 19 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was ORBIS SIPP FEES.
£8,881.16 on 16 June 2015 in relation to 24 transferred policies (for 21 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM IFA FEES.
£11,423.77 on 26 June 2015 in relation to 25 transferred policies (for 17 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM ADVISER FEES.
£7,731.07 on 15 July 2015 in relation to 23 transferred policies (for 18 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was ORBIS CLIENT FEES
£4,762.19 on 27 July 2015 in relation to 14 transferred policies (for 12 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM IFA FEE.
£3,091.06 on 5 August 2015 in relation to 8 transferred policies (for eight 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM IFA FEES.£4,624.87 on 18 August in relation to 12 transferred policies (the number of 
individuals this relates to isnt clear). The payment reference that was to appear 
(and did appear) on Wellington Courts statement was GM IFA FEES.
£6,573.32 on 25 August 2015 in relation to 14 transferred policies (the number of 
individuals this relates to isnt clear). The payment reference that was to appear 
(and did appear) on Wellington Courts statement was GM IFA FEES.
£12,672.03 on 7 October 2015 in relation to 46 transferred policies (for 31 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM IFA FEES. This included the £567.02 Mr S paid to 
Wellington Court.
The above is based on information provided in Mr Ss case and other similar cases. Its 
not necessarily comprehensive. So I think its fair to say the above shows that at least 
£87,000 was paid from GMTC to the one Wellington Court bank account in relation to 
over 200 transferred policies in a six-month period. Its entirely possible that payments 
were happening before and after this six month period too.
For completeness, it should be noted that we have the records for the payments being 
made from GMTC but we dont have the records for all those payments being received 
by Wellington Court other than for the £6,573.32 payment on 25 August 2015 and the 
£4,624.87 payment on 18 August 2015. This is because Wellington Court has only 
provided us with heavily redacted bank statements. I see no plausible reason why 
GMTCs payments wouldnt have all reached Wellington Court. So, Ill proceed on that 
basis, particularly as Wellington Court has already had the opportunity to dispute this 
evidence in relation to other cases in which decisions have been issued.
What did I conclude in my provisional decision?
In my provisional decision, I acknowledged that there were a number of question marks in 
relation to Wellington Courts involvement in the transfers. Most notably there is the absence 
of evidence to show there was any direct contact between Mr S (and others like him) and 
Wellington Court, a lack of the usual paperwork one would expect to find if advice had been 
given (a fact-find, suitability report and so on), unexplained errors in the paperwork that did 
exist and no letters or emails between GMTC and Wellington Court in relation to the transfer 
of Mr Ss pension (and other pensions).
However, I went on to conclude that Wellington Court had been paid a 1% advisory fee in 
relation to Mr Ss transfer and many other transfers. I came to this conclusion because the 
documentary evidence showed Mr S (and others like him) agreed to pay a 1% advisory fee 
in relation to the Orbis SIPP. I thought the documentary evidence persuasively showed that 
the 1% fees were paid to Wellington Court. These fees were, in aggregate, substantial. 
Because Wellington Court didnt query them at the time, and didnt provide a persuasive 
argument for why it didnt query them at the time, I concluded that the fees werent 
fraudulent  as Wellington Court had argued  but were in line with what it was expecting for 
its involvement in the transfers in question. I therefore provisionally concluded that 
Wellington Court was engaged in advisory business relating to the transfer of pensions  
including Mr Ss pension  to the Orbis SIPP. 
I went on to provisionally conclude that Mr Ss complaint was in the jurisdiction of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. I was satisfied that Mr S was an eligible complainant, the 
activities in question were carried on from an establishment in the UK, Wellington Court is a 
regulated business and Mr S brought his complaint within the relevant time limits. I was also satisfied that the activities complained about fall within our jurisdiction because they relate to 
acts or omissions in carrying on the regulated activities of advising on and arranging 
pensions and investments.
With regards to the merits of Mr Ss complaint, I noted Wellington Court didnt appear to 
have done anything in return for the 1% advice fee it was paid in relation to Mr Ss transfer. 
I didnt comment on whether this was deliberate on Wellington Courts part  that is, it knew 
it had to provide advice but chose not to; or whether it was an oversight on its part  that is, it 
didnt realise it should have provided advice. I didnt make a finding on this because the key 
point was whether the transfer was suitable.
And on this point, I was satisfied that the transfer wasnt suitable because Mr Ss funds 
remained in cash. Given Mr S wanted to receive better returns, advising him to transfer his 
pension from a managed portfolio invested in equities just to leave it in cash wasnt suitable 
for him. I also didnt think Mr S would have needed to transfer his pension to a SIPP, given 
the costs involved in doing so. All things considered, therefore, I didnt think the transfer was 
suitable.
I provisionally upheld Mr Ss complaint and set out what I thought Wellington Court should 
do to put things right. 
I invited both parties to respond. Mr Ss representative had some comments about the 
redress I proposed. It said I stated a comparison should be made between the benchmark 
and the underlying investment, but it pointed out that no investments had been made. It also 
said that there would be a conflict of interest if compensation was paid to Mr Ss new SIPP 
because he had made a separate claim to the FSCS about this SIPP. Finally, it queried why 
I hadnt awarded compensation for distress and inconvenience as it understood this was the 
usual practice.
Wellington Court responded, maintaining that Mr Ss complaint was totally unwarranted. It 
said Mr S was not a customer of Wellington Court and it did not provide him with advice. 
Wellington Court said that any documents linking it to the pension transfer were fraudulent. It 
said Mr Ss complaint should be lodged with the responsible parties who it believes he met 
at the time. Wellington Court also asked for a copy of our full file, including all evidence, 
meeting notes and statements obtained from Mr S about his involvement with third parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I concluded that Wellington Court was engaged in advisory 
business relating to the transfer of pensions to the Orbis SIPP, which included the transfer of 
Mr Ss pension. I also concluded that Wellington Courts actions were not consistent with it 
being the victim of fraudulent activity.
For this reason I concluded that Mr Ss complaint fell within this services jurisdiction. And 
I upheld Mr Ss complaint on the grounds that the advice to transfer his existing pension to a 
SIPP and leave the funds in cash wasnt suitable for him.
Mr S didnt dispute the findings I made in my provisional decision and although Wellington 
Court responded, it didnt make any new points or provide any new evidence for me to 
consider. So, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision, which I summarise again as follows:Theres documentary evidence to show Mr S  and many others, as outlined above  
signed up for advice from Wellington Court and that the 1% fee for that advice was 
paid to Wellington Court.
The 1% fees that were paid to Wellington Court were, in aggregate, sizeable but it 
doesnt appear to have queried any of them, suggesting it was expecting to receive 
those fees. 
By its own admission, Wellington Court undertook some work in relation to the 
transfer of a number of pensions to the Orbis SIPP. It told us Mr P was involved in 
this but his role was restricted to checking whether the customers pensions included 
safeguarded benefits.
Wellington Courts consultancy work shows there was a working relationship 
between the parties at the time. It wouldnt be a stretch to say that this could have led 
to Wellington Court doing other work on the transfers, potentially with the minimum of 
paperwork  especially as both organisations were based in the same town when the 
transfers (Mr Ss included) were taking place and Mr P apparently spent time in 
GMTCs offices. 
The consultancy work could be looked at in a different light in so far as it could 
explain why Wellington Court overlooked payments from GMTC. However, 
Wellington Court hasnt provided us with the agreement it signed with GMTC for its 
consultancy work, or the amounts it was paid or the dates the payments were made 
(or indeed if there was more than one payment) so its difficult to say its consultancy 
work would reasonably have explained why it didnt query all the income it was 
receiving from GMTC.
The nature of Wellington Courts consultancy work was such that it held discussions 
with the FCA about what it was doing for GMTC. So it seems its activities were 
important and prominent enough to have warranted interest from the regulator. 
Wellington Court hasnt kept any documents relating to its consultancy work with 
GMTC even though it wasnt a particularly long time ago and despite this activity 
coming under the scrutiny of the FCA.
Wellington Court hasnt provided any evidence of the work carried out by Mr P for 
GMTC. In the absence of such evidence, Wellington Court hasnt shown that its role 
in Mr Ss pension transfer was limited to providing a checking service for GMTC.
Wellington Court has said it was a victim of fraud. Its a serious allegation and yet 
Wellington Court hasnt (based on the available evidence) reported its concerns to 
the appropriate authorities (the police for instance) or even done much to investigate 
the matter itself beyond telling us, and many complainants, that it wasnt involved. So 
its difficult to give Wellington Courts allegations too much credence given its own 
lack of action on the alleged fraud.
It is not uncommon for an introducer to drive the process of transferring a pension 
with the intention of investing in a particular scheme. And introducers often carry out 
the majority of the fact-finding directly with the customer before involving a regulated 
adviser to complete the process. In some instances, customers will not meet with or 
speak to the firm providing the advice. So I dont think that those customers who say 
they didnt speak to a representative of Wellington Court, or who were unaware of its 
involvement, is particularly unusual here. In order to proceed with the transfer, GMTC needed to have confidence that advice had been given to Mr S. And the paperwork 
submitted, such as the adviser remuneration form, confirmed Mr S had appointed 
Wellington Court to provide him with advice. So, I think the transfer proceeded on the 
basis that Wellington Court had advised Mr S to do so.
Some of the transfer paperwork looks unusual. For instance, the letter that was sent 
to GMTC enclosing Mr Ss transfer papers was undated and signed on behalf of Mr P 
from Wellington Court rather than by Mr P himself. The signature on that letter is 
indecipherable. Likewise, the Orbis SIPP New Application Checklist was signed on 
Mr Ps behalf rather than by Mr P himself. The signature is again indecipherable (but 
looks to be the same as the one on the covering letter). Under the signature, Mr Ps 
first name was spelt incorrectly at first but was then corrected. And an incorrect FCA 
reference number was also provided.
Questioning GMTCs role in what happened is a reasonable. But it doesnt 
necessarily follow from this that GMTC was acting fraudulently or that Wellington 
Court wasnt involved. In order to perpetrate the fraud that Wellington Court has 
alleged, GMTC would have been reliant on Wellington Court not noticing a series of 
unsolicited, but substantial, payments into its bank account over an extended period 
and on those people that transferred (of which there many dozens) not questioning 
Wellington Court at any point. I dont think it likely that GMTC would have taken its 
chances in this way unless, of course, it had some sort of understanding with 
Wellington Court  in which case Wellington Courts involvement is still key to what 
happened.
Whatever the extent of Wellington Courts contact with Mr S, it was still nonetheless 
engaged in an advisory capacity in relation to his transfer  and the transfer of many 
other pensions too. The absence of any of the usual paperwork one would expect 
from an advice process, and the absence of substantive testimony about meetings 
with Wellington Court, doesnt change any of this. It just means Wellington Court 
didnt properly advise Mr S, and others, despite being paid to do so.
Jurisdiction
Mr S complained about a regulated activity, as advising someone to set up a SIPP 
and to transfer rights in existing personal pensions to that SIPP is a regulated 
activity. Wellington Courts actions had the direct effect of bringing about Mr Ss 
transfer. In short, what Wellington Court did here constituted making arrangements 
under Article 25(1) of The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated 
Activities) Order 2001.
Mr S is an eligible complainant. Mr S is Wellington Courts customer as he signed up 
for advice and he paid for advice. Wellington Court was sent, and accepted, payment 
for that advice. And that advice  or appearance of advice  was critical to Mr S 
transferring and investing in the way he did. So Im satisfied there is a customer 
relationship here.
I acknowledge that Wellington Court may well have undertaken some consultancy 
work for GMTC, which may have given rise to a business-to-business relationship. 
But, it hasnt provided enough information to establish what the exact nature of its 
relationship with GMTC was. And, for the reasons given above, there is a relationship 
between the complainant, Mr S, and Wellington Court anyway regardless of any 
consultancy arrangement that may have been in place.The activities in question were carried on from an establishment in the UK; 
Wellington Court is a regulated business and Mr S brought his complaint to us within 
the relevant time limits. So, with all of this above in mind, Im satisfied that this is a 
case I can consider.
The merits of Mr Ss complaint
The transfers to the Orbis SIPP appear to  have been initiated by introducers who 
sourced potential clients and did much of the work in terms of getting clients into a 
position to transfer. And then in order to progress the transfer, GMTC required the 
involvement of an advisory firm. Wellington Court fulfilled that role.
Theres a lack of paperwork to show what, if anything, Wellington Court did in return 
for its advice fee. I dont know if this was due to an oversight on its part  that is, it 
didnt fully understand what it should have done given the regulations in place at the 
time  or whether it knew its actions were negligent. Either way, it seems Wellington 
Courts involvement was little more than window dressing, providing a veneer of 
advice to satisfy GMTC in return for a 1% fee on a large number of transfers. 
There isnt any detailed documentary evidence to show what Mr Ss financial needs 
and circumstances were at the time. But, Im satisfied the transaction wasnt suitable 
for Mr S. This is because Mr S transferred from a personal pension which was 
invested in a managed portfolio invested predominately in overseas and UK equities 
(between 40% and 85%) and transferred to a SIPP that ended up invested in cash. 
Mr S wanted to achieve better returns, so I think investing the funds in a balanced 
portfolio would have been the suitable recommendation here. I say this because Mr S 
was only 45, so had at least 10 years before he could think about accessing his 
pension. So he appears to have had time to ride out any short term falls in the 
equities market meaning he could have benefited  if he had been advised properly  
from the growth equities typically bring over the longer term. 
Although it appears Mr S was open to transferring his pension to another provider in 
order to benefit from higher returns, theres nothing to evidence this or to show why a 
SIPP was the right product for him. Based on what I know about Mr S, who had very 
little investment knowledge or experience, I dont think he wanted or needed access 
to non-standard investments. And I dont think he had the necessary investment 
knowledge to self-manage his pension or select his own investments. And, more 
importantly, I dont think it was appropriate for Mr S to have moved to the Orbis SIPP 
only to end up invested in 100% cash. So, in the circumstances, therefore, I dont 
think the transfer advice was suitable for him and as a result I think he has suffered a 
loss to his pension.
I think Mr S probably wouldve transferred his pension to another provider at the time 
of the advice in 2015. And I think he wouldve invested his funds in line with his 
attitude to risk, which, based on the way his previous pension was invested, was 
balanced. I say this because Mr S transferred his pension away from the Orbis SIPP 
in August 2016, which appears to have been through another adviser, C. I think this 
demonstrates that he was always motivated to move away from his original pension 
provider. This also means that when putting things right for Mr S, Wellington Court is 
only required to compensate him for loss he experienced up to the point he 
transferred his pension away from the Orbis SIPP via C. My approach to 
compensation, set out below, reflects this. Wellington Courts request for our full file
Wellington Court has asked for our full file, particularly statements from Mr S about his 
involvement with third parties.
Wellington Court was sent the evidence we received from GMTC relating to the SIPP and 
evidence demonstrating the fee it received for providing Mr S with advice following my 
provisional decision. This is the key evidence I relied on to make my decision. 
Mr Ss representative made some comments about Mr Ss recollections from the time of the 
advice, which I set out in my provisional decision and I have repeated above. Mr S has not 
made any other statements. He also hasnt been able to provide any other documents that 
shed any further light on whatever involvement an introducer had in the transfer of his 
pension. So, Im satisfied that Wellington Court is already aware of what Mr S recalls about 
the introducers involvement. And in any event, as I have said above, Ive taken into account 
that an introducer was most likely involved in the transfer of Mr Ss pension. But irrespective 
of this, Im satisfied that Wellington Court was appointed as Mr Ss adviser and that Mr Ss 
pension was only transferred to the SIPP because of Wellington Courts involvement.
Mr Ss comments about the proposed redress
Mr Ss representative believes I have made an error in the proposed redress calculation 
because it says a comparison should be made between the investment and a benchmark. 
Mr Ss representative says no investments were made through Mr Ss SIPP. But Im satisfied 
that the redress proposal outlined below is fair. As Mr Ss representative will note, the 
investment referred to in the redress calculation is The Orbis SIPP  so it is the value of the 
SIPP at the relevant points in time that will be used to calculate the redress.
It has also said that paying any compensation that the redress calculation produces into 
Mr Ss new pension will cause a conflict of interest. I dont know why that would be the case, 
but in order to avoid that possibility I think it would be reasonable for Wellington Court to pay 
any compensation due to Mr S to him directly as per the method below.
Finally, Mr Ss representative asked why I hadnt awarded compensation for distress and 
inconvenience, which it understands to be standard practice. I considered whether or not to 
award Mr S compensation for distress and inconvenience, as I would in any complaint 
referred to me, but it isnt standard practice to make such an award. In the circumstances, 
I didnt think extra compensation was warranted because Mr Ss pension funds remained in 
cash. So, I think a fair resolution to this complaint is to award him compensation for any 
investment loss he experienced before C became involved with his pension, which 
I understand has led to substantial losses.  
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr S should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if it hadnt been for Wellington Courts actions. I dont think Mr S wouldve 
transferred his pension to the Orbis SIPP, but I think its likely he wouldve transferred his 
existing pension somewhere else. Its not possible to say precisely what Mr S would 
otherwise have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Mr S's circumstances and objectives when he invested.To compensate Mr S fairly, Wellington Court must:
Compare the performance of Mr S's investment with that of the benchmark shown. If 
the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Wellington Court should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Wellington Court would usually be required to pay into Mr S's 
pension plan to increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any 
interest. But as per Mr Ss request, it should not pay the compensation into Mr S's 
pension plan. Instead, Wellington Court should pay that amount direct to him. But had 
it been paid into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the 
compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr S's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. Compensation should be based 
on Mr S being a basic rate taxpayer.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Wellington Court deducts income 
tax from the interest, it should tell Mr S how much has been taken off. Wellington 
Court should give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
The Orbis
SIPPtransferredFTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
transfer to 
Orbis SIPPdate 
transferred8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to 
the date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Wellington Court totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr S wanted income with some growth and was willing to accept some investment 
risk.The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr S's circumstances and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money since the 
end date.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Wellington Court Financial Services Limited 
should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Wellington Court Financial Services Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr S 
in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman