DRN-2612236
The complaint
Miss P says Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma (Satsuma), 
irresponsibly lent to her. Miss P has said Satsuma didnt ask her for enough information to 
find out if the loans were affordable for her. She also says when she contacted Satsuma in 
January 2020 to discuss her financial difficulty it wasnt positive or sympathetic in its 
response. Miss P has struggled with essential household expenses because of the 
lending. The borrowing has had a significant impact on Miss B, causing her anxiety and 
stress.
What happened
This complaint is about three short-term loans Satsuma provided to Miss P between
June 2017 and September 2019. There are two chains of lending. Miss Ps borrowing 
history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 20/06/2017 02/07/2018 12 £300.00 £49.80
Break in lending
2 30/06/2019 outstanding 12 £500.00 £83.00
3 03/09/2019 outstanding 12 £500.00 £166.00
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Ps complaint. For the earlier lending they thought the 
checks Satsuma had carried out before lending to her were reasonable and the information 
it obtained wouldnt have given it any cause to start verifying what it knew. For the later 
loan, the adjudicator thought that Satsuma should have sought to build a more detailed 
picture of Miss Ps financial circumstances but from the information provided there was 
nothing to suggest the lending was unsustainable for her. The adjudicator also said 
Satsuma did later address the issues regarding its response about her declared financial 
difficulties.
Miss P didnt agree with the adjudicator. She says Satsuma should have done more to check 
her financial situation to see whether the lending was affordable for her particularly between 
loans two and three which she didnt consider to be the early stages of lending. The amounts 
she borrowed had increased and she was in an extremely tight financial situation which 
caused her significant anxiety. Miss P reiterated that Satsuma did not speak with any 
empathy when she tried to address her concerns.
As Miss P was unhappy with the adjudicators opinion, the complaint was passed to me. I 
issued my provisional decision explaining that I didnt think the complaint about the mis-sale 
should be upheld but that a payment should be paid to Miss P for the service she had 
received. But I asked everyone to give me anything further they wanted me to consider 
before I issued my final decision. Heres what I said:
Ill look at Miss Ps complaint in two parts. The first being the unaffordable lending and 
the second being how Miss P was treated when she told Satsuma of her financial 
difficulties.
Unaffordable lending
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss 
P could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Miss P could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this 
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on 
time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to 
meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably 
if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in 
this context and what this all means for Miss Ps complaint. After doing so, Ive 
provisionally decided not to uphold this part of her complaint. Ill explain why.
I should first say that I agree that there are two chains in lending. There was a break of 11 
months between loan one being repaid and loan two being taken. Because of this I dont 
think its unreasonable for Satsuma to have assumed that Miss P had overcome whatever 
the financial circumstances were that caused her to take high-cost credit in the first 
instance. A break in a chain of lending, in effect, this starts the clock ticking again on 
what we would consider to be proportionate checks a business should carry out when 
taking into account the length of the borrowing relationship with a consumer.Satsuma has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving the loans. 
This included gathering information about Miss Ps income and expenditure to assess 
whether the loans were affordable for her. It also included a credit risk assessment and 
fraud and anti-money laundering checks.
Satsuma asked Miss P about her employment status and she confirmed she was 
employed and had a monthly income of around £1,300 for loan one and £1,500 for loans 
two and three. Satsuma also checked Miss Ps normal monthly living costs. Miss P 
declared these to be between £975 and £1,259 (these amounts included the safeguard 
buffers added by Satsuma and the loan repayment for loan two when loan three was 
applied for). On this basis, I dont think the loan repayments look unaffordable on a 
pounds and pence basis based on the information Miss P had declared to Satsuma.
There wasnt anything in the information that Miss P provided which would have given 
Satsuma cause for concern, so I think it was reasonable of Satsuma to have relied upon 
what Miss P had declared. I think these factors had an impact on what level of checks 
would have been appropriate for Satsuma to have carried out. Given these, I think the 
checks Satsuma did before lending loans one and two went far enough and the checks it 
carried out showed the loans were affordable. So, I wouldnt have expected for Satsuma 
at this stage to have undertaken more in-depth checks.
I think the assessments Satsuma did for loans one and two were proportionate. And I 
think its decision to lend to Miss P wasnt unreasonable.
However, I do appreciate that when Miss P took loan three, loan two was still running and 
had around another nine months to run. So, Miss Ps monthly repayments would increase 
as well as the amount she was in debt to Satsuma. By having two loans running at the 
same time could be an indication of Miss P potentially starting to struggle with managing 
her money.
Satsuma has given us copies of its credit checks for all three of the loans. And they dont 
show any bankruptcy, county court judgment or any credit accounts in arrears. Miss P 
has given us copies of bank statements from around the time of the borrowing, and while 
I can see she was regularly making payments to two debt collections agencies, there is 
nothing else that could potentially have given Satsuma cause for concern. There were no 
payments to other short-term credit providers or other debt providers as examples.
So, in this case, I dont think the fact alone that Miss P had two loans running concurrently 
would lead me to say the borrowing was unaffordable for Miss P. Satsumas own credit 
checks and Miss Ps bank statements dont indicate the lending was unaffordable for her. 
As such, I cant safely conclude that Satsuma was wrong to have agreed to lend Miss P at 
loan three.
I know Miss P will be disappointed with the outcome about whether Satsuma made an 
error by providing the loans. But I hope my explanation has helped her understand how 
Ive reached the provisional decision that I have.
Financial difficulties
As part of her complaint Miss P says that when she contacted Satsuma about her financial 
situation in January 2020 its response wasnt sympathetic or positive. The adjudicator who 
considered Miss Ps complaint concluded that Satsuma did address the issues regarding 
her financial difficulties at a later date.I wanted to consider this further and we asked Satsuma for a recording of the call but 
its unavailable. It has been able to provide us with a copy of its representatives call 
notes which I have reviewed alongside Mrs Ps recollection of the call.
In her complaint to us Miss P said she called Satsuma to try and get some help and 
inform them of my situation on the 29th January 2020 [only] to be spoken to with no 
sensitivity and positivity and told no one is available to deal with this, that they would lodge 
a complaint even though originally I just need someone to talk through my situation with. 
They didnt ask me any questions about my situation, financial status at the time or how 
they could help going forward. The phone call lasted 8 minutes and I came off the phone 
in tears as this took a lot of courage and fear to make that phone call. I sent a letter with 
my complaint following this to get no response for weeks. I was then told in an email that 
according to their records they could not see any time I had contacted them about facing 
financial difficulties or had any communication with them where sensitive or financial 
struggle was discussed. I wasnt asked or offered any help in this phone call.
The notes Satsuma has provided about contact with Miss P show an inbound call 
on 29 January 2020 and which say cust adv that she has overcommitted with 
creditors  advised that she would like the two loans merged together and interest 
removed so that she can just pay back what she has borrowed. Advised there is 
nothing we could do to change this so offered a complaint.
However, it does look like something was done to help Miss P in April 2020 according to 
Satsumas records and as recognised by our adjudicator. But Im of the opinion that 
Satsumas representatives notes of the call on 29 January 2020 suggest that Miss P was 
in financial difficulties and was asking for support with her loan repayments.
I appreciate it may have been the case that the representative couldnt offer to merge the 
two loans and remove the interest but clearly Miss Ps testimony is that this call left her 
very upset and which suggests to me that the representative wasnt sympathetic or 
positive. I find Miss Ps recollection compelling and she has been consistent in her 
recollection throughout the complaint process. So, because of this, my current opinion is 
that Satsuma should recognise the upset that it caused Miss P and I propose to make an 
award of £75 in recognition of this. This should not be offset against any outstanding 
balance on Miss Ps account. Its a separate issue.
As Ive said above, Satsuma offered Miss P a breathing space in April 2020. This may 
have included a freezing of the interest payable on the outstanding loans or any additional 
charges  its not clear from the information I have. But if this was the case, then Satsuma 
should apply the same conditions to Miss Ps account backdated to when she made 
contact on 29 January 2020 eg removal of any interest or charges incurred between 
January and April (or similar to whatever action ws taken on the account when the 
breathing space was offered in April) and which might result in a change in the balance 
due.
So, to put things rights Satsuma needs to;
Pay Miss P £75 for the upset caused by Satsumas response to her request for help
during the call of 29 January 2020.
Backdate any action Satsuma took on the account in April 2020 to 29 January 
2020.
Miss P replied to say that she was disappoint with the outcome about the unaffordable 
lending but understood my explanation. She was satisfied with my decision about the unsympathetic approach taken by Satsuma when she contacted it about her financial 
difficulties. 
We didnt hear back from Satsuma. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Miss P accepted my provisional decision and Satsuma hasnt given me anything more 
to consider, I see no reason to alter my provisional decision and confirm those findings.
Putting things right
For completeness, Ill repeat what Satsuma needs to do to put the matter right.
To put things rights Satsuma needs to;
Pay Miss P £75 for the upset caused by Satsumas response to her request for help
during the call of 29 January 2020.
Backdate any action Satsuma took on the account in April 2020 to 29 January 
2020.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint about the lending but make an 
award of £75 for the response Miss P received when she contacted Satsuma about her 
financial difficulties. Satsuma should also replicate any action it took to help Miss P in       
April 2020 and backdated to 29 January 2020. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman