DRN-3244355
The complaint
Miss M complains Target Servicing Limited (Target) are unfairly asking her to pay backdated 
management fees in relation to her Help to Buy loan. 
What happened
Miss M says she took out a Help to Buy (HTB) mortgage in October 2016. Miss M says in 
March 2021, she received a letter from Target to say they had failed to collect a £1 per 
month management fee, by direct debit as they should have, and she now owed them £53. 
Miss M says as this was a mistake made by Target and no fault of her own, while she is 
prepared to pay the future monthly management fee, she feels that Target should wipe off 
the amount they have failed to collect. Miss M says she is now on maternity leave and can 
commence the payments from this coming January.
Target says they accept they did make a mistake by not collecting the direct debit for the 
monthly management fee that was due, but they have apologised for that, and given Miss M 
various options to pay what is owed - to either pay the full amount owed, repay the fee once 
the HTB mortgage is partially or fully repaid, or set up a payment plan to suit her. Target 
says the management fee is detailed in the HTB mortgage deed signed by Miss M and she 
would have known it was due to be paid each month.  
Miss M wasnt happy with Targets response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld the complaint. The 
investigator says although the fee was due under the terms and conditions of the HTB 
mortgage deed, given the trouble and upset Target had caused Miss M as a result of their 
mistake, they should wipe off the £53 missed management fees. 
Target didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said :
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different outcome to that of the investigator and I will 
explain how I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating and annoying for Miss M to have received a 
letter from Target informing her she owed £53 in backdated management fees, relating to 
her HTB mortgage taken out in 2016. When looking at this complaint I will consider if Target 
acted fairly when they asked Miss M to pay these fees.
The first thing to say here is, Target were the party who discovered the mistake and wrote to 
Miss M in March 2021, apologising for the fact a direct debit hadnt been set up as it should 
have, when the HTB mortgage was drawn in 2016. Miss M feels as Target made the mistake 
in not collecting the direct debit for the monthly £1 management fee, they shouldnt expect 
her to pay this after all the time that has passed. 
Miss M says at the time of her complaint to this service, she was on maternity leave and is 
on statutory maternity pay and cant afford to pay this fee. Miss M feels as a gesture of 
goodwill, given the length of time it has taken Target to identify the issue, they should write 
off the amount due. 
I can understand it would have been unwelcome news for Miss M, when Target informed her 
the monthly fee hadnt been set up and the timing of it was probably difficult for her given 
she was on maternity leave, on a reduced income. That said, while Target made a mistake 
in not setting up the direct debit when they should, they have apologised for that and 
importantly here, offered Miss M alternative ways to pay the monies owed, which I am 
satisfied shouldnt create any extra financial burden on her or financially disadvantage her in 
any way. I say this as Target offered Miss M three options - to either pay the full amount 
owed, repay the fee once the HTB mortgage is partially or fully repaid, or set up a payment 
plan to suit her. 
With this in mind I cant say Target have treated Miss M unfairly here, and although they 
have made a mistake by not setting up the direct debit for the management fee, thats not to 
say they should be penalised for that. I am satisfied they have done all that would be 
reasonably expected of them to ensure the fees could be repaid in a way to suit Miss M. Its 
reasonable to say that these monthly management fees were due under the mortgage deed 
she signed in 2016, a copy of which has been provided to this service and referred to by the 
investigator, in his view to Miss M. So, its fair to say these are monies she owed.
Furthermore, Miss M as far as I can see, hasnt experienced any financial disadvantage, and 
although she may have experienced some inconvenience, thats not to say she shouldnt 
pay what is owed under the agreement she signed. So here, Miss M has the option to repay 
the outstanding fees when she fully repays the mortgage, and as such has no immediate 
cost to her, alternatively she has the option to repay a modest sum each month to suit her 
budget. With that in mind, I am satisfied Target have shown a reasonable amount of 
flexibility, in their approach to resolve this matter. 
While Miss M will be disappointed with my provisional decision, I dont propose to ask 
anymore of Target here. 
Target have responded to my provisional decision, but Miss M has not, so the case has 
been passed back to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Miss M and Target until 10 January 2022 to accept or reject my provisional 
decision. Target have accepted my provisional decision, but Miss M has not responded and 
so I see no need to change or add to this, and so my final decision remains the same. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman