DRN-4092216
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Santander UK Plc has rejected his Direct Debt Indemnity (DDI) 
claim.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly for the same reasons and 
I will explain why. But before I do so, I would like to say I am sorry to hear about the 
circumstances Mr A has found himself in. I appreciate this must have been really difficulty 
and I empathise with his situation.
At this point I would like to highlight that originally Mr A had raised concerns with the service 
he received when he went into the branch, and the fact he was handed a letter in the street 
without identifying him. However, our investigator asked Mr A if he wanted us to investigate 
this aspect of his complaint, as hed not mentioned it since the initial call. Mr A clarified he 
wanted to keep the matter separate. As such, I havent made a finding on this in this 
complaint.
As Mr A will be aware, the direct debit guarantee isnt designed to deal with contractual 
disputes between a customer and the originator of a direct debit. Its there to provide a 
customer with a full and immediate refund where an error is made in the payment of a direct 
debit by the originator, or the bank or building society. Also, a business can ask for more 
information to establish if there has been a payment error before making a refund under the 
direct debit guarantee.
The payment errors the direct debit guarantee generally refer to are where (for example) the 
payment date, amount or frequency has changed without a customer being told, or a 
payment has been set up in error or without the customers permission. In this case Mr A 
says Santander have acted on a Direct Debit (DD) instruction that he hadnt authorised, so 
without his permission. He says he had no advance notice and wasnt aware of the DD as it 
was his brother who set up the DD when they were living at the same address. 
I have considered Mr As testimony, but as he will be aware, in order to set up a DD a 
customer has to give the payee authority to claim for the funds. While Santander hasnt been 
able to provide the DD instruction (due to the time that has passed) I have seen system 
notes that indicate the mandate was set up in Mr As name and was set up on receipt of an 
instruction from the originating business (company V).
Mr A doesnt dispute this, but he has said it was his brother who used his details for the DD, 
without his consent. Therefore, Mr A says he didnt give his authority for the DD and 
therefore ought to be able to claim under the DD indemnity scheme. As I have explained 
above I asked Santander to provide the original mandate it received but it no longer has the 
original document, which I dont think is unreasonable due to the passage of time. For 
obvious reasons, Mr A, hasnt been able to provide the original credit agreement between 
him and V (as he never entered the contract). As such I havent been able to verify exactly 
what details Santander received. That said, I am satisfied Santander did receive a DD 
instruction from V in Mr As name. And I dont think it was unreasonable for Santander to 
have actioned this request as Mr As brother had access to Mr As banking details, so 
Santander werent to know this wasnt a genuine request from Mr A.
So, I have gone on to consider if Santander ought to have actioned Mr As DD indemnity 
claim immediately. The DD has been in place for many years with over £10,000 worth of 
payments leaving the account. Mr A has said five/six years down the line I noticed the 
money had gone out the account, I had so much money in the account I never worried about 
DD. And while I appreciate Mr As comments, I cant say I agree Santander did anything 
wrong. Its not Santanders role to manage the daily activity on Mr As account. And given 
the period of time the DD was in place and the volume of payments which accumulated, I am 
persuaded Mr A ought to have been reasonably aware that the DD was in place. Therefore, 
if there was a dispute over whether the DD had been authorised by him, I think its most 
likely Mr A would have raised it sooner. As such, I dont think it is unreasonable that 
Santander requested further evidence from Mr A before it was willing to action his DD 
indemnity claim as proceeding could lead to further detriment for Mr A.
Mr A has also raised concerns regarding the overall service he received over the telephone. 
I have taken Mr As circumstances into consideration and thought very carefully about what 
Santander ought to do when dealing with vulnerable consumers. That said, I have also 
considered some of the comments Mr A made during the conversations at that time; and 
with that in mind I am of the opinion that Santander were prevented from being aware of 
Mr As true circumstances (or the circumstances he has told our service he finds himself in). 
As such, I dont think its fair to say Santander ought to have done anything differently. So, it 
follows, I wont be asking Santander to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman