DRN-2733037
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund him part of a cash withdrawal he says 
he didnt receive.
What happened
In September 2020, Mr M paid £80 worth of coins into his account. He then went to a cash 
machine to withdraw the money in notes but only received £40 out of the £80 he requested.
He reported the issue to Santander and during the telephone conversation, Mr M was told 
that refunds will usually be credited within two working days unless further investigation is 
needed. 
Santander contacted the owner of the cash machine and said the evidence showed the 
money had been correctly dispensed and the machine balanced. So they didnt uphold his 
complaint. Mr M brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She explained that, according to 
the evidence, the machine showed it balanced and therefore she was satisfied £80 was 
withdrawn successfully. The investigator also commented on the timings of the transaction  
which took less than a minute from Mr Ms card being entered into the machine, to the cash 
being taken. So she didnt think there was a delay with the machine either. Mr M didnt agree 
and asked for another review.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the circumstances of this complaint, and the technical evidence 
Santander has provided, I wont be upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ive explained the reasons 
for my decision below.
The cash machine Mr M used wasnt one owned by Santander. The process across the 
banking industry is that the dispute is raised by the card holders bank (in Mr Ms case, 
Santander). The cash machine operator would then either accept or defend the claim. 
Mr Ms case was defended and as Santander dont own the machine, theyd have to rely on 
a lot of the information and evidence provided by the owner. So I can only focus on whether 
Santanders decision to not provide Mr M with a refund was fair based on the information 
theyd received. 
Mr M has said only £40 was dispensed  and he doesnt recall any error messages on the 
machine. Mr M doesnt think anybody else was near him at the time.
While Ive considered what Mr M has said, I cant ignore the technical evidence provided. 
Santander reached out to the cash machine provider and they provided evidence which 
shows;
the money was successfully dispensed;
there was no £40 cash surplus when the cash machine was balanced. Which is what 
Id expect to see if £80 was requested and only £40 dispensed;
the transaction took less than one minute overall  with the money being dispensed 
only four seconds after the card was take, and the money only three seconds after 
that.
I feel the timings of the transaction are particularly relevant. It may sometimes be the case 
that if there is a delay with the machine, the individual requesting the money could walk 
away before theyre aware its dispensed. But I dont think thats whats happened here as 
Mr M said he did receive some of the money he requested so Im satisfied he was still 
present at the machine when the cash dispensed.
I appreciate Mr M says he only received £40 of the £80 requested. If this was the case, I 
wouldnt expect the machine to balance at the end of the day  but it did.
Overall, taking everything into account, I think its more likely than not that the £80 cash was 
correctly dispensed. Therefore, I find Santanders decision not to refund Mr M reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Im sorry Mr M has found himself without this money  
but I cant fairly hold Santander liable for that. So I wont be asking them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman