DRN-3853831
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain QIC Europe Ltd have unfairly declined their buildings insurance 
claim.
All references to QIC also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr and Mrs M instructed an independent surveyor (S). Investigations have been 
carried out which have led the surveyor to conclude the damage to be a result of a 
leaking drain  which had caused subsidence.
QIC said while there may be new damage, this is a continuation of previous issues at 
the property and a result of historic movement. 
Its not in dispute the property has suffered historic movement, but S has highlighted 
this is new progressive movement. 
Ive not seen any evidence Mr and Mrs M wouldve been reasonably aware of 
previous subsidence at the property. Theyve provided a copy of a purchase survey 
from when they bought the property, around 10 years ago, which doesnt highlight 
any issues with the home that relate to subsidence. 
While I acknowledge QICs comment these reports are not usually in-depth, I dont 
see anything to persuade me there was a requirement for it to be. If there were 
visible signs of any type of damage, or issue at the time, Id reasonably expect this to 
be highlighted in the report  and it wasnt. 
QIC have pointed to work carried out at the property which it believes to be recent. It 
feels this work should have highlighted subsidence related issues at the time and 
wasnt reported. So was likely occurring prior to the inception of the policy.
Mr and Mrs M said they had renovation work carried out to correct weather pointing 
when they first moved into the property. However, this wasnt related to subsidence. 
And Ive not seen no evidence that persuades me it was.
Ultimately, Im persuaded by what S had said. Their findings are based on site 
investigations and a drain has been found to be leaking which matched what S felt 
was likely to be the issue prior to trial pits being dug. QIC has commented on what 
they feel has likely happened, but its not supported by any investigations. Ive also 
not seen anything that persuades me Mr and Mrs M would have been aware of the 
damage prior to when they made the claim. And given S has identified leaking drains 
to be the issue, I think its more likely than not the damage wouldve been more 
extensive if it had been occurring for some time.
So, for these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right QIC should:
Proceed to consider the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Reimburse Mr and Mrs M the costs theyve incurred for an independent surveyor if it 
hasnt done so already. If required, QIC can request sufficient proof of costs, such as 
an invoice.
Pay 8% simple interest per annum from the date Mr and Mrs M paid this cost, until 
the date QIC makes payment
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
To put things right I direct QIC Europe Ltd to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman