DRN-3712462
The complaint
Mr H complains that Ikano Bank Limited (Ikano), has rejected the claim he made under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system he 
says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr H is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In February 2020, Mr H was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to talk 
about purchasing a solar panel system including smart trading battery (the system) to be 
installed at his home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr H decided to purchase 
the system and finance it through a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano. The 
system was subsequently installed.
In January 2022, the CMC made a claim on Mr Hs behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Ikano. The CMC said that P had made a number of representations about the system that 
had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced Mr H to 
enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been 
made:
The system was said to be self-funding and would pay for itself as the benefit would 
cover not only the purchase cost but also the finance costs.
The system would pay for itself on an annual basis from the combined benefits of the 
export payments and electricity bill reduction.
Ikano issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr H or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented the 
system to Mr H and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
The estimate provided on 10 February 2020 gives a figure of total benefit over 30 
years of £28,485 cross referenced to the costs of system. 
There is no breakdown of how this £28,485.00 would be attained and over which 
period. 
Given the details of the discussions submitted by Mr H and the assurances provided 
to him by the salesman regarding the self-funding nature of the panels, it is easy to 
see how these figures would have persuaded our client that the benefits would pay 
for the loan. 
It is not a simple matter of being able to divide the sum by 30 years and realising that 
the yearly costs of finance would not be covered. 
For such a simple calculation to be made, a full production and benefit breakdown on 
a yearly basis would need to be provided for a reasonable assessment to be 
possible. 
The simple fact is that such a breakdown has not been provided and therefore a 
reasoned assessment was not possible.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr H paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr H could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have claimed 
against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in 
the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr H and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Ikano.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide what happened on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the 
evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr H says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be self-funding on 
an annual basis  that is that the overall benefits through energy saving and grid trading 
(being paid for electricity exported to the grid) would cover the annual loan repayments.
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Ikano. These 
include the credit agreement and sales documents. Ive considered these, along with Mr Hs 
testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to 
have happened. 
The sales documents include:
10 February 2020:
oYour solar system options page. This described the system and set out the 
basic cost of £11,245.00 and the estimated savings and benefits over 30 
years.11 February 2020
o The renewable energy system contract. A two-page documents showing 
the expected performance, benefits, and payment information. 
oThe loan agreement. 
oAn email with instructions on next steps and estimated first year benefit. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance that 
these documents are likely to have formed a central part of the sales process and that the 
salesperson went through them during the meetings on 10 and 11 February 2020. So, Ive 
taken this into account, along with the Mr Hs version of events when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement, dated 11 February 2020, clearly sets out:
Cash price £11,245.00
Deposit £100.00
Total amount payable £14,706.87
Amount of credit £11,145.00
Total charge for credit £3,561.87
Duration 120 months
Monthly repayment £112.56 per month
The Your solar system options page, which the CMC has referred to as an estimate, was 
provided to Mr H during a meeting on 10 February 2020. It showed the following in terms of 
the costs and benefits of the system:
The CMC says this suggests the system would be self-funding on an annual basis. However, 
I think it would be more accurate to say this implies the system would be self-funding over 30 
years or less. I think that it would be fairly simple to calculate that £28,485 divided by 30 
years is less than £1,000 per year  the loan repayments being more than this. Although I 
accept what the CMC points out, that it does not provide an estimated benefit on an annual 
basis. But overall, I dont think this clearly supports the allegation that Mr H has made. 
In any case, I dont think it would be reasonable to consider the above document in isolation. 
I have to consider all the evidence to reach my decision. Including that Mr H has confirmed 
that he took time to consider the matter and had another meeting with the salesperson the 
next day, during which he agreed to the purchase. In that meeting, on 11 February 2020, the 
renewable energy system contract was provided to Mr H.
That contract sets out the energy savings, grid trading income, price and monthly payment 
as follows:
I think the contract is clear that the contract price of the system was £11,245.00 and that 
Mr H would be making 120 monthly payments of £122.56  further details of which were 
provided on the loan agreement that Mr H signed the same day. 
This equates to repayments of £1,470.72 per year. The savings from the solar panels are 
clearly shown as being between £106.97 and £213.95 per year, with the battery generating 
grid trading income of £398.57. That is a maximum benefit of £612.52 per year, which is 
much less than the annual loan repayments. 
Although the annual cost and benefit is not explicitly stated in the contract, I think sufficient 
information was provided for Mr H to work this out and realise that the benefits would not 
cover the monthly repayments. 
I also think this document wouldve been discussed with Mr H and the figures explained by 
the salesperson  before Mr H agreed to the purchase. The contract does not imply or state 
that the system would pay for itself on an annual basis. And I think it is unlikely that the 
salesperson wouldve misrepresented the system in that way while providing documents 
which showed something different. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced Mr H 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman