DRN-2097298
The complaint
The executor of Mrs Ws estate has complained that she and her late husband were 
mis-sold a home reversion plan in 2000 and second one in 2002
Phoenix Life is not the financial business that sold the plans in question, but it is now 
responsible for the sales and as such, I will refer to it throughout. 
What happened
In 2000 Mr and Mrs W took out a home reversion plan. In return for £8,721 and a monthly 
annuity payment of £1, they signed over their home to Phoenix, but kept a 50% interest in 
the value of it.  Whilst the ownership of the property was transferred to Phoenix, 
Mr and Mrs W received a lease that gave them the right to live in property for the remainder 
of their lives. At the time the property was valued at £52,000.
In 2002 further funds were released to Mr and Mrs W under another plan. This time they 
received £7,000 and the monthly annuity increased by £1. This was in exchange for a further 
24.93% of the property, which was valued at £62,500.
Mr W pre-deceased Mrs W. Following her death in 2019, the executor looked into her affairs 
and became aware of the home reversion plans. The executor complained to Phoenix about 
the plans as she didnt consider the amount Mr and Mrs W had received for a 75% share in 
the property was reasonable. She said the property was now worth £120,000 and yet 
Phoenix had only paid Mr and Mrs W £15,721. Concern was also raised about whether 
Mr and Mrs W received financial and legal advice when taking the plans, as no 
documentation of that nature had been found in Mrs Ws possessions. 
In addition, the executor, who lived with Mrs W at the time of her death, said she felt that she 
was being pressured to leave the property so it could be sold. 
Phoenix responded to the complaint. It provided a summary of the reasons recorded in its 
documentation for the sales and detail of the plans. It confirmed that financial advice had 
been given to Mr and Mrs W and that they had been required to discuss the plans with their 
solicitor before the first plan could go ahead. Phoenix explained the factors that were taken 
into account when the amount paid under the plans was decided. It didnt think there was 
any evidence of the plans having been mis-sold. In relation to the executors concerns about 
being pressured to leave the property, it said its usual process allowed four to six weeks for 
a property to be cleared, but it was willing to give her longer if she needed it. 
The executor didnt accept Phoenixs response. She referred the complaint to us as she 
remained of the view that neither legal nor financial advice had been given to Mr and Mrs W, 
as they only received advice from within the group that provided the plans in the first 
instance.  The executor also suggested that as the property next door sold for £90,000 in 
2003, the property in question was deliberately undervalued in 2000.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. However, she didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. She was satisfied that Mr and Mrs W received both financial and legal 
advice before arranging the original plan and further financial advice before the second. In 
relation to the financial advice, she considered appropriate questions were asked of 
Mr and Mrs W to gain an insight into their circumstances, needs and requirements. She 
decided the plans were a reasonable approach to provide for their requirements and didnt 
see any evidence that suggested the plans were unsuitable at the times they were sold. 
In addition, the investigator didnt think Phoenix had done anything wrong in offering the 
sums it did for the proportion of the property it received. As the property was valued by a 
suitably qualified external expert, she was satisfied it was reasonable for Phoenix to rely on it 
and had seen nothing to make her doubt its validity. As for the executors concerns about 
Phoenix wanting to sell the property, the investigator confirmed it was entitled to do so. 
However, if the executor needed more time, it was suggested a discussion with Phoenix be 
had.
The executor didnt accept our investigators opinion and she reiterated her concerns. She 
highlighted, that to her knowledge, the money received from the plans hadnt been used in 
the manner Mr and Mrs W had told Phoenix it would be. Our investigator addressed the 
various comments but didnt change her view of the complaint. As agreement couldnt be 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main concern in this case appears to be the amount Mr and Mrs W received for a share 
of their property value. Before addressing this issue, I would confirm that I have seen no 
evidence the property was deliberately undervalued as the executor as suggested. The 
property was valued by a suitably qualified surveyor and Phoenix was entitled to rely on that 
valuation when making its offer to Mr and Mrs W.
As has been explained, the amount Phoenix was willing to offer was dependent on many 
factors including ages, gender and projected life expectancy for the consumers. In relation to 
the property value, there would also be predictions used about future changes in the 
property market and fluctuations in interest rates and annuity rates over the anticipated term 
of the plan. These assumptions would have been set and determined by Phoenixs actuaries 
and would vary over time. These variations are evidenced by the fact that Mr and Mrs W 
received proportionately more for the smaller proportion (and value) of the property in 2002 
than they did in 2000, because house prices were rising rapidly and were expected to 
continue to do so.  
The amount paid out doesnt look out of line with the amount I have seen on other such 
products. There is also the fact that whilst the executor is unhappy with the amounts paid 
out, it seems Mr and Mrs W were happy with them at the times of the sales or they wouldnt 
have accepted the offers. In addition, if there was any sign of impropriety at the time of the 
first sale, I am sure their solicitor would have raised concerns when it ensured Mr and Mrs W 
understood the plan and its consequences for them. 
Having considered the information about Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances and what they 
wanted, I havent seen anything that would indicate the plans were unsuitable for them. They 
wanted to obtain lump sums and their only realistic way of doing so, given their modest 
income, was to release equity from their home. Mr and Mrs W owned the property and were 
entitled to dispose of that asset as they wanted and to provide for whatever purpose they 
wanted. The fact the executor doesnt believe the money was used for the purposes Phoenix was told it would be, doesnt mean the advice was wrong as Phoenix was entitled to rely on 
what Mr and Mrs W told it. 
Overall, I dont consider Phoenix did anything wrong in relation to the sales of these plans to 
Mr and Mrs W. I note the executor has raised concerns about the sale of the property. 
Phoenix is entitled to sell the property under the terms and conditions of the contract 
Mr and Mrs W signed and as such, I dont think its done anything wrong in speaking to the 
executor about doing so. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask the estates of Mr W and Mrs W to accept or reject 
my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman