DRN-3236944
The complaint
A, a limited company, complains that Towergate Underwriting Group Limited sold a business 
protection insurance policy which didnt meet its needs. A is represented in the complaint by 
Mr S, whos a director of the company.
What happened
A took out business protection insurance through Towergate and renewed each year 
following that. The policy included professional indemnity and public liability cover for A, and 
travel/accident cover for people working for A.
Mr S says he discovered in 2020 that, to a large extent, the insurance didnt meet As needs. 
He said the policies were either worthless or included clauses that would have avoided 
paying out on claims. In particular, he complained that the policy didnt cover sub-contractors 
and the travel cover was changed to limit cover with the UK to accident only.
Towergate said the policy included cover for sub-contractors and temporary workers, and 
cover was always on the basis of travel insurance outside the UK and accident cover only 
within the UK  this didnt change, premiums were always based on this and A had never 
been charged for travel days within the UK.
Our investigator said Towergate had reviewed all its files going back to the original sale and 
confirmed the correct cover was in place. She said Towergate had acknowledged that some 
of the terminology in the documents was confusing but although Mr S said his business had 
been put at risk, there wasnt any loss and we couldnt make an award for something that 
might have occurred but hadnt.
Mr S disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision. He says the insurance was 
mis-sold as it didnt meet As needs, because:
many of their workers were not covered  in particular, sub-contractors;
the travel policy changed to provide cover in UK only for personal accident  he 
doesnt know when this changed but first noticed the exclusion for UK in 2015;
there were losses on a commercial vehicle claim;
although there was no actual loss in most cases, they paid premiums for policies that 
didnt provide all the cover A needed.
I issued a provisional decision saying I did not intend to uphold the complaint. I set out my 
reasons as follows.
This was an advised sale, so Towergate had a duty under the relevant rules and guidance, 
to:
provide appropriate information in good time to enable A to make an informed choice 
about what cover was needed;
assess As demands and needs, ensure the policy was consistent with those needs 
and ensure the suitability of its advice; and
ensure the information it gave to A was clear, fair and not misleading.
Ive considered these duties in relation to the original sale and the subsequent renewals.
Looking at the policy documents, these show that
the travel insurance provides cover for trips outside the UK, with cover limited to 
personal accident only inside the UK;
there is an optional extension to include travel insurance within the UK, but this 
wasnt taken by A; and
the professional indemnity and public liability cover always included sub-contractors 
and temporary workers while they were working under As direction.
Before each renewal, Towergate reviewed the insurance and provided a report to A. Ive 
looked at the information available, for the renewals from 2015 through to 2019. These 
confirm some minor changes and amendments to policy wording. But they also confirm there 
were no major changes to the nature of the cover provided, and confirm that the 
travel/accident policy provides travel cover abroad and accident cover only within the UK. 
From reviewing all the documents I cant see that the cover changed in any substantive way. 
Indeed, Mr S own summary of complaint sets out that the policy documents say cover was 
for personal accident only within the UK; and that the professional Indemnity insurance also 
included the following: When you provide the following services either directly or through 
your subcontractors..."
On this basis, Im satisfied the professional indemnity and public liability cover always 
provided cover for sub-contractors. Mr S says he was told at one point by Towergates 
adviser that wasnt the case and sub-contractors needed their own cover. Theres no record 
of that conversation but in any event, that isnt what the policy documents say.
Towergate accepts the terminology in relation to one point was confusing  the policy 
changed from using domiciled country to UK. Some of the documents do refer to an 
individuals country of domicile. But in describing where the travel cover and accident only 
cover applies, they refer to this being within or outside the UK. Looking at the documents 
think it was clear which cover applied where.
Mr S has referred to a claim involving one of As commercial vehicles in 2018. A complaint 
about that was dealt with at the time and a final response issued. The insurers made an ex-
gratia offer of a suitable hire vehicle. I cant consider that claim in this complaint about the 
sale of the insurance. But it doesnt seem to me to indicate this insurance was mis-sold.
For these reasons I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
Even if there was a fault in the sales process, I would need to consider what A would have 
done differently. If, for example, Mr S can show A would not have taken out the insurance at 
all, then a refund or premiums might be appropriate. Im not persuaded that would have 
happened  A clearly had a need for this type of insurance.
Alternatively, if Mr S could show that A would have taken out a different policy and that A 
had made claims that werent covered by this policy, but would have been covered had they 
taken the other policy, then there might be some loss  though Id have to consider the cost 
of the alternative policy, which may have been more expensive. But Mr S hasnt shown this, 
and has confirmed there isnt any actual loss. In addition, when it was pointed out in the 
renewal information that A wasnt covered for business travel within the UK, but could extend 
the policy to include this for an additional premium, A didnt take up this option.
Taking all of the above into account, I dont think the policy was mis-sold but even if it was, A 
hasnt shown that it would have acted differently or has suffered any loss.Replies to the provisional decision 
Towergate hasnt made any further comments in reply to the provisional decision but Mr S 
says A doesnt accept the provisional decision and has provided some further comments, 
which include:
The provisional decision fails to recognise that buying insurance is based on 
potential for incidents to happen, so to say there wasnt any loss and therefore its 
not possible to make an award shows a lack of understanding of the whole principle 
of insurance.
Its never been possible to speak to the individual at Towergate who is response for 
what went wrong.
They are now using some of the same underwriters for As insurance but through a 
different broker who understands As needs. A has had to get local insurance cover 
for two sub-contractors in the countries where they are based as the insurance 
doesnt cover them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S says the provisional decision misunderstands the whole nature of insurance, which is 
based on the potential for things to go wrong. That is, of course, the basis of any insurance  
to provide cover for a risk that something might happen. But unless something does go 
wrong, there isnt necessarily any loss. 
As I acknowledged in my provisional decision, if something had gone wrong and A had tried 
to claim for this only to find it wasnt covered by this policy (but would have been covered if it 
had taken a different policy) then there might be some loss. But that hasnt happened. So A 
hasnt suffered a loss.
I cant make an award for something that hasnt happened; there needs to be some loss. 
That might be the case if the insurance were of no value to A, or Mr S can show it would 
never have taken out the insurance. In that case, the appropriate remedy might be to return 
the premiums. But, for the reasons given in the provisional decision, I dont think thats the 
case here. 
I appreciate that someone would be upset to discover they have been paying for an 
insurance policy that doesnt provide all the cover they thought it would provide. In some 
circumstances it might be reasonable to award some compensation for any distress caused 
to an individual. But A isnt an individual  its a limited company. So it cant suffer distress in 
the way that a person might. 
In any event, its not clear to me that the insurance didnt cover the risks A had presented to 
Towergate. The specific points that Mr S raised were that the policy didnt cover sub-
contractors; and the travel cover was changed to limit cover with the UK to accident only. 
From the information Ive seen, the travel insurance always provided cover for trips outside 
the UK, with cover limited to personal accident only inside the UK; this didnt change. There 
was an optional extension to include travel insurance within the UK, which was drawn to As 
attention, but this wasnt taken up. And as I mentioned in the provisional decision, Mr S 
himself acknowledged that the policy documents say cover was for personal accident only 
within the UK; and that the professional indemnity insurance included cover When you 
provide the following services either directly or through your subcontractors..." For these reasons, and the reasons set out in the provisional decision, Im not satisfied the 
policy was mis-sold but even if it had been, A hasnt shown that it suffered a loss for which 
compensation should be paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman