DRN-4020712
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited trading as LV=  
(LV=) handled a claim under his home insurance policy for damage from a leak.
References to LV= include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
In January 2022 Mr S contacted LV= to tell them about a water leak under the lounge and 
kitchen floor at his property, as he was losing a significant amount of water. The local water 
company checked the area of his property and said the leak wasnt coming from the mains 
water supply to the property. Rather, it was coming from the pipes within the property 
boundary (so wouldnt be their responsibility). LV= appointed a contractor (A) to assess the 
cause of the leak and the work needed to fix it. A said theyd need to fix the pipe by digging 
up the lounge or kitchen floor to locate the leak and fix it. 
Mr S was unhappy at the prospect of the disruption and damage that digging up his floor 
(wood flooring on a concrete base) would cause, and the uncertainty of whether it would 
locate and fix the leak. As an alternative, he wanted LV= to re-route the mains water pipe 
through the lounge into the kitchen (along the skirting board) He thought this would involve 
less hassle and mess (and less cost). However, LV= wouldnt agree to re-routing the pipe, 
only digging up the floor and fixing the existing pipe. As Mr S didnt want this, LV= offered a 
cash settlement (£793, net of the policy excess of £300) which represented the standard 
estimated cost (to LV=) of fixing the leak (repairing the pipe). They said theyd consider 
covering the cost of re-routing the pipe if Mr S could provide evidence of a leak under the 
property and an estimate from a contractor for the work. 
Further discussions between Mr S and LV= failed to reach an agreement, so Mr S arranged 
for the re-routing to be carried out, from the front garden into the lounge wall, along the 
lounge and through to the kitchen (and the stop tap). The work cost £3,800.
Unhappy at their declining to pay for re-routing the pipe, Mr S complained to LV=. But they 
didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they restated their position that the policy 
would only cover a repair to the damaged (leaking) section of pipe and not re-routing the 
pipe, as it was inside Mr Ss property. Having asked Mr S for a report to evidence the leak 
location (and not receiving one) LV= confirmed theyd only offer the cash settlement based 
on repairing the leaking pipe. LV= also said re-routing the pipe was maintenance, something 
the policy didnt cover. 
Mr S then complained to this service, unhappy LV= not agreeing to cover the cost of re-
routing the pipe. He was also unhappy at the time taken discussing the issue and LV= giving 
contradictory views on what they needed from Mr S by way of evidence of the leak (and 
what they were prepared to do. He wanted LV= to pay for the re-routing the pipe, which he 
said was cheaper than LV=s option of digging up his property and fixing the leak.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding LV= hadnt acted fairly. While the policy 
only provided cover for a repair to the pipe (and re-routing would constitute betterment), she 
understood why Mr S was reluctant for his property to be dug up for the leak to be fixed, 
which could have caused damage through flooding from the leak, as well as the disruption 
and stress of the work and potential damage to the kitchen. She also thought the full cost of 
digging up the property and fixing the leak would exceed the cost incurred by Mr S. She 
thought LV= should pay the £3,800 Mr S had incurred in re-routing the pipework (less the 
£793 theyd paid Mr S) plus interest. She also thought LV= should pay £200 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S.
LV= disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. From review of the claim notes, they thought Mr S wanted a re-routing of the pipe 
from the outset  but it wasnt covered under the terms of the policy. They offered a standard 
pipe repair settlement as Mr S wasnt willing for A to attend to locate the leak (and fix it). 
They also indicated the settlement could increase if Mr S could show a repair wasnt 
possible without having to access the property from the inside. However, the estimate from 
Mr S for the re-routing work didnt indicate a repair from outside the property wouldnt be 
possible  which meant he hadnt shown a re-routing was the most cost-effective solution. 
In my findings I concluded LV= hadnt acted fairly. While I concluded LV= acted in line with 
the policy terms in offering a cash settlement, from the evidence available the leak within the 
boundary of the property (which would make it the responsibility of Mr S). On LV= asking for 
a report to evidence the leak location, I wasnt persuaded it was reasonable, as there was a 
leak within  underneath - the property from the water companys conclusions.
I also noted LV= offered a settlement based on the cost of a pipe repair, but it wasnt clear 
whether it included any trace and access work to find the source of the leak. If the cost 
wasnt included in the settlement offer to Mr S then LV= hadnt acted fairly. I also considered 
that in the absence of any trace and access work (or LV= digging up the property to locate 
and fix the leak) it wasnt possible to say with certainty whether the pipe could have been 
repaired, or whether it would have to be replaced. If the latter, it would be likely to cost more 
than a standard repair. I didnt think this fair or reasonable in the circumstances.
Having come to these conclusions, I thought about what LV= should do to put things right. 
While I thought LV= hadnt acted fairly in offering a cash settlement based on a standard 
pipe repair, I also considered the issue of betterment and LV=s point about the re-routing of 
the pipe being maintenance. In re-routing the pipe, Mr S had been put in a better position 
than he was in before the incident. As a general principle, insurers dont have to pay for 
things that result in betterment, so I didnt think LV= should cover the full cost of re-routing. 
On the issue of maintenance, I didnt agree re-routing the pipe was maintenance, as it was a  
solution that avoided having to dig up Mr Ss property, locate and fix the leak (either by 
repairing the pipe or replacing it).
Having concluded LV= hadnt acted fairly in basing their cash settlement on a standard pipe 
repair  but that it wouldnt be reasonable for them to cover the full cost of re-routing the pipe 
 I thought it would be reasonable for them to settle the claim by covering half the cost 
incurred (£1,900) less the £793 theyd already paid.
I also considered the issue of compensation. I thought Mr S would have suffered distress 
and inconvenience. I thought £200 would be reasonable.
Because I reached different conclusions to those of our investigator, I issued a provisional 
conclusion to give both parties the opportunity to consider matters further. This is set out 
below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
My role here is to decide whether LV= has acted fairly towards Mr S. The key issue concerns LV= declining to cover re-routing the pipe at Mr Ss property, saying 
the policy only provides for a repair of the pipe, not re-routing. Mr S says LV= should pay for 
the re-routing as the alternative would be to dig up his property to locate and fix the leak 
(repair the pipe). This would cause significant damage and disruption, as well as only 
covering one leak (not multiple leaks) and meant the risk of future leaks. He also says the 
work would have been significantly more costly than the cost of re-routing the pipe.
Ive considered both views carefully, including the points made by Mr S and LV= as well as 
the information and evidence available. Having done so, Ive concluded LV= havent acted 
fairly. While Ive reached this conclusion, Ive also considered what would be a fair outcome 
in the specific circumstances of the case. Ill set out why Ive come to these conclusions.
Ive first considered what the policy provides for, in the context of the circumstances of the 
case. LV= say the policy only provides cover for repairing a leaking pipe, not replacement 
(re-routing). But they havent (in their final response or separately) referred to the specific 
section of the policy they think is applicable. So, Ive looked at the policy document. Under 
the section headed How will my buildings claim be settled? it provides for the following 
options (to be agreed with the policyholder):
arrange for a repair or replacement using one of our suppliers; or
pay the cost of repair; or
make a cash payment.
In the circumstances of this case, Mr S didnt want LV= to repair the pipe, given it would 
involve digging up his property. In those circumstances  given that LV= didnt agree to pay 
the cost of the pipe re-routing carried out by Mr Ss contractor - then the cash payment 
option was the only alternative. Given this, the same section of the policy goes on to say:
If we can offer a repair or replacement through one of our suppliers and you choose 
not to have the item repaired or replaced or you wish to use your own supplier, we 
will not pay more than the amount we would have paid our supplier.
Given this wording, Ive concluded LV= acted in line with the policy terms in offering a cash 
settlement. 
However, Ive also considered the above wording in the context of LV=s view that the policy 
only provides for a repair of the pipe. But the wording (of the first option) specifically refers to 
arranging a repair or (my emphasis) replacement (through one of their suppliers). While the 
second option only refers to repair, the additional wording on the cash settlement also refers 
to a policyholder choosing not to have the item repaired or replaced (in which case LV= 
would base a cash settlement on the amount they would have paid their supplier).
Looking at the evidence available, LV=s notes on Mr Ss complaint include reference to him 
being in contact with the local water company and their telling him there was a leak within 
the property. And that theyd checked the area around the property and concluded the leak 
was within the boundary of the property (which would make it the responsibility of Mr S). This 
indicates there was a leak within the boundary of the property. On LV= asking for a report to 
evidence the leak location, Im not persuaded that was reasonable in the circumstances. Its 
clear there was a leak within  underneath - the property from the water companys 
conclusions. In the circumstances, Id expect the trace and access provisions in the policy to 
cover the work needed to locate the source of the leak.
The Buildings section of the policy includes the following reference to trace and access 
under the Whats covered heading:16. Trace and access
Well pay up to £5,000 towards the cost to remove and replace any part of the 
building to find the source of a water ort oil leak from any fixed tank, appliance or 
pipe forming part of your home.
Ive not seen any reference to this section of the policy being applied when Mr S notified LV= 
of the leak. Rather, LV= have offered a settlement based on the standard estimated cost of a 
pipe repair. I havent seen a definition of the work included within this standard cost, so its 
not clear whether it includes any necessary trace and access work to find the source of the 
leak (not just repairing the pipe, being the source of the leak).
If the cost of any trace and access isnt included in the settlement offer to Mr S then I think 
LV= havent acted fairly in reasonably.  Ive also considered that in the absence of any trace 
and access work being carried out (or LV= digging up the property to locate and fix the leak) 
its not possible to say with certainty whether the pipe could have been repaired, or whether 
it would have to be replaced). If it was the latter, that would be likely to cost more than a 
standard repair (which LV= used as the basis of their cash settlement offer). 
In other words, LV= have based their cash settlement on the assumption a standard repair 
would have been possible, whereas it may have been necessary to replace the pipe (at 
greater cost). I dont think this is fair or reasonable in the circumstances, given my 
conclusions above.
Having come to this conclusion, Ive thought about what LV= should do to put things right.
 
While I think LV= havent acted fairly in offering a cash settlement based on the assumption 
of a standard pipe repair, Ive also considered the issue of betterment (as well as LV=s point 
about the re-routing of the pipe being maintenance). In re-routing the pipe, Mr S has been 
put in a better position than he was in before the incident. As a general principle, insurers 
dont have to pay for things that result in betterment (they should put the consumer in the 
position they were before the incident). So, thinking about the circumstances of the case, I 
dont think its fair and reasonable for LV= to have to cover the full cost of the pipe re-routing. 
On the issue of maintenance, I dont agree that re-routing the pipe is maintenance  its a 
solution to the issue of the leaking pipe underground that avoids having to dig up Mr Ss 
property, locate and fix the leak (either by repairing the pipe or replacing it). So, its a 
solution to the problem of the leak.
Given these conclusions, Ive thought about what would be a fair and reasonable outcome in 
the circumstances of the case. Having concluded LV= havent acted fairly in basing their 
cash settlement on an assumption of a standard pipe repair  but also that it wouldnt be 
reasonable for them to cover the full cost of the re-routing of the pipe  then I think it would 
be reasonable for them to settle the claim by covering half the cost incurred by Mr S (£1,900) 
less the £793 theyve already paid Mr S.
Given I ve concluded LV= havent acted fairly, Ive also considered the issue of 
compensation. Given the sequence of events and what Mr S has told us, I think he will have 
suffered distress and inconvenience. Considering all the circumstances of the case, I think 
£200 in compensation for distress and inconvenience would be reasonable.
My provisional decisionFor the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision to uphold Mr Ss complaint in 
part. I intend to require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited trading as LV= to:
Settle Mr Ss claim by covering half the cost incurred by Mr S (£1,900) less the £793 
theyve already paid Mr S.
Pay Mr S £200 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Mr S responded to say that while he agreed with most of the provisional decision 
conclusions, he thought 75% of the cost of the pipe re-routing would be fairer (than 50%). He 
also thought the time taken by the incident and dealing with LV=, with the stress and impact 
on his health, meant a higher compensation figure for distress and inconvenience would be 
fair. He also thought the cost of LV= digging up his property, locating and fixing the leak 
would be significantly more than the cost hed incurred in re-routing the pipe. He also said 
the photographs and video of the leak was clear evidence of the leak.
LV= responded to say the water company hadnt confirmed the leak came from under the 
property. The water companys responsibilities end at the boundary of Mr Ss property (the 
boundary of the land) so the leak was on the land of the property (so Mr Ss responsibility) 
and the water company hadnt confirmed the leak was under the property. So, it was 
reasonable for LV= to be asking for confirmation the leak was under the property, to 
consider anything other than a standard repair. Without evidence the leak was under the 
property, they couldnt determine whether re-routing would have been cheaper than 
repairing the leak. So, they didnt think they should contribute further towards the re-routing 
cost.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether LV= have acted fairly towards Mr S.
Ive considered each of the points raised by Mr S and by LV= in turn. 
On Mr Ss point that 75% of the cost of the pipe re-routing would be fairer (than 50%), I 
considered what I thought would be a fair and reasonable solution as part of my provisional 
decision. This was a balance, firstly, of my conclusion LV= hadnt acted fairly in only offering 
a cash settlement based on a standard repair (when the cost could have been higher, both 
for the cost of locating and fixing the leak, and the possibility the pipe would have to be 
replaced rather than repaired). And, secondly, that in re-routing the pipe there was an 
element of betterment, which it wouldnt be reasonable for LV to cover. Given the 
uncertainties around what might have happened, then theres an element of judgement in 
where a fair and reasonable settlement lies. I appreciate Mr S would prefer to receive a 
higher proportion of the cost of re-routing the pipe, but Im not persuaded this would be 
reasonable. So, I havent changed my view on this point.
On the issue of compensation, again I understand why Mr S feels a higher amount would be 
fairer. However, in concluding £200 would be fair and reasonable, I took account of both the 
principles we apply as a service when considering fair and reasonable compensation for 
distress and inconvenience, as well as the specific circumstances of the case. Ive thought 
about this again in the light of Mr Ss comments, but I still think £200 is fair and reasonable.
On LV=s points, Ive first considered their point that, while the leak was on the land of Mr Ss 
property the water company hadnt confirmed the leak came from under the property. 
However, looking at what happened (set out earlier in this decision). LV=s contractor(A) said 
theyd need to fix the pipe by digging up the lounge or kitchen floor to locate the leak and fix it. And LV= wouldnt agree to re-routing the pipe, only digging up the floor and fixing the 
existing pipe. Both things indicate LV= were working on the basis there was a leak under the 
property. And there is also the point in my provisional decision (which LV= havent 
challenged) that in the absence of any trace and access work being carried out (or LV= 
digging up the property to locate and fix the leak) its not possible to say with certainty 
whether the pipe could have been repaired, or whether it would have to be replaced). Ive 
also considered the photographs and video provided by Mr S. Taking all these points into 
account, Im still persuaded there was a leak under the property, so I havent changed my 
view of this issue.
LV=s second point is that without evidence the leak was under the property, they cant 
determine whether re-routing would have been cheaper than repairing the leak. So, they 
shouldnt contribute further towards the re-routing cost. However, I concluded if the cost of 
any trace and access isnt included in the settlement offer to Mr S then I think LV= havent 
acted fairly in reasonably.  Ive also considered that in the absence of any trace and access 
work being carried out (or LV= digging up the property to locate and fix the leak) its not 
possible to say with certainty whether the pipe could have been repaired, or whether it would 
have to be replaced). If it was the latter, that would be likely to cost more than a standard 
repair (which LV= used as the basis of their cash settlement offer). So, I havent changed my 
view that LV= should make a further contribution as a fair and reasonable settlement. 
However, as set out earlier, I dont think they should cover the element of betterment in re-
routing the pipe. And given the uncertainties around what might have happened, then theres 
an element of judgement in where a fair and reasonable settlement lies. Given these factors, 
I still think that covering half the cost incurred by Mr S is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mr Ss complaint in part. I 
require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited trading as LV= to:
Settle Mr Ss claim by covering half the cost incurred by Mr S (£1,900) less the £793 
theyve already paid Mr S.
Pay Mr S £200 in compensation for distress and inconvenience
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited trading as LV= must pay the compensation 
within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mr S accepts my final decision. If they pay 
later than this they must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman