DRN-2746323
The complaint
Ms J complained about an instalment loan she took out with Western Circle Ltd (trading as 
Cashfloat) and said this was unaffordable for her. 
What happened
Ms J took out a Cashfloat loan for £450 in December 2019 which she was due to repay in 
3 monthly instalments each of around £215. The loan was paid in full and on time.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Ms J and Cashfloat told us about this loan. 
Overall, taking into account the loan amount, what was apparent about Ms Js circumstances 
at the time and her history with the lender, our adjudicator didn't think it wouldve been 
proportionate for Cashfloat to ask Ms J for the amount of information needed to show the 
lending was unsustainable. 
And our adjudicator didnt think that there was anything in the information Ms J provided, or 
the information Cashfloat shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been 
proportionate to do more to verify what Ms J had told Cashfloat. 
So our adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Js complaint.  
Ms J disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint. Ms J mainly said that 
her credit rating was very poor, she was in a spiral of debt and a credit check wouldve 
shown that she had other high cost loans running at the same time and no disposable 
income left after paying these. Ms J said Cashfloat shouldve checked and seen this 
information and not given her this loan which was unaffordable for her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint.
Cashfloat provided Ms J with a high-interest loan intended for short-term use so it needed to 
make sure that it didnt provide the loan irresponsibly. In practice, this means that it should 
have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms J could repay the loan in a 
sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Ms Js income and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable 
and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Js complaint. 
Before lending to Ms J, Cashfloat asked her for information about her financial situation, 
such as her monthly income and her outgoings. It also asked about any other credit 
commitments and carried out credit checks. 
Cashfloat says it agreed to Ms Js application only after carrying out all proper checks and 
the information it recorded for Ms J showed that shed be able to comfortably make the loan 
repayments so it was reasonable to lend. 
This was Ms Js first (and only) loan with Cashfloat. The amount she asked to borrow was 
relatively modest compared to the monthly take home pay she had declared  she said her 
net monthly salary was around £2,500 and Cashfloat took steps to verify this.
It appeared that Ms J had been in quite well paid and secure work for some time. Looking at 
the information she provided on her loan application, her declared costs came to £1,655. It 
doesnt look like she mentioned to Cashfloat what she was paying for other credit 
commitments. The background checks Cashfloat did didnt give rise to any concerns about 
the information she had provided on her application. 
Looking at the monthly loan repayment amounts and the loan term, and taking into account 
the information it seems Ms J told Cashfloat about her monthly income and what she was 
paying out, this loan looked comfortably affordable for Ms J. And I havent seen anything in 
the information that Cashfloat gathered about Ms J that makes me think it shouldve realised 
that Ms J was going to find it difficult to afford to pay this loan in a sustainable way.  
Im sorry that Ms J had a problem with debt and that making the loan repayments shed 
signed up to was difficult for her. I accept that in reality it now seems likely that Ms Js actual 
circumstances werent fully reflected either in the information she provided or the other 
information Cashfloat obtained. 
But its reasonable to expect that Cashfloat couldve only decided Ms Js lending application 
based on the information it had available at the time. 
And I dont think it was unreasonable for Cashfloat to lend without making any more detailed 
enquiries into her circumstances (such as obtaining a credit report or asking to see her bank 
statements) as there wasnt anything obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Ms J 
wouldnt be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way.
In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything that Ms J has said, including 
the comments made in response to our adjudicators view. But I dont think a proportionate 
check wouldve required Cashfloat to make any more in-depth enquiries such as asking ask 
Ms J to prove what she was declaring or that it needed to check other information sources to 
verify what she had told them (or omitted to say) about her financial circumstances. So 
I cant fairly uphold her complaint. 
I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Ms Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman