DRN-2888652
The complaint
Mrs E complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold her life and critical illness assurance 
policies.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint in my provisional decision issued on 15 June 
2021, so I wont repeat that again here. Instead Ill concentrate this decision on my findings 
and respond to the further information and comments received from the parties. 
In my provisional decisional, I said I wasnt intending to uphold the complaint. HSBC 
accepted my provisional decision. In summary, Mrs E made the following further points:
HSBC should be able to provide evidence on when a condition of lending changed;
HSBC has failed to provide evidence of what Mrs E was told in 2006 about the policy 
being mandatory;
Mrs E was sold more cover than she needed so the complaint should be upheld:
She wanted to know whether the additional cost of 67p was per day, month or year;
Mrs E has doubts about the way HSBC reviewed her complaint; 
The ombudsman should reconsider her decision given the lack of evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to begin by recognising how strongly Mrs E feels about this matter. I thank her for the 
further evidence shes provided to support her case. However, based on everything Ive 
seen, Im not upholding this complaint for the same reasons as set out in my provisional 
decision  these are as follows:
The sale in May 2000
HSBC say that the life assurance was compulsory part of the lending prior to September 
2000. HSBC cant provide any documents in this regard. However, given the timing of 
Mrs Es first mortgage, which was at a time when many lenders made life cover a condition 
of the lending decision, on balance, Im satisfied with HSBCs explanation. As this was a 
legitimate commercial decision for HSBC to make, I dont think it did anything wrong by 
making life assurance a condition of its mortgage lending decision.
Nonetheless, as HSBC was providing Mrs E with advice and did also sell her critical illness 
cover, which wasnt a condition of the lending, it still needed to take reasonable steps to 
ensure the policy was suitable for her needs and objectives.
The Financial Planning Report (the fact find) noted that Mrs E was buying her first home 
and applying for a repayment mortgage for £28,000. The adviser provided Mrs E with two 
quotes for protection policies  one was for a Mortgage Protection Plan (MPP) and the 
other was for a level term assurance policy. Both policies provided a lump sum payment of 
£28,532 in the event of Mrs Es critical illness or death. The MPPs cover decreased over 
time broadly in line with the mortgage and the initial monthly premium was £9.24. The level 
term policy premiums were initially set at £9.32 with cover remaining level throughout its 
term. Given the minimal cost difference, Im satisfied the recommendation of the level term 
over the decreasing term policy, was a reasonable one to make.
One of Mrs Es stated priorities was protecting her lifestyle in the event of her becoming 
critically ill. The level term policy would have provided protection for Mrs E if this were to 
happen. But Mrs E says her employer provided death in service benefits which would pay 
a lump sum almost equal to her outstanding mortgage. However, death in service benefits 
arent normally a suitable alternative for mortgage protection as this type of cover will 
cease when the employee leaves their job and/ or the employer can change the cover at 
any time. Further, the policy sold to Mrs E included critical illness as well as life cover.
A mortgage is a large financial commitment, so I dont think it was unreasonable for the 
adviser to have recommended to Mrs E to take out life and critical illness cover to protect 
it. This met with Mrs Es objectives and needs at the time. Mrs E had no other suitable 
alternative cover and whilst she had no dependents at this point, as this offered her critical 
illness as well as life cover, I think the policy recommended was suitable for her. So Im not 
upholding this aspect of Mrs Es complaint.
The sale in July 2006
Ive not seen any persuasive evidence which shows HSBC told Mrs E in 2006 that life 
cover was a condition of the new lending. Mrs E says HSBC should have told her that it no 
longer required its customers to have life cover as part of the secured lending. However, I 
dont think there was any ongoing duty for the bank to do this. In any event, I think the 
mortgage offer which Mrs E signed on 11 August 2006, made it reasonably clear that no 
insurance was required as part of the lending offer. So I dont think she was misled about 
needing life cover as part of the additional lending.
Mrs Es circumstances at the time were that she had a young family and was married. 
Mrs E wanted protection for her mortgage and she wanted separate cover from the level 
term policy she already had. Based on her circumstances, I think the recommendation to 
take out another policy to cover the additional lending, was a suitable one to make.
However, its not disputed that Mrs E was sold more cover than she needed. Mrs Es 
mortgage, including the additional £10,000 equity release loan, was £33,191. Given Mrs Es 
level term assurance policy bought in 2000 still provided cover of £28,532, the policy for 
£10,000 purchased in 2006, provided £5,341 more cover than her total mortgage amount.
 
I can see the fact find noted that Mrs E didnt want to consider her critical illness needs 
above the mortgage amount because she didnt want to increase her outgoings. At the 
same time, its clear Mrs E wanted to arrange separate cover from the level term policy 
to provide protection for the increased lending.
HSBC told this service the minimum cover its adviser couldve recommended to Mrs E was 
based on a monthly premium of £3 which provided cover of £8,175. This was a price 
difference of 67p each month from the policy she was sold providing cover of £10,000. I 
think the adviser couldve provided details to Mrs E of the minimum lowest level of cover. 
But even if he did, I think its more likely than not that if Mrs E had been presented with the 
options available to her, she would have chosen the higher level of cover given the minimal 
cost difference involved. This is something shed previously chosen to do in respect of the first policy and it did offer her family increased protection for minimal cost if she were to die 
or become critically ill.
All in all, I think the policy recommended to Mrs E in 2006 was a reasonable one to make in 
light of her needs and objectives at that time. Ill now address Mrs Es further comments.
Mrs E considers HSBC should be able to provide evidence on when a condition of lending 
would have changed. However, this change occurred more than 20 years ago and HSBC no 
longer has a record of its policy going back this far. Mrs Es own testimony is that she was 
told in 2000 that life assurance was a condition of the mortgage lending. And that because of 
this, she should have been explicitly told in 2006 that HSBCs policy in this regard had 
changed. So I remain satisfied that it was more likely than not that the policy was a condition 
of the mortgage lending in May 2000. 
In terms of what HSBC adviser said in 2006, Im persuaded by the contemporaneous 
documents such as the mortgage offer, that it was made reasonably clear to Mrs E that life 
assurance wasnt a condition of the additional lending. As I noted, I dont think there was any 
ongoing duty on HSBC to keep Mrs E informed about its change in policy in this regard.
I acknowledged in my provisional decision that Mrs E was sold more cover than was needed 
in 2006. I want to clarify this by saying that it was more than she needed in respect of the 
lending she was seeking to cover. I did make the point that the additional cover over and 
above the mortgage amount, offered Mrs Es family protection in the event of her death or 
critical illness. This was noted by the adviser as one of the reasons for the recommendation 
which Mrs E accepted at that time. Based on this and the other reasons set out above, on 
balance, I think the recommendation was a reasonable one to make.
In reference to the 67p, Ive clarified this above in that this amount refers to a cost 
difference per month between the minimum premium amount and the monthly premiums of 
the policy Mrs E was sold.
I appreciate Mrs Es doubts about the way HSBC reviewed her complaint. But as she points 
out, she had the opportunity to bring her complaint to our service for an independent review.
For all these reasons, whilst I appreciate this will be disappointing outcome for Mrs E, Im not 
upholding this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman