DRN-1203968
Complaint
Mrs Ms daughter, Mrs M1, brings the complaint on her behalf that Santander UK Plc 
(Santander) has applied excessive charges to her account over the past 3 years.
Background
Mrs M1, who holds a joint lasting power of attorney (LPA) with her brother, complained to 
Santander that her mother was in financial difficulties and wanted them to refund the bank 
charges on the account for the previous 3 years. This was for a sum in excess of £600. 
Santander were told at the time of the complaint that Mrs M was in poor health and the bank 
charges had added to her financial problems.
Santander looked into the situation and said they applied the charges in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account and wouldnt refund the charges. They added, when they were 
made aware of Mrs Ms financial problems it referred her to a specialist support team. Mrs 
M1 was unhappy with their view and the matter was referred to this service. 
The investigator didnt uphold her complaint explaining that Santander had charged the fees 
in line with the terms and conditions of the account. They had also refunded a small amount 
of fees as a gesture of goodwill and referred Mrs M to their specialist financial assist team to 
try and help her with the running of her account. 
Mrs M1 disagreed with the investigator saying that she hadnt taken into account that the 
fees were very high and had snowballed into a large debt. Mrs M1 says that no thought has 
been given to her mothers wellbeing which has impacted on her financial position. The case 
has been passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available information, evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've come to the 
same outcome as our investigator  and for largely the same reasons. 
Im sorry to hear of Mrs Ms financial and health issues. What I need to consider here is 
whether the charges to the account were applied correctly. I dont think it would be 
concerning for Santander that Mrs Ms mother was making use of an agreed overdraft 
facility. This is what happened here. On the whole, the account remained in its agreed limits 
and Mrs M didnt seem to need Santanders help to maintain it. On the rare occasion she 
exceeded her arranged overdraft, she was able to bring the account back into the agreed 
limit herself.
Ive also had to consider that when these charges were applied, they had no knowledge of 
her failing health or that she was in any financial difficulties. In the bank statements made 
available to her at this time it does quote on the account summary page the following:Its important to review your account to make sure that it continues to meet your needs. If 
you are using an overdraft regularly consider if an overdraft is the most suitable option for 
you. To find out more about other borrowing options or other products please contact us.
I realise that Mrs M had problems with her health over the period being complained about 
here. I have no doubt that this might have meant that contacting her bank wasnt something 
she wouldve thought to do. But impartially  that means the bank wouldnt have known 
about the situation either.  
When Santander did become aware of her situation it refunded some charges, although they 
had no obligation to do so. I know Mrs M1 doesnt think the refund was helpful  but I feel 
that was a fair course of action for them to take at the time. 
Mrs M1 also feels that the charges here are too high and has referred to recent 
developments in the industry surrounding these. But when these charges were applied, they 
were in line with the terms of using the overdraft facility as she did here and were itemised 
on Mrs Ms statements. So I dont think I can say they were too high, or disproportionate to 
the cost of using the overdraft when they were applied.
I do sympathise with Mrs Ms financial problems but I wouldnt have expected Santander to 
have realised that she was experiencing the difficulties Mrs M1 has told us about based on 
the conduct of the account alone. Overall, I'm satisfied Santander has applied the charges 
fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the account. 
I can see that both Mrs M and Mrs M1 may be disappointed with my decision but I cannot 
see that I can ask anymore of Santander here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask  Mrs M and Mrs M1 to accept or reject my decision 
before 5 May 2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman