DRN-2538767
The complaint
Mr S says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy with a credit card. The policy was taken out in 2004.
 
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed this case and told Mr S it shouldnt be upheld. But he 
disagreed and the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Records show the credit card account was taken out in the 1990s, but the PPI wasnt added 
until 2004 during a phone call. We no longer have a record of the actual call but from what 
we know about this method of sale, we think consumers were asked about whether they 
wanted to add PPI to their existing Halifax card account.
Mr S had operated his card account for a few years without PPI. So, I think it would have 
been obvious to him that this wasnt a type of cover he needed to have. And having agreed 
to PPI during the 2004 call, he would have then seen his credit card statements starting to 
show any relevant PPI charges. I think if he hadnt wanted the cover, he would have wanted 
to know what the payments were for, or otherwise questioned what was happening. I 
therefore think all this shows Mr S consented to adding the PPI cover and would have been 
able to see it had been set up on his account.
Halifax has conceded that it probably advised Mr S when he took out the PPI and so it would 
have been under an obligation to make sure the policy was suitable for him. Ive looked at 
his age, job, health and circumstances at the time to help me decide this.
I think Mr S was eligible for the PPI and I dont think that hed have been caught by any of 
the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. The monthly cost of the policy was 
78p per £100 of the outstanding balance which was comparable with similar policies I know 
were sold around that time. Ive got no evidence to suggest this was unaffordable for Mr S. 
Mr S told us he already enjoyed some sickness protection with his job, implying he didnt 
need the PPI. I completely understand why Mr S has said this. But it doesnt necessarily 
mean the PPI wasnt suitable. Policies like this were designed to remove the added pressure 
of paying credit card balances in financially difficult times and in the event of a successful 
claim it could have paid 10% of Mr Ss outstanding balance for up to 12 months. This would 
have been in addition to any other benefits he already had. Overall, I think the policy was 
suitable for Mr S.
Halifax also needed to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading so Mr S 
could make an informed choice as to whether he should buy the policy. From what I know 
about these sales, Mr S would have most likely discussed the cost with Halifax during the 
call and I see it wrote to him confirming details of the sale, in February 2004. 
After such a long time, I simply cant say for sure whether he was told everything he should 
have been told. But even if Halifax had provided more or better information, I dont think this 
would have made any difference to whether or not he still would have bought the policy. This 
is because I think he most likely agreed to the PPI and I think it was suitable for him in the 
ways Ive outlined above. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. And I dont direct 
Bank of Scotland Plc to do anything to put matters right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman