DRN-3228903
The complaint
Mr Ls complained about the way Close Brothers Limited (Close) dealt with the transfer of 
his ISA funds from another provider  in particular that his account showed a nil balance 
when he checked it.
What happened
In October 2021, Mr L applied for a cash ISA with Close.  He funded the ISA by transferring 
a balance of £19,500 from another ISA provider.  His wife applied for an identical product at 
the same time.
A few weeks later, Mr Ls wife received an activation code for her account.  Mr L didnt.  So 
he contacted Close.  Close provided him with what he needed to view his account online and 
Mr L logged on the same day.
When he viewed his account, he found that, rather than seeing the expected balance of 
£19,500, the balance of his ISA was nil.  So Mr L phoned Close again.  
Close told him his previous ISA provider had transferred his money to another Close 
organisation  not to them.  The adviser told Mr L theyd investigate and contact him a 
couple of days later.
Two days later, the adviser called Mr L and told him his money had been in a holding 
account since it had been received from the previous ISA provider on 2 November.  Close 
moved the funds to Mr Ls ISA and backdated receipt to 2 November, so he didnt lose any 
interest.  
Mr L wasnt happy with what had happened and complained.  Close investigated and wrote 
to Mr L with their findings.  They explained Mr L didnt receive an activation code because 
(unlike his wife) hed completed the information to deal with his account online when hed 
applied.  So there was no need to send him a code.
With regard to the delay in applying Mr Ls money to his ISA, Close reiterated their previous 
response.  And they offered Mr L £20 compensation for the delay hed experienced.  
Mr L rejected Closes offer and brought his complaint to us.  Our investigator considered it 
and concluded Close didnt need to do anything more than theyd offered to resolve it.  While 
he acknowledged Close could have dealt matters more efficiently, he noted that Mr Ls 
online banking facility was reset on the day he contacted Close.  And Close dealt with his 
query about the nil balance in two days and had backdated the account to stop Mr L losing 
out on interest.  The investigator thought the £20 Close had offered was a fair amount to 
resolve the complaints.
Mr L didnt agree with our investigator.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that Im upholding Mr Ls complaint.  But Im not asking Close to do any more 
than theyve already offered to resolve it.  Ill explain why.
My role is to decide whether businesses have treated their customers fairly.  That doesnt 
mean we think a business should never make a mistake  but that, when they do, they take 
steps to put it right and, if appropriate, recognise the impact their mistake has had on the 
customer.
In this case, both parties agree a mistake was made.  So Ive looked at the impact that 
mistake had on Mr L - and whether Close have done enough to recognise whats happened.
Mr L complained he didnt get an activation code, whereas his wife did.  While I understand 
why this might have confused him, I dont think Close did anything wrong here.  Theyve 
explained why this happened  that Mr L provided the information they needed alongside his 
account application, whereas his wife didnt.  I think thats a reasonable explanation.  
I can see that, when Mr L first called Close, the adviser he spoke to didnt tell him he could 
already view his account  instead they reset it.  But, as Mr L was able to access his account 
that day, Im satisfied he wasnt adversely affected by Close dealing with the matter that 
way.
Ive thought very carefully about Mr Ls complaint that, when he could log onto his account 
online, it showed a nil balance, rather than the £19,500 he was expecting to see.
I accept that was a shock to him.  But  as our investigator explained  mistakes do happen.  
And Im satisfied that, once Mr L brought the matter to Closes attention, they investigated 
promptly, identified his money and allocated it to his account within two days and backdated 
his entitlement to interest to the date they received it from his previous ISA provider.
Mr L rejected Closes offer of £20 compensation because he didnt feel it reflected the impact 
on him because it took about six weeks for the error to be corrected. 
While I understand this approach, Im looking at the distress and inconvenience the mistake 
caused Mr L.  I cant say he was distressed or inconvenienced before he knew there was a 
problem.  So I dont agree he should be compensated for the entire six week period.
Ive looked at what Mr L had to do to have the mistake put right.  He made a call to Close.  
He was told theyd investigate the problem and would contact him in two days.  He was 
contacted as promised and advised the mistake had been corrected.  
And, while I acknowledge Mr L doesnt agree, I think £20 compensation is a fair amount for 
Close to pay him for that.  So, while Im directing them to pay that to Mr L, I dont think they 
need to do anything more to resolve his complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint about Close Brothers Limited 
and directing them to pay him the £20 theyve previously offered to compensation him for the 
distress and inconvenience they caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 Helen Stacey
Ombudsman