DRN-2845924
The complaint
Mr M has complained about delays by British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) in visiting 
to repair his kitchen appliances under his HomeCare Policy.
  
What happened
Mr M had a policy with British Gas for a range of kitchen appliances. Mr M contacted British 
Gas because the tumble dryer function on his washer-dryer wasnt working properly. The 
first available appointment was about three weeks later, but British Gas said it would offer an 
earlier appointment if one became available.
A couple of days before the engineer was due to visit, British Gas cancelled the appointment 
because of industrial action and government Covid-19 restrictions that had just come into 
force. The appointment was rescheduled for about two months later.
Shortly before the Covid-19 restrictions came into force, a British Gas engineer visited Mr M 
to deal with issues with the oven and microwave. However, the engineer was unable to 
complete the repair as he had to order parts.
Mr M complained to British Gas. British Gas explained that it had to cancel the washer-dryer 
appointment because of industrial action and Covid-19 restrictions. It said the washing 
machine function was still working and the dryer not working wasnt considered an 
emergency, so it was unable to visit while government restrictions were in place. 
British Gas also provided Mr M with updates on the parts that had been ordered, as these 
were taking time to come into stock. When the parts were available, it arranged for an 
engineer to visit. The appointment was about two months after the first visit took place.
Mr M complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the 
delays in visiting were due to issues outside of British Gas control. British Gas had also told 
Mr M that he could arrange for his own engineer to carry out the repairs and he could submit 
the invoice for a refund of the amount paid, which the investigator said was reasonable.
Following this, on the day an engineer was due to visit to repair the dryer, Mr M phoned 
British Gas to check when the engineer would arrive. British Gas phoned the engineer and 
left a voicemail asking him to update Mr M on when he would visit. Mr M phoned British Gas 
again later the same day as he hadnt heard from the engineer. British Gas checked what 
was happening and told Mr M the appointment couldnt take place as the engineer was on 
strike. British Gas rescheduled the appointment for a few weeks later. When British Gas 
responded to Mr Ms complaint about this it agreed that it had let Mr M down and said it 
would monitor the forthcoming appointment.
Our investigator considered the further issues, but her view remained the same as 
previously.
As Mr M did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 28 April 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint in part. I said:
A number of issues seem to have affected British Gas ability to visit to repair Mr Ms 
appliances. The combination of industrial action and the Covid-19 restrictions meant British 
Gas was unable to visit. I think overall that was reasonable, as the Covid-19 restrictions, in 
particular, limited the type of visits that were allowed to take place and meant that British 
Gas was primarily dealing with emergencies. British Gas didnt classify any of the repairs as 
an emergency, which having looked at each of the issues, I think was reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
British Gas also had to wait for some parts to come into stock before it could complete one 
of the repairs. British Gas records indicate that some of the parts were obsolete, which 
made them more difficult to obtain. British Gas kept Mr M up to date on progress on getting 
the parts. So, I dont think there was anything more British Gas could have done until the 
parts were available.
Mr M has said that if British Gas was unable to visit, the terms and conditions said it could 
send a suitably qualified engineer instead. So, Mr M said British Gas should have done this 
rather than saying he could find his own engineer and be refunded under the policy. 
However, British Gas had assessed that the issues werent an emergency and therefore that 
it couldnt send an engineer due to the restrictions in place. That applied whether it was its 
own engineer or a third-party engineer. If Mr M was able to find an engineer who was able to 
visit while the restrictions were in place, British Gas said it would refund the cost of the visit. I 
think that was a reasonable offer in the circumstances.
Im also aware that Mr M has said he first contacted British Gas several months earlier to 
arrange for an engineer to visit about his oven and microwave. British Gas has said it 
doesnt have a record of Mr M making contact at that time. I also havent seen anything from 
Mr M that shows he made contact about those issues earlier, so I havent considered this as 
part of the overall context of this complaint.
However, Ive considered the appointment that was cancelled on the day it was due to take 
place. That morning, Mr M contacted British Gas to find out when the engineer was going to 
arrive. British Gas told Mr M that the appointment was going to take place. It was only when 
Mr M checked on progress again later in the day that British Gas told him the engineer was 
on strike and that the appointment wouldnt be able to take place. 
British Gas has said that the industrial action was outside of its control. But, my concern here 
is that during the first phone call British Gas assured Mr M that the visit would still take place 
and then left a message on the engineers voicemail. When Mr M followed up again later in 
the day, British Gas seemed to be aware the appointment couldnt take place due to the 
engineer being on strike. A call handler at British Gas, having spoken to another department, 
told Mr M this and said someone else at British Gas would phone Mr M within about 10 
minutes. However, Mr M phoned again about an hour later because no-one had called him. 
Regardless of the reason why the visit was cancelled, I think that was poor customer 
service.
So, although I dont intend to uphold the parts of the complaint about the issues with the first 
appointment being cancelled and the delays in getting the parts, I intend to uphold the part 
about the appointment that had to be cancelled on the day. As a result, I intend to say that 
British Gas should pay £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr 
M due to the customer service issues.I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 28 May 2021.
British Gas said it didnt have anything further to add.
Mr M said British Gas had told him that because it knew the make and model of his oven 
and microwave that the engineer would have the parts with him when he visited. However, 
when the engineer arrived, he said he would have to order the parts, even though Mr M had 
already told British Gas what the issues were. Mr M also said British Gas only told him could 
arrange his own engineer for the oven and microwave. British Gas didnt say he could do 
this for the washer dryer.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to maintain my previous decision to uphold this complaint in 
part and for the reasons previously given. Ive considered the points Mr M raised and these 
dont change my decision overall.
In terms of ordering the parts, I can understand that if British Gas said the engineer would 
have the parts with him that it would have been frustrating that they then had to be ordered. 
If Mr M was provided with incorrect information, I would consider that to be poor customer 
service. 
The parts were described as obsolete and the records suggest they were difficult to obtain 
and took quite a while to come into stock. So, I cant say what would have happened had 
British Gas ordered the parts earlier. This includes that I dont know whether the parts would 
have been available when the engineer visited or whether the appointment would just have 
been cancelled due to the lack of parts.
In terms of fixing the washer dryer, regardless of whether British Gas said Mr M could 
arrange his own engineer, British Gas still couldnt send its own, or a third party, engineer. 
This was because of the government restrictions in place. So, I still think it was reasonable 
that British Gas didnt send an engineer.
  
Putting things right
Thinking about the full circumstances of this case, including the points Mr M raised in 
response to my provisional decision, I remain of the view that £100 is an appropriate amount 
of compensation for the issues raised.
  My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that the 
complaint is upheld in part. I require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr M £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman