DRN-2114097
The complaint
Mr L complains that Intrinsic Wealth Management Financial Services Ltd (trading as Intrinsic 
Wealth Management) failed to consider the enhanced level of tax-free cash (TFC) that was 
available to him through his Section 32 buyout plan, resulting in a reduced amount of TFC 
received.
When reference is made to Intrinsic Wealth Management, this includes any representative 
they appointed to carry out tasks on their behalf.  
What happened
In June 2013, Mr L received advice from Intrinsic Wealth Management regarding his 
concerns over exceeding his Fixed Protection 2012 Lifetime Allowance (LTA) of £1.8 million. 
The advice Intrinsic Wealth Management gave, following their suitability assessment, only 
considered Mr Ls self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and no other pension plans he held 
at the time. 
On the advice of Intrinsic Wealth Management, Mr L took his tax-free cash, which was 25% 
of the protected LTA. This equated to £450,000. As he was over his LTA by £39,576, Mr L 
was also advised to withdraw this amount at the same time. So, £489,576 was withdrawn 
from his SIPP and reinvested into a separate fund (less tax of £21,767). 
In December 2018, Mr L raised a complaint with Intrinsic Wealth Management. He explained 
that he believed his other pension plans should have been taken into account when advice 
was given in 2013. And he felt hed consequently lost out on a higher tax-free cash amount 
and incurred a tax liability.
In January 2019, Intrinsic Wealth Management explained that the maximum tax-free cash 
available to Mr L was 25%. And they explained that Mr L had to pay a 55% excess tax 
charge on the amount over the LTA.  They stated the required advice was limited to Mr Ls 
SIPP and this was suitable given his circumstances, requirements and objectives at the time. 
Unhappy with this, Mr L brought his complaint to us. With specific reference to whether Mr L 
had been disadvantaged by crystallising his entire SIPP rather than just up to the LTA 
amount. Our investigator concluded that as this decision was taken partly to mitigate a larger 
LTA once Mr L turned 75. And it was likely the excess amount of Mr Ls LTA would likely 
grow over time, the steps taken didnt appear to have been detrimental to Mr L. 
Aside from that, our investigator concluded that they would have expected to see Intrinsic 
Wealth Management consider any other pension plans Mr L held at the time  in line with the 
know your client (KYC) rules. And by not considering them, Intrinsic Wealth Management 
hadnt acted fairly. In order to put things right, it was recommended that 
Intrinsic Wealth Management carry out a loss assessment to determine any detriment 
caused to Mr L and to make the relevant payment to him. In addition, they should pay Mr L 
£150 for the upset caused.
Intrinsic Wealth Management didnt agree with this recommendation. They accepted that 
they needed to have met the KYC rules but also stated Mr L had a responsibility to fully 
disclose information about his other pensions in the fact find meeting. They feel it is 
unreasonable to have expected them in 2013, to have been aware of a pension holding that 
had only previously been disclosed in 2005  when the SIPP was set up. 
As the parties do not agree, this has been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did Intrinsic Wealth Management give suitable advice?
COBS 9.2 sets out the rules Intrinsic Wealth Management had to follow when assessing 
Mr Ls suitability for the advice they were planning to give to him. 
Specifically COBS 9.2.1 states:
(1) A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal recommendation, or a 
decision to trade, is suitable for its client.
(2) When making the personal recommendation or managing his investments, the firm 
must obtain the necessary information regarding the client's:
(a) 
(b) financial situation; and
(c) investment objectives;
so as to enable the firm to make the recommendation, or take the decision, which is suitable 
for him.
And COBS 9.2.2 (3) goes on to say:
The information regarding the financial situation of a client must include, where relevant, 
information on the source and extent of his regular income, his assets, including liquid 
assets, investments and real property, and his regular financial commitments.
 
A personal recommendation includes advice on investments, presented as suitable. It also 
includes a recommendation based on a consideration of the circumstances of the person 
receiving the recommendation. And his assets would have included his pensions. So, its 
clear that Intrinsic Wealth Management had a duty to consider Mr Ls full investment 
portfolio. 
Reasonable steps isnt a defined term in the COBS rules, however industry practice at the 
time (and currently) would have been that Intrinsic Wealth Management carry out a fact find 
or KYC questionnaire with Mr L. This would allow them to have a full picture of his assets  
including any other pensions Mr L may have had. 
Although Intrinsic Wealth Management have said Mr L didnt disclose this information in the 
fact find meeting, I havent seen any evidence of a fact find meeting having taken place in 
2013 (only in subsequent years). And Mr L has informed us that there was no fact find meeting. In the absence of any evidence and with Mr Ls testimony, I am not persuaded that 
there was a fact find meeting in relation to this transaction. I conclude therefore that Intrinsic 
Wealth Management didnt take reasonable steps in order to obtain the necessary 
information regarding Mr Ls financial situation  specifically his assets. Therefore, I do not 
believe they met the standard outlined in COBS 9.2.1 or 9.2.2(3).
I therefore need to consider whether Mr L should have known to disclosed he had a section 
32 buyout plan. In addition to there being no fact find meeting or questionnaire completed, 
there is no evidence to suggest Mr L was asked at any time about other pensions he had. 
Given that he had hired Intrinsic Wealth Management as experts in the field to advise him on 
his investments and carry out the relevant transaction, I do not agree that he should have 
known what information theyd need to consider. 
Having seen the email exchanges between Mr L and Intrinsic Wealth Management prior to 
the suitability meeting that took place in June 2013, I can see Mr L specifically:
Noted the value of his SIPP had exceeded £1.8 million; 
Expressed concern that any additional gains will be taxed at 55%; and
Ask if Intrinsic Wealth Management had any strategies for dealing with this situation, 
for example withdrawing the 25% tax free cash and reinvesting this into a separate 
fund.
Nowhere in the email exchange is there anything to suggest Mr L was requesting any advice 
given should be limited to his SIPP. He clearly wanted to understand what strategies could 
be implemented to mitigate against the concern hed identified.
In their response, Intrinsic Wealth Management didnt say the possible options were 
dependent on Mr Ls overall investment portfolio. And this is something theyd be aware of, 
as experts in the field. Whilst it is true that information such as other assets should have 
been disclosed, it is unfair to say Mr L should have known that hed need to disclose any 
other pensions he had in addition to his SIPP. 
Part of the reason for of the KYC process/ fact find is for advisers to probe their clients and 
get them thinking about their circumstances, finances and objectives in a more strategic and 
holistic way. I consequently think it is reasonable to say, if this had been completed it would 
have prompted Mr L to disclose his other pensions. 
Having reviewed the suitability report Intrinsic Wealth Management produced in June 2013, 
Intrinsic Wealth Management didnt say the advice being given was subject to Mr L not 
having other pensions. Nor is there any reference to Intrinsic Wealth Management having 
asked Mr L about other assets he may have had at the time.     
Intrinsic Wealth Management therefore didnt do enough to ensure they had the information 
needed, in order to give Mr L suitable advice. And as a result, Mr Ls other pensions werent 
considered when he was advised about taking his TFC. As such, I do not believe Intrinsic 
Wealth Management gave suitable advice to Mr L. 
Financial loss incurred
Mr L has explained that he believes he has lost out financially due to 
Intrinsic Wealth Management not having considered his other pensions. He has specifically 
made reference to his section 32 buyout plan and a small pension scheme (SPS) he had 
with another provider. Mr L believes that if these two plans had been included in 
Intrinsic Wealth Managements considerations, his TFC would have been around £487,000, not £450,000. He also believes he was disadvantaged by crystallising his whole SIPP  
rather than limiting it to the LTA of £1.8 million. 
I will consider Mr Ls SPS first. Mr L has explained that the Trivial Lump Sum Rules applied 
to his SPS. And as such he believes he has been disadvantaged because Intrinsic Wealth 
Management didnt advise him to take his benefits at the time. But I dont think hes been 
disadvantaged in this instance. Due to the type of pension this is, Mr L is able to take a lump 
sum payment regardless of his total pension savings in registered pensions schemes and 
[the lump sum] can be made in addition to any trivial commutation lump sum payment [Mr L] 
may receive. And this will not use up any LTA. This is according to HMRCs Pension Tax 
Manual 063700. 
I therefore agree with our investigator, in that the SPS appear to still meet the criteria for 
paying small lump sums. As such, Mr L is currently able to withdraw this benefit without 
incurring a LTA charge. As Mr Ls main objective was to minimise his LTA tax, I am not 
persuaded that the SPS not being considered has disadvantaged Mr L. 
With reference to his section 32 buyout plan, I have reviewed HMRCs pensions tax 
manuals. The manuals set out how to calculate the available portion of a members lump 
sum allowance. They also make reference to paragraphs 24 to 34 Schedule 36 Finance Act 
2004. In particular, according to paragraph 31 Schedule 36 Finance Act 2004, Mr L could 
have benefited from an enhanced TFC lump sum. Paragraph 31 Schedule 36 Finance Act 
2004 covers the entitlement to lump sums exceeding 25% of uncrystallised rights.
So, if his section 32 buyout plan had been considered, I believe Mr L would have received a 
larger TFC lump sum. Weve also been provided with a letter from the current administrator 
of this plan and they have conformed Mr L is entitled to an enhanced TFC lump sum 
payment of 100%.  Intrinsic Wealth Management will therefore need to carry out a loss 
assessment to identify the total loss to Mr L. As explained by our investigator, this this will 
mean calculating the maximum tax-free lump sum which could have been achieved by 
crystallising £1,8 million across Mr Ls pension plans, specifically crystallising the [section 32 
buyout plan] before the [SIPP]. 
The reason for this is because the pay out of this plan is a BCE (benefit crystallised event) 6. 
And according to HMRCs pensions tax manual, the BCE takes place when the member 
becomes entitled to the lump sum; that is immediately before the relevant pension 
crystallises.
Finally, once someone uses up 100% of their LTA, any further benefits taken are subjected 
to a LTA charge. And in such circumstances, Id expect to see action taken in order to 
mitigate against this where possible. 
In the email exchanges prior to the suitability meeting and subsequent transaction in 
June 2013, its evident that there was an expectation to see a fall in the market. And this 
formed part of the strategy in considering how to mitigate against future taxation and it also 
helped to inform the decision regarding when to carry out the transaction. As a result, I do 
not believe Mr L has been disadvantaged by Intrinsic Wealth Management advising him to 
crystallise his whole SIPP. And the tax liability he incurred is something he would have had 
to pay at some point, in any event.  
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr L back in the position he would likely have 
been in now, had it not been for Intrinsic Wealth Managements unsuitable advice. I agree with the recommended steps outlined by our investigator. So, for the avoidance of doubt, I 
have restated this below:
Its likely Mr L would have been advised to withdraw his enhanced tax-free lump sum from 
his section 32 buyout plan first, followed by his SIPP.
To compensate Mr L fairly for the lost tax-free cash Intrinsic Wealth Management should:
Pay Mr L compensation of C less D, where:
A = The tax-free cash that Mr L would have received on 24 June 2013 (the date the 
lump sum was paid to him) by crystallising his section 32 buyout plan first, then 
obtaining a further 25% of the remaining LTA through the SIPP;
B = The tax-free cash Mr L actually received; and 
C = A less B, representing the past loss incurred to Mr L.
The lump sum which would have been withdrawn from the section 32 buyout plan has 
remained invested. If it was withdrawn today, the net payment would be 45% of its value. 
This value shouldnt be ignored.
D = 45% of the tax-free cash which would have been paid out from the section 32 
buyout plan.
Had these funds been withdrawn, Mr L has said theyd have been invested in his 
subsequent fund. And that is likely. But as his funds have remained invested in his section 
32 buyout plan and benefited from any associated growth, I do not think he has been 
disadvantaged with reference to interest. Therefore, I wont be adding interest to the loss 
assessment.
In addition to the above loss assessment, Intrinsic Wealth Management should pay Mr L 
£150 for the distress and inconvenience theyve caused.  
My final decision
For the reasons provided Ive decided to uphold Mr Ls complaint. And direct 
Quilter Financial Services Ltd trading as Intrinsic Wealth Management, to pay Mr L in the 
manner set out and to give him £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Chantelle Findlow
Ombudsman