DRN-3029019
complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out in 1990. Mr 
G says Santander UK PLC, trading at the time as N&P, mis-sold him the PPI. 
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Santander throughout this decision.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint (including Mr Gs 
circumstances at the time as well as the policys benefits, limitations and exclusions) arent 
disputed. So I wont repeat all of this information here.
One of our adjudicators previously looked into this complaint and said they didnt think we 
should uphold it. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Gs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Gs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
It seems Mr S was the only person protected by this PPI policy. I note hes said he felt the 
PPI was something he was pressured in to taking out, but Im afraid what Ive seen doesnt 
support that.
I think it was made clear enough that Mr G didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it. I say this because Ive seen an application leaflet he filled out where he specifically 
selected the level of PPI cover and I also think the wording of the other forms during the 
mortgage application process made it clear that having PPI was optional. I see he signed a 
PPI application form and I think he would also have probably filled out a direct debit mandate 
to enable the monthly PPI premiums to be paid from a bank account. 
So whilst I can accept that Mr G may genuinely feel now that the PPI was mis-sold to him, it 
looks much more like it was something he wanted to have at the time. 
Santander says it may have recommended the PPI to Mr G as part of an advised sale, so it 
had to check that the PPI was right for his situation. Mr G appears to have been eligible for 
the cover and he said he didnt have any sick pay with his job at the time. His mortgage was 
secured against his property, so the consequences of not being able to pay the monthly 
repayments if something went wrong were serious. Ive noted what hes said about his 
parents potentially helping out if needed and whilst Im sure theyd have wanted to help him, 
doing so would depend on their ability throughout the long-term period of the mortgage. I 
dont believe this compares favourably with having a formal insurance policy. 
I havent seen anything that shows the cover was fundamentally wrong for Mr G. By that I 
mean I think hed have been able to make a successful claim in most circumstances relating 
to either losing his job or being too ill to work. Ive noted carefully whats been said about a 
medical procedure hed had in the late 1980s. However, we were provided with only a small 
amount of detail about this by Mr Gs representatives. And nothing Ive seen makes me think 
this was an ongoing or chronic medical problem that Mr G would have potentially expected 
to be claiming for (on the PPI policy) in the future, although I can fully understand why it 
might have been of concern to him at the time.
So overall, I think the policy was suitable for Mr G and recommending that he consider 
taking it out wasnt unfair, in my view.
Its certainly possible the information Santander gave to Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it ought to have been. But I think he knew the costs and what was covered. So he 
probably had enough information on which to make an informed decision about what he 
wanted to do. The cover wasnt too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying 
from the information he was most likely given at the point of sale. Because of this, I dont 
think Mr G would have acted differently, even if I accept that Santander might have done a 
better job at explaining things during the sale. I still think hed have wanted to take this cover 
out.
Mr Gs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Santander should have disclosed the poor value and explained 
the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of 
making a claim.
But Mr Gs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of his individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints. 
Nevertheless, Ive thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Gs particular 
case. But they dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  and for the reasons Ive set out above I dont 
uphold the complaint. This means Santander doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to 
Mr G.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 Michael Campbell
Ombudsman