DRN-3771903
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Curve OS Limited closed his account with immediate effect.
What happened
Curve contacted Mr A to discuss transactions that theyd been notified had been reported as 
fraudulent. Mr A didnt respond to Curves queries in a manner that was satisfactory to 
Curve, who then took the decision to cease offering their services to Mr A and to close his 
account with immediate effect. Mr A wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Curve looked at Mr As complaint. They reiterated their decision to longer offer services to 
him and didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly in how theyd closed the account. Mr A wasnt 
satisfied with Curves response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Curve had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A 
remained dissatisfied and felt that due consideration hadnt been given to the state of his 
mental health during the time of the events in question, about which hed later provided 
clarifying information. So, the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Curves account include the following:
 We may immediately suspend or close your account for a number of reasons 
including where:
You use Curve in a way that these Terms dont allow,
You dont provide us information weve asked for or information youve provided 
is false or misleading.
Given the above, Im satisfied that it was permitted within Curves terms for Curve to close a 
customers account with immediate effect, if the criteria listed above applied.
Curve maintain that the criteria listed above did apply in this instance. This is because Mr A 
confirmed to Curve that the transactions under consideration were fraudulent. However, 
when Curve noted a few days later that the transactions that Mr A had confirmed were 
fraudulent had been made using his smart watch and mobile telephone, which was likely to 
be biometrically protected, and asked Mr A for further information about this, Mr A didnt 
respond. And Mr A continued to not respond to these questions, despite being asked to by 
Curve on several further occasions and despite Mr A continuing to correspond with Curve on 
related matters including asking for help in receiving a new Curve card.
Curves position here seems reasonable to me, especially as there were later transactions 
made using Mr As authorised devices that Mr A didnt declare as being fraudulent. And I can 
understand why Curve would seek to better understand how it could be the case that Mr As 
authorised devices could be used to make purchases which Mr A declared were fraudulent, 
but which Mr A then used shortly afterwards to make legitimate purchases himself. 
Furthermore, I can also understand how Curve might have thought that the information they 
had received from Mr A, as well as his apparent refusal to comment further on it, meant that 
the clauses relating to an immediate account closure, as quoted above, became applicable.
Mr A has explained that his authorised devices were stolen but were later found and 
returned to him, which is how he was able to subsequently use them to make legitimate 
purchases. Mr A has also explained that he suffers with his mental health, which affected his 
ability to respond to Curves questions in a manner more acceptable to Curve at that time.
This service takes matters of mental health very seriously. But in this instance, its clear that 
Mr A was able to continue corresponding with Curve about related issues during the time in 
question, requesting that Curve provide a new card while not responding to the questions 
asked about his authorised devices. And given that Mr A was able to continue an ongoing 
correspondence with Curve in this manner, I feel that its more likely than not, on balance, 
that Mr A could in all reasonableness have responded to Curves repeated questions about 
how the transactions could have been made using his authorised devices at that time.
Ultimately, its at the discretion of a business as to whether theyre willing to offer, or 
continue to offer, services to a specific customer. In this instance, Curve have taken the 
decision to no longer offer services to Mr A, and I dont feel that Curves decision is unfair or 
unreasonable here, given the circumstances of this complaint as described above. 
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr A was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Curve to take any further action. I hope that Mr A will 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman