DRN-3833325
The complaint
Mr D says Admiral Insurance Company Limited unreasonably declined a claim he made on 
his motor insurance policy after his car was stolen.
What happened
Mr D says he had almost concluded the sale of his car whilst he and the potential buyer 
were standing in Mr Ds secure apartment complex. Mr D says hed been back to his 
apartment a couple of times - taking the key with him - but on the last occasion he went 
inside to collect something, he left the key (with the cars documents) in the open boot. Mr D 
says when he looked through the apartments window, he saw that the potential buyer was 
in the car, which he then drove away. Mr D ran after the car but couldnt stop it being stolen.  
 
Admiral declined the claim. It said a policy condition requires consumers to take care of their 
car and to protect it from loss or damage by removing keys when the car is unattended - 
otherwise no cover will be provided. Admiral said Mr D had left the car unlocked and 
unattended. Mr D thought that was unfair. He said the car was in a gated, secure location, 
that he was only missing for around 20 seconds and that his relative proximity to the car 
should have been a deterrent to the thief.
 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ds complaint. He said although Mr D had breached 
the policy condition, he didnt know about it, as it was on page 20 of the policy document. He 
said as we think such exclusions are significant, they should be brought to a consumers 
attention when a policy is bought. He thought Mr D would have acted differently had he 
known about the exclusion. He pointed out that the sale was conducted in a gated setting, 
that Mr D had the key with him for most of the time, and that he hadnt allowed the potential 
purchaser to test drive the car alone. So he thought Mr D had protected it. 
Admiral then provided the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) supplied to Mr D 
with the rest of the policy documents when he bought the policy, setting out its key features. 
Admiral said that under the headings What is not insured and You wont be covered under 
these circumstances the IPID says leaving the car unlocked or unsecure. The investigator 
said the wording was well down the list on the IPID and in his view it wasnt as clear as the 
key facts wording set out by Mr Ds new insurer. He thought it was insufficient. 
Admiral asked for a review of the complaint by an ombudsman. I issued a provisional 
decision, not upholding Mr Ds complaint, as follows:
In terms of whether the car was unattended, we look at where the car was when it was 
stolen and whether the consumer was in a position to deter the thief. In this case, Mr D left 
the key in the car and went into his apartment. He says it was three to four metres from 
where the car was parked to the front door of the apartment block and he was only missing 
for 20 seconds. But Mr D was inside the apartment, so he was further away than that, and I 
think he was probably away from the car for longer than he has estimated. I dont agree with 
Mr D that he was close enough to the car to deter the thief, who was already in the car and 
ready to go by the time Mr D looked out of the window. So I think it was reasonable for 
Admiral to decide the car was unattended.
Mr D has provided videos showing the apartment complex and the theft. I think its clear that 
the complex is secure in terms of no one being able to enter it without knowing the code for 
the gates or being allowed access to it by a resident. But Mr D told Admiral that the gates 
open automatically to allow cars to leave. One of the videos shows that the thief was able to 
do that in around 10 seconds. I think its very likely the thief was aware of the gates 
automatic operation in advance, from surveying the apartment complex. And even if he 
wasnt, it would have become apparent to him when he and Mr D exited the gates on the test 
drive. So I think he thought he had a good chance of taking the car if the opportunity arose. 
In my opinion, Mr Ds car was unsecured and unattended, in a location that was relatively 
quick to get away from  with a key present. But in deciding whether it was fair and 
reasonable for an insurer to decline a claim, we also look at whether the exclusion the 
insurer relied on was brought to the consumers attention when they bought the policy. 
In this case, the exclusion was set out in the policy document. More importantly, the IPID 
supplied to him at the same time said leaving the car unlocked or unsecure would mean 
there was no cover. I think most reasonable consumers would read the IPID to check the 
policys key facts, even if they didnt read the full policy document. It appears that Mr D didnt 
do so, but thats not Admirals fault. 
I dont think it matters that the warning about the car not being left unsecured is located near 
the bottom of the list of statements on the first page of the IPID. Under You wont be 
covered in these circumstances theres quite a short list. All the items on it are marked with 
a red cross, which I think is meant to attract a consumers attention. And I think the 
statement itself is clear enough. But had Mr D read it and been in any doubt about what it 
meant, he could have referred to the policy document and / or asked Admiral for clarification. 
I dont think its relevant that other insurers may present their key facts in a different way. In 
my opinion, Admiral did enough to bring the policy exclusion to Mr Ds attention. Yet he 
failed to protect his car from loss by leaving it unattended, unlocked and with a key in it, in 
breach of the policy condition. So Im minded to conclude that it was reasonable for Admiral 
to decline the claim.    
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. Admiral accepted them. Mr D 
provided further video evidence of the cars location plus additional comments. He said he 
was away from the car for around 30 seconds rather than 20 seconds but was still close 
enough to it to deter the thief - who he almost caught up with at the gate. Mr D said he still 
thinks the car was secure, given the location, the fact that the thief had to carry out a three-
point turn to drive it away - and that the gate could easily have been blocked by another 
vehicle. Mr D also said that he read the key facts / IPID, but he doesnt think the exclusion 
was highlighted and he wouldnt have left the car had that been the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Mr D has conceded that he was away from the car for longer than he had 
estimated originally, on the day of the theft he could have been away from it for longer than 
the new estimate. But I think the major point is that as he was inside the building, and then 
inside his apartment, he was far enough away from the car not to be a deterrent to the thief.  I appreciate that the thief had to turn the car around and then get through the gates of the 
complex with the car  and that he could have been prevented from doing so had another 
vehicle been in his way. But I think its far more likely than not that the gates are only 
blocked for a small proportion of the day, so for the majority of the time theres no 
impediment to exiting through them. And the thief had sufficient time to turn the car around, 
wait for the gates to open and drive away. I dont think the video shows that Mr D almost 
caught up with him. Mr D arrived at the gates 16 seconds after the thief. By then the thief 
had exited the complex, had driven across to the main road and was accelerating away. 
Mr D says he read the IPID and that the exclusion wasnt highlighted. But the purpose of the 
IPID is to highlight the policys main features, including exclusions. I dont see how Mr D was 
able to read the wording in it and not realise that cover wouldnt be provided if his car was 
left unlocked or unsecured. 
In my opinion, Mr D left the car unlocked, unsecured and unattended. In doing so I think he 
failed to protect it, in breach of the policy exclusion. In these circumstances, although Mr D is 
the victim of a crime and has also suffered a serious financial loss, I think it was fair and 
reasonable for Admiral to decline his claim.      
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman