DRN-3541603
The complaint
Ms K complains about the decision by Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) to 
decline her income protection claim that was in payment and cancel her policy from the 
start.
What happened
In September 2016, Ms K took out the policy through a financial adviser. The aim of 
the policy was to pay a monthly benefit of £800 in the event Ms K couldnt work in her 
occupation due to illness or injury. She also took out waiver of premium cover.
Ms K made a claim in January 2018. Shed stopped work between 11 January 2018 and 
25 January 2018 because of neck and back problems following a road traffic accident. 
LV accepted the claim.
Then in June 2018, Ms K made another claim after having an accident at work. She 
stopped work because of pain in her back and neck. LV accepted the claim.
Ms K continued to remain off work. In November 2019, LV started reviewing the claim. It 
received Ms Ks medical records in July 2020. After considering this information, LV 
thought Ms K had misrepresented relevant information about her health when taking out 
the policy. LV said that if it had known the relevant information, it wouldve applied an 
exclusion for back and neck pain from the outset. It asked Ms K to return the claim 
payments she had received, which totalled £21,099.42.
LV thought that Ms Ks misrepresentation had been deliberate/reckless, and so it also 
cancelled her policy from the start. Unhappy with LVs actions, Ms K brought a complaint 
to this service.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 May 2022. Heres what I said:
As this complaint concerns misrepresentation, I need to consider the case in accordance 
with the principles set out under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract.
LV thinks Ms K failed to take reasonable care when answering the below 
application question.
In the last 5 years have you had any of the following: (This is regardless of 
whether or not you have seen your doctor or required treatment.)
- Any back or neck condition, including pain, sciatica or whiplash?
Im satisfied this question was clear. Ms K answered no.
Ms Ks GP records show that on 14 November 2016 (around two months after applying for 
the policy), Ms K reported ongoing pain in her right upper back since an accident in 
February 2016. The GP said that Ms K had declined physio then, but now wanted to be 
referred.
I agree with LV that this evidence supports that when Ms K applied for the policy in 
September 2016, she had apparently been experiencing back pain for several months. It 
appears that Ms K had also sought advice from her GP around the time of the accident (as 
she was offered a referral to physio at the time), but she chose not to go ahead with this. I 
think Ms K ought to have disclosed this information in response to the question asked.
Ms K did disclose some medical problems in response to other questions asked. She 
explained that she had a muscle strain which she had experienced in the previous year. 
Our investigator thought this may have been the reason that Ms K had been offered a 
physio referral by her GP previously. However, I see that LV asked Ms K for more 
information about her muscle strain after receiving her application. Ms K completed a 
questionnaire and explained that she had pain and swelling in her right lower leg following 
a road traffic accident in February 2016. Its therefore apparent that Ms Ks disclosure in 
respect of her muscle strain wasnt related to her back pain.
I therefore agree with LV that Ms K failed to take reasonable care when answering the 
above question relating to back pain, and so there was misrepresentation.
LV has provided evidence, by way of its underwriting guide, to show that if it had known of 
Ms Ks ongoing back pain at the time of the application, it wouldve applied the following 
exclusion:
We will not pay any claim for any disease or disorder of the back, neck or spine 
including the supporting muscles, ligaments, joints or discs of the spinal column 
or related nerves including sciatica.
Im satisfied that LV has shown that Ms Ks misrepresentation was qualifying, according 
to CIDRA. In other words, if LV had known the relevant information, it wouldve entered 
into the contract on different terms.
LV thought Ms Ks misrepresentation was deliberate/reckless, and so it cancelled her 
policy from the start.
CIDRA says a qualifying misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless if the consumer: -
a) Knew that it was untrue or misleading, or did not care whether or not it was untrue 
or misleading, and
b) Knew that the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to 
the insurer, or did not care whether it was relevant to the insurer.
Its for LV to show that the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. On balance, I 
dont think it has done so. Ill explain why.
Ms K explains that her injuries from her accident in February 2016 werent severe, and 
she didnt think to mention them when taking out the policy. I think this is supported by Ms 
K continuing to work in her manual role after her accident, and not needing to seek 
medical help until November 2016. Also, the GP record from November 2016 doesnt 
comment on the severity of the pain, or how often it occurred. So I dont think I can 
reasonably conclude that Ms K knew her response to the question was untrue or 
misleading or didnt care that it was untrue or misleading. I also note that Ms K did take 
care to answer other medical questions asked in the application form.I think Ms Ks misrepresentation was careless. Under CIDRA that means LV was entitled 
to apply the exclusion relating to back and neck pain retrospectively to the cover, but it 
shouldnt have cancelled the policy.
I recognise that Ms K will be disappointed with my decision in this respect, but given that 
both her claims related to back and neck pain (and so wouldve fallen under the exclusion), 
I think LV was entitled to ask Ms K to return the payments it had made under those claims. 
I note that LV offered to arrange a repayment plan for Ms K, which I think was fair.
However, I intend to require LV to reinstate Ms Ks policy if she wants it to do so. 
Though she would need to pay the backdated premiums due since LV cancelled her 
cover, and I appreciate Ms K may not want to do this.
Ms K has questioned why it took LV so long to obtain her medical records.
I see that LV obtained a report from Ms Ks GP before accepting her first claim from 
January 2018. This didnt mention anything about her previous back pain. Then after LV 
received Ms Ks second claim in June 2018, it obtained her medical records. Again, these 
didnt mention anything about her previous back pain as the information was dated after 
February 2018. It was only after LV reviewed the claim in 2019/2020 that the 
misrepresentation came to light when it received Ms Ks updated GP records which also 
included the November 2016 note.
Its unfortunate that the medical records provided to LV in 2018 didnt include the 
November 2016 note. If they had done, then LV wouldnt have paid the claim, and Ms K 
wouldnt need to now pay the money back. However, when assessing a claim, an insurer is 
required to only request information relevant to the claim. Ms Ks claims in 2018 both 
related to injuries shed experienced following accidents. So I dont think LV had any 
reason to ask for information relating to Ms Ks health prior to those accidents. Im satisfied 
that LV legitimately discovered Ms Ks misrepresentation when assessing her claim in 
2019/2020.
After LV started reviewing the claim in 2019, I note there were delays obtaining Ms 
Ks updated medical records due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic in early 
2020. I therefore dont find that LV caused unnecessary delays here.
Ms K has also raised some concerns about her financial adviser who arranged the policy 
on her behalf. She should raise those concerns directly with her financial adviser in the 
first instance.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make before 
I made a final decision. 
Ms K responded to say she disagreed with my provisional findings, and made the following 
main points:
- Her financial adviser had all the information about her medical history, and this 
ought to have been passed to LV. She says if she said no to the relevant question, 
it might be because the adviser asked her the question in a different way (as it 
needed to be translated from English). She also made the point that a friend of 
hers is in the same situation, who used the same financial adviser.
- LV had her permission to check her medical records, and so the information 
couldve been checked with her GP.
- LV made payments to her for over two years, and she cant afford to repay LV. LV responded to say it has noted my intention to require it to reinstate the cover. However, 
it says this remedy doesnt follow the ABI code of practice for misrepresentation. It says if 
the misrepresentation is careless and the exclusion relates to the claimed condition, it 
should decline the claim and refund premiums.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms K has said that she gave her financial adviser the relevant information about her medical 
history. However, Ms Ks financial adviser acted on her behalf and didnt work for LV. That 
means that Ms K would need to raise her concerns directly with her financial adviser. 
Ms K has also made the point that she gave LV consent to check her medical records, and 
thinks it ought to have checked the information with her GP. However, its not practical to 
expect an insurer to check that information it has been given is correct whenever it receives 
an application. Under CIDRA, a consumer should take reasonable care not to misrepresent 
information. 
Ive noted Ms Ks comments about LV paying the claim for so long before discovering the 
misrepresentation. However, Ive addressed this in my provisional decision, so I wont repeat 
my findings about that here. I do sympathise with Ms Ks situation, as LV is asking her to 
repay the benefit payments she received, though as Ive said, LV has offered to arrange a 
repayment plan for her which I think is fair. Ms K should get in touch with LV about this 
directly. 
LV says my intention to require it to reinstate the cover doesnt follow the ABI code of 
practice for misrepresentation. I disagree. The code of practice (which takes CIDRA into 
account) says an insurer must apply a proportionate remedy where the misrepresentation is 
careless. And the outcome will depend on what the underwriting decision would have been 
had the misrepresentation not occurred. In Ms Ks case, an exclusion would have been 
applied. It says in such circumstances, the insurer will assess the claim as though the 
exclusion had been applied when the cover started, and if the exclusion applies to the claim, 
then no payment will be made. 
As the exclusion which LV would have applied (had there not been misrepresentation) 
related to the claim, I remain satisfied it was appropriate for LV to turn down the claim. 
However, the code of practice/CIDRA doesnt then allow LV to cancel the policy and refund 
the premiums. That remedy would only be available to LV if it would have declined the 
application completely had it known the relevant information, rather than applied an 
exclusion. Therefore, the appropriate outcome is for LV to reinstate the policy if Ms K wants 
this. 
However, it may be the case (given Ms Ks financial situation) that she wont want to 
reinstate the policy and pay the backdated premiums due. Therefore, if LV wants to give 
Ms K the option of having her policy cancelled and deducting the premiums that she paid 
from the amount she owes it, then it can do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Liverpool Victoria Financial 
Services Limited to reinstate Ms Ks policy if she wishes it to do so (subject to her repaying 
the outstanding premiums due since the cover was cancelled). Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman