DRN-4323250
The complaint
Mr B complains about the service hes received from Monzo Bank Ltd since he tried to make 
a partial account switch.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
In September 2022 Mr B wanted to undertake a partial account switch  he wanted to 
move a number of his direct debit instructions from his current account with Monzo to a 
new, joint account hed set up with another bank. But Monzo didnt offer a partial switch 
facility. Instead of checking what Mr B wanted to do, the bank started a full switch which 
resulted in Mr B getting in touch to tell them that isnt what he wanted. There then 
followed months of communications between Mr B and Monzo relating to some direct 
debit instructions which he hadnt wanted to switch and wished to reinstate. Mr B is 
unhappy with the way Monzo handled the matter, in particular because it has not since 
been possible to reinstate some of the instructions. And the situation has negatively 
affected his mental health.
Monzo accepted it could have done more to help Mr B and has paid him £65 
compensation. Mr B remained unhappy and asked us to look into the matter.
Our investigator tried to help find a solution to the ongoing, underlying problem with 
Mr Bs direct debits but Monzo said it was unable to comply with his recommendations 
which included setting up a new account. But Monzo did agree to increase the 
compensation by £135, to £200 in total. Mr B didnt accept this, so the complaint came 
come to me and I gathered additional information from both parties and then issued a 
provisional decision.
I have reproduced, below, the findings from my provisional decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as Ive already explained to Monzo, I think the service it has provided 
to Mr B since he contacted them in September 2022 has fallen far short of what I would 
expect. For example:
Mr Bs request was for a partial account switch. If Monzo was unable to comply with this 
request then it should have explained this to him and checked how he wanted to 
proceed. Had it done so then I think the problems that have occurred since then with 
Mr Bs direct debit instructions and the resulting complaint could have been avoided.
Mr B had to message Monzo repeatedly via its In-app chat and was passed around 
between advisers, some of whom asked Mr B to repeat information that hed already 
provided (sometimes more than once). 
Monzo says it gave appropriate advice about the direct debit instructions, but I disagree. 
None of the guidance it gave solved Mr Bs problem and some of the information he was 
given was conflicting and confusing. This includes them telling Mr B that the direct debit 
could be reinstated simply by contacted the intended beneficiaries. But Monzo has since 
confirmed to me that there is no way for the switched direct debits to be reinstated. I 
think Monzo should have done more to help resolve this issue and allow Mr B to operate 
his account in the way he wanted, and the way that should have been available to him. If 
it wasnt possible to reinstate the direct debits then Monzo could and, arguably, should 
have offered to open a new account for him. That would likely have resolved the matter 
and removed the need for Mr B to refer a complaint to this service. 
Monzo told our investigator it wasnt possible to set up new account for Mr B, so that he 
could set up new direct debit instructions. But its website suggested otherwise and after I 
queried this further, Monzo has said it can set up a new account for Mr B. The 
investigator originally proposed this in May/June 2023 and asked Monzo to propose an 
alternative solution if this wasnt possible. The matter has dragged on for longer than it 
needed to because of Monzos initial, unreasonable refusal to open a new account. Mr B 
says he is willing to open a new account and I believe that can be achieved with minimal 
effort on his part. But he will still then have to contact the direct debit beneficiaries to set 
up the new instructions. And that will cause him some additional inconvenience.
Monzo has repeatedly failed to respond to our requests for information in a timely 
manner. And its provided conflicting and confusing information about the account switch. 
On the one hand it has said it couldnt complete a partial switch, so it completed a full 
switch instead. But that simply cannot be true because a full switch will usually result in 
the account being closed and that didnt happen in this case, nor did Monzo receive a 
request from the other bank to cancel the switch. I have questioned Monzo to try to 
understand what exactly happened in this case, but it has not replied satisfactorily to my 
questions. 
Ive taken all of the above into account when deciding how much compensation to award. 
Ive also considered carefully what Mr B has told us about his mental health. He didnt share 
this same information with Monzo so it cant reasonably be expected to have taken this into 
account. But I have still factored this in when considering the likely impact Monzos actions 
and inactions have had on Mr B.
Monzo has paid £65 compensation already. But I currently think it should pay an additional 
£435 which will take the total award to £500. I make this award taking into account the 
distress and inconvenience Mr B has already been caused, as well as the further 
inconvenience he will be caused setting up the new account and the new direct debit 
instructions.
If Mr B accepts my eventual final decision then I expect Monzo to set up the new account 
promptly and without undertaking any credit checks because this will in effect, be a 
replacement account rather than a new account. 
Monzo accepted my provisional findings and confirmed that it wont carry out any additional 
checks when setting up the new account for Mr B.
Mr B said he would be willing to accept my provisional findings if Monzo would also send him 
a letter/statement which he can share with the parties who have, or might be, affected by the 
problems with his direct debit instructions.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has sent any new evidence or arguments for me to consider, so I see no
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision and reproduced 
above.
I note Mr Bs request for a letter from Monzo and that the bank already agreed, on 
5 April 2023, to provide a generic letter confirming the payment errors it caused. Monzo 
hasnt said since that this wont be possible. Moreover, this decision serves to show what 
has gone wrong and there will be nothing preventing Mr B from sharing this decision as he 
sees fit
My final decision
My final decision is that Monzo Bank Ltd should:
Pay £435 compensation to Mr B.
Send a letter to Mr B confirming the payment errors it has caused.
Work with Mr B to set up a new account, so that he can reinstate his direct debit 
instructions. 
Monzo should do the above within 28 days of the date on which we tell it that Mr B accepts 
my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman