DRN-3719906
The complaint
Mr Q, who is represented by a professional representative (PR) complains that Mitsubishi 
HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Personal Finance (Novuna) rejected his claims under 
the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) 1974 in respect of a holiday product purchased in August 
2019. I gather the purchase was made by Mr Q and his partner, but as the finance 
agreement was in Mr Qs name he is the eligible complainant. In this decision for simplicity I 
will refer to Mr Q as the sole purchaser.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr Q purchased a points based holiday product from a company I will call C. 
It cost £18,735 and this was funded by a loan from Novuna. In February 2022 PR submitted 
a letter of claim to Novuna. The details are well known to both parties so for reasons of 
brevity I will provide a short summary in this decision.
There had been misrepresentation by C. It said Mr Q had been told he had 
purchased an investment which would appreciate in value. He was told he would 
have a share in a property and C would buy it back. He was also told he could 
access the property at any time. 
It said that Cs sales representatives were self-employed and unauthorised.
The sale was illegal as it was sold as an investment. PR offered Cs training manual 
as evidence.
C had gone into liquidation.
Mr Q didnt recall an affordability assessment being undertaken.
The contract contained unfair terms since it allowed C to rescind it if any payment 
was not made in time. 
Novuna consulted C and rejected the claim. It said that there had been no misrepresentation 
and the product had not been sold as an investment. The training manual was for a different 
product and had no relevance to the one purchased by Mr Q. He had not been sold a share 
in a property but he did have access to accommodation all year round subject to availability.
It said C was authorised as a credit broker and the liquidation of a company within the C 
group did not affect Mr Qs access to accommodation. It disputed the agreement contained 
an unfair term since the opportunity to rescind the contract related to a failure to pay the 
purchase price and it did not affect Mr Qs statutory rights. Novuna also set out the checks it 
had carried out prior to granting the loan.
PR brought a complaint to this service on behalf of Mr Q. It was on the same grounds as the 
letter of claim. It was considered by one of or investigators who didnt believe it should be 
upheld. She didnt believe PR had established there had been misrepresentation or a breach 
of contract. Nor did she consider there had been an unfair relationship and she had been 
given no evidence that the loan was unaffordable. 
PR didnt agree and submitted an income and expenditure summary which it said was based 
on 2019 figures along with bank statements from 2019 and a credit report. A new 
investigator reviewed the case and noted that the bank statements didnt support the figure 
put in the income and expenditure summary. He also noted the credit report which didnt 
reflect Mr Qs status at the time of sale.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account 
the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
And when evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having read and considered all the available evidence and arguments, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld. I will explain why.
S.75 CCA
S. 75 of the CCA states that, when a debtor (Mr Q) under a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement has a claim of misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier that 
relates to a transaction financed by the agreement, the creditor (Novuna) is equally and 
concurrently liable for that claim  enabling the debtor to make a like claim against the 
creditor should he choose to.
Its important to note that, as Novuna was the lender rather than the supplier, under the Act a 
claim is limited to one for misrepresentation or breach of contract, rather than general 
unhappiness with what was available under the contract.
Misrepresentation
Misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party to 
a contract to the other, which is untrue, and which materially influenced the other party to 
enter into the contract.
PR has claimed that misrepresentation arose when Mr Q was led to believe he was buying an investment. However, I have seen no evidence to support that claim. The documentation 
provided at the time contains the following: Membership is for the purposes of reserving 
holidays and confers personal rights to use the Points Rights and does not grant any real 
estate or lease interest given the involvement of the Trustee. I do not see how Mr Q could 
have believed he had bought a financial investment or that he had acquired a share of a 
property.
While I was not present at the time of the sale I do not consider that I am able to conclude 
the product was misrepresented. I have seen no explanation of how that could be the case 
or why Mr Q believed that the purchase of points would be an investment. If he had been 
told that  or had otherwise believed that to be the case  I would have expected him to ask 
for more information. I also have noted that the training manual submitted by PR has no 
bearing on the product sold to Mr Q.
Breach of Contract
I do not believe that the liquidation of C led to a breach of contract. I gather new 
management companies were appointed, and Mr Q was able to use the timeshare as usual 
after that date.
On the face of it, therefore, the services linked to Mr Qs purchase of the points remain 
available to them and are unaffected by the liquidation. Indeed the agreements used by C 
usually allow for the liquidation of C and its replacement by another provider. 
Given I have not been persuaded that the product was sold as a financial investment I 
cannot conclude that the removal of a sales service by C can been regarded as a breach of 
contract.
S.140 A
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationships between Mr Q and Novuna 
were unfair for the purpose of s. 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it if it 
applies to the credit agreement  which it does.
However, as a claim under s. 140A is an action to recover any sum recoverable by virtue of 
any enactment under s. 9 of the LA, Ive considered that provision here.
It was held in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) (Patel v Patel) that the time for 
limitation purposes ran from the date the credit agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the 
time the claim was made. The limitation period is six years and the claim was made within 
this period.
However, Im not persuaded that Mr Q could be said to have a cause of action in negligence 
against Novuna anyway.
His alleged loss isnt related to damage to property or to him personally, which must mean 
its purely financial. And that type of loss isnt usually recoverable in a claim of negligence 
unless there was some responsibility on the allegedly negligent party to protect a claimant 
against that type of harm.
Yet Ive seen little or nothing to persuade me that Novuna assumed such responsibility  
whether willingly or unwillingly.
PR seems to suggest that Novuna owed Mr Q a duty of care to ensure that C complied with 
the 2010 Regulations and it argues that the payment of commission created an unfair relationship. However, I believe Novuna did not as a matter of course pay any commission 
so I cannot say that payment of commission created an unfair relationship. Even if it did, in 
my experience payments of commission in this industry were relatively low.
It also suggested the terms were onerous in that if maintenance payments were not made 
the contract would be terminated. Novuna has explained that this is incorrect and the term 
referred to only relates to the purchase price and in any event Mr Q can rely on his statutory 
rights. Again I can see no basis for concluding there was an unfair relationship.
Affordability
PR says no or insufficient checks were carried out at the time of sale and this means the 
lending was irresponsible. Novuna has said that it obtained details from Mr Q and carried out 
the appropriate credit checks before approval. 
Our investigator said that she could not see any evidence that Mr Q found the loan 
unaffordable. When considering a complaint about unaffordable lending, a large 
consideration is whether the complainant has actually lost out due to any failings on the part 
of the lender. So, if Novuna did not do appropriate checks (and I make no such finding), for 
me to say it needed to do something to put things right, I would need to see that Mr Q lost 
out as a result of its failings. I have reviewed the expenditure and income details and I agree 
that the information contained in them is not supported by the bank statements. For example 
it is assumed that Mr Q is responsible for the mortgage costs without taking into account his 
partners income. 
On balance I do not consider Mr Q has provided evidence that shows he found the loan 
difficult to repay. 
Conclusion
I appreciate Mr Q is dissatisfied with his purchase and he has my sympathies for this, but, in 
summary I cannot see why any of his claims were likely to have succeeded. So overall I 
think that Novuna acted reasonably in declining the claims under s.75 and s. 140A CCA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2024.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman