DRN-3631408
The complaint
Miss B complains about Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) who declined her 
claim under her gadget insurance. 
What happened
Miss B lost her phone and made a claim. Assurant asked her to provide details about the 
loss and her usage of the phone. She told Assurant that she got the phone in December 
2021 and since then she had been using the phone and SIM, until the date of loss in 
January 2022. 
Assurant said that from its evidence (the proof od usage had come from Miss Bs network 
provider) showed that the SIM card had been used in a different phone. And had only been 
used on the date of loss for the phone Miss B made a claim against. So, as the information 
that it got from Miss B was inconsistent, it declined her claim. 
Miss B complained to Assurant. But in its final response, it maintained its decision to decline 
the claim. So, Miss B (who had been given her referral rights) referred a complaint to our 
service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that the material evidence suggested the phone was only used on the date of
the loss, which conflicted with Miss Bs version of events. He didnt think the claim had been 
unfairly declined.
Assurant accepted the view, Miss B did not. She said that her network provider had been 
lying and she had used the phone from December 2021 until the date it was lost, as she had 
told Assurant. So, she asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. I understand that this is likely to be a 
disappointment for Miss B, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive 
reached this decision.
I have carefully considered both parties comments and evidence they have presented. I 
must point out that my role is to look at the information provided to me impartially. And to 
decide whether Assurant fairly declined the claim. 
Miss B said that she had bought the phone since December 2021 and since that time had 
used the sim and phone up until the date of loss, which was the 25 January 2022. Assurant, 
who are reasonably entitled to be satisfied that Miss B had used the phone and sim before 
loss, asked for the proof of usage. 
Miss B obtained the proof of usage and sent this to Assurant. I have read the proof of usage 
from Miss Bs network provider. It shows that the only date of use was the 25 January 2022, 
which was the same date that Miss B said she lost the phone. Further, it suggested that Miss 
Bs version of events was in conflict to that of her network provider and the evidence that 
Assurant obtained from her network provider. 
Miss B said that she had used the phone since she bought it and the sim had been in that 
phone. I have considered what Miss B has said against the evidence provided.
Miss Bs network provider has supplied a detailed breakdown of the usage of the sim. What 
they said was that the sim had only been used on 25 January 2022 for 10 times. There has 
been no other evidence from Miss B, that is contrary to the usage from her network provider. 
Assurant declined Miss Bs claim on the basis that the information she provided was 
inconsistent with the evidence from her network provider. In that, she said that she had used 
the phone for much longer than the evidence from her network provider showed. 
Consequently, I dont agree that Miss B has shown that the evidence from her network 
provider (that Assurant relied upon) was incorrect. And so, Im satisfied that the inconsistent 
information Miss B gave Assurant, was the reason it declined her claim. And I think that 
based on this, Assurant was fair to decline Miss Bs claim.
Although I understand that this is not the outcome Miss B wouldve liked, I wont be asking 
Assurant to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I wont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman