DRN-4217288
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund the money she says she 
didnt receive from a cash machine.
What happened
Mrs C says she tried to withdraw £500 from her account at a cash machine. But that she 
didnt receive anything. She later found that this had been debited and she wants this money 
refunded.
Nationwide said that it had contacted the third-party cash machine owner. And that it had 
responded that there were no issues with the machine and no discrepancy. So, Nationwide 
wouldnt be refunding the money.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Nationwide had provided 
the information from the cash machine owner. This included a journal roll that showed 
successful use of the machine before and after Mrs C. The journal also showed that she had 
input her card three times. The transaction had been cancelled the first two times, and this 
seemed to be done by her having received a message there was no ability to print receipts. 
The third time the card was used began at just before 13:05 and the machine entries 
showed that the cash was dispensed. Our investigator said that Nationwide couldnt be 
responsible for what happened after it had been dispensed and if someone had taken it that 
would be a police matter. In addition, it would be for the police to obtain any CCTV that was 
available. Our investigator provided copies of the journal entries to Mrs C.
Mrs C didnt agree. She is represented in this complaint and her representative said she was 
with Mrs C at the time and no money was dispensed. Mrs C wanted this to be reviewed as it 
was a significant amount of money and was very distressing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened but Im thinking about what is most likely.
Nationwide has obtained the evidence Id expect it to about this dispute. This has been 
shared with Mrs C and her representative with appropriate redactions. This records that      
Mrs Cs card was inserted into this cash machine three times and nobody else used the 
machine with a different card in between those times. And that it was on the third occasion 
that a cash withdrawal was requested. The journal states that the cash was dispensed 
correctly as it had for users before and after her. The note count was consistent with the 
withdrawal and no notes then rejected. The money was dispensed and taken. The machine 
owner says that the machine balanced. I note that that card was taken from the machine 
during the withdrawal at 13:05:31 that day and the notes presented at 13:05:50 and taken 
straight away. 
I can also see that as Mrs C says she tried to take out £500 elsewhere at 13:50. That and 
further attempts at smaller amounts were rejected as the daily withdrawal limit for the card 
had been reached. She checked her account online and went to a Nationwide branch to 
withdraw money. The dispute was reported that day.
Mrs C and her representative have been consistent and clear about what happened. I dont 
rule out the possibility of them being distracted at the machine or perhaps thinking that the 
money wasnt going to come out. But I agree with our investigator that if someone else had 
been able to take the money after it was correctly dispensed then that wouldnt fairly be the 
responsibility of Nationwide. I also see Mrs C referred to the possibility of a skimming device 
on the machine. That wouldnt be able to replicate the chip on the card needed for the cash 
withdrawal and there were only seconds between each time the card was inserted at the 
machine in this case.
Ive balanced all the evidence and taken into account the testimony given. Having done so I 
consider it most likely that the money was correctly dispensed. So, Im afraid I dont have a 
basis to find that Nationwide made a mistake in debiting this amount from Mrs Cs account 
and to ask it to do anything further. I can appreciate how disappointed Mrs C will be by my 
assessment given what is at stake for her.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman