DRN-3830247
The complaint
Mr P complains that Carnegie Consumer Finance Limited wont reimburse him in respect of 
a training course that he financed using a fixed sum loan agreement it supplied.
Mr P says the course provider N described the course in a way he feels was misleading 
and that the execution of the training didnt meet his expectations. Hes also unhappy with 
the way Carnegie dealt with payments due on the loan, particularly at a time when he was 
under financial pressure.
What happened
Mr P enrolled on Ns plumbing course in January 2018 after discussion with one of its 
representatives. The course was modular, with a combination of tutor-supported self-study 
and practical assessments, to be completed over a 36-month period. Mr P paid a registration 
fee of £50, with the cost of the course (£7,145) being paid with a loan from Carnegie. The 
loan was to be repaid by 43 monthly instalments of £165.
Mr P subsequently contacted Carnegie with a number of concerns about the way Ns 
representative described the course, and about the difficulties he experienced with the 
course itself. In summary, his concerns were:
Ns representative misled him about the suitability of the course with regard to being 
compatible with full-time work. The course involved practical work at locations some 
distance from his home and necessitated him taking a large amount of annual leave
hed asked Ns representative to defer the start date for the loan repayments due to 
existing personal commitments, but this didnt happen 
he had to make significant changes to his computer to undertake the coursework 
having been assured by Ns representative that his laptop was compatible
the course was poorly run, not properly supported and in his opinion was designed 
for younger people who didnt have his level of work commitments
completion of the course was seriously affected by the Covid-19 pandemic and N 
didnt provide any flexibility during that time, remaining closed for what he considered 
unnecessarily extended periods
he and his wife lost their jobs due to the pandemic and asked for payments to be 
suspended; however, no assistance was given despite the financial hardship he was 
experiencing
his mental health was impacted by the strain of his situation and his doubts over his 
physical ability to complete the course within the remaining timescale. Although N 
said it would extend the time for course completion by a further seven months, Mr P 
didnt think this would be enough to complete the remaining modules, given the leave 
he would have to take for the practical sessions
In response Carnegie said that the written information N supplied at point of sale was clear 
and accurate in respect of what the course involved. It felt Mr P had sufficient time to 
consider and withdraw from the arrangements if he felt they were unsuitable or were 
different from the discussion hed had with Ns representative. Carnegie didnt accept that 
the course had been misrepresented to Mr P, and said the onus was on him as a student to 
plan study time around existing commitments.
In relation to Mr Ps requests for financial assistance, Carnegie said at the time of Mr Ps first 
contact in November 2018, it asked him to complete and income and expenditure form to 
consider his financial position. It said Mr P didnt submit this information so it was unable to 
help further.
Carnegie went on to say that it had received a further request from Mr P in September 2020, 
when he asked for a payment suspension due to the pandemic and the impact this had on 
his ability to work and the family finances. It said it made a number of attempts to contact Mr 
P without success, but that  subject to supporting evidence  it would have been able to 
provide a three-month payment holiday.
Carnegie added that it felt the seven month extension to the course was enough to enable 
Mr P to progress and complete the training course. But it did say that after considering the 
individual circumstances of Mr Ps case, by way of assistance and as a gesture of goodwill it 
would be willing to close his account without seeking repayment of the remaining balance of 
£855. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr P had done enough to demonstrate the problems he 
experienced amounted either to a breach of contract or misrepresentation on Ns part, or 
that Carnegie acted unfairly in its response to the claim such that it needed to refund what 
Mr P had paid. He also noted N had told Mr P it would extend the timescale for completing 
the course in response to his situation, and thought this fair.
The investigator considered Carnegie had acted fairly in response to Mr Ps concerns about 
his ability to afford the loan payments after he got into financial difficulty, and that it had 
made a reasonable offer to write off the remaining amount of the loan.
Mr P didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He questioned what Carnegie had said 
about the situation, such as the attempts made to contact him about his financial position. 
Mr P didnt feel that the evidence had been properly considered, and asked for this review. 
In doing so, he has made detailed handwritten submissions that restate his original concerns 
and provide additional background.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry Mr P had problems completing the course. I can see when he enrolled that it was 
important to him to gain a vocational qualification, and even more so when he lost his 
existing job. In light of the description hes given about his circumstances, its possible this 
type of course mightve been unsuitable for him. But Im afraid I cant say this was Ns fault 
(or by extension, Carnegies fault). It was for Mr P to satisfy himself what the course entailed 
and how he would fit this around his personal circumstances.
Did Carnegie deal fairly with Mr Ps concerns about what Ns representative said to him?
From what I can see, Mr P was provided with the details of the course necessary for him to 
make an informed decision about whether it would work for him. He undoubtedly based 
some of that decision on what Ns representative told him. But Ive no reason to conclude that what Mr P says he was told amounted to a false statement of fact about the nature of 
the course or the level of work it entailed. A statement of opinion as to whether the course 
was compatible with full-time work would not amount to an actionable misrepresentation.
I cant see there would be much prospect of success in the claim relating to the compatibility 
of the course modules and Mr Ps laptop. Mr Ps own evidence is that he was able to use his 
laptop for the coursework, albeit not without some effort and additional expenditure on his 
part. But that in itself doesnt make what Ns representative said untrue. So I dont think 
Carnegies response to this part of Mr Ps complaint was unreasonable.
Mr P also said that he discussed with Ns representative deferring the start date of the 
course (and loan repayments) due to his impending personal commitments. Carnegies 
responses dont address this assertion, other than setting out the cancellation (or cooling-
off) period. I consider this should have formed part of Carnegies response, and that it was 
insufficient for the lender to refer only to the cancellation period. I acknowledge its comments 
that it was not present at the point of sale, but the relevant provisions of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 do mean it has responsibility for what was said.
That said, the credit agreement Mr P signed in January 2018 sets out the payment schedule 
and makes clear that the first payment is due a month after the date the loan funds are 
advanced. Theres no indication from any of the paperwork that N or Carnegie agreed to 
defer the start date beyond that point. So I dont consider it would be appropriate for me to 
say that it was wrong for the course or the loan to have started when they did.
What about Carnegies responsibility for the course provision?
Again, Id like to have seen rather more engagement from Carnegie on this aspect of Mr Ps 
complaint. Mr P clearly had certain expectations about the course and expressed his views 
on the way in which that content was delivered. Even if Carnegie felt that this was outside 
the remit of a breach of contract claim, it ought to have said this. So I think Carnegie should 
have done more to address this in its responses to Mr P. In the circumstances, Ive 
considered whether this has disadvantaged Mr P.
Mr P doesnt think the course was suitable for someone of his age or with his work 
commitment. But that doesnt make the course itself inherently poor quality. And Mr P hasnt 
suggested the modules didnt cover the technical or practical requirements appropriate to the 
skills a plumber would require. He might not have approved of the attitude adopted by 
certain fellow students, or the onsite environment for some of the practical activity. However, 
that falls some way short of a successful claim in breach of contract. From what I can see, 
the course content was suitable for the purpose of the contract and for the most part was 
carried out with due skill and care.
I do have a lot of sympathy, though, for the fact that Mr Ps ability to complete the course 
was severely impacted by the shutdown during the Covid pandemic. This led to a lengthy 
break in the support and training he was able to receive. Although N agreed to extend the 
training course by seven months, it seems the shutdown lasted longer than this.
The effect is that despite this extension, Ns provision around the pandemic affected the 
timescale for Mr P to complete his course. As some of the practical aspects would be 
compressed into this shorter period, I can understand why he had concerns over the time 
hed need to take away from work to complete this.
Does that mean Mr P would be entitled to a refund of the course? Im not persuaded it 
would. By the time of the pandemic shutdown, Mr P had been enrolled in the course for around two years. Hed completed many of the modules already, and having acquired that 
knowledge and skill, it doesnt seem unreasonable that he has had to pay for it.
I accept that the pressure of completing the course within a shortened timescale might have 
made Mr P feel that this earlier learning was wasted, and Im conscious his personal 
situation will also have had an impact. He has described the strain and difficulty he was 
under, not all of which was due to this situation, but undoubtedly affected his ability to 
commit to the completion of the course. He has described how during the material time, he 
lost his job, spent some time seeking another role and the difficulty this placed on his ability 
to take leave to complete the course.
I would hope that this was something the course provider would take into account when 
considering an appropriate extension. But there was no contractual obligation to extend the 
arrangements. I cant properly say that Mr P has a claim in breach of contract against N or 
Carnegie for not sufficiently accommodating the situation he faced. Neither party was at fault 
for circumstances Mr P couldnt himself have anticipated when he enrolled on the course.
It's possible Mr P might be entitled to a reduction in the cost of the course if it can be shown 
that it was unreasonable for him to fully complete it in the extension N proposed. But Mr P 
would likely need to show he made reasonable efforts to do so, and if he did not, any 
entitlement to a reduction would need to take this into account. Ive borne this in mind when 
considering what represents a fair resolution to the dispute.
Did Carnegie deal appropriately with Mr Ps requests for assistance with his financial 
difficulties?
Carnegie says its records indicate that Mr P first asked for assistance with his payments in 
November 2018. He doesnt appear to have pursued matters at that time, and so my review 
will focus on his later request, made in 2020. At that time, Mr P and his wife were both laid 
off during the pandemic and its not hard to see how this would have led to a stretched 
financial position.
Mr P provided Carnegie with written details of his circumstances dated August 2020, 
received by Carnegie on 10 September. He explained that he was in receipt of Jobseekers 
Allowance (JSA) and advising that the monthly payments were unsustainable. I can see 
that this was sent using a financial statement form issued by Carnegie, which suggests he 
was asked to provide details of his situation for Carnegie to consider.
Carnegies Collections team sent Mr P an email and text message on 17 September asking 
him to get in touch and providing a telephone number for him to contact it. Carnegie also 
says it left a voicemail for Mr P, which he disputes. Im unable to confirm whether a call was 
made; however, Ive seen copies of the text and email message, which Mr P clearly did 
receive, as he tried to reply on 22 September.
I note that Mr P has sought to clarify his wording around his ability to reply to Carnegies 
messages. I understand there might have been some confusion around what he meant to 
say, and I appreciate the clarification. I can see that Mr Ps message of 22 September 
mentions he was unable to get through to Carnegie by phone. Regrettably, his message 
appears to have been sent to a mailbox that didnt accept incoming mail.While acknowledging this, Im not persuaded there was enough in this contact from Carnegie 
to put the onus back on Mr P to get in touch. If as would appear to be the case here, 
Carnegie didnt hear back from Mr P in response to its messages, Id expect it to attempt 
further contact as part of its efforts to ensure it was treating him fairly. Carnegies 
correspondence doesnt indicate there was any such attempt until after Mr P got in touch 
with it to make his complaint in December 2020.
Im conscious Carnegies response to that complaint said that it would have been able to 
approve a three-month payment holiday, subject to Mr P providing evidence that the 
pandemic had affected his ability to maintain payments. I see no reason why Mr P would 
have been unable to provide such evidence, had Carnegie made further efforts to follow up 
on his request for assistance. At the material time he was in receipt of JSA and had already 
told Carnegie this.
So I think Carnegie could  and should  have done more to assist Mr P when he asked it 
for help. And I can see that a payment holiday might have helped Mr P at the time, noting 
what hes said about his work situation and later absence due to ill-health. That said, a 
payment holiday (like other forms of forbearance) doesnt mean the payments are no longer 
due. Usually, they are merely deferred to a later date.
The payments Mr P was required to make during this time therefore dont represent a 
financial loss to him. And fortunately, it appears he was able to sustain the loan. Theres little 
benefit in me now requiring a payment holiday; the situation Mr P faced at the time was 
when it would have been of use to him.
I do think, though, that Mr P experienced some avoidable distress and difficulty due to the 
way Carnegie handled his requests for assistance. So Ive taken that into account when 
considering how best to resolve the dispute.
Putting things right
There were clearly some shortcomings in the service Carnegie provided to Mr P. It might not 
be liable to him for his overall dissatisfaction with the plumbing course, but I think it could 
have done a better job of engaging with him about his concerns  particularly when he asked 
it for help with his payments.
Having carefully considered all thats been said, Carnegies proposal not to seek repayment 
of the remaining £855 from Mr P is in my view a fair way to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
Carnegie Consumer Finance Limited has already made an offer to forgo the remaining 
balance of £855 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Carnegie Consumer Finance Limited should not seek repayment from 
Mr P of this sum, effective from 19 February 2021 when it made this proposal.
If Mr P accepts this decision, Carnegie should ensure that Mr Ps loan is treated as settled 
as of 1 March 2021, refunding any payments Mr P might have made after that point and 
updating his credit file accordingly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 Niall Taylor
Ombudsman