DRN-4263341
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Mrs C took out a loan with Tesco in August 2017. She borrowed £5,000 over 60 months to 
buy medical equipment for her disabled son. The total cost of the loan including interest was 
£5,523 and repayments were £92.05 a month.
Mrs C explains that she couldnt afford the credit and that Tesco shouldnt have lent to her. 
She had just separated from her husband and her entire income was derived from benefits 
including carers allowance she received for her son. She was a single mother to three 
children and had no other income.
 
Tesco says it did all the necessary checks before it lent to Mrs C, and it didnt see anything 
which might make it think she couldnt afford the loan.
 
Our investigator considered that Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. They thought that 
Tesco hadnt acted fairly or responsibly on the outcome of its checks and if it had it wouldnt 
have lent to Mrs C. Our investigator thought that Tesco should write off the outstanding loan 
Mrs C agreed with this view. 
Tesco didnt respond to the view at first. When it did, it objected to the suggested redress. It 
didnt comment on the substance of the decision. 
As Tesco didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mrs Cs complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator. I will explain why I 
have reached this decision.
Tesco needed to take reasonable steps to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs C 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts, how much borrowing Mrs C had elsewhere and Mrs Cs income and 
expenditure. There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending 
itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable.
Tesco explained that Mrs C applied for her loan online. The application was referred for 
manual review as Mrs C had said the loan was for other (although Tesco later stated it 
would take no account of the reason for the loan). Its assessment team spoke with Mrs C 
who confirmed the loan was for medical equipment for her disabled son and that her income 
was made up of tax credits and disability living allowance. Tesco agreed the loan.
Tesco has provided a copy of the results of the other credit checks it made on Mrs C before 
it spoke to her. Mrs C declared an income of £1400 a month and rent of £300. It noted that 
Mrs C paid £13 a month for her other revolving credit repayments. It also noted that she had 
total unsecured debt of £2,369 of which the revolving balances accounted for £438. Its 
comments were Very good score, v low utilisation of revolving credit and CII. Low DTI. 
Easily passed affordability with no adverse info so straight accept.
Tesco says it would have been unreasonable to complete any further checks. 
I disagree. While Mrs Cs debt to income ratio appeared to be relatively low, Tesco had no 
understanding of the amount Mrs C was paying for her other credit and it had no idea of her 
essential expenditure. Tesco says it allowed £500 a month for Mrs Cs essential expenditure. 
However, given Mrs Cs circumstances and the unusual reason declared for requiring the 
loan, I think it was essential Tesco obtained an understanding of her actual expenditure. And 
given how Mrs Cs income was entirely from benefits, some of which were directly related to 
the reason for her need for the loan, I think it was essential it varied her income too. So, I 
think Tesco didnt complete necessary and proportionate checks.
This doesnt mean I should automatically uphold Mrs Cs complaint, though. I now have to 
consider whether, if Tesco had completed necessary and proportionate checks, it would 
have resulted in Tesco seeing information which may have changed its decision to lend to 
Mrs C. 
While different checks may show different things I think its reasonable in the circumstances 
to rely on evidence provided by Mrs C about her finances at the time. Mrs C has provided 
copies of her bank statements from the months leading up to the application. 
These show that Mrs Cs source of income was as stated  through tax credits and disability 
living allowance. She was using her overdraft facility extensively, never being in credit. She 
was regularly over £2,500 overdrawn and often over £3,000 overdrawn. She was already 
struggling financially and was relying on borrowing to meet her essential expenditure and her 
other credit commitments. Her bank statements showed little discretionary spending and it 
certainly did not account for Mrs Cs difficulty in meeting her everyday expenses.
Given her caring responsibilities, which were particularly onerous, and her single-parent 
status it was unlikely Mrs Cs financial circumstances would change for the better during the 
term of the loan. Mrs C was in a cycle of debt which, barring a significant and unlikely 
change of circumstances was never going to improve. 
I am satisfied that had Tesco completed necessary and proportionate checks it would have 
realised that Mrs C would not be able to sustainably meet the repayments on the loan. I think 
Mrs C lost out as a result of Tescos failure to complete those checks and to act on them 
fairly.Putting things right
Mrs C has not made any repayments towards the loan since August 2019. She has engaged 
at times with Tesco. Following Mrs Cs initial complaint to Tesco about this, Tesco offered in 
2022 to consider a repayment plan, potentially with a low or token repayment amount. Mrs C 
didnt agree to that and brought her complaint to this service. The payment plan would only 
have lasted for a finite period of time. 
Mrs C has experienced further trauma in her life. Following her complaint to Tesco she 
suffered a significant and particularly distressing bereavement, the details of which I do not 
need to repeat here. This has caused her significant psychological injury from which she is 
likely to take considerable time to recover. Her bereavement and resulting mental health 
difficulties, combined with her already extremely difficult circumstances, make it even less 
likely that she will ever be in a position to repay the loan. While I appreciate Tesco has made 
some attempt to reduce the impact the debt has on Mrs C by offering to consider a payment 
plan, I dont think this goes far enough. Mrs C will be caught in a cycle of perpetual reviews 
of the payment plan when there is no realistic prospect of her ever making a significant 
impact on the debt.  I think the lack of care taken in assessing whether Mrs C was able to 
sustainably repay the loan caused such difficulties for Mrs C that Tesco should go further 
than this service would ordinarily direct. To settle this complaint, I direct Tesco to write off 
the amount outstanding on the loan.  
My final decision
I have decided that Tesco Personal Finance PLC acted unfairly when it provided the loan to 
Mrs C. To put things right I direct that Tesco Personal Finance PLC write off the outstanding 
loan.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman