DRN-3228249
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that NRAM Limited rejected their request for a borrow-back 
facility (the facility) on their mortgage. The request was later agreed, but Mr and Mrs S say 
they incurred costs as a result of the initial decline which they would like NRAM to 
reimburse.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
In addition, the details of the complaint have been set out in correspondence from our 
investigator, and both parties have a copy of this, so there is no need for me to repeat all the 
details here. Because our decisions are published, its important that I dont include any 
information that might result in Mr and Mrs S being identified. I will therefore keep my 
summary of the complaint quite brief.
Mr and Mrs S have a mortgage with NRAM on which they had overpaid. The mortgage 
terms and conditions provide they could borrow back overpaid amounts, subject to NRAMs 
approval. 
In October 2018 Mr and Mrs S wanted to borrow back £35,000 of their overpayments, in 
order to carry out building work on a new property. The application was declined. Mr and 
Mrs S complained to NRAM. In February 2019 the request was granted. In response to the 
complaint, NRAM offered £200 compensation.
Mr and Mrs S were dissatisfied with NRAMs response and complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. They explained that, because NRAM had initially refused the facility, 
they took steps to sell a property. The sale didnt go ahead, because NRAM ultimately 
agreed the facility. However, professional fees had been incurred, which Mr and Mrs S had 
to pay. Mr and Mrs S also say that they had to pay £2,500 for the cost of deferring 
contractors. In addition, because of delay in the release of funds, Mr and Mrs S took out a 
personal loan, and they wanted NRAM to cover the cost of this. Mr and Mrs S also wanted 
compensation for distress and upset caused to them by NRAM.
An investigator looked at the complaint. Having done so, she was satisfied the complaint 
should be upheld. She didnt think NRAM was required to carry out an affordability 
assessment for the facility. This was because Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage fell within the 
regulatory exceptions that allowed NRAM to dispense with assessing affordability. They 
werent increasing their borrowing, or changing the mortgage contract, and so NRAM should 
have granted the facility in October 2018.
In relation to redress, the investigator noted Mr and Mrs S were claiming for the following 
financial losses:
a £14,500 personal loan theyd applied for on 22 February 2019, plus interest on that 
loan of £58.12 per month;
£2,500 as a result of the increased cost of deferring contractors;
£1,900 in professional fees they had to pay in relation to the abortive sale of another 
property to fund the work;
£4,860 which Mr and Mrs S say they lost in capital gains tax (CGT);
£1,000 for distress and inconvenience.
The investigator wasnt persuaded NRAM should be responsible for the cost of the personal 
loan. Mr and Mrs M had applied for this after they were already aware  and had accepted  
the reinstatement of the facility. 
The investigator also noted that Mr and Mrs S hadnt provided any evidence of either the 
cost of deferring contractors, or of any additional CGT liability Mr and Mrs S say theyd 
incurred or lost. Mr and Mrs S had, however, provided evidence of the fees of £1,900 theyd 
had to pay when they were selling the property.
The investigator explained that if Mr and Mrs S were able to provide evidence of the CGT 
and contractor losses, she would reconsider these. She asked NRAM to pay the £1,900 fees 
and a total of £750 (including the £200 already offered) for distress and inconvenience.
NRAM agreed to this. Mr and Mrs S didnt provide any further evidence of their losses. 
Although they initially said they were pursing the matter in court, their solicitor has clarified 
that, as far as he is aware, no legal action has been commenced. In the circumstances, as 
the matter is unresolved, it is appropriate for me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NRAM has acknowledged that it should have granted the facility in October 2018 when it 
was first requested. In the circumstances, I dont need to establish if NRAM is at fault; all I 
need to determine is what NRAM should do to put things right.
I note that Mr and Mrs S have told us they were able to borrow £20,000 from family and 
friends when the facility was declined. The balance - £14,500  came from a personal loan 
they took out. Mr and Mrs S want NRAM to cover the cost of this. 
Im not persuaded, however, that this would be fair or reasonable. The loan was applied for 
on 22 February 2019. But Mr and Mrs S had already  on 19 February 2019  accepted 
NRAMs offer to reinstate the facility. In the circumstances, Ive not been provided with any evidence to persuade me that it was necessary for Mr and Mrs S to take out the personal 
loan after they already knew the £35,000 facility was to be reinstated.
Ive taken note of what Mr and Mrs S have said about the increased costs of £2,500 incurred 
because they had to defer contractors. This wasnt mentioned by Mr and Mrs S in their initial 
complaint to NRAM in February 2019. In the absence of any evidence that Mr and Mrs S 
actually incurred these costs, I am not persuaded it would be fair to expect NRAM to 
reimburse them.
Mr and Mrs S say that, if theyd carried on with the sale of the property theyd decided to sell 
to raise the funds for the work, and if the sale would have completed by 1 April 2019, theyd 
have saved £4,680 in CGT. Because the facility came through, Mr and Mrs S decided not to 
proceed with the sale, but theyd like NRAM to pay them the CGT theyd have saved if theyd 
gone ahead and sold the property before 1 April 2019.
There is no basis on which I can find NRAM responsible for a tax liability that has not, in fact, 
been incurred. If NRAM hadnt made an error in declining the facility in October 2018, thered 
have been no decision to sell this property, and so there is no financial loss in relation to any 
purported loss of CGT.
I agree with the investigator, however, that NRAM should cover the abortive sale costs, and 
in this regard, evidence of the professional fees of £1,900 has been provided. NRAM has 
acknowledged it will reimburse these.
NRAM is also required to pay compensation for trouble and upset. The investigator 
recommended a total amount of £750. I think this is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. Over a period of about four months Mr and Mrs S were caused a lot of upset 
by the decline of the facility, and I think £750 is proportionate for the trouble they were 
caused.
Putting things right
To settle this complaint, I direct NRAM Limited to do the following in full and final settlement 
of this complaint:
reimburse Mr and Mrs S with £1,900 for the professional fees they paid on the abortive 
sale;
interest at 8% per annum simple on the £1,900 from 10 March 2019 to the date of 
settlement by NRAM:
pay compensation of £750 in total (to include the £200 already offered) for trouble and 
upset. 
* If NRAM considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from any interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs S how much it has taken off. NRAM should also 
give Mr and Mrs S a tax deduction certificate if requested, so the tax can be reclaimed from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct NRAM Limited to settle the complaint 
as directed above. I make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman