DRN-3301452
Complaint
Mr A says that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) unfairly removed his overdraft, closed his 
account and recorded a default on his credit file.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr As concerns. She didnt think that Barclays had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr A unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr A disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
In the first instance I know Mr As also complained about being misled into thinking hed 
never pay interest on his student overdraft. Barclays says Mr A complained about this in 
2016 and so he ought to have referred this matter within six months of his complaint. I know 
Mr A disputes this. But even if Mr A didnt complain about this matter in 2016, he was still 
aware that he was being charged at this stage. So he ought to have been aware he also had 
cause to complain about being misled, as he says, and as this is the case, he would have 
needed to complain within three years of this complaint (or six years of the overdraft having 
been provided). As he didnt, I cant look at whether he was misled in the way he says he 
was.
I now turn to the circumstances behind Mr As overdraft being removed and a default being 
recorded on his credit file. It isnt in dispute that Mr A received a letter from Barclays, in 
October 2016, telling him that his overdraft was going to be removed. It looks like this letter 
was sent because Mr A hadnt been crediting his account with sufficient funds and Barclays 
had been trying to contact him for some time about this. Mr A contacted Barclays on receipt 
of this letter and the notes suggest he appears to have told Barclays he was experiencing 
financial difficulty and a 14 day breathing space was applied to his account at this stage. 
After the breathing space completed, Mr A then completed an income and expenditure 
assessment with Barclays. Mr A confirmed that he already had arrangements in place to 
repay priority creditors which affected his ability to repay his overdraft but would complete by 
the end of January 2017. As a result of this Barclays agreed to accept token payments of 
£10 a month towards Mr As overdraft as a temporary measure. It also refunded some 
charges in December 2016 which reduced the overdraft balance further. Mr A was required 
to get in contact once his payments to his other creditors had ended.
Its worth noting that the £10 a month payments Mr A made were only ever token payments 
and werent part of any formal repayment plan as this amount was nowhere near enough to 
reduce the amount Mr A owed within a reasonable period of time. Furthermore, Mr A never 
got back in touch with Barclays to arrange a formal plan to repay his overdraft. And as a 
result of not hearing from Mr A, Barclays once again decided to begin corrective action in 
relation to removing the overdraft as it was entitled to do. It issued a further termination 
notice to Mr A in February 2017. 
I do sympathise with what Mr A has told us. I fully appreciate why hes unhappy with adverse 
information being recorded on his credit file and worried about the impact this will have. 
But by February 2017, it was clear that his situation hadnt improved and I dont think it 
would have been fair, reasonable or proportionate for Barclays to continue ignoring Mr As 
obvious and apparent difficulty, or the fact that the overdraft had become demonstrably 
unsustainable for him, indefinitely. So by this stage, I would have expected Barclays to have 
taken corrective action in the way that it did.
After all while withdrawing a facility and recording a default or other adverse information, 
might be viewed negatively by other lenders, it does offer the borrower certain protections in 
relation to the overdraft debt. And asking Barclays to remove the default, when Mr A didnt 
repay this debt in line with the initial arrangements, would arguably be counterproductive and 
not in Mr As interests or that of any future lender.
So Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable for Barclays to begin the process of taking 
corrective action in relation to Mr As overdraft when it did in February 2017. As this is the 
case and Mr A didnt or wasnt able to take steps to repay what was owed, or reach a 
suitable arrangement to repay what was owed within a reasonable period of time, Im 
satisfied that Barclays was entitled to withdraw Mr As overdraft and record the adverse 
information it did. 
Overall and having considered everything, I have not been persuaded to uphold Mr As 
complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr A. But I hope that hell 
understand the reasons for my decision and at least feel that his concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman