DRN-4273787
The complaint
Mr D complained about advice he received from Peregrine & Black Investment Management 
Limited trading as P&B Wealth (P&B) to not transfer his defined benefit (DB) pension.
What happened
Mr D met with P&B in April 2022 to discuss his circumstances and objectives as he was 
looking to transfer his DB pension. P&B later sent Mr D its abridged advice report which 
recommended that he not transfer.
Mr D complained to P&B about the advice but P&B felt the advice was suitable. Our 
investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld as also he felt P&Bs advice was 
suitable. Mr D disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
General points
Before addressing the specifics of Mr Ds complaint I want to outline some general points.
First, the advice P&B gave in this case is whats known as abridged advice. Essentially, that 
is short form advice on the transfer of a DB pension. It consists of the initial stages of a full 
advice process including a fact find, an attitude to risk assessment and confirmation of the 
benefits provided by the DB pension. But advisors are prohibited from considering a 
proposed receiving pension scheme and/or possible underlying investments. And theyre 
unable to carry out appropriate pension transfer analysis (eg getting projections and 
cashflow modelling, getting annuity illustrations and conducting comparisons). They also 
cant assess how well an alternative arrangement would meet the consumers objectives if a 
transfer went ahead.
One significant difference between abridged advice and full advice is that abridged advice 
can only result in two outcomes  either a recommendation to not transfer the DB pension or 
telling the consumer its unclear whether or not they would benefit from a transfer based on 
the information collected. In other words, theres no option under the abridged advice 
process for an advisor to recommend that a consumer transfer their DB pension. If its 
unclear whether a transfer will be beneficial the advisor will ask the consumer if they want 
full advice and will get confirmation from them that they understand the costs of doing so. 
Secondly, Section 48 of the Pension Schemes Act 2015 requires an existing pension 
scheme to check that a consumer has received full advice before transferring or converting 
safeguarded benefits into flexible benefits (unless their value is less than £30,000  which 
they werent here). So it wasnt possible for Mr D to have transferred his pension unless he 
received full advice  either from P&B or elsewhere.
Thirdly, the regulator has determined that when advising a consumer whether they should 
transfer a DB pension the advisor should start by assuming that the transfer wont be 
suitable, and to only then consider a transfer suitable if they can clearly demonstrate that its 
in the consumer's best interests. This is referred to as the presumption of unsuitability. It 
applies to both abridged advice and full advice.
Finally, an advisors role isnt to simply give advice which aligns with a consumers objectives 
and/or allows the consumer to meet those objectives. Its to look at things objectively and 
dispassionately and to provide suitable advice based on whats in the consumers best 
interests. Its therefore important to note that what a consumer might want to do might or 
might think is the best for them might not be the same as what an advisor feels is suitable or 
in their best interests. This is because the consumers objectives or wishes might be 
unrealistic and/or impossible to achieve in the circumstances.
Mr Ds advice
Mr D was clear in how he wanted to use his pension funds. Its also clear he felt his financial 
plan was sound, that he had his reasons for wanting to transfer his pension, and that he 
feels the advice process wasnt conducted in a way that took his personal circumstances into 
consideration. However, it remains that he only received abridged advice. So, as outlined 
above, it simply wasnt possible for P&B to recommended that he transfer his pension  he 
would have needed to get full advice in order to potentially receive that recommendation 
and/or to then transfer his pension.
In its advice report P&B listed the reasons for recommending that Mr D not transfer. These 
included:
Mr D wasnt old enough to access his pension so it wasnt essential to transfer right 
away
existing savings and investments could provide the flexibility Mr D needed in the short 
term
Mr D was looking for new employment and if he was successful he might not need to 
access his pension funds until he decided to fully retire
transferring the pension meant sacrificing a safeguarded and secured pension
Mr D would become responsible for all charges on the new pension.
I dont think it was unreasonable for the advisor to rely on these reasons to conclude that a 
transfer wasnt suitable for Mr D. Given the two options available, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for the advisor to recommend that Mr D not transfer.
Mr D is understandably looking at this from the perspective of the transfer value of his DB 
pension  particularly as it reduced from £835,000 in March 2022 to £515,000 in November 
2022. He said, for example, that DB pension values were on the downturn prior to the 
meeting in April 2022 and that alarm bells should have been ringing for the advisor given 
interest rates were starting to rise and guilt values were changing.
P&B told Mr D  in its Our Services and Costs document and in the advice report  that the 
transfer value could increase or decrease before any transfer took place. In any event, the 
primary purpose of the pension is to provide retirement income for Mr D. And the advisors 
primary responsibility was to recommend what he thought was in Mr Ds best interests 
having weighed up the pros and cons of staying in the DB pension compared to transferring 
it. I dont think a potential change in transfer value comes into that consideration  
particularly when its only abridged advice. This is because the advisor is looking at the 
situation at the specific point in time, it cant be predicted whats going to happen. The advisor is also not doing any analysis on what pension benefits the transfer value might buy 
when Mr D retires or how much the transfer value might need to grow in order to match the 
guaranteed benefits being given up. And changes to the transfer value (whether up or down) 
had no effect on Mr Ds guaranteed benefits available under the DB pension or on the risks 
involved in transferring.
In respect of getting full advice Mr D said that when he asked about this P&B said it would 
most likely result in the same recommendation to not transfer. As Ive mentioned above, to 
enable a transfer Mr D had to get full advice. And if he decided to proceed down that route 
P&B was obliged to outline the costs (which were around £13,000) to him. So when Mr D 
asked it about full advice P&B only really had two options  to do as it did and give him the 
likely costs and warn him of the likely outcome of full advice; or give him the costs and stay 
silent on the likely outcome.
The presumption of unsuitability would have applied to the full advice. So P&B would have 
only been able to recommend the transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that doing so was in 
Mr Ds best interests  and Mr D wanting to transfer isnt necessarily the same as a transfer 
being in his best interests. In my experience, there must be compelling reasons to 
recommend a transfer and its a high bar for advisors to overcome. Had Mr D proceeded to 
get full advice and a full analysis been conducted theres a possibility that in this particular 
case and set of circumstances P&B might have clearly demonstrated that a transfer was 
suitable for Mr D (although, to avoid any doubt, I havent consider or reached on conclusion 
on this). However, the presumption of unsuitability in my opinion suggests that a 
recommendation to transfer is unsuitable in the vast majority of cases  and thats certainly 
true with most of the complaints that I see. So I dont think P&B acted unfairly in warning 
Mr D that there was a strong possibility he might spend £13,000 to simply receive the same 
advice.
To summarise the above, in my view P&B didnt treat Mr D unfairly because:
it couldnt have recommended that he transfer his DB pension as it wasnt an option 
available under the abridged advice process
the recommendation given, and the reasoning for it, was reasonable
the information it gave Mr D about the full advice process was fair.
In closing, I recognise that Mr D has raised various issues in support of his complaint eg he 
was vulnerable at the time, he wasnt told he could use another provider to transfer his 
pension, P&B was looking to transfer his pension when he turned 54 (which was only a few 
months away). I dont think these affect the outcome of the complaint or the reasons behind 
my decision as because the fundamental issues Ive outlined above remain.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman