DRN-3643902
The complaint
Miss R complains BAG Credit Union Limited (BAG) didnt tell her their annual membership 
fee was increasing.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator, for 
these reasons:
Miss R says she became aware BAG charged a £3 annual membership fee in late 
2013. However, she only became aware it had increased to £5 after checking her 
balance in January 2022. BAG said the fee was increased following their 2016 
annual general meeting (AGM). Our Service doesnt have the power to interfere with 
a business commercial decision, so we cant make a finding on whether BAG should 
or shouldnt have increased their membership fee. But we can determine whether 
Miss R was treated fairly in the way this change was communicated to her, so thats 
what Ive done.
BAG says members would have been notified of the 2016 AGM by posters on the 
shop counter and the noticeboard and window of the venue in which it was due to be 
held. Theyve also explained neither the agenda, nor minutes were posted to 
members unless they were specifically requested. However, they could be viewed in 
the shop at any time. Miss R had moved away from the area when the AGM took 
place, and this was due to her personal circumstances. This meant she didnt see the 
posters or notices, and in turn wasnt aware of the AGM. 
I appreciate BAG are a not for profit organisation and need to be mindful of postage 
costs. However, I would expect any financial business to take sufficient steps to 
ensure all their customers are made aware of changes to the terms of their 
agreement before theyre implemented. I dont consider the steps detailed above 
went far enough to do that for customers with similar circumstances to Miss R. She 
shouldnt have had to attend a meeting or visit a branch to find out the terms of her 
account were changing. So, I dont consider it was unreasonable in the 
circumstances that she was surprised and unhappy that she found out about the 
changes five years after the event.
While I consider BAG didnt treat Miss R fairly, I dont consider they need to do 
anything to put things right. Thats because Miss R didnt share her new address with 
BAG until she complained in January 2022.  So, even if they had sent information 
outlining the increase in membership fee, Miss R wouldnt have received it.
I understand Miss R has been through a difficult time with her personal 
circumstances and the condition shes recently been diagnosed with. I also 
acknowledge these circumstances may have influenced the choices she made at the 
time. However, I dont consider it would be fair to hold BAG fully at fault for Miss R 
not finding out about the increased fee until January 2022. Thats because Miss R 
wouldnt have received any information they sent  and in turn she always would 
have found out about the change in the way, and at the time, she did.  
I know this isnt the outcome Miss R hoped for. But given the reasons above, I dont consider 
BAG needs to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Rs complaint about BAG Credit Union Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman