DRN-2043640
The complaint
Mr H has complained about a guarantor loan that was given to him by Everyday Lending 
Limited (EDL).
What happened
Mr H was given a loan for £6,000 by EDL in March 2019. The loan was due to be repaid in 
60 monthly instalments of around £236. The total amount payable, including interest, was 
just over £14,166. I understand the loan is still outstanding.
Mr H first complained to EDL that it hadnt provided him with a settlement figure when he 
requested one and that interest was therefore unfairly accruing on his account. EDL agreed 
that it hadnt processed his request for a settlement figure correctly and it offered him £25.00 
as compensation.
Mr H brought his complaint to this service. EDL later agreed that the affordability of Mr Hs 
loan could also be investigated, as part of his complaint.
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mr Hs complaint. She didnt think EDL should have 
provided the loan to Mr H.  So she asked EDL to put things right.
EDL doesnt appear to have responded to the adjudicators assessment. As the matter has 
not been settled informally, Mr Hs complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law.  
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Hs complaint.
I think there are several overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
1. Did EDL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr H 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable 
and proportionate checks have shown at the time? 
2. Ultimately, did EDL make a fair lending decision?
3. Did EDL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
EDL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr H irresponsibly. This 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to satisfy itself that he could 
repay the loan in a sustainable way. The lender was required to carry out a borrower 
focussed assessment - sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check. 
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so EDL had to think about whether repaying the 
loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr H. In practice this 
meant that the lender had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr 
H undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for EDL to 
simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of 
loan repayments on Mr H.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer, such as their financial history, current situation and outlook, any indications of 
financial difficulty and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough: 
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the evidence, arguments and information Ive seen about this 
matter and what it means for Mr H.
Did EDL carry out reasonable and proportionate checks? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
EDL carried out some checks before it gave the loan to Mr H. This included asking for details 
of his income and expenditure and acquiring a credit report. It assessed that the loan was 
affordable for him.
But Mr H was applying to EDL for an expensive loan which was repayable over a long 
period. If the loan ran to term, Mr H would have to repay over £14,000. The rules and 
guidance suggest that the risk of any credit not being sustainable directly relates to the 
amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit - relative to the customers financial 
situation.
From what Ive seen, EDL was aware from its checks that Mr H already had a considerable 
amount of outstanding debt, including hire purchase, credit cards and several open loans. 
EDL might have been prepared to accept this credit risk because the loan had a guarantor 
who was equally liable with Mr H. This might have given EDL more confidence that the loan 
repayments would be made. But I dont think that the existence of the guarantor, on its own, 
meant that Mr H himself would be able to sustainably make the repayments. 
The rules and regulations say that where a lender takes income or expenditure into account, 
it is not generally sufficient for it to rely solely on a statement of those matters made by the 
customer. I appreciate that EDL had carried out some checks. But I think in the 
circumstances EDL ought reasonably to have sought a more detailed understanding of Mr 
Hs financial position in order to assess whether hed be able to sustainably repay his loan 
over the extended 60-months loan term. So as well as asking Mr H about the details of his 
income and expenditure, I think EDL should have verified more of the information he 
provided  for example by asking to see his bank statements. 
Mr H has provided us with copies of his bank statements in the months leading up to his 
application to EDL, so I can determine what better checks might have shown the lender at 
that time. And I have considered this information in light of what Ive set out above. Of 
course, different checks might show different things. But I think if EDL had carried out what I 
consider to be proportionate checks, I think its likely it would have discovered more about 
Mr Hs financial position. In particular I think it more likely than not EDL would have realised 
that Mr H had been regularly gambling considerable amounts of money. Mr Hs bank 
statements also show some other evidence of financial distress  including returned 
requests for payment, arranged and unarranged overdraft fees and other charges. Mr H was 
also consistently overdrawn and he was borrowing from other short-term lenders.
Taking it as a whole, I think if EDL had carried our proportionate checks it would most likely 
have discovered Mr Hs true financial situation. I think EDL ought reasonably to have 
realised that Mr H was having serious difficulties managing his finances and that he was 
most likely borrowing from other lenders as a result of his gambling  and would also most 
likely need to borrow elsewhere to repay his loan from EDL. I think EDL ought reasonably to 
have realised that it was unlikely that Mr H would be able to sustainably repay his loan. So it 
should reasonably have concluded that it was not appropriate to lend to him. 
Did EDL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Mr H has complained about what happened when he tried to settle his loan early. The lender 
had to treat Mr H positively and sympathetically in these discussions. I am not persuaded 
that it failed to do so in this respect. I can see that EDL admitted that it didnt process Mr Hs 
request properly at the time so there was a delay in providing Mr H with a settlement figure. 
But EDL has apologised for its mistake and offered him £25 in compensation. I dont know 
whether this would have covered the amount of additional interest that Mr H had to pay because of the delay in providing him with a settlement figure. But in any event, I dont need 
to make a finding on this as I am upholding Mr Hs complaint about the loan and directing 
that any interest charged on the loan is removed from Mr Hs account. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr H to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan 
that shouldnt have been provided to him.  So I think Mr H has lost out and EDL should put 
things right for him.
EDL should:
a) Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. Any 
payments made by Mr H should then be deducted from the new starting balance. If 
the payments Mr H has made total more than the amount he was originally lent, then 
any surplus should be treated as overpayments and refunded to him with 8% simple 
interest* calculated on any overpayments made, from the date they were paid by Mr 
H to the date the complaint is settled. 
b) If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated above should be 
used to repay any balance remaining on the loan. If this results in a surplus then the 
surplus should be paid to Mr H. However if there is still an outstanding balance then 
EDL should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr H, bearing in mind the 
need to treat him positively and sympathetically in those discussions.
c) Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file as a result of this 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires EDL to deduct tax from this interest. EDL should give Mr 
H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
Having considered all the evidence provided to me and reflecting on what is most likely to 
have happened in the circumstances, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Everyday 
Lending Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2020.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman