DRN-3817013
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W complain that Go Car Credit Limited irresponsibly granted them a hire 
purchase agreement they couldnt afford to repay. Mr W also complains that the direct debit 
wasnt set up correctly for payments. 
What happened
In August 2021, Mr W and Mrs W acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase 
agreement from Go Car Credit. They were required to make 48 monthly repayments of 
around £450. The total repayable under the agreement was around £21,610.
Mr W says that Go Car Credit didnt complete adequate affordability checks and he raised 
concerns about the information that had been included. Go Car Credit said that it carried out 
a thorough assessment which included a credit check and going through an income and 
expenditure assessment with Mr W. It said based on this the lending was affordable. 
Mr W also said that the direct debit wasnt set up properly and he wasnt notified when this 
was cancelled. Go Car Credit said that the direct debit was set up correctly but was 
cancelled in branch in September 2021. It apologised that when this issue was discussed 
Mr W was told he wouldnt have been told about the cancellation and confirmed that he 
would have received an automatic email confirming the cancellation.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Go Car Credit didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr W didnt agree. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Go Car Credit will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
There are two parts to Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint. The first is about the setting up and 
cancellation of the direct debit. The second is about the checks carried out before the 
agreement was provided.
Direct debit
Mr W has said he wasnt aware that his direct debit had been cancelled in September 2021, 
and only became aware of this when he contacted his branch. I understand Mr Ws 
frustration with this issue but Go Car Credit has confirmed that the direct debit was set up 
correctly in August 2021. The direct debit was cancelled but this was not due to actions by 
Go Car Credit and it has confirmed that an automatic email of the cancellation was sent. 
Mr W says he didnt receive this notification, and unfortunately Go Car Credit havent been 
able to provide evidence from their system notes of this. However, on balance, I find it more 
likely than not that it was sent. I also find that it was Mr W and Mrs Ws responsibility to 
ensure the direct debit was in place to meet the payments due under the agreement.
Affordability checks
Before providing the agreement, Go Car Credit carried out a joint credit check on Mr W and 
Mrs W and undertook an income and expenditure assessment. The joint credit report 
showed three defaulted accounts - a mail order, current account and credit card account. Go 
Car Credit has said that the most recent default was nine months prior to the application for 
finance. Additional to the defaults there were two county court judgements recorded 
(October 2020 and January 2018). I think this ought to have indicated that Mr W and Mrs W 
were likely to be struggling financially. It therefore would have been proportionate for Go Car 
Credit to have got a thorough understanding of their financial circumstances before lending.
Additional to the credit check, an income and expenditure assessment took place. This 
showed that Mr W and Mrs Ws joint monthly income was around £2,854 and their monthly 
expenses were around £2,087. The income figure was in part supported by the bank 
statements provided and I have listened to the call on which the income and expenses were 
confirmed. The expenditure assessment included costs such as mortgages, other credit 
commitments, utilities, council tax, transport and food. Having looked through the results 
from the credit check and the bank statements and listened to the call I do not find the 
information included in the income and expenses was unreasonable. 
Based on the evidence provided I find that proportionate checks did take place and that Go 
Car Credit gathered sufficient information to get a clear understanding of Mr W and Mrs Ws 
financial circumstances. As this assessment suggested the agreement was affordable, I do 
not find I can say it was wrong to provide the finance.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman