DRN-4029716
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly closed her accounts without providing 
a proper explanation. 
What happened
Firstly, I am aware that Mrs G has made another complaint to this service with her husband 
concerning a mortgage offer, which was withdrawn by Barclays. This has been dealt with 
separately. This decision will deal with Mrs Gs complaint about the closure of her accounts. 
Mrs G had two accounts with Barclays  a current account and foreign currency account 
which shed opened in 2002 and 2014. Mrs G has explained that she used her current  
account to receive her income payments. Mrs G has said that she used her foreign currency 
account to receive money from her father to help her support herself whilst she was studying 
and to help fund the purchases of two properties. 
In January 2019, Barclays reviewed Mrs Gs accounts. Following this, the bank decided to 
close all of Mrs Gs accounts and wrote to her in March 2019, giving her two months to 
notice to make alternative banking arrangements. 
Mrs G says at the time Barclays decided to close her accounts, she was purchasing a 
property and had arranged a mortgage with Barclays to help fund the purchase which was 
due to complete in early March 2019. Mrs G says she found out that Barclays had decided to 
close her accounts when her conveyancing solicitor contacted Barclays to arrange for the 
release of the mortgage funds to complete her property purchase. She then went to her old 
address and recovered the letter Barclays had sent to her about closing her accounts.
Mrs G rang Barclays and asked them to explain why it was closing her accounts. Barclays 
wouldnt give Mrs G much information and said it was closing Mrs Gs accounts in line with 
the terms and conditions. Mrs G complained to the bank. She said the closure of her 
accounts had caused her a great deal of inconvenience and upset  especially as at the time 
she was buying a property. In response, Barclays said it hadnt done anything wrong and 
had acted in line with the terms of the account. Unhappy with this response Mrs G brought 
her complaint to this service. 
Mrs G has explained that she feels Barclays has discriminated against her by closing her 
accounts because of her nationality. She has pointed out that shes been a loyal customer of 
Barclays for many years and says she has always operated her account properly, so she 
cant understand why the bank would no longer want her as a customer. Mrs G said the 
banks actions have caused her considerable anxiety, distress, and inconvenience. She 
wants the bank to provide an explanation for why it closed her accounts and pay 
compensation for the trouble and upset she has been caused.
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mrs Gs complaint. She thought Barclays hadnt done 
anything wrong when it had closed her accounts. She also said that due to the length of time 
that had passed since Barclays closed Mrs Gs accounts, there was no information regarding 
Mrs Gs address history with Barclays. And although Barclays had sent the notice to close 
letter to Mrs Gs previous address, Mrs G had been made aware of the banks intention to 
close her accounts through her solicitor at the time. 
Mrs G disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She says Barclays 
has discriminated against her because of her nationality and wants to know the reasons 
behind Barclays decision to close her accounts. So, the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mrs G is upset that Barclays closed her accounts. I can also understand 
that this was no doubt stressful and upsetting for her especially as at the time Mrs G and her 
husband were about to complete on the purchase of a new home. But for me to uphold this 
complaint, I must be satisfied that the bank has done something wrong. And in this case, I 
dont think it has. Ill explain why.
Firstly, banks are entitled to decide for themselves whether to do business or continue doing 
business with a customer. Each financial institution has its own criteria and risk assessment 
for deciding whether to open or close accounts. Providing an account to a customer is a 
commercial decision that a financial institution is entitled to take. Thats because it has the 
commercial freedom to decide who it wants as a customer. And unless theres a good 
reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer. But they 
shouldnt close an account for an improper reason, for instance of unfair bias or unlawful 
discrimination. And they must treat new and existing customers fairly. 
Banks should, however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Barclayss gave Mrs G 60 days notice. Ive reviewed the terms and conditions and 
circumstances of this complaint, and Im satisfied Barclays acted in line with them, so, it was 
entitled to close the accounts as it has already done. 
Mrs G says that Barclays sent the notice to close letter to her previous address and wasnt 
addressed to her actual apartment at the address. Ive seen a copy of the letter and copies 
of Mrs Gs bank statements  all of which have the same address  which Mrs G says is 
incorrect. Due to the amount of time that has now passed since Mrs Gs accounts were 
closed Barclays havent been able to provide this service with the address history that Mrs G 
gave to the bank. So, Im unable to say why Barclays appear to have the wrong address 
recorded for Mrs G. However, I cant see that Mrs G has been caused any detriment by this 
error. I say this because she retrieved the letter from the address within days of the letter 
being sent. She was also made aware that her accounts were due to be closed through her 
solicitor whod spoken to Barclays regarding the mortgage funds. So, Im satisfied that Mrs G 
knew the bank had decided to close her accounts. 
I appreciate that the timing of Barclays actions was unfortunate. Mrs G was about to 
complete a house purchase, which can be stressful. So, I can understand why she found the 
whole experience upsetting. But as Ive already explained, whilst I appreciate Mrs G was 
inconvenienced and upset when her accounts were closed, having looked at all the 
evidence, I cant say Barclays treated Mrs G unfairly when it closed her accounts. 
The crux of Mrs Gs complaint is that she wants to know why Barclays closed her accounts. 
Mrs G has told us that she tried to find out what was happening with her accounts and why 
Barclays no longer wanted her as a customer. But Barclays wouldnt give her much information. She says she has also reviewed the terms of her account and cannot find a 
reason applicable to her for the bank to close her accounts. I understand why Mrs G wants 
to know the banks reasons behind its decision  it cant be pleasant being told youre no 
longer wanted as a customer. But Barclays is under no obligation to tell Mrs G the reasons 
behind the account closure, as much as shed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything 
wrong by not giving Mrs G this information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it 
to do so. But I want to reassure Mrs G that Ive looked at all the information provided by her 
and Barclays, and there is nothing that would lead me to conclude Mrs G has been treated 
unfairly. 
Mrs G has said that she feels Barclays has discriminated against because of her nationality 
when they closed her accounts. While I can appreciate this is her perspective, it is not my 
role to decide whether discrimination has taken place  only the courts have the power to 
decide this. I have, however, considered the relevant law in relation to what Mrs G has said 
when deciding what I think is the fair and reasonable outcome. Part of this has meant 
considering the provisions of The Equality Act 2010 (The Act). And after looking at all the 
evidence, Ive not seen anything to suggest that this was the case. So, I havent found that 
Barclays decided to close the accounts for an improper reason.
In summary, I understand that Mrs G has been upset and inconvenienced by Barclays 
actions. And I appreciate it must have been a worrying time for her. So, I realise she will be 
disappointed by my decision. But for the reasons Ive set out, I dont think the bank has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances. So, I dont require it to take any further 
action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman