DRN-3495725
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy Starling Bank Limited has refused to refund money he lost to an investment 
scam.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail but, in summary:
Between July and September 2022 Mr R was duped into giving money to what he believed 
was a cryptocurrency trading firm, but which turned out to be a scam. The scammers helped 
Mr R open an account with a genuine cryptocurrency exchange and persuaded him to send 
money first to that account and then on to the scammers account. An initial £250 debit card 
payment was sent from an account he held with another bank. The scammers then gave 
Mr R access to a platform which allowed him to see how his investment was performing. 
They also sent regular updates promoting cryptocurrency investments and reporting how 
well his was performing. This persuaded him to invest a further £22,500, which was sent via 
four bank transfers from his Starling account. He also received a £440 investment return into 
his Starling account between the second and third payments that ended up with the 
scammer.
Mr R complained to Starling after the scammer refused to return his money. Starling said the 
money was sent to a genuine cryptocurrency account and it couldnt have intervened or 
prevented his losses.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld, but Starling disagreed. 
So the complaint has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigator that this complaint should be upheld. I say this 
for the following reasons.
Its not in dispute that Mr R authorised the four disputed payments. And so, under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of his account, he is presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance. But the matter doesnt end there.
Starling has suggested it shouldnt be held responsible for Mr Rs losses because the money 
was lost after Mr R transferred it from his own cryptocurrency account to the scammer. But, I 
dont agree. I think Starling had a responsibility to be on the lookout for unusual activity and 
protect consumers from financial harm. And cryptocurrency scams had been increasing in 
frequency so that, by mid-2018, both the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and Action 
Fraud had published specific warnings about these scams. I think, by the time Mr R made 
these payments, Starling had had ample time to understand these warnings and be on the 
lookout for this particular type of fraud. I think it ought to have been aware that scammers 
were using genuine cryptocurrency exchanges, wallets and platforms as a way of defrauding 
customers and that these scams often involved money passing through more than one 
account.
Starling says Mr R had made high value payments in June 2020, so the £5,000 payment to 
the crypto exchange wasnt unusual. But most of the payments were to another bank 
account held in his own name, made soon after his salary came in. And all of the payments 
Starling has referred to were for £2,500 or less. His account had only been open for a couple 
of months by the time he made the first, £5,000 transfer to what was a new payee. In the 
circumstances, I do think the payment of £5,000 was significantly unusual and out of 
character such that Starling ought to have made further enquiries.
Starling has pointed to warnings it would have given to Mr R both when he set up the crypto-
exchange as a new payee and when he sent money there, after choosing the investment 
option. But the bank says the new payee warning merely asked the reader to stop and think 
if they might be falling victim to a scam. The high risk payment warning talks about contact 
having been made by social media which wasnt how Mr Rs relationship with the scammer 
had started. And, while it recommended the reader should research the company, it doesnt 
include much detail about how to do this. Nor does the article/blog Starling has pointed to on 
its website, from April 2020, talk specifically about the type of scam Mr R fell victim to. 
Mr R doesnt recall seeing the warnings but says he checked, and saw only positive, online 
reviews for the company. So he had no concerns about proceeding. I dont think the 
warnings were enough, in the particular circumstances of this complaint, to alert Mr R to the 
possibility he might be falling victim to a scam.
I think if Starling had intervened and explained specifically how cryptocurrency scams work, 
Mr R wouldnt likely have made the investments. I say this despite knowing that the FCAs 
warning about this particular scammer wasnt published until approximately one week after 
Mr R sent his fourth and final transfer. I think the situation Mr R found himself in bore all the 
hallmarks of a cryptocurrency scam and Starling could have easily uncovered this, and 
prevented any losses, had it asked Mr R a few, obvious questions.
Ive considered whether Mr R should bear some responsibility for his losses. But Ive seen 
and taken into account a number of pieces of correspondence that passed between him and 
the scammer. And I note, in particular, that the return of his £440 profit encouraged him to 
believe he was transacting with a genuine cryptocurrency trader and send more money. Im 
satisfied hes simply the unwitting and blameless victim of a clever fraudster. 
In all the circumstances, I think Starling should fairly and reasonably reimburse Ms S for all 
of the financial losses he suffered due to this scam.
Putting things right
I think Starling ought to have made additional enquiries when Mr R made the first payment 
which would have prevented the scam, so the bank should reimburse this and the 
subsequent three payments.
However, I do think its fair to take into account the £440 payment Mr R received back from 
the scammer, which was paid into his Starling account. He seems to have attributed this to 
the initial £250 debit card payment he made. But, as Ive already said, the payment was 
made after the first two transfers left his Starling account. In the circumstances, I think its 
fair for the entire £440 to be deducted from the £22,500 refund.The investigator recommended that 8% pa, simple interest be added to the payment refunds 
but I dont agree. I say that because Mr R has said he uses his Starling account mainly to 
receive his salary and he then transfers most of the money out to an account he holds with 
another bank  I can see this on his statements. That money is then used to cover 
household and holiday expenses. And neither that, not this Starling, account attract interest. 
In the circumstances, I dont think its fair to award interest on the disputed transactions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct Starling Bank Limited to pay 
£22,060 to Mr R.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman