DRN-2784371
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out in 1997 in connection with a joint mortgage. Mr W and Mrs W say Bank of 
Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them PPI.
They also complained about the way Bank of Scotland plc handled their complaint. They 
want more compensation than has been offered.
What happened
Mr W and Mrs W took out a PPI policy alongside their mortgage. They paid a monthly 
amount for the policy which offered accident, sickness and unemployment cover. They 
complain they were not given the option to decline the policy; they thought it was part of the 
mortgage package.
Mr W and Mrs W also complained about the way Bank of Scotland handled their complaint  
they said Bank of Scotland had been untruthful and uncooperative. Mr W said he waited 8 
months for a telephone interview and waited six months for a final response letter to be sent.
Bank of Scotland produced a timeline to show when it sent letters to Mr W and Mrs W.
However, it accepted its service fell below its normal standards. It offered to pay them 
£100.00 for their distress and inconvenience. They refused the offer  they want more 
compensation.
Bank of Scotland rejected their PPI mis-sale complaint.
And Bank of Scotland also said that it doesnt have to give back any of the commission or 
profit share Mr W and Mrs W paid from their policy  because the rules and guidance about 
this dont apply to their complaint.
Our adjudicator looked at all of this  but thought the PPI mis-sale complaint should be 
rejected.  And they thought that what Bank of Scotland had said about commission, profit 
share and the offer for distress and inconvenience was right.
Mr W and Mrs W disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked 
at again.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
PPI Mis-sale
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws and Mrs Ws case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Bank of Scotland should have made Mr W and Mrs W aware they had a choice in buying the 
policy. Mr W and Mrs W say they were not aware the policy was an optional product.
Neither Bank of Scotland nor Mr W and Mrs W have any paperwork from the time of sale. I 
dont think thats surprising given that the sale took place around 24 years ago. But it does 
mean I have limited information about the sale, so I have to decide what I think is likely to 
have happened, given the information I do have and the broader circumstances.
Based on what I know about how Bank of Scotland sold policies like this at the time I think 
its likely the optional nature would have been made clear. And nothing Mr W and Mrs W 
have told me makes me think Bank of Scotland didnt follow its normal process here. So 
overall, I think its more likely Bank of Scotland made it clear to Mr W and Mrs W they had a 
choice about the PPI, and they agreed to buy it although I can understand why they may not 
remember this now.
Bank of Scotland says the sale was advised, so it means the PPI information had to be clear 
enough for Mr W and Mrs W to make an informed decision and the policy had to be suitable 
for their needs. 
I think the policy probably was suitable for Mr W and Mrs W because they were eligible to 
buy PPI, it seemed affordable at the time and they were not affected by the main things the 
policy didnt cover (the exclusions).
I noted Mr W and Mrs W say they would have received some sick pay benefits from their 
employer. But the policy could have paid out for a maximum of 12 months. This would have 
been alongside their sick pay and would have also covered them if they were made 
unemployed. I noted also that Mr W and Mrs W said they had some savings and other 
insurance at the time of the PPI sale. But I think having the policy would have meant the PPI 
could cover their mortgage repayment for a length of time, leaving their savings and other 
insurances for other pressing expenses.
 
I also noted Mr W and Mrs W borrowed funds against a large and long-term financial 
commitment, which was secured on their home. So I think having the security that their 
mortgage repayments would be made if either Mr W or Mrs W were unable to work would 
have been important to them.
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr 
W and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it could have been. But having decided Mr W 
and Mrs W chose to take out the PPI - it looks like they wanted this type of cover. And  for 
the reasons Ive explained above - it looks like the policy would have been useful for them if 
something went wrong.
It also looks like the policy was affordable for them so I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have put Mr W and Mrs W off from taking out the cover. And overall I dont 
think Mr W and Mrs W have lost out by anything Bank of Scotland might have done wrong.
I realise that my decision is likely to be disappointing for Mr W and Mrs W. Its always difficult 
to decide a complaint on very little information. But Ive thought very carefully about what Mr 
W and Mrs W have said and about what I know of Bank of Scotlands sales processes. And I 
dont think  on balance  I can fairly and reasonably uphold their complaint.
Complaint handlingMr W and Mrs W have also complained about the way Bank of Scotland handled their PPI 
mis-sale complaint. I can see there were delays which made Mr B think MBNA was being 
uncooperative, but I also note this was a busy time for all businesses in respect of PPI 
complaints. So I think Bank of Scotlands offer of £100 is a fair way to settle this part of the 
complaint. This means I will not uphold Mr Ws and Mrs Ws complaint for more 
compensation.
Non-Disclosure of Commission
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship provisions 
in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were added to 
the Consumer Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship provisions would only apply to credit agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
Bank of Scotland has given me information that shows Mr Ws and Mrs Ws mortgage was 
taken out in 1997 and ended in 2004. So based on what Ive said above, I dont think the 
unfair relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment, or 
the rules and guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission 
apply here.
So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr W and Mrs W paid for 
the PPI they had with their mortgage.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold any part of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman