DRN-3162454
The complaint
Mr D is not happy with the way Hastings Insurance Services Limited (Hastings) dealt with 
the cancellation of his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D took out car insurance through Hastings in January 2021. He paid for the policy in 
monthly instalments under a loan agreement. 
In March 2021 Mr D sold his car. Hastings wrote to Mr D telling him that his policy would be 
cancelled in seven days and confirmed the cancellation seven days later. Mr D was told that 
the sum of £62.92 was owing, including a £20 arrangement fee and a £45 cancellation fee.
Mr D complained to Hastings. He was not happy that having sold his car he was only 
allowed seven days to buy another car to add to his policy. He was also unhappy with the 
amount that was still due under the policy. 
Hastings said that as Mr D had sold his car there was no insurable interest and therefore the 
policy had to be cancelled. They referred to their terms and conditions. They said the policy 
premium was due for the 85 days of cover that Mr D had used, and this had been calculated 
on a daily rate, plus interest. The cancellation and arrangement fees were added to this. 
They thought that their calculations were correct.
Mr D was not satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service. He said that he 
should have been given a reasonable time to find another car to add to his policy rather than 
having it cancelled. He also thought that the sums due on cancellation were unfair. In May 
2021 Hastings admitted that there had been a miscalculation in the interest payment and the 
outstanding balance was reduced to £52.40. They also offered £20 compensation for their 
mistake and this was deducted from the balance. Mr D still thought that he had been treated 
unfairly.
Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She 
thought that Hastings had acted fairly in cancelling the policy and offering to refund the 
cancellation fee if Mr D took out a new policy within 30 days. She also thought the amount 
due on cancellation had been calculated fairly. Mr D didnt agree and asked for the matter to 
be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D is unhappy that he was not given a reasonable time to add a new car to his policy 
before it was cancelled. He thinks that 30 days would have been fair. However, a car 
insurance policy cannot continue if there is no car to insure. Hastings terms and conditions 
allow for the cancellation of the policy with seven days notice in certain circumstances. This 
includes if Your insurer is prevented from providing cover under this Policy by law or other 
reason. I think that as there was no insurable interest, it was reasonable for Hastings to 
cancel the policy. 
Hastings did, however, offer to refund the cancellation fee should Mr D decide to insure his 
new car with Hastings within 30 days. This effectively gave Mr D 30 days to buy a new car  
and meant that he wasnt paying for a policy that he was getting no benefit from in the 
meantime. I dont therefore think that Hastings have treated Mr D unfairly by cancelling his 
policy.  
Mr Ds insurance policy was a yearly contract which he paid by monthly instalments. The 
yearly premium is effectively paid up front by a credit company and the consumer agrees to 
pay the credit company each month for the policy plus interest. When the policy is cancelled, 
the consumer can get a refund of the remaining time left on the policy, minus any fees.
Mr D thought that as he had been paying for his insurance monthly, he should be up to date 
with payments and that there would be little owing at cancellation. This is true and in fact Mr 
D was in credit at the time the policy was cancelled. Mr Ds policy covered him for 85 days. 
For the purposes of the cancellation, Hastings calculated the cover on a daily rate and I think 
this is fair. This ensures that payment is only made for the days the car is on cover, and not 
for a whole month. The same applies to the interest. I have checked the calculations and am 
satisfied that the cost of cover and the interest was £103.26 up to the date of cancellation. 
As Mr D had already paid three instalments totalling £116, he was therefore £12.74 in credit. 
However, Mr D was also required to pay the £45 cancellation fee and £20 arrangement fee.
This service thinks it fair in principle for a business to charge a cancellation fee. However, 
the fee should not be a penalty for cancellation but should reflect the businesss 
administrative tasks. I dont think a fee of £45 is unreasonable and is within the range of fees 
that we see. 
Ive looked at the policy documents that Mr D was sent, and the summary of cover clearly 
states the fees that are payable. I dont therefore think that its unfair for these to be charged.
Mr D was also charged a £20 arrangement fee. This is a one-off fee for setting up the policy. 
It was charged at the commencement of the policy and included in the initial yearly premium 
that Mr D was paying. It is not a new fee. I know that Mr D was concerned that Hastings 
included this fee in their pro rata premium calculation, but I have made the calculation myself 
and can see that Hastings deducted the £20 fee before working out the daily rate. 
The total cost of Mr Ds policy on cancellation was £168.26. Mr D had already paid £116 and 
so the sum owing on cancellation was £52.26. This is the amount that Hastings say is due 
and therefore I dont think they have calculated it incorrectly or unfairly. 
Hastings accept that they initially made a mistake with the calculation of the interest. They 
wrote to Mr D in May to inform him of this and offered £20 compensation. Mr D had not 
made the payment at that time, so he wasnt out of pocket. Hastings adjusted the amount he 
owed, and the £20 compensation was deducted. I think this was fair.
I understand Mr Ds frustrations regarding not being able to add a new car to his policy, but I 
dont think that Hastings have done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman