DRN-2726775
The complaint
Mr P complains that an investment disappeared from his online account with National 
Westminster Bank Plc (Nat West) and that he had to report this to them to get it fixed.
Mr P also complains about the price he received on a purchase made through the Nat West 
service.
What happened
Mr P held a stocks and shares ISA with Nat West and made several purchases on his 
account on 16 April 2020. When Mr P logged onto his account on 20 April 2020, one of his 
purchases was not showing on his account.
Concerned that one of his was investments was missing, Mr P contacted Nat West 
immediately. Nat West said that there was a system fault and that they would get the issue 
fixed as soon as possible.
Nat West fixed the online issue and provided Mr P with assurance that his investment had 
been safe during the system fault.
Mr P also complained to Nat West on 20 April 2020 about the price he had received on a 
fund purchase that he had made on the 16 April 2020. Mr P said that he spoke to an adviser 
at Nat West who gave him incorrect information on how his fund purchase had been dealt. 
Nat West apologised for the advisers mistake in leaving Mr P with the impression that his 
fund purchase had been priced incorrectly but confirmed that it had been placed correctly 
and in line with normal market practice.
Nat West offered Mr P £100 compensation for the service that he had received and the 
trouble and upset that the system error had caused.
Unhappy with Nat Wests response, Mr P referred his complaint to the service and one of 
our investigators investigated the complaint. The investigator thought that Nat West had 
acted fairly in trying to resolve the complaint and agreed with Nat Wests response.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr P has asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and will 
not be upholding his complaint. I know that Mr P feels strongly about his complaint and I will 
explain why I have reached this decision.
Mr Ps complaint is split into two issues and I will deal with each one in turn.
Investment not displaying on Nat West Platform
Mr P placed a purchase on 16 April 2020 and when he logged onto his account on 20 April 
2020, he could not see the purchase. Mr P was concerned and contacted Nat West 
immediately.
Nat West confirmed the system issue and said that they would fix the problem. Nat West 
resolved the issue within a week and the investment was restored to Mr Ps online account 
with no loss.
In his submission to the service, Mr P has said that had he not detected the error and 
contacted Nat West, his money would have just disappeared leaving him with a loss.
I acknowledge that Mr P would have been rightly concerned that he could not see a recent 
purchase on his account and that this would have been a stressful time. I need to look at 
what actions Nat West took to resolve the issue and having reviewed the file, I think that they 
attempted to resolve the issue as quickly as they could and that they tried to reassure Mr P 
that his investments were safe.
The service cant look at hypothetical situations and what may have happened. I can only 
look at what did happen and what the impact of this was. System issues do occur from time 
to time and although I sympathise with Mr P that this would have been a worrying time, I 
think that Nat West resolved the issue as quickly as they could and there was no loss to Mr 
P. I think that Nat West have acted fairly and I am not going to do ask them to do anything 
more.
Information on forward pricing
Mr P says in his submission that he thought that he was given an incorrect price for the 
purchase of his fund. He says that the explanation from the advisers at Nat West meant that 
he should have received a better price.
In their submission to the service, Nat West say that they use forward pricing to calculate the 
price of funds. Forward pricing works so that orders placed before 2pm on a working day 
would receive the unit price at 11pm that day. If orders are received after 2pm on a working 
day, or on a non-working day, they will receive the unit price as at 11pm the next working 
day.
From what I have seen reading through the file, Mr P placed his purchase order at 5.53pm 
on 16 April 2020. This means that the unit price that was applied to the order was the one 
that was taken as at 11pm on 17 April 2020.
In his submission to the service, Mr P says that the adviser gave him the impression that he 
had placed the order prior to 2pm on 16 April. If this had been the case, then Mr P would 
have received the unit price from 11pm on 16 April. As this price was more favourable to Mr 
P, he feels that he has suffered a financial loss.
Nat West say that Mr P was provided with incorrect information when he called and have 
apologised for this.  Taking this, and the issue with Mr Ps investment disappearing from his 
online account, Nat West offered Mr P £100 compensation for the overall trouble and 
inconvenience that this caused.In his submission to the service, Mr P says that he believes that Nat West did not offer the 
service to an acceptable level and that the offer of compensation was too low. Nat West 
have agreed that the level of service fell below their acceptable standard and it was on this 
basis that they offered the £100 compensation.
I have looked at Nat Wests offer of compensation and think that it is in line with what the 
service would offer so Im not going to ask Nat West to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman