DRN-3043729
The complaint
Mr R complains that esure Insurance Limited (esure) settled a claim under his motor 
insurance policy for less than his car was worth.
What happened
Mr Rs car was stolen, and as a result he made a claim under his motor insurance policy. 
The claim was settled by esure for £3,545. 
Mr R's policy says that it will settle a total loss claim for the market value. The policy gives 
the following definition of market value:
The market value is the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your car 
for on the open market immediately before the accident or loss. Our assessment of 
the value is based on cards of the same make and model and of a similar age, 
condition and mileage at the time of the accident or loss. This value is based on 
research from motor trade guides including: Glasss, Parkers and CAP. This may not 
be the price you paid when you purchase the car.
Mr R complained to esure as he didn't feel the settlement was a fair reflection of the market 
value of his car for the following reasons:
He considered it to be a rare model, as there are only 250 cars of its type registered 
in the UK. 
In the days prior to the theft he had placed the car up to sell and had interest in it at a 
price of £4,500.
He had an informal discussion with the owners club for his type of car, where he was 
told the valuation he'd been given was too low.
For sale adverts of similar cars were much higher than the valuation esure had given.
esure didn't increase the valuation of his car, as it felt the offer it already made was a fair 
one. Mr R remained unhappy with this and so brought his complaint to this service.
The investigator that considered Mr R's complaint said he felt esure should increase its 
settlement valuation to £4,500. He felt the car was rare, and so thought we should take into 
account adverts for similar cars that Mr R provided, as well as the price Mr R says he had 
advertised the car for.
esure didn't agree. It felt the investigator had deviated from our general approach as he had 
not relied solely on the trade guides. 
In an effort to resolve matters informally, esure was informed my thoughts on the case were, 
I was inclined to agree with the investigator's valuation however for different reasons, set out 
below:
the ranging valuations from the trade guides is £2,280 to £4,568. This service normally 
considers anything within that range to be acceptable as a fair valuation but as the range is 
so wide, it needed to be narrowed down to come to a fair answer. As the car is one of only 
250 registered in the UK the data for valuing the car is limited, and so we have to look at the 
case slightly differently in order to do this and work at a fair reflection, we:
Asked CAP to provide a bespoke valuation - this didn't change things
looked at and considered adverts  this also was unhelpful as the range of age and 
mileage on the adverts were so varied, we couldn't rely on them
looked at data considered in the individual guides.
Based on this I found a Cazana guide to be more likely to be an accurate reflection, as it 
included data from two adverts and two actual sales of the same model car. Although they 
were of different age or mileage, Cazana had made adjustments for this.
esure still disagreed, and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. Before issuing my 
decision, Mr R was informed of my thoughts, as they differed in reason from the investigator 
 he had no further comments or questions. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, its not because I havent considered it but
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
While I've taken into account esures concerns that we haven't solely relied on the trade 
guides to find a fair valuation for Mr R's car. I'd like to explain that it is our standard 
approach, to take other things into account such as adverts, where a car is rare or there is 
limited data making the guides less reliable as the sole factor in deciding a valuation.
However, I havent discounted the guides totally and having considered them, I found 
Cazana to be the most persuasive given its valuation was based on two recent sales of 
similar cars and two adverts of similar cars for sale. Adjustments were then made for the 
differences between those cars and Mr Rs car.
Cazanas valuation was slightly higher than the £4,500 Mr R said he would have achieved if 
hed sold the car. But given the limited data, I would be uncomfortable increasing the value 
beyond the £4,500 to Cazanas actual figure. Given the above I think a valuation of £4,500 is 
fair to both parties here and so esure should increase its settlement figure accordingly.
Putting things right
esure should now increase its settlement amount to £4,500 and pay Mr R the difference. It 
should also pay Mr R 8% simple interest on the difference from the date it issued its original 
settlement payment until the date it pays him. 
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I uphold Mr R's complaint about esure 
Insurance Limited. I now require esure to:increase the settlement amounts to £4500 and pay Mr R the difference between this 
and what it has already paid.
Pay 8% simple interest on the difference from the date of its original payment until 
settlement is made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
Her Majestys Revenue & Customs may require that esure educt tax from the interest paid to Mr R. If it does 
and Mr R requests it, esure must provide him with a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off, so he may 
reclaim it if appropriate.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman