DRN-2357497
The complaint
Miss L complains about the service she received from U K Insurance Limited (T/A Direct 
Line) when she made a home insurance claim following an escape of water. 
What happened
Miss L holds an insurance policy with Direct Line. On 13 December 2019 she contacted 
Direct Line to explain that an escape of water from a mains water pipe had caused 
substantial damage to her driveway, garage and kitchen. 
Miss L said, after she reported her claim to Direct Line, she wasnt provided with any 
dehumidifying equipment to assist the drying out process. She said she was forced to 
borrow a dehumidifier from a family member.
Miss Ls tiled kitchen floor had to be taken up as part of the reinstatement works. But, 
following testing, it was noted there was asbestos present underneath it. Direct Line 
instructed a company (R) to remove and encapsulate the asbestos. But R didnt complete 
the work it had been tasked with. And after it had left areas of tile adhesive on the kitchen 
floor. 
Miss L said after her kitchen floor was taken up it was left in a dangerous condition. 
Specifically, she said she was left with bare asbestos on the kitchen floor for over 5 weeks. 
And she stated the flooring surface was uneven. Miss L said this led to her falling and 
sustaining an injury, which resulted in her having to take unpaid absence from work in order 
to recuperate. She said her daughter was also injured. In addition, Miss L said she was 
extremely concerned about the health consequences of being exposed to asbestos.
Direct Line instructed a company, which Ill refer to here as B to continue with the 
reinstatement works. It attended Miss Ls property and made a video assessment. But the 
quality of the video footage was poor, which led to confusion between Direct Line and Miss L 
about what work would be covered under the claim.
Miss L said there were lengthy delays before her floor was made safe. As she wasnt able to 
vacate her property pending completion of the reinstatement works, she accepted a 
Disturbance Allowance from Direct Line. 
Miss L said a number of third parties were involved in dealing her claim, which hindered her, 
and presented barriers, in the progression of her claim. She said she wasnt given a single 
point of contact and had to deal with 4 different claim handlers. She felt she experienced 
long and unnecessary delays as a result, which caused significant inconvenience. So, she 
complained.
Direct Line investigated Miss Ls concerns and issued its final response to her complaint on 
30 January 2020. In its final response letter, Direct Line upheld Miss Ls complaint. It 
acknowledged shed experienced poor customer service. And it identified how it could have 
taken steps to progress her claim quicker. It apologised for the standard of work R had 
completed. And it agreed a call it had had with Miss L could have been dealt with better. To 
recognise the trouble and upset shed been caused Direct Line paid Miss L £275 
compensation.
Miss L informed Direct Line she was unhappy with the compensation it had offered. So, it 
increased that amount to £500 and paid her the difference. But Miss L remained dissatisfied 
with how Direct Line proposed to resolve her complaint. So, she referred it to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and empathised with Miss L. They agreed 
with the content of Direct Lines final response letter and thought the compensation it had 
paid Miss L was fair in all the circumstances. So, they didnt recommend upholding this 
complaint. And they explained that, because Miss L hadnt complained to Direct Line about 
the injuries sustained as a result of the poor standard or work R had undertaken, our service 
couldnt deal with her concerns about that as part of this complaint.
Direct Line accepted what our investigator had said. But Miss L rejected our investigators 
view of her complaint. So, this complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Miss L and her family experienced here. I know Miss L 
feels very strongly about this matter. And I appreciate the reasons shes brought this 
complaint to our service. 
Id like to thank Miss L and Direct Line for the level of detail contained in their submissions. 
Ive read and considered all the information provided and, if I havent specifically referred to 
a point that Miss L or Direct Line have made it isnt because I havent considered it. My 
decision will focus on what I think are the key issues, which is an approach that reflects the 
informal nature of this service.
Ill deal, at the outset, with the comments Miss L made about the injuries sustained by her 
and her daughter as a result of the condition her kitchen floor was left in by R. I can see that 
our investigator referred this part of Miss Ls complaint back to Direct Line for it to investigate 
and provide its final response. 
Miss L appears to be unhappy that our investigator hasnt commented on the injuries 
sustained in their view. But they were right to refer that part of Miss Ls complaint back to 
Direct Line to allow it to properly investigate these injuries under a separate complaint 
reference. I havent seen anything to show that Miss L referred a complaint to Direct Line 
about the injuries her and her daughter suffered prior to approaching our service. Im 
therefore not going to touch on her complaint about injuries within this decision. She can, of 
course, refer a complaint to our service in the future if shes unhappy with Direct Lines final 
response.
I can see Miss L had to deal with 4 different claim handlers during the progression of her 
claim. I can understand how frustrating that must have been. And, from the notes Direct Line 
sent me, I think the claims process was disjointed. I say this because a joined-up approach 
doesnt appear to have been adopted. And queries that Miss L raised werent, on occasion, 
dealt with as Id expect. At least one call Miss L made was dealt with abruptly by a call 
handler and I think more assistance could have been offered during that call. I think this all 
added to the overall poor customer experience Miss L had here.I've seen a chronology provided by Direct Line, which details how work progressed at Miss 
Ls property. Based on that chronology Ive been able to identify a number of unnecessary 
delays in how Miss Ls claim was progressed. It's difficult to understand why it took so long 
for the work at Miss Ls property to be completed and I think Direct Line could have done 
more to minimise delay here.
I can see Direct Line raised a number of enquiries with B in relation to the reinstatement 
works. But it didnt respond to those queries promptly. Its clear B caused some of the delays 
Miss L experienced here. But I think Direct Line could have chased B more proactively for its 
response and I think that would have hastened the claim process had it done so.
I can see there was a dispute between Miss L and Direct Line regarding the scope of 
reinstatement work required to restore the kitchen to its pre-loss state. Video footage was 
provided to Direct Line in efforts to show how much work was required. But that footage was 
unclear and of limited assistance.
I think that, when it became clear the video footage Direct Line received was unsuitable, an 
assessor should have been instructed to attend Miss Ls house in order to draw up a scope 
of the reinstatement works required. Had this happened, I think the claims process would 
have progressed more proactively.
I can understand Miss Ls upset about the condition her kitchen floor was left in. And that 
isnt surprising. R didnt undertake the work it was tasked with to an acceptable standard and 
this left her home in a hazardous state. Its clear that the asbestos should have been 
contained and the floor shouldnt have been left as it was. 
I recognise that the delay in Miss Ls home being reinstated affected her mental health. I 
understand she was already unwell at this time. And I can see that Miss Ls claim was 
ongoing over the Christmas period, which added to the difficulties she experienced.
I can see that pursuing this claim has been a very stressful experience for Miss L. But claims 
for property damage can be complex and take time to resolve - even where a claim has 
been progressed proactively by an insurer. It's inherent with property damage claims that 
stress and inconvenience will be caused to a policyholder. Here, though, I think some of the 
distress and inconvenience Miss L suffered could have been avoided. I say this because its 
clear she experienced additional inconvenience and frustration due to delay and the way in 
which her claim was handled. And I'm satisfied it's fair to award compensation to recognise 
this. 
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint Direct Line paid Miss L £500 
compensation to acknowledge the poor service she experienced. Its clear she doesnt feel 
this adequately recognises the trouble and upset she was caused by what happened. In 
view of this I've thought carefully about what a fair resolution to her complaint might look like. 
And, in thinking about this, I've considered things from both sides.
We dont punish businesses by awarding damages or compensation as this isnt our role. 
When deciding what potential compensation to award our service must take two things into 
account: financial loss as a result of any business error and non-financial loss, including 
inconvenience and upset. 
I understand Miss L didnt want to vacate her property during the reinstatement works and 
Im pleased to see Direct Line arranged to pay a Disturbance Allowance for the time she was 
left without a functioning kitchen. It also clarified with her that she hadnt had to pay 
enhanced utility bills as a result of the escape of water. So, Im persuaded I dont need to 
consider awarding compensation to cover these issues.Turning now to awards for non-financial loss there isnt a set formula that we use to calculate 
awards for particular errors. Its my role to consider what impact Direct Lines actions had on 
Miss L and to decide, within guidelines set by our service, what an appropriate amount of 
compensation might be. 
Ive taken on board everything Miss L has said about how she was affected by what 
happened. But, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that £500 
compensation is a reasonable amount of compensation thats proportionate to the avoidable 
distress and inconvenience that she would have been caused here. I think this sum takes 
into account the poor service Miss L experienced and the issues with the quality of the work 
undertaken in her home.
I appreciate that Miss L spent a fair amount of time in raising her complaint with Direct Line 
and in bringing his complaint to our service. I acknowledge her inconvenience in doing so 
and appreciate that this has taken up a lot of everyones time. But I think the compensation 
already paid already takes this into account.
I'm satisfied that the compensation Direct Line paid is consistent with our approach in similar 
scenarios. And it's in line with what I would have suggested had no offer been made. I 
appreciate Miss L wants Direct Line to pay more compensation. But I havent seen enough 
to persuade me that a higher award is warranted here. So, I wont be asking it to pay 
anything further to resolve this complaint.
  
This now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Miss Ls dispute with Direct Line 
informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant help Miss L any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman