DRN-3165706
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined a claim they 
made on their travel insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs B were due to travel abroad for two weeks on 15 March 2020  to a country Ill 
refer to as U. 
In January 2020, Mr and Mrs B had bought a platinum, single-trip, travel insurance policy 
underwritten by URV (the policy) to cover their trip to U.
On 13 March 2020, Mr and Mrs B received an email from a government agency of U 
informing them that the authorisation granted to them to travel (which had previously been 
approved in January 2020) had been cancelled. Mr and Mrs B contacted that government 
agency. Mr and Mrs B say they were told their travel authorisation couldnt be reconsidered 
for 30 days and they were, effectively, unable to travel.
Mr and Mrs B say their outbound flight to U departed on 15 March 2020 without them.
Also, on 15 March 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all 
but essential international travel to U following that countrys announcement imposing 
restrictions on travel from the UK and Ireland from midnight on 16 March 2020. Ill refer to 
this as the FCO advice.
Mr and Mrs B made a claim on the policy for their pre-paid costs. URV declined to cover the 
claim on the basis that there was no cover under the policy for cancelling a trip in the 
circumstances described. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs B complained to our Service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold this complaint. Mr and Mrs B 
disagreed so their complaint has been passed to me to decide. Theyve also said that they 
should be entitled to a refund of the premium theyd paid for the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
URV has an obligation to treat customers fairly. It must consider claims promptly and fairly 
and mustnt unreasonably decline a claim. 
Page 16 of the policy sets out the circumstances under which URV will cover certain 
cancellation charges - including irrevocable and unused travel and accommodation costs - if 
its necessary and unavoidable to cancel a trip due to:
The death, bodily injury, illness, disease, or complications arising as a direct result of
pregnancy of: a) you b) any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel
with c) any person who you have arranged to stay with d) your close relative e) your
close business associate.
You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with being 
quarantined, called as a witness at a Court of Law or for jury service attendance.
Redundancy of you or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel 
with
You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with, are a 
member of the Armed Forces, Territorial Army, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance 
Services or employees of a Government Department and have your/their authorised 
leave cancelled or are called up for operational reasons, provided that the 
cancellation could not reasonably have been expected at the time when you 
purchased this insurance or at the time of booking any trip.
The Police or other authorities requesting you to stay at or return to your home due to 
serious damage to your home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, flood,
subsidence, fallen trees, collision by road vehicles, malicious people or theft.
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs Bs trip wasnt cancelled for any of the reasons listed above. 
So, under the policy, their claim isnt covered. And having reviewed the remaining sections 
of the policy, I dont think theres any cover in the circumstances Mr and Mrs B found 
themselves in. 
However, I note that Mr and Mrs B were due to depart their trip on the same day as the FCO 
advised against all but essential travel to U. I dont know if the FCO advice was announced 
before or after Mr and Mrs B were due to depart the UK. But even if I assumed that it was 
before, and this meant that its unlikely that Mr and Mrs B wouldve travelled against the FCO 
advice, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for URV to cover the claim.  
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) - provided to Mr and Mrs B when the 
policy was sold to them and summarises the cover available  says on page one (under the 
heading, are there any restrictions in cover?):
Unless agreed with us there will be no cover if the FCO advise against travel to your 
destination
And page 12 of the policy sets out whats not covered under all sections of the policy 
(including the cancellation section). Clause 14 says URV wont pay for claims arising directly 
or indirectly from:
your travel to a country, specific area or event when the Travel Advice Unit of 
the(FCO) or regulatory authority in a country to/from which you are travelling has 
advised against all, or all but essential travel
There may be some limited situations where I might think it was fair and reasonable for an 
insurer to accept a claim outside of a strict application of the policys terms and conditions. 
Particularly in circumstances when I didnt think an insurer had clearly and transparently 
signposted a policyholder to certain policy provisions relating to claims for changes in FCO 
advice. 
However, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to ask URV to do so here 
because the main reason for Mr and Mrs B not going on their trip wasnt the change in FCO 
advice on 15 March 2020.
Im satisfied that the reason for Mr and Mrs B being unable to travel took place before then, 
on 13 March 2020. Thats when their travel authorisation was cancelled by a government agency of U and Mr and Mrs B has told our Service in the timeline theyve provided that this 
was because there has been a sweep of the [travel authorisation] system and we had been 
caught up in that. All those that were declined will not be released for consideration for 30 
days. That took place before the FCO advised against all but essential travel to U. And 
before the government of U had announced that it was restricting entry for those travelling 
from the UK or Ireland.
So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to conclude that URV should reasonably cover 
the claim under the policy. Although there was a change in FCO advice on 15 March 2020 - 
meaning that had Mr and Mrs B even been able to travel they wouldnt have been covered 
under the policy - I dont think that was the reason for them not going on their trip. And while 
there may be a gap in cover in the policy  and as such theyd have not been covered if they 
travelled against FCO advice but also would not have been covered if theyd cancelled 
because of a change in FCO advice  I dont think I can fairly ask URV to cover their claim 
here. Ultimately, Mr and Mrs Bs trip didnt go ahead for a different reason.
I know Mr and Mrs B will be very disappointed with my findings. I can understand why; 
theyve lost a considerable amount of money by not being able to travel to U, through no 
fault of their own. However, a travel insurance policy doesnt cover every possible scenario 
and an insurer is entitled to set out in its policy terms the insured perils it is and isnt 
prepared to cover. And just because something isnt expressly listed as not covered (such as 
cancellation claims resulting from travel authorisation being cancelled as in this case) 
doesnt mean  by default  that it is or reasonably ought to be covered under the policy 
terms. 
Mr and Mrs B have recently said that URV should refund the premium they paid for the 
policy. That isnt a complaint point theyve raised with URV previously. Mr and Mrs B are free 
to raise a complaint to URV about this if they wish. Without in anyway pre-determining any 
outcome to such a complaint, it might be helpful to explain to Mr and Mrs B that just because 
they were unbale to travel and theyve made an unsuccessful claim on the policy, it doesnt 
mean that URV wasnt on risk for a successful claim being made on the policy for anything 
leading up to them departing for their trip.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 
6 May 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman