DRN-2650091
Complaint
Mr M has complained that Lending Works Limited (Lending Works) unfairly brought about 
an unaffordable loan for him. Hes said the loan was unaffordable for him and so should 
never have been arranged. 
Background
Lending Works operated the electronic system in relation to lending which led to Mr M being 
provided with a loan in April 2018. The loan was for £2,500.00. 
Mr Ms complaint was reviewed by one of our adjudicators. He thought that Lending Works 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly and didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. As Mr M disagreed with our adjudicators view, the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint.
Lending Works needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
Mr M could afford to make the monthly payments before bringing about this loan for him. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Mr Ms loan was for £2,500.00. The agreement had a 36-month term and the total amount of 
£3,962.08, including interest, fees and charges of £1,462.08, was due to be repaid in 36 
monthly instalments of around £110. I know Mr M says that the amount of interest wasnt 
explained to him. But all of the information Ive set out in the paragraph, is from Mr Ms 
signed credit agreement. So Im satisfied he was provided with an explanation of the cost of 
this loan.
This was Mr Ms first agreement with Lending Works. And its fair to say Mr M was being 
asked to make relatively low monthly payments in comparison to his income of around 
£2,250.00 a month. I also understand that Lending Works also carried out a credit check. 
Mr M says hed taken a string of payday and other high-cost loans in the lead-up to this loan. 
Hes provided a spreadsheet of the loans and his bank statements in support of this and 
says these loans would have shown up in any credit search. On the other hand, Lending 
Works has said the loans Mr M has referred to didnt show up in its searches and has 
provided a copy of the results it obtained in support of its position. 
Ive considered all of the information provided. Im satisfied that Lending Works carried out a 
credit search with a reputable bureau. And the lending Mr M has referred to, which I accept 
he did take out, didnt show up in the search. I can understand why Mr M might think this is 
odd given just how much lending he had taken. But all bar one of the loans in question, were 
taken in the couple of weeks leading up to this application. And most credit searches arent 
real time snapshots of a customers credit position. They typically take at least a month, 
sometimes longer, to update any changes. 
Given the vast majority of what Mr M has referred to was in the couple of weeks before this 
application, Im not surprised that it didnt show up on the credit searches Lending Works 
carried out. As these loans didnt show up in the credit searches and Mr M didnt declare 
them either, I cant reasonably say Lending Works ought to have known about them. 
The credit search carried out showed Mr M had existing credit commitments with no 
significant previous repayment issues and it worked out that he paid around £400 a month to 
his existing credit. Lending Works also used data from the Office of National Statistics 
(ONS) to calculate Mr Ms non-housing and non-credit related living expenses. 
As there was no concerning information on Lending Works credit search for Mr M and the 
monthly loan repayments were relatively low in comparison to Mr Ms income, I dont think 
that it was unreasonable for Lending Works to use ONS data to calculate Mr Ms non-
housing and non-credit related living expenditure. This is because there wasnt anything to 
suggest he fell outside the profile of the average customer. 
I accept that Mr Ms actual circumstances dont appear to have been fully reflected either in 
the information he provided, or, for the reasons Ive explained above, the information 
Lending Works obtained. Equally I accept that if Lending Works had gone into the depth of 
checks Mr M says it should have  such as obtaining bank statements  it would have seen 
the full extent of Mr Ms difficulties, the reasons for this and the likely impact on his ability to 
repay make these payments. But Im satisfied that Lending Works checks before approving 
this loan were proportionate and it was entitled to rely on the information it obtained, which 
showed that Mr M could repay what he was being lent. 
So overall I dont think that Lending Works treated Mr M unfairly or unreasonably when 
bringing about his agreement. As this is the case and while I sympathise with any difficulties 
Mr M had, Im afraid that Im not upholding his complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr M. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Jeshen NarayananOmbudsman