DRN-2934790
Complaint
Mr M has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly added interest, fees and 
charges to his overdraft when it ought to have been apparent he was stuck in a vicious 
cycle.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ms complaint and thought that HSBC should rework 
Mr Ms account to remove the effect of all the interest fees and charges added after it 
renewed his overdraft in March 2018. This because she thought that HSBC ought to have 
taken corrective action at this point as it should have realised Mr M was struggling to repay 
what he owed. 
HSBC accepted our adjudicators view. But Mr M disagreed. He wanted HSBC to refund all 
of the fees added to his overdraft and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what HSBC has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr M is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
Our adjudicator thought that HSBC ought to have realised Mr M was struggling by        
March 2018 and so should have exercised forbearance at this point rather than renewing the 
overdraft on the same terms. On the other hand, Mr M says HSBC ought to have realised 
this much sooner and from pretty much at the outset of him having an overdraft.
Ive looked through Mr Ms statements throughout the period concerned. And I cant see that 
HSBC ought to have realised that Mr M was experiencing financial difficulty prior to any 
review carried out in March 2018. Mr M may argue the regular use of his overdraft was in 
itself an indication that he was struggling, especially bearing in mind what hes said about 
some of his transactions being returned unpaid. But the account regularly received 
significant funds, which meant that it wasnt unreasonable for HSBC to conclude there was a 
reasonable prospect of the overdraft sustainably being repaid. 
And while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mr M expenditure, 
nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and 
discretionary transactions being made from the account. So I cant reasonably say that it 
was the overdraft charges that were responsible for Mr Ms overdraft balance here. Equally 
prior to the overdraft limit increases in 2017, Mr M managed to credit his account with 
significant funds, which did manage to bring the account in credit.
I accept that all of these things in themselves (or even taken together) dont mean that Mr M 
wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in Mr Ms transactions in 
themselves which ought to have prompted HSBC to have realised this, in the absence of    
Mr M asking for help before he did. 
Ive thought about what Mr M has said about his other borrowing with HSBC. But at this 
stage, Im satisfied that the funds going into this account prior to the overdraft limit increases 
and the fact that the account was regularly brought into credit, mean that it wasnt 
unreasonable for HSBC to have increased the overdraft when it did. And if Mr M considers 
that the other borrowing he had with HSBC was unaffordable this is a matter hell have to 
take up with HSBC separately.  
In these circumstances, I dont think that it was unreasonable for HSBC not to have taken 
corrective action in relation to Mr Ms overdraft and also proceed with the interest, fees and 
charges it added prior to March 2018. Indeed as Mr M was regularly bringing down what he 
owed and went into credit before then, I think that it would have been disproportionate to 
have taken corrective action before then - taking into account that this would have involved 
removing the overdraft from Mr M and defaulting his account - given the associated 
consequences involved.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what HSBC has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Mr M is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Mr M to decide whether he 
wishes to accept HSBCs offer.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what HSBC UK Bank Plc has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Mr M is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his 
case. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman