DRN-3645820
The complaint
Ms W complains about the amount Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans 
(Everyday) said she owes following the end of a loan agreement. 
What happened
In January 2018, Ms W entered into a 30 month loan agreement with Everyday for the 
amount  of £3,700. She was required to pay monthly instalments of £269 and the loan was 
due to end in July 2020. The total amount payable was £8,085.
During the term of the loan, Ms W experienced financial difficulty and five payments were 
missed which Everyday deferred to the end of the agreement meaning it was due to end in 
December 2020.
Ms W paid the instalment in December 2020 and believed the loan had been settled in full 
but Everyday said she still owed a final amount which related to the interest applied to the 
deferred payments. Ms W complained.
Everyday said they had acted in line with the terms of the agreement. They explained the 
interest for the deferred payments led to a balloon payment at the end of the loan but as it 
was a large sum, payments would be spread out at 0% interest based on the regular 
contractual payments of £269. In this case, they said this meant the loan would be extended 
to 40 months.
Unhappy with their response, Ms W referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case wasnt upheld as they believed Everyday had clearly outlined to Ms 
A the impact of the deferred payment and that there would be a final payment related to the 
deferred interest. 
Ms W disagreed, she maintained her position and questioned how Everyday had calculated 
the final amount owed. The investigator asked for clarity and a breakdown from Everyday 
but they found the information provided was conflicting with differing amounts. The 
investigator changed her opinion and said as Everyday hadnt been able to adequately 
explain how they calculated this final amount, she didnt believe it was fair for Ms W to pay it. 
In response, Everyday provided a brief outline of their calculations.
In July 2022, I issued my provisional decision partially upholding the complaint, I said:
As a starting point, the terms of the agreement say: 
Interest will be calculated on the daily balance outstanding on the Account and applied to 
the Account monthly on the date the Monthly Payments are due.
The agreement said Ms W would pay £4,385 in interest in relation to this agreement. Had it 
run to term, all the contractual payments made on time without any further fees or charges, it 
would be fair to say this amount in interest is all Ms W wouldve paid. However unfortunately 
thats not what happened here. During the term of the loan Ms W suffered financial hardship 
meaning she had difficulty paying some of the contractual instalments. Im sorry to hear 
about Ms Ws situation, I appreciate this wouldve been a difficult time for her. 
Everyday said five payments werent paid, that is September 2018, March 2019, December 
2019, March 2020 and July 2020. Having reviewed the account statement, I find this to be 
the case. They deferred these payments to the end of the agreement. I believe it was 
reasonable for Everyday to do this otherwise the likely alternative wouldve been the monthly 
instalments wouldve increased so the loan wouldve been repaid during the original loan 
term of 30 months. Given Ms Ws financial circumstances Im not convinced this wouldve 
been an affordable option for her so I believe Everyday acted fairly in extending the loan. 
After each payment was deferred, Everyday sent written correspondence, confirming the 
new date as to when the loan would end. Ive reviewed these letters and I note it also said:
Since interest is calculated daily on the amount outstanding on your account, this deferment 
may result in a balance which will become due on the same day as the final instalment. 
Please contact us before the final instalment is due to confirm the amount of payment 
required to close your account. If you are able to pay additional amounts to clear the 
deferred instalment(s) at an earlier opportunity this will reduce any final interest balance.
Based on the above, Im satisfied it was made clear to Ms W on more than one occasion 
after each deferred payment that it may take longer to settle the agreement. She would pay 
more overall due to the deferred interest and this would be payable when the loan ended 
(that is when the capital of the loan was paid off). It was clear that due to the deferred 
payments, more interest would be charged than what was originally stated in the agreement. 
Its also worth pointing out that Everyday decided as Ms W couldnt pay July 2020s 
instalment due to the impact of the Covid-19, she wouldnt pay any more in interest than 
what was due in interest before the pandemic for that instalment. 
Ive also listened to calls between Ms W and Everyday where they discussed these missed 
payments. Everyday advised that the deferred payments may lead to an additional payment 
at the end. For these reasons, I dont agree with Ms Ws comments that she was unaware 
that an additional payment would be required at the end of the loan. 
Based on the above, I find Everyday acted fairly and in line with the terms of the agreement 
when deciding Ms W still owed money related to the deferred interest when the payment of 
the loans capital had come to an end.
Although I accept this, similar to the investigator, I dont find Everyday has adequately  
demonstrated the final amount they say she owes is correct. I say this because based on the 
statements provided in January 2021, April 2022 and June 2022 and the final response letter 
issued in May 2021, they all seem to indicate differing final amounts. So I can understand 
Ms Ws concerns that this hasnt been calculated correctly which is why she doesnt believe 
she owes any further money.
Ive reviewed the statements and Ive also considered the calculations provided by Everyday 
in response to the investigators opinion, although I find the calculations to be brief in nature. 
Having done so, I found the amount that Everyday say Ms W owes differs from document to 
document, it varies from £1,324, £1,586 to £1,818.
Given Everyday said this final payment of the deferred interest wouldnt attract further 
interest, its unclear why over a period of time, this amount has increased. I wouldve 
expected it to have crystallised in December 2020 meaning no further interest or fees 
applied. Having reviewed the various documents, Im most persuaded by the final amount owed 
figure given in January 2021s account statement. I say this because this was the first 
statement following the capital of the loan being repaid in December 2020 therefore on 
balance, I find its most likely to provide an accurate figure as to the final payment. That 
statement says the outstanding amount for Ms W to pay is £1,324 so I find its reasonable to 
determine this is the final payment that she owes. 
Overall, Im satisfied it was fair for Everyday to determine Ms W owed a final payment 
related to the interest of the deferred payments. However I find their calculations and 
explanations of this final amount to be inconsistent and conflicting. Im persuaded the 
account statement of January 2021 is most reliable so I find the amount shown of £1,324 is 
what Ms W owes. 
Lastly, if Ms W is still suffering financial difficulty I wish to remind Everyday of the 
expectation that they treat the situation with forbearance and due consideration when 
deciding how best for Ms W to pay this money owed. 
Response to the provisional decision
Everyday accepted the findings and confirmed they had amended the outstanding balance 
as proposed. They also said in order to set up an arrangement to pay, Ms W will need to 
contact her local branch. 
Ms W disagreed. She said she was led to believe the final instalment was in December 2020 
and she provided a copy of a letter dated July 2020 to that effect. She maintained Everyday 
are acting unfairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Ms W will be disappointed by my findings but for the reasons outlined above, I 
find she owes money to Everyday in relation to the interest for the deferred payments. Ive 
considered the letter she has provided however this doesnt change my opinion. This is 
because she had been sent letters after each deferred payment saying an amount may still 
be owed when the final payment instalment was paid. 
On the basis I havent been provided with any further information to change my decision I 
still consider my findings to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Therefore, my final 
decision is the same for the reasons as set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to partially uphold Ms Ws complaint. 
To put things right, Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans should update their 
internal and external records to reflect Ms W owes them £1,324 in deferred interest as the 
final amount to settle the agreement in full. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Simona CharlesOmbudsman