DRN-3633522
The complaint
Mr P, Mrs P and Ms P complain that Santander UK Plc had a legal charge registered against 
their property, despite never holding a mortgage with them. 
What happened
During a Will writing service with their solicitor Mr P, Mrs P and Ms P discovered a charge 
registered by Santander against their property. They asked their solicitor to look into this.
The matter was raised with Santander in late February 2021 and the charge was removed 
within two weeks. A complaint was later raised, but by that point Santander had already 
removed the charge so no further action was taken and the complaint not upheld. Santander 
later offered £100 compensation to acknowledge its mistake.
Mr P, Mrs P and Ms P complained to our service through their solicitor (who they later 
deauthorised). They say the charge should have never been registered to begin with as they 
have never been mortgage customers of Santander. They have only ever had a mortgage 
with a different lender (who Ill refer to as lender X).
Our investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought Santander 
had done enough to put things right. Mr P, Mrs P and Ms P disagree. They want more 
compensation and their legal fees covered. They are still disputing ever holding a mortgage 
with Santander. As such, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Im satisfied from the evidence available to me its more likely Mr P, Mrs P and Ms P 
did move their mortgage from lender X to Abbey National which later rebranded to 
Santander. This is supported by the return of deeds from lender X in November 1998 and 
system screen shots from Santander showing a mortgage in place with Abbey National from 
December 1998 to September 2005. Ive also seen letters addressed to Mr P, Mrs P and Ms 
P from Abbey National in 2005. One being a redemption statement letter and the other a 
final response to a complaint they raised about the charges on redemption. 
Santander admitted it got things wrong by not removing the charge when the mortgage was 
redeemed in 2005. So, Ive considered whether it has done enough to put things right. 
When the matter was raised, Santander quickly contacted Land Registry to have the charge 
removed. Im satisfied £100 fairly compensates Mr P, Mrs P and Ms P for the error. This was 
a one-off administrative error that was quickly rectified by Santander when brought to its 
attention.
I appreciate there was an element of inconvenience and some confusion when the complaint 
was further raised. As Santander said Land Registry showed no charge in its favour (as it 
had already been removed). I think its reasonable they could have taken that to mean the 
charge had been removed and, in any event, their legal representative could easily check 
that.
Im not persuaded the issue impacted their ability to proceed with their Will planning. Mrs P 
says they chose to put that on hold whilst their solicitor looked into the charge. And, I wont 
be asking Santander to compensate Mr P, Mrs P and Ms P for their legal expenses. 
Consumers can raise complaints with businesses and bring their complaints to our service 
free of charge. The fact they chose to pay a solicitor to represent them in this matter is their 
own decision and not a consequence reasonably foreseeable by Santander or a cost Id 
reasonably expect it to cover in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to pay Mr P, Mrs P 
and Ms P the £100 compensation it has offered them in response to their complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P, Mrs P and 
Ms P to accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman