DRN-3097504
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Lloyds Bank PLC blocked her account. She said that Lloyds also 
handled this badly, and it shouldve removed the block much faster than it did.
What happened
Mrs J told us that on 5 March 2021, she tried to make a large payment to a friend from her 
account at Lloyds. This money came from a personal loan which Mrs J had just taken out. 
But the payment was stopped, and her account was frozen by the fraud department at 
Lloyds. Mrs J told us she spent a very long time on the phone, then was told to go into a 
branch with some ID. She wasnt able to do that until 12 March. 
When Mrs J went into branch, she said that Lloyds had told her the police needed to be 
involved. Mrs J said that she told Lloyds that she was happy to sign an agreement saying 
she would never blame the bank for this transaction, she was fully aware who she was 
transferring money to, and she was responsible for that. Or she offered to pay back the loan. 
But she said Lloyds still said the police needed to be involved. 
Mrs J said the Police came to her home on 13 March, and she expected her account to be 
unblocked after this. But her account was still blocked for a considerable amount of time. 
Lloyds said Mrs J took out a loan for £7,500. She then wanted to transfer most of this money 
to a friend, on 5 March. Lloyds said that triggered fraud checks, and Lloyds blocked her 
account as a result of this. 
Mrs J went into a branch on 12 March, with ID. When Mrs J complained about what had 
happened, Lloyds said it was sorry it hadnt removed the block from her account then. It paid 
her £30 to say sorry for that. 
Lloyds has since explained to our service that it felt that it needed to look further at what had 
happened on Mrs Js account. So it couldnt unblock her account after shed shown it ID. 
I understand that the police then spoke to Mrs J about the payment she was trying to make, 
and Mrs J has cancelled the loan she took out. 
Lloyds said that it did unblock Mrs Js account on 29 March, and its told us that it wasnt 
able to unblock the account before this.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that she couldnt say 
Lloyds had acted unreasonably. Lloyds had followed its security policies. When a business 
needs to confirm a transaction is genuine, its standard procedure for the business to place a 
block on the account, until it can confirm that theres no risk of fraud. Our investigator said 
she understood the delays were frustrating for Mrs J, but Lloyds was acting in line with its 
process to safeguard her account, and this was also in line with the terms of Mrs Js 
account. So our investigator said she couldnt ask Lloyds to pay more than the £30 it had 
given Mrs J. 
Mrs J didnt agree. She said her complaint was also about her own sufferings over this issue. 
She agreed with the need for security checks, but said she wasnt happy with how this had 
been handled. She said she was in the branch for a long time. One of the staff took her 
passport away and was gone for a long time. She didnt know what they were doing with her 
passport and was worried. 
Mrs J also said she then went to the bank several times to solve the problem. No one could 
tell her why her account was blocked, what she needed to do to unblock it, and how long all 
of this would take. Mrs J thought Lloyds could have resolved this problem quicker and in a 
customer friendly way.
Our investigator said that she did understand why this had been so frustrating and upsetting 
for Mrs J, but Lloyds wouldnt be able to disclose any of the details that Mrs J wanted, when 
it was completing security checks. Our investigator still didnt think Lloyds made a mistake.
Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Lloyds has explained to us why security checks were triggered on Mrs Js account. I know 
that Lloyds didnt have all the details of why Mrs J wanted to make this payment, but I think 
that on the basis of what it did know, Lloyds acted reasonably when it initially blocked this 
account. 
And I know that Mrs J would have liked the blocks to be removed faster, but once the 
security issues had been triggered, I dont think Lloyds made a mistake by waiting until all 
the checks that had been requested were carried out. 
I can hear on a call with Mrs J, that Lloyds has confirmed that Mrs J was still able to use her 
card and to withdraw cash. So I think that Lloyds had taken steps to minimise the impact on 
Mrs J of these blocks.
Lloyds has shown our service that it was made aware of all the checks being completed at 
the end of March, and it then acted promptly then to remove the blocks on Mrs Js account. 
So I dont think the block was on Mrs Js account longer than it needed to be.
Mrs J has also told us that checks in the branch took a very long time, and this was worrying. 
She also said she was upset and frustrated that staff couldnt help her. I do understand that 
Mrs J has found this very difficult, and she hasnt been able to get much information about 
what was happening. But, like our investigator, I do think that there was a limited amount of 
information that Lloyds was able to give Mrs J. So I cant see that Lloyds has let Mrs J down. 
I know that Mrs J will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman