DRN-3823578
The complaint
Mr S complains that Covea Insurance plc treated him unfairly by declining his insurance 
claim for property damage.
What happened
Mr S is a leaseholder of a flat, the insurance policy he claimed on is in the name of the 
management company for the flats. Mr S was notified by the tenant of the flat beneath his 
that water was leaking through from above.
Mr S arranged, and paid for, the necessary repairs to be done to stop the leak as it was 
coming from his flat. Mr S also compensated the tenant for redecoration expenses and for 
having to take a day off work  the costs incurred were submitted as an insurance claim. The 
total outlay by Mr S was £645.
Covea declined the claim. They said there was an escape of water excess which was 
greater than the costs incurred and that Mr S wasnt obliged to cover the tenants losses.
Mr S complained, so an investigator here looked into the matter but they found that Covea 
had treated Mr S fairly. He didnt agree, for the following reasons:
1. He has never been provided with details of the insurance policy and so cannot be 
expected to know what is and isnt covered. He feels he has wasted his time as a 
result of not knowing this information.
2. The suggestion that the tenant ought to have claimed is nonsensical, because that 
would have taken a long time and only allowed the damage to worsen.
3. He questioned the idea that the charges to locate the leak wouldnt be covered 
because it is a necessary part of the repair process.
4. And that he couldnt have been aware of the £2,500 escape of water excess because 
he wasnt provided with a copy of the policy.
Agreement couldnt be reached, so the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but I wont be upholding his complaint. I do appreciate why he 
feels hes been treated unfairly though. And I think he not only acted swiftly in arranging for 
the leak to be fixed, but he acted with kindness towards the tenant by covering their losses 
too. Unfortunately, that alone doesnt mean Covea have to pay what are now Mr Ss losses. 
Ill explain why by addressing the points outlined above.
1. The insurance is arranged by the management company through a broker. Covea is 
the insurer and so doesnt have a direct relationship with Mr S. That means it doesnt 
have to give him details of the cover being provided. If Mr S required that, I consider 
it to be a matter between him and the management company. It follows, I cant hold 
this aspect of Mr Ss dissatisfaction against Covea.
2. The suggestion in relation to the tenant claiming, wasnt for them to wait for the leak 
to be fixed by the insurer. The priority in claims of this nature are to stop the leak  
because that prevents the resultant damage from worsening. And, once the leak has 
been stopped, the tenants losses can be claimed for, to bring the matter to a close.
Ordinarily, it would be for the tenant to claim for their losses. But in this case, it 
seems they were fortunate enough to have such a kind neighbour as Mr S. They may 
still be able to claim for those losses  but with the escape of water excess being 
£2,500  it seems they wouldnt be covered.
3. I take Mr Ss point here. Property insurance will vary across the market with some 
policies providing whats called trace and access cover. This policy has trace and 
access cover included, subject to terms, for the cost of locating the leak and then the 
cost of making good. However, bearing in mind the costs and excesses involved, this 
wouldnt lead to any payment becoming due.
4. Further to the above, I completely understand Mr Ss concern and frustration here. 
But, as with point one, I consider the provision of policy documentation to be between 
him and the management company.
Mr S did what he felt was right and I hope his neighbour was grateful for his prompt actions 
and generosity. But, that doesnt mean Covea ought to be equally generous. They 
considered the matter fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
In closing, it may be helpful to add that the point about the leak being hidden wasnt a 
suggestion that such leaks arent covered. Covea were saying Mr S couldnt be held liable 
for the damage to the flat below unless he knowingly let it continue without action.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
16 January 2023.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman