DRN-4191453
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined his claim.
What happened
Mr J has a travel insurance policy, underwritten by Aviva. He went abroad on holiday but 
returned early after he sustained injuries. He made a claim for unused costs as a result of 
cutting his trip short. 
Aviva declined the claim as Mr J didnt see a medical professional and didnt contact Aviva 
before cutting his trip short and returning home. Had he done so, it said it would have 
advised him to seek medical assistance rather than return home.
Mr J complained but Aviva maintained its decline. Unhappy, Mr J referred his complaint to 
this Service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Aviva had unfairly declined the 
claim.
Mr J disagreed and in summary, made the following comments:
He wasnt in a position to contact Aviva due to his mental health issues.
He provided Aviva with evidence in relation to a linked claim to show his mental 
health had deteriorated and this should be enough to show that he needed to come 
home early.
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
The policy explains how to make a claim and on coming home early it says:
Check that the reason you need to cancel or come home early is covered. Contact 
the medical emergency helpline before returning home. For medical claims, we will 
send a medical certificate for completion by the patients doctor to confirm the reason 
for your claim.
Under the cancelling or coming home early section, the policy says:
Well pay the costs shown below if an insured person unavoidably has to cancel 
their trip or come home early if one of these events happensillness, death, injury or 
quarantine of an insured person
Under the section we wont cover, the policy says:
Costs for coming home early unless these have been authorised by us before the 
insured person arranges them.
I think the policy clearly sets out that Mr J needs to contact Aviva before returning home 
early, if he wants to make a claim on the policy under the coming home early section. Mr J 
did not contact Aviva and returned home following a fall and injury. He says as he was 
suffering from anxiety, he was unable to contact Aviva.
Aviva has said that if Mr J had made contact, it would not have advised him to come home 
early but would have assisted him in obtaining medical attention. 
Mr J has provided a document which refers to the cancellation of a different holiday. He says 
this shows that his reason for cutting his trip short was his anxiety. But the information he 
has provided is about a different holiday and not the trip which this complaint relates to. I 
would expect Mr J to provide medical evidence to Aviva confirming that coming home early 
was medically necessary. Without such evidence, I dont think Aviva unfairly declined the 
claim. 
I note Mr J says he was too unwell to contact Aviva before coming home early. But I cant 
fairly ask Aviva to pay a claim with no clear medical evidence showing Mr Js illness or injury 
was the reason for returning home early. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman