DRN-3345767
The complaint
Mr L has complained to TenetConnect Limited about the delays he feels were caused by it in 
the process of transferring his defined benefits from an Occupational Pension Scheme 
(OPS). Mr L has said that the delays caused him financial loss.  
What happened
Mr L met with an adviser of Copeland Wealth Management Ltd, an appointed representative 
of TenetConnect, in 2019 to discuss his financial circumstances. A fact find document 
completed on 30 September 2019 recorded Mr Ls circumstances as follows:
He was 56 years old, married, and was both employed and self-employed.
Mr L owned his own home, and also had an interest in a holiday home and an 
investment property.
Mr L had accrued (deferred) defined benefits in an OPS, with a cash equivalent 
transfer value (CETV) of approximately £507,000 and this had an expiry date of 20 
December 2019.
Mr L also had two personal pension policies (PPPs) with a combined value of 
approximately £363,000.
Mr L had around £200,000 in various deposit accounts, along with further amounts in 
joint accounts.
Having reviewed Mr Ls circumstances and objectives, TenetConnect recommended that Mr 
L not transfer his defined benefits on 25 November 2019. But Mr L responded on 28 
November 2019 by email, and again on 2 December 2019, saying that he disagreed with the 
advice.
The adviser drafted a further rationale on 3 December 2019 for transacting the transfer 
business on an insistent client basis, and then submitted a case to TenetConnect to review 
the advice as to why he then considered the transfer should proceed.
Mr L was abroad for much of December 2019, but he initially complained to TenetConnect 
on 20 December 2019 about the service hed received, and about the decision to not 
recommend the transfer. Mr L said that he was a sophisticated client and that advice should 
have been tailored to his and his wifes individual circumstances, rather than the risk averse 
one size fits all approach which he felt had been adopted here.
Specifically, Mr L complained about TenetConnect not processing the transfer on an 
insistent client basis. He said that time was of the essence and any delay could result in a 
significant penalty (a reduced CETV). Hed asked his OPS administrator for an extension, 
but it was uncertain as to whether this would be granted.
Mr L said that, after lengthy delays, he still hadnt received a response to his request to be 
treated as an insistent client.
But TenetConnect then wrote to Mr L on 24 December 2019 saying that it had decided not to 
facilitate the transfer even on an insistent client basis. 
Mr L then completed the transfer through a different advisory firm. But as the deadline for the 
CETV had expired, a new one was issued, which was some £15,000 lower than the original.
TenetConnect responded to Mr Ls complaint on 7 February 2020 in the following terms:
It stood by the rationale provided to Mr L as to why it couldnt recommend the 
transfer of his defined benefits. It said that the advice had been reviewed by its in-
house specialist team and that it had confirmed its view that advice to transfer would 
be unsuitable.
In terms of it declining to transact the business on an insistent client basis, it said 
that the adviser had contacted its advice support team immediately after receiving 
Mr Ls reissued email on 2 December 2019 rejecting the advice.
It explained that the decision to accept business on an insistent client basis wasnt 
one which could be taken by the adviser, but rather by its advice quality forum, 
which discussed such cases and reached decisions based on their individual merits.
It noted that the adviser had submitted a comprehensive report to support the 
insistent client categorisation, but as Mr L was out of the country until 30 December 
2019, it had been unable to discuss the outcome with him until he returned.
It also understood that Mr L had been able to secure an extension to the CETV 
expiry date of 20 January 2020, albeit with some caveats as to the quoted figures.
The decision to not proceed on an insistent client basis hadnt been taken lightly, but 
it was one which it had been entitled to make on the basis of several considerations, 
including the risk to which it might be exposed in doing so. And it requested that the 
adviser communicate this to Mr L at the beginning of January 2020.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr L submitted his complaint to this service, where one of our 
investigators considered the matter. He said the following in summary:
He thought the main issue to consider was whether the advice was suitable. And he 
said that the regulator had given clear guidance that it was at the discretion of a 
business as to whether it accepted insistent client requests.
If the business felt that it wasnt in the clients best interests to transfer, it was up to it 
to decide whether to be involved in the process. It could nevertheless provide 
confirmation that advice had been given, which could mean that a different firm could 
then facilitate the transfer.
The starting point for considering a transfer proposition was to assume that it would 
be unsuitable, unless it could clearly be demonstrated otherwise, i.e. that the client 
would be better off by transferring. 
This was a relatively complex proposition, given Mr Ls view that capital from the 
pension could provide a greater return if the tax free element, along with cash 
savings, were used to invest in rental properties within his business.In the investigators experience, pension transfer advice was essentially a 
comparison of the scheme benefits with how they might look if invested in a PPP.
The pension benefits were designed primarily to provide a pension income  and this 
was also the case here, as any subsequent investment of the pension proceeds was 
designed to produce a long term income through investment in property. So the 
means of providing that income was different here.
It wouldnt have been possible to make a fair comparison between the scheme 
benefits and those which might be produced from property income  the latter would 
require an investment of time and expertise from Mr L, which wouldnt have been the 
case with the former.
He understood Mr Ls position in that he would expect superior returns from rental 
properties, but he also acknowledged TenetConnects position that, when comparing 
the scheme benefits with the returns from a typical PPP, the case for a transfer 
wasnt compelling  especially as the scheme would provide a large proportion of Mr 
Ls required income in retirement without taking any investment risk.
He also understood TenetConnects position that the most suitable course of action 
for Mr L would be to retain his deferred OPS benefits and use other resources 
available to him for his desired purpose  and which didnt have valuable guarantees 
attached to them.
The mix of guaranteed scheme benefits, PPPs and investment properties would also 
represent a balanced and varied portfolio providing income in retirement.
Overall, given the other resources which Mr L had to fund his property investments, 
the investigator didnt think it was unreasonable for TenetConnect to have advised 
that Mr L retain his deferred scheme benefits.
He further noted that the recommendation was sent to Mr L in late November 2019, 
at which point there was still three weeks before the CETVs expiry. It was then a 
matter of commercial judgement for TenetConnect to determine whether it wished to 
facilitate the transaction on an insistent client basis  and on the basis of its 
regulator-endorsed discretion not to, it decided against this.
Although the investigator noted Mr Ls comments that conversations about the 
transfer had begun early in 2019, he also said that the CETV then had been in the 
region of £400,000, which would have made earlier advice, if given, even more likely 
to be that Mr L shouldnt transfer.
Mr L disagreed, however, submitting the further following comments:
He provided further background to his position in 2019, which included many years of 
interactions with the regulator, auditing advice given by advisers, and dealing with 
this service. He therefore had a reasonable knowledge of risk and compliance 
issues.
Due to his and his wifes strong financial position, he had no need or desire to draw 
on the scheme pension in the conventional manner. His preference was to use it in 
the most tax efficient way for the long term benefit of his children. This took account 
of the low gilt rates at the time and the subsequent impact on CETVs.
Hed been working with the adviser since 2018, which was prior to the latter becoming an appointed representative of TenetConnect. This had resulted in the 
establishment of a Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) to use Mr Ls unused 
pension contribution allowance - and also to receive the CETV from his deferred 
scheme benefits. This would be discussed again in 2019, once Mr L had received a 
CETV.
Mr L received the CETV in February 2019, but although several meetings were held, 
along with many telephone conversations and text messages, he began losing 
confidence that it would be completed. He was, nevertheless, consistently reassured 
by the adviser that it was going through and that the transfer was a no brainer.
Mr L provided examples of correspondence dates, beginning with a chaser in April 
2019, fee amendments in June 2019, additional client information provided in July 
2019 and then a period of inactivity.
It then became clear that conversations between the adviser and TenetConnect 
werent going well and that the latter had lost its appetite for defined benefits 
transfers.
The timeline indicated by the investigator had therefore been predated by other 
events by several months. The first CETV had in fact been obtained in February 
2019, which then expired in May 2019. The transfer hadnt been completed due to 
the delays attributable to the adviser and TenetConnect.
Although the adviser assured Mr L that he was asking for a new CETV from August 
2019 onwards, the scheme administrators said that the application for this hadnt 
been received until 12 September 2019.
The CETV was issued on 20 September 2019, at which point the clock began ticking 
once more. He expressed concerns throughout September 2019 about the 
continuing delays, and although he offered to compete any further documentation 
which might be required, the adviser said that he should have everything he needed.
Mr L reminded the adviser that hed be abroad from 3 December 2019, and then 
further forms were requested on 30 September 2019.
Although he acknowledged that the advice process can take some time, Mr L 
believed that it had taken far longer than it should in this case. Nor had his specific 
circumstances been considered.
But Mr L was nevertheless assured that matters were close to being resolved. The 
next contact he had from the adviser was 11 November 2019, which was a request 
for details of his wifes pension policies  although this had already been provided.
The next contact was on 25 November 2019, which was confirmation that 
TenetConnect had decided to not recommend the transfer. Instead, it recommended 
an irrelevant and unnecessary whole of life policy, with high premiums.
Mr L challenged this on 28 November 2019, asking that his specific circumstances be 
taken into account, and that he be treated as an insistent client. He also asked for the 
reasons as to why the transfer wasnt being recommended, but neither he nor the 
adviser ever received these.
He complained on 20 December 2019, but also said that hed been able to secure an 
extension to the CETVs expiry date, which would give TenetConnect time to complete the transfer.
Mr L spoke to TenetConnect on 23 December 2019, but it was unwilling to discuss 
the matter while he was overseas. But it did confirm that, whatever information was 
reviewed, under no circumstances would TenetConnect be authorising the defined 
benefit transfer.
The following letter dated 24 December 2019 which declined Mr Ls request wasnt 
received, but was instead sent to his adviser. Mr L wasnt informed of 
TenetConnects final decision - which gave no specific reasons for it - until 10 
January 2019. He was advised that he should seek assistance elsewhere.
He did then seek the assistance of another firm, and the transfer proceeded 
seamlessly, but because of the delays incurred by TenetConnect, the CETV had 
reduced by over £15,000.
Mr L believed that TenetConnect had no intention of recommending the transfer, as it 
had a blanket policy of not doing so due to compliance concerns. His adviser was 
new to the firm and so hadnt initially followed that party line.
Although he agreed that any transfer recommendation needed to be in the best 
interests of the client, he didnt think that his best interests or circumstances were 
ever fully considered.
A further consideration beyond suitability should be the time taken to reach the 
conclusions it did. The process took nearly a year to conclude, during which all 
information requests had been acted upon by Mr L quickly. There was a piecemeal 
approach to data gathering and collection, along with a total lack of urgency, which 
fell far below the standards a consumer could reasonably expect.
The focus upon the utility of the tax free cash for investment purposes was 
something of a red herring which was brought about by the advisers 
recommendations. Taking tax free cash was considered a standard course of action, 
and as the adviser knew Mr L was buying an investment property, he suggested that 
Mr L use it towards that purpose.
Mr L in fact used other funds for the investment and all of the transferred pension 
funds remained invested, representing an efficient savings vehicle for inheritance tax 
purposes. The whole of the fund, whilst not guaranteed in value, could be passed to 
his children upon his death, rather than producing an income for his wife which she 
didnt need. It represented a very small percentage of his and his wifes overall 
wealth, and as such there was a very compelling argument for someone in his 
position to have transferred.
Mr L considered that hed sustained a considerable financial loss due to 
TenetConnects failings, to which had been added the many hours of chasing and 
resending information, which had led to much stress and anxiety.
The investigator considered Mr Ls further submissions, and then wrote to both parties in the 
following terms:
Although he assumed that the advice would still have been to not transfer, and that 
TenetConnect wouldnt have facilitated the transfer on an insistent client basis, he 
thought there had been avoidable delays in the process, and as such he now 
considered the complaint should be upheld.He noted the timeline, as set out above in Mr Ls commentary, which began with Mr L 
obtaining the CETV in February 2019, and which was then discussed with the 
adviser in March 2019.
He noted that the client agreement was established in early July 2019, but after the 
first CETV had expired, the second one wasnt requested until 12 September 2019. 
He concluded that thered been a considerable period of inaction which had delayed 
the acquisition of the CETV.
The investigator said that it was difficult to precisely identify the timeframe which 
should have transpired, but he thought it would have been reasonable for the adviser 
to arrange the relevant information requests within two weeks of the client agreement 
being established on 3 July 2019.
This meant that the CETV would have been received eight days later  and so on 25 
July 2019. This was 57 days earlier than it was actually received.
He concluded that the same process of recommending that Mr L not transfer, and 
then declining to facilitate the transfer on an insistent client basis would have 
occurred, but that this also should have been concluded sooner. 
In particular, the investigator said that it took too long for TenetConnect to respond to 
Mr Ls request on 2 December 2019 that he be treated as an insistent client. 
Although a letter had been produced on 24 December 2019 confirming that it 
wouldnt treat him as an insistent client, this wasnt in fact confirmed to Mr L until 20 
January 2020.
Mr L should have had an answer to this by 24 December 2019  the same date that 
TenetConnect produced the letter. On the basis of him not receiving anything further 
from TenetConnect by 10 January 2020, Mr L had preliminary discussions with the 
firm which did then process the transfer on his behalf. And this meant that there was 
an additional 17 day delay added to the earlier 57 day delay.
In turn, this would have meant that Mr L would have had discussions with the 
alternative firm on 29 October 2019, and as did then happen, the new CETV would 
have been produced 31 days later on 29 November 2019.
As such, the investigator recommended that redress be calculated as if the transfer had 
completed 74 days earlier than it did. To establish whether redress was due, he said that 
TenetConnect should approach the scheme administrators to determine the notional CETV 
as at 29 November 2019, along with establishing the notional value of Mr Ls pension funds 
had the investments been arranged 74 days earlier than they were. 
If there was a loss, this should be paid to Mr Ls pension plan, or if this wasnt possible, then 
directly to him with a reduction for the income tax which would be paid on that sum in 
retirement.
The investigator also recommended that TenetConnect pay Mr L the further sum of £300 to 
reflect the inconvenience and trouble caused to him by the delays over several months.
TenetConnect disagreed, however, saying the following in summary:
Leaving aside the issue of potential delays in the process, it said that any loss in the 
CETV was a result of Mr Ls actions in ignoring its advice and proceeding with the 
transfer through a different firm.As endorsed by the investigator, it was entitled to not facilitate a transfer which it 
considered to be unsuitable. It therefore couldnt follow that it should be held 
responsible for any subsequent drop in the CETV. To suggest otherwise would set a 
dangerous precedent whereby firms would be expected to act as CETV insurance, 
with clients moving from firm to firm until they found one which would facilitate a 
transfer which was clearly not in their best interests.
If the advice of the further firm involved here was to transfer, our position should be 
that the advice to transfer was unsuitable  and TenetConnect shouldnt be held 
accountable for any loss caused by Mr Ls own actions.
Addressing the timeline of the process, it said there were some inaccuracies in the 
portrayal of this. Although it had been assumed that obtaining the CETV sooner 
would have hastened the process, it was sometimes the case that a CETV was 
requested later in the process to provide the maximum amount of time before expiry.
Providing advice on defined benefit transfers wasnt a simply binary process  it took 
time. In this case, it took five months, which TenetConnect didnt think was an 
unreasonable amount of time for it to complete. It provided a timeline from 2 July 
2019, when the client agreement was signed, to 10 January 2020, at which point its 
director confirmed by email that it wouldnt proceed on an insistent client basis.
Mr L had himself spent much time during December 2019 and January 2020 trying to 
justify why TenetConnect should proceed on an insistent client basis.
There had been no agreement that an application should be submitted in August 
2019  this wasnt borne out by any communication or correspondence.
There was no urgent need, such as ill health, for the transfer to proceed and Mr L 
wasnt aware of the high CETV until it had been obtained in September  so any 
delays between July and September werent really delays at all. The process took 
place between September and November 2019  so within three months. Any 
failing was restricted to the adviser obtaining Mr Ls client agreement earlier than 
required.
Email correspondence demonstrated that the adviser asked Mr L for information on 
15 May 2019 which wasnt sent until July 2019. The adviser then emailed Mr L on 6 
September 2019 to ask him to seek an indicative CETV update online, to which Mr L 
replied that he would try to do so that evening  but TenetConnect didnt consider 
that this implied there was any sense of urgency.
This furthermore suggested that the agreed course of action was that the CETV 
should be requested in September 2019 precisely because, due to market 
conditions, it was likely to be at an all-time high.
Mr L was told that TenetConnect wouldnt be proceeding on an insistent client basis 
upon his return to the UK  it referred to the letter of 24 December 2019  and this 
would have been late November 2019 if he hadnt been abroad. That he didnt accept 
this position and emailed it several times requesting that it change its mind doesnt 
mean that he wasnt informed of the position until late January 2020.
Had Mr L not been abroad, he would have been informed that it wouldnt proceed on 
an insistent client basis in late November 2019 and this would have given him a 
further two months to ask another firm to transact the business on his behalf. Even if 
the CETV had been obtained by another firm on 29 November 2019, no action could have been taken due to Mr L being abroad until January 2020.
There was no guarantee that the process would then have been completed in time  
it would have taken three months had Mr L been in the UK  it would have 
theoretically taken four months with him abroad. This would have meant that a further 
CETV would be needed.
Ultimately, had Mr L accepted its advice in the first place, no loss on the CETV could 
in any case have been possible. It was TenetConnects position that there was never 
any intention to request a CETV any earlier, and that Mr L was responsible for any 
reduction in the CETV.
The investigator considered these further comments, but wasnt persuaded to change his 
view on the matter, saying the following in summary:
He agreed that Mr L had the intention of transferring his defined benefits, and that 
TenetConnect needed to provide suitable advice, which could include a 
recommendation to retain those benefits. He further agreed that it was entitled to not 
proceed on an insistent client basis.
He said that his view wasnt that TenetConnect had caused Mr L to receive a lower 
CETV. Had the process been shortened, Mr L may in any case have received a 
lower CETV. He was instead seeking to establish a reasonable timeline for 
completion of the process.
He said it was clear that the adviser disagreed with TenetConnect about the 
suitability of the transfer, and that this was likely to be due to them being 
inexperienced in submitting defined benefits proposals to it.
There was an argument that the adviser could have issued the recommendation and 
then Mr L could have arranged the transfer with the ceding scheme and the PPP 
provider directly. But the issue which remained for the investigator was the time 
taken to complete the process of advice provision, although he didnt think it was fair 
to presume that Mr L would have obtained a CETV at the level it was guaranteed on 
20 September 2019.
He noted the comment that there appeared to be no sense of urgency from Mr L, but 
he didnt think it was reasonable to conclude that Mr L would have known the time it 
should take to complete the process.
The email which TenetConnect had provided hadnt been issued until after the delay 
period, and it did suggest a positive view of obtaining a new CETV and Mr L 
requesting an indicative online value. But he didnt think a lack of, or delay in, reply 
meant that there was no urgency, and he also said that the reason why the email 
was delayed was that the adviser was waiting for authorisation to provide transfer 
advice through TenetConnect.
The investigator did agree that there were a number of hypothetical outcomes here, 
but he thought that Mr L would have exhausted the process with TenetConnects 
adviser before seeking the assistance of another firm, given the pre-existing 
relationship between them. As such, his view remained that the process took too 
long, and he thought his recommendations as set out previously should stand. 
The investigator notified both parties that, as agreement hadnt been reached on the matter, 
it would be referred to an ombudsman to review. Mr L indicated that he would make further submissions on the points raised by TenetConnect, and the latter submitted some additional 
points as follows:
It said it could ask the adviser whether the disagreement over the suitability of the 
transfer was due to their inexperience of submitting transfer proposals  but it didnt 
think that this point was in any case relevant.
It also said that it would have been highly irresponsible for it to simply have signed 
transfer forms to say that it had provided advice, thereby allowing Mr L to carry out 
the transfer himself. If it had, it would have rightly been held liable if there was a 
future complaint.
The matter was passed to me for review and I set out my provisional findings on the 
complaint as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as Ive said above, Ive reached slightly different conclusions to the 
investigator on some aspects, but with the same overall outcome. Im issuing this as a 
provisional decision to provide both parties with the opportunity to comment further.
The suitability of the advice and the insistent client request 
This is perhaps the key area in which my view differs from that of the investigator. He 
suggested this was the main issue to consider, and Ive also noted that Mr L remains of the 
firm view that the advice was incorrect  or rather that, whilst defined benefit transfers may 
be unsuitable for the majority of individuals, his very specific circumstances werent taken 
into account here.
I do accept this concern, but a crucial aspect in this case is that Mr L didnt in any case 
accept the advice given by TenetConnect. He decided to act against it and proceed with the 
transfer through a different firm. 
But the only situation in which I could uphold a complaint on the basis of the advice given 
was if the complainant accepted that advice, acted upon it, and then it was determined to 
have been unsuitable. For example, had Mr L accepted that advice and then thought that he 
had been financially disadvantaged by a recommendation to retain his defined benefits, he 
could have complained on that basis. 
But where the advice is effectively ignored, suitability  or otherwise  really becomes 
something of a moot point.
Similarly, as set out by the investigator, an advisory business is entitled to decide to not 
process business as an insistent client basis. There are arguably some instances where it 
might, in the opinion of the business, be so clearly against an individuals best interests to 
facilitate the transaction, even as an insistent client. And some defined benefit transfers 
might fit that bill. The reason for this is that the risks of facilitating such a transaction dont lie 
just with the client  there may be significant and costly ramifications for the business, even 
if it considered that it had fulfilled the requirements of the insistent client process. If such a 
complaint was brought to this service, we may disagree that the consumer was truly an 
insistent client, or alternatively conclude that it was so clearly against the consumers best 
interests that the business shouldnt have been transacted by a professional business.And so, for the reasons given, I wouldnt uphold this complaint on the basis of the either the 
suitability of the advice, nor TenetConnects decision to not facilitate the transfer on an 
insistent client basis.
Were there unnecessary delays in the process?
But whatever conclusion was reached by TenetConnect, be it to transfer or to retain his 
benefits, or indeed to then not proceed on an insistent client basis, this nevertheless needed 
to be provided to Mr L in a timely fashion, for the obvious reason of there then needing to be 
the maximum amount of time for the transfer to actually be processed, or alternatively for Mr 
L to take alternative action if he still wished to proceed. 
And as with the investigator, Im not currently persuaded that this was the case here. I think 
its fair to say that, prior to the client agreement being signed on 2 July 2019, there wasnt a 
particular sense of urgency expressed by either party. Mr L may wish to correct me here, but 
as far I can tell it was something which Mr L was inclined to achieve, but it didnt need to be 
achieved quickly for reasons such as, for example, ill health. 
But once the client agreement had been signed, the objective was clear, and a means of 
remuneration for the advisers services had been established, so things should have moved 
along at pace. This would certainly have fallen within the auspices of acting within a clients 
best interests. And a client is entitled to believe that matters are progressing without the 
need to chase proceedings.
Ive noted the timeline provided by TenetConnect for activity on Mr Ls case, in responding to 
the investigators view. I think it would be useful to set this out, as follows:
3 July 2019 - Client agreement signed
9 August 2019 - Anti money laundering form completed
9 August 2019 - James Hay SIPP illustration/valuation form generated 
24 August 2019  Mr L was asked to watch a video
4 September 2019 - The adviser told Mr L he was waiting for a CETV. 
6 September 2019 - Email from adviser showing CETV had already been requested
6 September 2019 - Meeting held and fact find completed 
12 September 2019 - CETV requested (according to the scheme administrators)
30 September 2019 - Fact find completed
4 October 2019 - Fund research carried out 
18 October 2019 - SIPP illustration generated 
21 October 2019 - Pension statement received 
23 October 2019 - Suitability report drafted
23 October2019  25 November 2019 - Advice being file checked and various changes 
implemented as a result of the file check (further information needed to be requested as a 
result of this) 
25 November 2019 - Final suitability letter drafted and issued to Mr L on 28 November 2019
2 December 2019  Mr L disputed decision not to transfer
24 December 2019 - Letter from TenetConnect confirming it wouldnt proceed on an 
insistent client basis
10 January 2020 - Email from TenetConnects director confirming again that it wouldnt 
proceed on insistent client basis
So looking at this timeline more closely, it initially took over a month, from 3 July 2019 until 9 
August 2019 for anything to be done beyond the client agreement being signed. The next 
action was the completion of the money laundering form, but this surely could in any case 
have been completed at the same time as the client agreement. There was then a further period of over two weeks between 9 August 2019 and Mr L being 
asked to watch a video. The adviser then told Mr L on 4 September 2019 that he was waiting 
for the CETV. But I havent been able to find actual evidence, beyond the adviser saying that 
he was awaiting the CETV, as repeated two days later to Mr L, that this had already been 
requested. If TenetConnect has this, Id be grateful if it would identify it in the file its sent us, 
or re-send it.
The OPS administrators, have, by contrast, confirmed that the request was actually received 
on 12 September 2019, which was by now over two months after the client agreement had 
been signed.
Notably, fact finding for Mr Ls circumstances and objectives didnt begin until 6 September 
2019, again by this stage over two months after the client agreement had been signed. But I 
would have expected this to be one of the first stages of advice provision to Mr L.
Fact finding was seemingly again then completed after a further intervening period of over 
three weeks, on 30 September 2019. Fund research and obtaining SIPP illustrations 
occurred during a further period of over three weeks, up to the initial drafting of the suitability 
letter on 23 October 2019.
A period of over a month then passed, during which TenetConnect has said that the advice 
was being checked, and that further information needed to be requested as a result. The 
suitability report was eventually issued on 28 November 2019. But this was nearly five 
months after the client agreement had been signed.
My overall view on this process, as with the investigator, is that it took considerably longer 
than it should. TenetConnect has said that the process of advising on defined benefits 
transfers isnt straightforward  and Id agree. Much needs to be taken into account to 
provide a suitable recommendation. But even if it could reasonably be argued that there was 
a degree of complexity here which meant that, for example, the period between the initial 
drafting of the suitability report and its final issue could be justified, there are several 
examples in the above timeline of significant periods of time with seemingly no activity, or, 
even if it could be argued that the adviser was at times awaiting other information, no 
reasonable indication as to why other matters couldnt have been addressed in the interim.
TenetConnects position is that there was no sense of urgency forthcoming from Mr L. Im 
confident Mr L would dispute this, but even if there wasnt, this doesnt mean that the 
process can be drawn out over an unreasonable amount of time. And the essence of my 
thinking here is that theres no real justification as to why the process should reasonably 
have taken as long as it did.
TenetConnect has also said that the later acquisition of the CETV served to improve on its 
value and that the timing has therefore worked in Mr Ls favour, but as the investigator has 
said, it cant be known as to whether an even better CETV could have been obtained earlier 
without actually requesting an earlier notional value. 
Notwithstanding what I consider to have been unnecessary delays up to this point, it was 
then the three month guarantee period after receiving the updated CETV on 20 September 
2019 which became of crucial importance. The adviser was aware that the CETV was 
higher, perhaps at an all-time high, and so even setting aside the usual considerations of 
processing the transfer advice in a timely manner, there was arguably a further incentive to 
ensure that Mr L was advised in good time to ensure the transfer was processed, or inform 
him that it wasnt recommended, so that he could then take alternative action if he wished. I do think that, given the fact finding, fund research, the SIPP illustration and other pension 
information which had been garnered up to 21 October 2019, it might reasonably be 
expected that the suitability report would be drafted rather sooner than 25 November 2019, 
especially as the clock had effectively been ticking on the CETV since 20 September 2019. 
Again, if TenetConnect disputes this, Id be interested in its reasoning as to why this further 
period was justified.
Mr L rejected the recommendation to not transfer quickly, emailing the adviser on 28 
November 2019 and resending this on 2 December 2019. The adviser said he would try to 
let Mr L know the outcome of the request to be treated as an insistent client before he left 
the UK on 3 December 2019, but this didnt happen.
TenetConnect had said that it wasnt able to advise Mr L on transfer matters whilst he was 
outside of the UK, and also that, had Mr L not been abroad, he would have been notified of 
the outcome of his request to be treated as an insistent client by the end of November 2019. 
But Im afraid Ive had difficulty understanding this  the suitability report wasnt issued until 
25 November 2019, and Mr L rejected this on 28 November 2019 whist he was still in the 
UK. And so it seems TenetConnect, by its own confirmation, could have notified Mr L that it 
was declining his requested to be treated as an insistent client before he left the UK.
It's TenetConnects further contention that, even if a CETV had been obtained by another 
firm in late November 2019, no action could have been taken due to Mr L being abroad until 
January 2020.
But this is where the issue of the earlier delays comes to bear. My view, as with that of the 
investigator, is that the whole process could, and should, have been finalised much earlier 
than it was, and had it been, inclusive of a CETV obtained earlier than 20 September 2019, 
then Mr L would more likely than not have been able to transfer through a different business 
before he went abroad, or have everything in place for the transfer to happen in his absence. 
As such, I agree with the investigator that Mr Ls transfer could have occurred much sooner 
than it did. I think the notion of the CETV being received 57 days earlier than it was is 
reasonable. But I also think that additional delays should be factored in  and in particular, 
form my reading of the timeline, I dont think it should have taken a further two months from 
obtaining the CETV to the production of the suitability report. With appropriate haste, I think 
this could reasonably have happened after a further month. 
And so I think the suitability report should have been issued by 20 August 2019. Had this 
happened, and Mr L had rejected the recommendation to not transfer, by its own account 
TenetConnect could have let Mr L know swiftly that it also wouldnt process the transfer on 
an insistent client basis  so perhaps a further week.
Mr L would then have been able to engage a different advisory firm by 27 August 2019 and 
begin the process again. I think its likely that a new CETV would have needed to be 
requested, which may have been higher or lower than that received on 20 September 2019 
 but as with the investigator, this is a matter of establishing what should have happened 
here on the basis of a reasonable timeline, rather than compensating Mr L for the loss of the 
CETV provided on 20 September 2019.
In terms of that subsequent timeline, it seems that Mr L met with the new business on 23 
January 2020, the new CETV was requested on 5 February 2020 (13 days later), received 
on 10 February 2029, and the application was submitted to the OPS administrators on 24 
April 2020. The administrators accepted the transfer request on 25 April 2020, and after a 
short delay due to the impact of Covid at the time, the funds were issued on 15 May 202 and 
invested in Mr Ls SIPP on 25 May 2020 (123 days from the initial meeting).And so, using the same timeline for events which occurred after Mr L sought assistance with 
a different firm, my current view is that TenetConnect should establish the CETV which 
would have been received following a request to the administrators on 9 September 2019, 
and then establish the notional current value of the SIPP had those funds been received in 
the SIPP 123 days after the initial meeting - on 30 December 2019 (allowing for the date 123 
days later falling on a weekend). 
If the current notional value is higher than the actual value, then there is a loss. Ideally, 
TenetConnect should increase Mr Ls pension fund to the identified notional value, as at the 
date of any subsequent final decision along these lines, taking account of any available tax 
relief, annual allowance issues and any protections in place.
If such a payment into the SIPP isnt possible, it should instead make the payment of loss to 
Mr L directly, but with a notional deduction in respect of the income tax which, if left intact for 
the sake of beneficiaries upon death, those beneficiaries would likely pay on uncrystallised 
pension funds. Ive assumed this to be 20%. 
Ive also thought carefully about the additional sum of £300 recommended by the 
investigator in respect of the trouble and upset caused to Mr L by this matter. The proposal 
above should compensate Mr L for any financial loss caused by the delays, but I do think an 
additional sum is warranted here for the, mainly, inconvenience Mr L has suffered as a result 
of whats happened. 
I think the process of having to chase matters, and then realising that the amount received 
by way of the eventual transfer was quite a bit lower than the previous CETV had indicated, 
will inevitably have been frustrating, and perhaps upsetting, for Mr L. And I think the further 
sum of £300 is probably about right in respect of the impact this will have had on him.
In response, Mr L said the following:
In 2018, the adviser suggested meetings in February/March 2019 to finalise the 
transfer paperwork and it was agreed at those meetings that the best time to submit 
a CETV request would be July/August 2019. This gave the adviser sufficient time to 
finalise all the paperwork. It was therefore a planned schedule, which he had no 
reason to doubt.
Although the client agreement was signed on 3 July 2019, the actual agreement start 
date was less than clear as hed signed a number of documents, including several 
agreements, between February and July 2019.
There was a lack of engagement and responses from the adviser between July and 
September 2019, which was becoming concerning.
No physical meetings occurred in September 2019 as the information had already 
been gathered in the preceding months, mostly in February and March 2019. He did 
exchange emails with the adviser in September 2019 and sent subsequent chaser 
emails and texts. He began to realise that the adviser was struggling to obtain 
Tenets approval for the transfer.
It was unacceptable that it took until 29 November 2019 to receive the final suitability 
letter and this was followed by an ongoing refusal to provide more factual information 
while he was overseas.
The adviser and Tenet accepted that the CETV was very favourable, but didnt 
appear to reflect the time sensitive nature of capitalizing on it.His main concern was that the delays resulted in him being unable to receive the 
higher CETV and then receiving one which was over £15,000 lower.
Tenet also made further submissions as follows:
It provided documentation that the fact find was completed in August 2019 and the 
case was then submitted to its paraplanning department on 9 August 2019. It wasnt 
therefore accurate to say that nothing was done until later.
It was a complicated case and it took some time, but not unreasonably so.
It also provided the following: an internal email dated 17 December 2019 confirming 
that the advice to Mr L should be to remain in the scheme and that it wouldnt 
process the transfer on an insistent client basis; the submission from the adviser to 
Tenets paraplanning department on 9 August 2019 asking that it be fast tracked; an 
email from the adviser to Mr L saying that he had spoken to the scheme about the 
outstanding CETV on 6 September 2019; the benefits projection sent by the ceding 
scheme on 10 September 2019; payment being made for the new CETV on 12 
September 2019; emails between Mr L and the adviser from 20 September 2019 to 3 
October 2019 about the transfers progress; and emails from 8 November 2019 to 21 
November 2019 evidencing chasing being made by the adviser to Tenets internal 
review function.
The adviser also submitted further comments, saying the following:
It wasnt the case that nothing happened on the case for weeks. He said he had 
submitted the case to Tenets paraplanning and it took them some time to research 
and prepare the case. The initial assessment had been to recommend the transfer, 
but this was subsequently revised to the decision to not recommend, or facilitate, the 
transfer.
The date on the fact find referred to in my provisional decision was misleading. This 
was completed at the time of the initial submission to Tenets paraplanning 
department but was updated throughout the process as required whilst going 
backwards and forwards with the internal assessor. The date on the fact find wasnt 
the date at which the adviser started working on the case.
The timing of the request for the new CETV was deliberate so as to be in Mr Ls 
interests. Mr L had confirmed that the adviser should start work based on the 
previous CETV as he didnt think it would have changed much and the CETV was 
then requested as late as possible so as to provide enough time for advice to be 
given and the transfer processed before it expired.
It wouldnt have been sensible to request the final CETV straight away as this would 
have put too much time pressure on completion of the transfer process. There also 
wasnt a particular rush to complete the transfer, as the adviser said I had pointed out 
in the provisional decision. At no point were the adviser or Mr L waiting for a CETV to 
arrive  it wasnt a limiting step in the process.
Tenet then submitted additional internal emails it had had with its paraplanning department, 
in which it noted that the case was first submitted for assessment on 9 August 2019, but no fact finds were provided. Tenet asked whether it was right in thinking that he (presumably 
the adviser) didnt submit these until several months later. 
The paraplanning department said that it didnt think this was the issue, and that the case 
had been submitted for assessment before the CETV had been obtained. And this would 
explain why there had been no rush to upload the fact find.
Tenet enquired as to whether the whole process was reliant on the CETV and that was what 
the paraplanning team was waiting for  which the paraplanning department confirmed was 
the case and that there was therefore no point in him submitting the case until October 2019.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, Id like to say that Im grateful for the additional research that Tenet has 
undertaken into what happened here and for the further comments from both parties. I also 
think its worth pointing out that it seems that Tenet, and in particular its appointed 
representative, did try to assist Mr L with his transfer request and Ive noted the content of 
emails where Mr L and the adviser undoubtedly enjoyed a constructive and friendly 
relationship.
Unfortunately, however, even with the best of intentions, things can sometimes go awry, as 
remains my view in this case.
To firstly address the submission relating to the point at which the factfinding was complete, I 
acknowledge the submission from the adviser to the paraplanning department dated 9 
August 2019, and so I accept that this was started earlier than Id previously believed to be 
the case, and seems to have coincided with the anti-money laundering form also being 
completed.
But that said, the same point as made in my provisional decision applies here, as to why it 
would reasonably have taken over a month for the fact finding and other forms to be 
(provisionally) completed. Such tasks can usually be completed within a few days, subject 
perhaps to additional information being needed from third parties as to, for example, other 
assets held. But I havent seen any evidence that there were prolonged waiting periods 
where outstanding information was preventing the fact finding from being completed, and the 
initial proposal then being submitted to Tenet.
And the fact finding then seemed to continue beyond receipt of the CETV and wasnt fully 
complete until 30 September 2019. This may well have been due to the backwards and 
forwards between the adviser and the paraplanning department, but it nevertheless meant 
further delays for Mr L.
It was  and remains  my view that there may not have been the specifically articulated 
sense of urgency from Mr L before the client agreement was signed, but I do also still think 
that beyond that point, things should have moved along more quickly than they did.
Ive also noted the further comments relating to the matter of the revised CETV, but Im 
afraid I dont think they assist Tenet here. On the one hand, its been said by the adviser that 
the CETV wasnt a crucial step in the process, and that work was being undertaken on the 
basis of the previous CETV, but on the other its been said by the paraplanning department 
that there was no point in uploading the fact find so that assessment could begin until the 
CETV was received.So there seems to be a disconnect here between the adviser and Tenet on their respective 
understanding of the importance of the CETV  and its timing. And if Im to accept the 
advisers take on this, then it might be expected that fact finding would have taken place 
before requesting the CETV, and then that the assessment would proceed on the requested 
fast track basis. Tenet has effectively said that the assessment couldnt be undertaken until 
the CETV was received, which makes sense as it would be needed for a suitability report. 
But then it makes just as much sense that the CETV should therefore have been obtained at 
an earlier stage  as soon as the fact finding was complete, or whilst it was being 
undertaken - so that the paraplanning team could then undertake its assessment of 
suitability, taking into account the CETV and Mr Ls circumstances/objectives.
And if the fact finding had been completed earlier, as set out above, the CETV could have 
been requested at the same time, and the paraplanning assessment could have begun on 
the requested fast track basis. There would obviously have been no advantage in delaying a 
request for the CETV if the paraplanning department couldnt begin an assessment without 
it.
The only explanation I can think of as to why the CETV wouldnt be requested at the outset 
is if it was reasonably expected that the process couldnt for whatever reason be completed 
within the three month expiry period. But then it might reasonably be assumed that Mr Ls 
expectations would be managed accordingly, and if Tenet thought that it couldnt meet that 
timescale, Mr L would have had the opportunity of seeking assistance elsewhere.
Ive noted the reference to the CETV already having been requested in the email between 
the adviser and Mr L on 6 September 2019, but I still havent seen evidence of when this 
was first requested, and I do need to take into account the ceding schemes position that the 
CETV wasnt requested until 12 September 2019  over two months after the client 
agreement had been signed.
And there then remains the matter of the additional delay between obtaining the CETV and 
the production of the suitability report, which I still think should have taken a maximum of a 
month, rather than double this amount of time.
So overall, I havent seen anything new which makes me think my view should change on 
this. My opinion remains that things should have happened more quickly than they did, and I 
think the suggestion of some confusion between the adviser and Tenets paraplanning 
department as to the proper sequence of fact finding, case submission, CETV acquisition 
and subsequent assessment may have contributed to this. 
I do accept that this was a complex case, and it required serious consideration, but I 
nevertheless still think that the timescale as set out in the provisional decision would be fair, 
reasonable and appropriate here. And to reiterate, whilst Im mindful that Mr Ls main 
concern is the reduction in the CETV, this isnt a case of maximising the potential CETV 
value for him. By setting out a hypothetical timeline as to how I think matters should have 
progressed, including the point at which the new CETV should have been requested, that 
revised notional value cant actually be known until its obtained from the ceding scheme 
administrators. And it may be more or less, or the same, as that which was ultimately 
received by Mr L. But he would, of course, also have had the opportunity to invest it sooner, 
and as I concluded in the provisional decision, the investments Mr L later made could have 
been made by 30 December 2019.
On that particular note, I think I should manage Mr Ls expectations in terms of the effects of 
the reaction in financial markets to the emerging pandemic in February and March 2020 on 
any uplift he may have experienced in receiving an earlier CETV. This may serve to mitigate 
any loss quite significantly, given that Mr L would have invested the transfer proceeds at likely lower unit prices in May 2020. 
Im nevertheless satisfied that bringing the timeline forward, as was proposed in the 
provisional decision, is the right course of action here.
Putting things right
As my view on the matter remains the same, the same redress methodology as set out in 
the provisional decision should be applied by TenetConnect Limited, and paid to Mr Ls 
pension fund or if not possible, directly to him with the appropriate notional tax deduction.
Im also satisfied that TenetConnect Limited should pay the additional sum of £300 to Mr L 
for the reasons previously set out. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct TenetConnect Limited to undertake 
the above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman