DRN-4000994
The complaint
Mr B complains that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd incorrectly registered a fault claim 
against him on an external database. 
What happened
Mr B had car insurance which was underwritten by Accredited. In September 2021 Mr B 
contacted Accredited as he had overfilled the engine oil in his car and wanted to enquire 
about making a claim. He was told it wouldnt be covered so he took it no further. 
In August 2022 Mr B complained as he had taken out insurance with a different insurer and 
hed been notified his policy was to be cancelled as he hadnt declared a fault claim from 
September 2021. He informed his broker who checked the Claims and Underwriting 
Exchange (CUE). They found that there was an open fault claim registered and they 
contacted Accredited for Mr B. 
Accredited subsequently had the marker changed to show the claim was non-fault and had 
been withdrawn. It also provided a letter to Mr B to confirm this change and that his no 
claims bonus was unaffected. 
However Mr B was unhappy with this and complained to Accredited and to the broker. 
Accredited didnt respond to his complaint in the required time so he brought it to this service 
to investigate. 
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
said that Accredited had initially recorded the claim incorrectly on CUE and had taken 
around a month to fix it when it was highlighted. She said this had caused Mr B distress and 
inconvenience, particularly as his policy with a new insurer had been cancelled. She 
recommended it pay £200 compensation to apologise for this. 
Mr B accepted our investigators outcome however Accredited didnt respond. So the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its the underwriters responsibility to ensure there is an accurate record of claims and 
notifications made on a policy recorded on CUE. Here, its accepted that this didnt happen. 
Accredited incorrectly recorded Mr Bs notification only claim as a fault claim that was still 
open.
Due to this error Mr B has subsequently had his insurance policy with another insurer 
cancelled, as his account of past claims didnt match the record on CUE. This has caused 
Mr B the distress of having an insurance policy cancelled and the inconvenience of having to 
get the record amended through his broker. 
Mr B has also explained that during this time he was dealing with a family bereavement and 
a recently diagnosed heart condition, so it would have been even more distressing to have to 
deal with the policy cancellation and additional contact with his broker to sort the matter out.
Accredited has now amended the record on CUE and has provided Mr B with a letter to 
confirm his no claims bonus and that the claim was withdrawn.  
However as its initial mistake caused Mr B unnecessary distress and inconvenience, I agree 
with our investigator that Accredited should pay Mr B £200 compensation to apologise for 
this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Accredited Insurance 
(Europe) Ltd to pay £200 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman