DRN-2685704
The complaint
Mr M and Miss B complain that Openwork Limited, their mortgage broker, let them down.
What happened
In June 2020 Mr M and Miss B asked Openwork to arrange a residential mortgage and a 
buy-to-let re-mortgage. Its the re-mortgage which is the subject of this complaint. Openwork 
identified a suitable lender for the re-mortgage, which Ill refer to as C, and proceeded with 
an application in late July 2020.
The re-mortgage application didnt go smoothly but it was accepted in late September 2020. 
Unhappy with Openwork, Mr M and Miss B complained. They were unhappy incorrect 
information had been supplied to C, that their Openwork advisor didnt respond to them for a 
time, and that they had to contact C directly to get the application accepted. 
There was some back and forth between Openwork and Mr M and Miss B, and in 
December 2020 Openwork issued its most recent response. Its position was that it hadnt 
done anything wrong. But it accepted Mr M and Miss B has spent time providing C with 
information and therefore agreed to pay them £250 compensation. 
Mr M and Miss B didnt think this was fair. They wanted £750 compensation and Openworks 
fees waived (£400: £250 for the mortgage and £150 for the re-mortgage). Openwork didnt 
change its offer, and Mr M and Miss B eventually accepted it. Mr M and Miss B remained 
unhappy though, so they asked our service for an independent review. 
The investigator concluded, in summary, that Openworks offer of £250 compensation was 
fair. Mr M and Miss B disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When the application for the re-mortgage was submitted Mr M was recorded as being a self-
employed landlord. Mr M and Miss B think this was incorrect and that Mr Ms employment 
should have been recorded. But Im not persuaded Openwork made a mistake here. I say 
this because at the time of the application Mr M was moving away from being the director of 
his own company to working on a six-month fixed term contract. The guidance issued by C 
to brokers said a fixed term contract in these circumstances wouldnt be taken into account.  
When C asked for Mr Ms employment history Openwork responded on 3 September 2020 
to question whether it was relevant and arranged for the matter to be escalated at C. I think 
this was reasonable given the circumstances of the application and Cs guidance on 
fixed-term contracts. 
On 14 September 2020 Openworks advisor updated Mr M and Miss B to say he hoped for 
some positive news that day. They didnt hear from him on the 15th, 16th or 17th, despite 
repeated calls and emails. I can understand why they felt the need to contact C directly on 
17 September 2020. This led to a fast-paced exchange of emails and information - focused 
on Mr Ms employment - which led to the re-mortgage application being accepted on 
18 September 2020. It would have been better if Openworks advisor had supplied this 
information when it was asked for in early September 2020. But thats with the benefit of 
hindsight and as Ive said above, I think it was reasonable for him to take the action he took 
based on the information available to him at the time.  
After delays and with concern over the application with C being accepted, on 18 September 
2020, Openworks advisor informed Mr M and Miss B he had identified a mortgage with 
another lender as an alternative. I think this was a positive step, albeit unnecessary given 
the mortgage had been approved about an hour earlier. And I agree the Openwork advisor 
saying in this communication I have conceded defeat with C was unhelpful when the 
application had already been accepted by C. But I dont think this shows his lack of 
control of the [application] as Mr M and Miss B suggest. Instead, I think he was out of the 
loop, which is understandable given Mr M and Miss B had been in direct contact with C.
I think Openworks advisor not responding to Mr M and Miss B was poor service. And given 
the time pressures involved in their house purchase would have caused them distress and 
inconvenience. And it could, perhaps, have cost them their new home had they not acted. 
But ultimately  and thankfully  things worked out in the end, and I cant make an award for 
what could have happened. Taking the above into account, Im satisfied £250 compensation 
fairly reflects the impact Openworks shortcoming had on Mr M and Miss B. I dont agree it 
would be fair for me to require Openwork to waive its fees or, as Mr M and Miss B have also 
suggested, forward them commission received from C.
My final decision
Openwork Limiteds offer of £250 compensation is a fair resolution to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman