DRN-3318440
The complaint
Mr M complains that Revolut Ltd didnt do enough to prevent his loss when he became the 
victim of an investment scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In late 2019 Mr M was contacted by a trading company, who Ill refer to here as Company A, 
about investing in shares. Between November 2019 and August 2020 Mr M was persuaded 
to invest money in buying and selling shares. He made a total of seven transactions  one 
payment in Euros of 16,269.72 and six payments in US Dollars totalling 23,058. 
In late 2020, Mr M contacted Company A about withdrawing some of the investment returns 
hed been promised. When this wasnt forthcoming, and Company A asked him to pay more 
money to secure the returns, Mr M became suspicious that hed been the victim of a scam.  
He contacted Revolut in January 2021 to complain that it hadnt done enough to protect him.
Revolut said Mr M had authorised the payments and theyd not triggered any of its fraud 
prevention alerts  as it said they werent out of character for his account activity. Revolut 
added that even if the payments had triggered a warning, it thought it unlikely it wouldve 
made a difference given Mr M had been investing with Company A over a nine month 
period. 
Revolut didnt attempt to recover Mr Ms funds until November 2021, but no response was 
received from the beneficiary banks. Revolut accepted this shouldve been done sooner and 
that its customer service couldve been better  and has offered Mr M £100 compensation. 
But it thinks the delay made no difference to the outcome, given Mr M made the last 
transaction five months before he contacted Revolut about the scam.  
Mr M referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. He maintained Revolut could and 
should have done more to prevent his loss. 
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She found Revolut had acted 
fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. She also thought the £100 Revolut offered for its 
poor customer service was fair. 
Mr M didnt agree and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said Revolut hadnt acted 
in his best interests. He said he was vulnerable to scams such as this  and so Revolut 
shouldve done more to protect him. Mr M has referred to BSI PAS:2017 17271 in support of 
his belief Revolut ought to have intervened in the payments. In particular, Mr M said Revolut 
shouldve contacted him about the payments and challenged their authenticity. He said 
reimbursement of his funds by Revolut was the only fair and reasonable outcome. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for similar reasons to that of the 
investigator. I know this is not the answer Mr M was hoping for and so this will come as a 
disappointment. Im really sorry to hear he has been the victim of a scam and has lost a 
considerable sum of money as a result. I can understand why hed want to do all he can to 
recover the money he lost. But I need to decide whether Revolut can fairly and reasonably 
be held responsible for Mr Ms loss. Overall, Ive decided that it cant be. Ill explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Im satisfied Mr M has unfortunately been the victim of a sophisticated investment scam.  I 
can understand how this is deeply upsetting for him.
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, authorised 
payment instructions should be actioned without undue delay. The starting position is that 
liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer even if theyre duped into making that 
payment, for example to an investment scam. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice (including that 
which Mr M has referred to), Revolut has a duty to protect its customers against the risk of 
fraud and scams so far as is reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, it fails to act on 
information which ought reasonably to alert it to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be 
liable for the losses incurred by its customer as a result. 
So, taking all of this into account, I need to decide if Revolut acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mr M when he made the payments, and whether it shouldve done more before 
processing the payments. I also need to decide if Revolut ought to have done more than it 
has already done to recover the funds after Mr M reported the scam. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that Mr M was duped into making the payments. All 
transactions were made via online transfers on the advice of representatives of Company A 
 who contacted Mr M and assured him they could offer sound advice on how to invest. 
Mr M has told us that he was promised high returns from the investments but has received 
nothing. So, I conclude that these were authorised payments  for which Mr M is liable, 
unless there is evidence that Revolut could and should reasonably have done more to 
protect him, which issue I now turn to. 
Mr M made the following transactions between November 2019 and August 2020. 
Date Amount 
21/11/2019 $2,525 
13/2/2020 €16,269.72 
03/6/2020 $5,254 (returned)
09/6/2020 $5,254 
22/7/2020 $5,195 
18/8/2020 $1,200 
18/8/2020 $3,500 
20/8/2020 $5,384
With the exception of the €16,269.72 payment (which Ill come to below); I dont think any of 
the other payments were sufficiently unusual to have warranted an intervention by Revolut. While I accept these payments are larger than other payments made on Mr Ms account in 
the previous 12 months, theyre not unusually large amounts in more general terms, and I 
have to bear in mind that its not uncommon for people to make larger payments from time to 
time to a new or existing beneficiary in a normal operating account. Also, some of the earlier 
payments would have had the effect or normalising that account activity to an extent.
The €16,269.72 is not an insubstantial sum and so I have considered whether Revolut ought 
to have triggered its alert systems such that it ought to have questioned whether Mr M was 
at risk of financial harm in relation to that payment. From Mr Ms bank statements in the 
preceding 12 months, I can see that he made another one off payment for £23,500 in 
January 2019. And so, I can see why Revolut didnt consider the €16,269.72 payment to be 
unusual. 
But I can also see that Mr M was interacting with Revolut on 12 February 2020 via its chat 
function about this payment. He said he was trying to make an international payment and 
was having trouble doing that on his phone. I think this interaction presented Revolut with a 
natural opportunity to ask Mr M about the payment  particularly given it was a large amount 
and was going to a new overseas beneficiary. 
However, its hard to see how Mr M would be in a different position had Revolut intervened. 
Ive no reason to doubt that Mr M would have truthfully explained the reasons for his 
payment as he saw it at the time. That being that he was making the payment towards an 
investment. Id then have expected Revolut to have provided a suitable scam warning and to 
have recommended that Mr M satisfied himself that this was a genuine investment 
opportunity. 
But Mr M has said himself that he wouldnt have discovered the scam through reasonable 
diligence checks given the lengths Company A went to in orchestrating such a convincing 
scam. And he only became concerned when he tried to withdraw his returns in late 2020  
some months after making the last transaction. Whilst I can see there are warnings online 
now about Company A  Ive seen no evidence to suggest those warnings were available 
during the period in question.
In summary Im not persuaded Revolut reasonably ought to have intervened in the 
(relatively) lower valued payments. And whilst I think its a reasonable expectation for 
Revolut to have asked some questions due to the interaction around the larger payment, I 
dont believe Mr Ms position would be different given the extent hed been duped by 
Company A. 
When Mr M realised hed been the victim of a scam, he contacted Revolut. But this wasnt 
until January 2021, five months after he made the last payment to the scammer. Revolut 
contacted the beneficiary banks in November 2021 to see if any funds remained. No 
responses were received.
I accept that prompt action to try and recover funds can increase the likelihood of those 
funds still being available. However, Im also aware that funds are often removed very 
quickly from the beneficiary account in the case of scams. And I must keep in mind that 
international recovery attempts are often more difficult. And so, even if Revolut had tried 
to recover the funds sooner, I think its unlikely to have resulted in a different outcome  
particularly as the last payment was made in August 2020 and Mr M didnt contact 
Revolut until January 2021. So, whilst I think Revolut could have acted sooner than it 
did, Im not persuaded this wouldve made a difference. Ultimately none of the 
beneficiary banks responded when contacted. I dont see how or why this would have 
been different had they been contacted sooner. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold 
Revolut responsible for Mr Ms loss in this particular case.Revolut has accepted it couldve handled things better when Mr M told it about the fraud  
especially given the time it took to try and recover the lost funds. Its offered Mr M £100 for 
the difficulties he faced. This seems fair to me in the circumstances of this complaint, and in 
line with what Id expect to see in similar cases. So, I wont be asking Revolut to increase its 
offer. If Mr M wants to accept the £100, then he should arrange that directly with Revolut.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman