DRN-3028828
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card in 2009. Mrs S says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint (which includes Mrs Ss 
circumstances at the time as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and exclusions) 
arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the mis-sale complaint. However, they thought 
Capital Ones subsequent offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-
disclosure of high commission and profit share, was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs Ss representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ss. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ss complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive too decided Capital One should have 
disclosed the commission it received - but that Capital Ones subsequent offer to refund 
some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. 
Ive summarised my reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
Theres not much documentation from the sale to refer to anymore, but given when it 
was, this isnt unusual. However, from Capital Ones computerised records, it seems the 
PPI was sold to Mrs S after shed already had the credit card account for almost 2 years, 
and she was ringing up to activate a new replacement card. Weve seen quite a few 
similar Capital One sales carried out in this way and so we now understand quite a bit 
about how the processes usually worked. I dont have an actual recording of the 
telephone call to refer to after so long, but I do know that call handlers were told to follow 
a script when selling this type of cover over the phone. And I think, if followed correctly, 
Mrs Ss consent would have been needed for the PPI to be added. I also think the 
charges for PPI then periodically started to appear on her account statements after 
September 2009. I was supplied with some copies of her statements where PPI is listed 
as PAYMENT PROTECTION INS. lf shed not given her consent, I think shed have 
been prompted to ask what the charges were for. Theres no evidence she did this, so I 
think its more likely Mrs S agreed to the PPI being added during that call.
Capital One didnt provide an advised sale so it needed only to provide Mrs S with 
enough information so she could decide for herself whether or not she wanted PPI and 
whether it was right for her. My experience with these sales is that the script included 
some information about the charges and broadly, the other main policy features. So I 
think she probably had enough information to decide what she wanted to do.
Its certainly possible the information Capital One gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have been. But Ive found that she probably chose to take it out - so it 
looks like she wanted this type of cover. It wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs S, for 
example she wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. So I 
dont think the policy was too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying 
from the information she was most likely given at the point of sale, even if Capital One 
could have done a better job at explaining things. There were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems and it looks like it was affordable 
 so it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. 
Overall, I consider that Mrs S would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could have provided a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. 
Mrs Ss representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Capital One should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Ss representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ss individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ss particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Capital One should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Capital Ones offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Capital One didnt tell Mrs S about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Capital One and Mrs S was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Capital One didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share 
in this case 
I dont think Capital One acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs S because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mrs Ss representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint. In summary they have said Mrs S should get back all 
the money she paid for the policy because: Capital One failed to tell Mrs S about the high 
commission and profit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and 
exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find 
that Mrs S wouldnt have taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission 
and she should receive a refund of all the premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipconsumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mrs S in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Capital One not disclosing the high 
level of commission to her before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mrs Ss representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Capital Ones failure to disclose the level of commission for 
the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Capital One to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance 
and return some of the money Mrs S paid for her PPI policy. I consider this fairly removes 
the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mrs S with the policy Ive concluded 
above she would still have taken out if Capital One had done everything it should have done 
 but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Capital Ones offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission 
and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mrs Ss complaint or make any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Capital 
One (Europe) plc should pay Mrs S an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) if it 
hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Michael CampbellOmbudsman