DRN-3790660
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs M complain about a car acquired through finance provided by Vauxhall 
Finance plc.
What happened
Mr K and Mrs M acquired the car in February 2022 using a conditional sale agreement from 
Vauxhall Finance. They say that shortly after taking the car away from the dealership they 
noticed that it had several things wrong with it.
They wrote to the dealership in March 2022 to say they wanted to reject the car unless the 
issues with the car could be fixed urgently. In summary, the problems outlined were as 
follows:
Headlight (not working properly)
Start/Stop (faulty)
Steering (pulling to the right)
Brakes (noisy)
The dealership took the car in shortly afterwards and carried out repairs.
Mr K and Mrs M say that despite the repairs the car is still not working as expected. Namely 
the brakes are still noisy and the steering pulls to the right. They complained to Vauxhall 
Finance about it. However, it concluded that it was not responsible for doing anything more 
and would not accept a rejection of the car.
Our investigator looked into the matter and took into account an expert report that had been 
carried out in June 2022. In summary, she concluded the outstanding issues with the car 
were likely due to reasonably expected wear and tear rather than a breach of contract which 
Vauxhall Finance were responsible for remedying. 
Mr K and Mrs M disagree with this. In summary they say:
The problem with the steering came back 3 weeks after it was supposedly fixed by 
the dealership  the fix should have been permanent.
The noise from the brakes was not fixed either  they have had to fix it themselves.
The repairs by the dealership were unsuccessful and Vauxhall Finance should be 
responsible for this taking into account the Consumer Rights Act 2015.
The matter has now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service resolves disputes informally - so while I have carefully taken into account the 
evidence which has been provided I have focused on what I consider to be central to this 
dispute. Therefore, I am not going to comment on every issue or point made. I do not intend 
this to be a discourtesy to any party but it reflects the informal nature of our service and my 
role in it. Furthermore, where matters are unclear I make my decision on the balance of 
probabilities.
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement  so we can consider
a complaint relating to it. Vauxhall Finance is also the supplier of the goods under this type 
of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is
satisfactory. To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a 
case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
I note here the car which Mr K and Mrs M acquired cost around £14,500, was around five 
years old and had already travelled almost 60,500 miles. When considering a car of this age 
and mileage it would not be unreasonable to expect it to show some signs of wear and tear 
and not be in the sort of pristine condition as when it was first manufactured. Although the 
price of the car here was not a small amount of money, it is considerably less than the new 
price and reflects the different expectations around its condition compared to a new car. In 
deciding whether there is likely a breach of contract which Vauxhall Finance is liable for, I 
have taken this into account.
In this case I will deal with the key issues highlighted with the car when Mr K and Mrs M got 
it:
The headlights and start stop system
It appears the resolution for the issues with the headlights and start stop feature were in the 
dealership replacing consumable parts such as bulbs and battery. I think it is therefore 
arguable that these issues would be matters a reasonable person would consider usually 
expected wear and tear (in a second-hand car of this age and mileage) rather than a breach 
of contract.
I acknowledge that issues with headlights could constitute a safety issue or MOT fail  and 
therefore there is an argument they render the car of unsatisfactory quality, thus giving rise 
to a remedy under the CRA. It isnt clear the extent of the issues with the headlights here 
and whether it would constitute a safety issue (and I note that the car had a valid MOT and 
was apparently driven by Mr K and Mrs M for around 1,300 miles before the repair took 
place). However, in any event I note the issue was repaired  which I consider to be a fair 
remedy for Vauxhall Finance to be responsible for in accordance with the rights afforded to 
Mr K and Mrs M by the CRA. It is also worth noting that although Mr K and Mrs M initially 
said they wanted to reject the car they also indicate that prompt repairs would be acceptable 
in the alternative  and that is what appears to have happened here. So I dont think a repair 
(as opposed to rejection) in the circumstances was an unsuitable remedy in any event. In summary, the issues with the headlights and battery are not clearly a breach of contract 
under the implied provisions in the CRA  however, and in any event I think they were fairly 
remedied by repair in accordance with the provisions outlined within the CRA.
The steering and noisy brakes
Even though some repairs were made by the dealership in March 2022 the independent 
expert report carried out in June 2022 highlights noisy rear brakes and a slight pull to one 
side on acceleration. These appear to be the key issues still in contention so I will deal with 
them separately as follows:
Brakes  The expert identified noise from the rear brakes which can be remedied by 
refurbishment. The expert has not indicated this issue is significant or unexpected. I also 
note that although discs and pads were replaced by the dealership in March 2022 this was 
apparently only to the front of the car (according to the job sheet). Which appears to rule out 
a more serious issue with the brakes other than the need for routine maintenance to the rear 
set.
Steering  Mr K and Mrs M have alleged the car has significant issues with the steering. 
However, despite test driving the car the expert has not been able to identify a significant 
issue with the steering and refers to a slight pull to one side. I also note that the remedies 
he has suggested (including adjusting the tracking and replacing the tyres) indicate that this 
issue is likely one related to consumable parts or routine calibration. I note he mentioned 
checking the suspension components but without further information I think it is difficult for 
me to conclude this means there is likely something other than a relatively minor issue 
caused by reasonably expected wear and tear.
I note the dealership appears to have adjusted the tracking in March 2022  so I have 
thought about whether the fact the steering was still pulling in the June 2022 report is 
indicative of a more significant issue. However, I note that Mr K and Mrs M indicated the car 
was OK for three weeks after the tracking was adjusted  so it seems likely the repair solved 
the issue and it could have been put out again by road conditions. Even if this were not the 
case  based on the information I have (and noting that the car appears to have covered 
several thousand miles since purchase) I am not persuaded that the issue is likely to be one 
other than reasonably expected and relatively minor further servicing/calibration of the tyres 
or steering.
While I recognise Mr K and Mrs M feel very strongly about this complaint, I can only go on 
the information I have. And I am not persuaded the evidence (including expert evidence) I 
have points to the issues with the brakes or the steering as likely being down to matters 
other than reasonably expected maintenance in a second-hand vehicle of this age and 
mileage. Furthermore, I dont have persuasive evidence that the car was sold to Mr K and 
Mrs M with the brakes or steering in such a condition that it would be considered unsafe. 
With everything in mind and based on the evidence I have seen I dont think there are likely 
current issues with the car that would entitle Mr K and Mrs M to a contractual remedy of any 
kind against Vauxhall Finance (either expressly written into any contract between them or 
implied via the CRA).
Mr K and Mrs M have placed emphasis on the fact they reported faults with the car soon 
after acquiring it and that the dealership agreed to address these but didnt fix everything. I 
have thought about this, however, I think it is important to note here the supplier is Vauxhall 
Finance  and it is responsible for any quality issues with the car. The fact there were faults 
with the car, and the dealer offered to address all of these (possibly on a goodwill basis) 
does not in itself mean those faults are not reasonably expected wear and tear issues or automatically render the car of unsatisfactory quality under the CRA. Whether faults render a 
car of unsatisfactory quality under the CRA will depend on the nature of what has gone 
wrong in light of the reasonable expectations around the car (such as whether it is new or 
second-hand) I mentioned above. 
While I am sorry to hear about the issues Mr K and Mrs M have had with the car I consider 
the evidence points to the issues with the brakes and steering as likely being minor and due 
to reasonably expected wear and tear rather than matters which Vauxhall Finance should 
fairly be responsible for paying for. Therefore, I dont uphold this complaint. I know this will 
likely disappoint Mr K and Mrs M. However, they are free to reject my decision if they wish.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman