DRN-2060211
The complaint
Mr M complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited paid far too much for a claim that 
was made on his motor insurance policy, leaving him in financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr Ms car damaged a parked and unattended vehicle. When the other driver made a claim 
on Mr Ms policy, Calpe settled it by paying the other drivers insurer £8,688. It required Mr M 
to pay the first £3,000 of the claim, in line with the all sections policy excess agreed by him 
when he took the policy out. Mr M thought the damage to the car should have cost no more 
than £500 to put right. And he queried the high hire charges claimed by the other driver. He 
said paying the £3,000 excess would cause him serious financial problems. 
Calpe said Mr M had agreed to the high policy excess when he bought the policy. It sent a 
copy of the repair costs to Mr M so he could see the extent of the work to be done on the 
car. It said the hire charges were much higher than usual because under his own policy, the 
other driver was entitled to an equivalent car to his own, which was a sports model from a 
prestige range.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ms complaint. He noted that Calpe had tried to settle 
the claim for a lower sum, but that the other drivers solicitors had issued legal proceedings 
and were not prepared to negotiate. Calpe then had to decide whether to defend the claim in 
court. He said under the policy Calpe had the right to settle the claim as it saw fit, and he 
didnt think it had acted unreasonably. The investigator suggested that Mr M should seek 
advice on the financial problems he was facing as a result of the claim. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.   
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator pointed out, Mr M agreed to pay the full £3,000 excess in the event of 
any claim on the policy for over that amount when he took the policy out. He also agreed to 
Calpe having the right to take over and conduct the defence or settlement of any claim. 
I can see from the documents Calpe has provided that it did try to settle the claim for less. 
But when the other insurer wouldnt co-operate, it had to decide whether to settle the claim 
for a higher sum or argue about it in court. There was no argument about liability, so the 
dispute would have been limited to the sum payable on the claim. 
I understand why Mr M thought the cost of repairs was high, but having seen the invoice, I 
dont think Calpe could reasonably have challenged it. As the car was a prestige model, the 
parts and labour required to repair it were higher than average at over £4,361. Mr M  based 
his assessment of the damage on what he saw on the day of the accident. But an engineer 
concluded that it was more extensive than Mr M had assumed. What may appear to be 
relatively minor damage often costs far more to repair than might be expected. In this case, 
the cars bumper, wing and grille had to be replaced. Numerous other smaller parts were 
needed, and there was a substantial labour charge. The hire charges were substantial too,  
at around £3,200, as the other driver was entitled to a prestige hire car. 
I dont think it was realistic for Mr M to suggest that the damage could have been repaired for 
£500, as it only amounted to a few scratches. He cant show thats the case. And even if the 
total claim could have been significantly reduced (for example, by over £5,000) it would still 
have been over £3,000. So Mr M would still have had to pay Calpe the full policy excess. I 
think its fair to say that it wasnt in Calpes interests to pay any more than it had to pay (in 
this case, any sum over £3,000). Calpe paid for most of the claim, and in my opinion, Mr M 
can be sure that it considered all of the costs put forward by the other drivers solicitors 
carefully. I dont think it was unreasonable for it to decide it couldnt justify the expense of 
court proceedings on a claim that it thought couldnt be argued successfully.
Im very sorry to hear that the accident and the claim have led to Mr M being in severe 
financial difficulty. He has asked us whether he may pay the sum due to Calpe in 
instalments, but thats something hell need to discuss with Calpe. He may be able to get 
further advice from other agencies (the investigator has already suggested the Citizens 
Advice Bureau). Whilst I sympathise with Mr M, given the difficult situation hes found himself 
in, I dont think hes shown that Calpe has acted unreasonably. That means I cant uphold 
his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.  
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman