DRN-3138703
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) wont refund him the money he lost as a result 
of a scam.
What happened
In January 2021, Mr O made two payments totalling £5,500 to purchase two tractors and 
have them shipped to Sudan. Mr O has told us that he spent around 3 months searching 
for tractors online when he was contacted by the seller in question via a third-party 
website. The seller sent Mr O a link to their website which he promptly visited. Mr O says 
the website looked professional and legitimate. He said it detailed 150 positive reviews 
left by previous customers and this persuaded him that the seller was genuine.  
Mr O informed the seller that he was looking for a specific brand of tractor. Hes told us 
that he hadnt bought tractors before but hed heard that this was a good brand/model. Mr 
O then discussed the sale of the tractors via text message  screenshots of which he has 
provided to this service. 
Mr O says he didnt discuss the mileage of the tractors with the seller and was simply told 
they had good mileage. Mr O was sent several pictures of the tractors, and hes also told 
us that he was sent a video showing the tractors engines being started  although he 
hasnt been able to provide us with a copy of this. 
The seller initially quoted £3,000 for each tractor including shipping to Sudan. But this was 
later reduced to £2,750 for each tractor, including international shipping, once the seller 
became aware that Mr O planned to purchase two. The seller told Mr O the cost of the 
shipping amounted to £1,200. Mr O has told us that he didnt compare shipping costs to 
check whether this was a reasonable amount to pay.
The seller provided Mr O with their account details and advised him to make a bank 
transfer as they didnt have a payment facility on their website. The seller went on to say 
that when making the transfer, Mr O may be informed by his bank that the recipients 
account name doesnt match the name of their company. The seller explained that this 
was because the company name was quite long, too long to fit into the box, and that Mr O 
should just click through the process and continue with the payment. Concerned that he 
might struggle to make the payment himself, Mr O went into his local branch. 
Mr O has said branch staff checked the company for him and confirmed that the name and 
company registration number matched. Hes also told us that he was told by branch staff 
that all of the payment details matched and branch staff proceeded to make the payment on 
his behalf.
After payment was made, the seller told Mr O that the tractors would take just over two 
weeks to reach their destination. The seller also sent Mr O shipment tracking details 
but when Mr O tried to use them, they didnt work. Mr O tried to get in touch with the 
seller to query this but they didnt respond. Mr O then attempted to go to the sellers 
website but it was unavailable. At this point, Mr O realised he had been scammed and 
contacted BoS. 
Following an investigation, BoS said Mr O should bear some liability for the total loss under 
the CRM code. It accepted that it may not have done all it could to protect Mr O and so 
accepted 50% responsibility for his losses  refunding Mr O £2,725.00 plus 8% simple 
interest and some additional compensation. However, BoS thought Mr O should bear 
responsibility for the remainder. 
It said that Mr O had failed to verify the company or the person he was speaking to. BoS 
said it had researched the company that Mr O had thought he was dealing with itself and it 
was readily apparent that the legitimate company sold work-wear, not agricultural 
machinery. It went on to say that Mr O had also failed to complete any checks on the 
proposed third-party shipping company either. BoS said the price of the tractors was not in 
line with the market value and that the price was too good to be true. It also pointed out 
that Mr O had opted to make the transfer despite knowing that the payee name likely didnt 
match. In summary, BoS believed that Mr O had failed to show the requisite level of care in 
making the payments to the seller - without a reasonable basis for believing that the 
payments were for genuine goods or services or that the person with whom he transacted 
with was legitimate.
Finally, BoS said it had contacted the receiving bank within two hours of being notified of the 
scam but the receiving bank confirmed that no funds remained in the beneficiary account. So 
it couldnt do anything more to recover Mr Os funds.
Mr O didnt want to accept the offer of 50% put forward by BoS and he asked us to look into 
his complaint. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as he wasnt persuaded Mr O had 
a reasonable basis for believing he was paying a genuine person for genuine goods or 
services  he felt the price of the tractors was too good to be true. And so he didnt ask BoS 
to increase its offer.
Mr O disagreed and as an agreement has not been reached, Mr O has asked for the matter 
to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position is that a payment service provider is expected to 
process payments that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs), which apply to this complaint, and the account terms and 
conditions. But where a customer made a payment as a result of the actions of a 
scammer, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for a payment service provider to 
reimburse its customer, even though the payment was authorised.
Under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code), 
which BoS is a signatory of, it should reimburse customers who are victims of authorised 
push payment scams, except in limited circumstances.
In considering this, I have taken account of whether BoS ought to have reimbursed Mr O 
under the provisions of the CRM Code, and whether it ought to have done more to protect him from potential financial harm from fraud. The Code also places a level of care on Mr O, 
and so I have also considered whether he met this.
The CRM Code
The CRM Code requires payment service providers to reimburse customers who have 
been the victims of authorised push payment (APP) scams like this, in all but limited 
circumstances. It is for BoS to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of 
care under one, or more, of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code.
Those exceptions are:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made.
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
othe payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
othe payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
othe person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate 
There are further exceptions within the CRM, but these arent applicable here. 
Did Mr O have a reasonable basis for belief?
Under the CRM Code, BoS can choose not to reimburse Mr O if it doesnt believe he took 
the requisite level of care to ensure he had a reasonable basis for belief that the 
person/business he was paying was legitimate and for genuine goods or services. It isnt 
enough for Mr O to believe that he was paying a legitimate person/business for genuine 
goods or services, he had to have a reasonable basis for that belief.
Mr O says he he did look at the sellers website online before proceeding to make the 
payments and was able to read numerous positive reviews that persuaded him the 
company was legitimate. However, I havent been able to locate this website. And 
when the name of the company is entered into a search engine online, it becomes 
quickly apparent that the company in question does not supply tractors. And so, Im 
not satisfied that reviewing the sellers website goes far enough for Mr O to have met 
the requisite level of care, particularly given what was being offered. Ill explain why.
The seller had told Mr O he would provide two tractors and ship them to Sudan for £5,500. 
I have looked at similar models of tractors available in the marketplace at the time and it 
appears that the make and model in question cost around £9,000. This is the price for one 
tractor alone - it does not include shipping costs. And so the quote provided by the seller is 
considerably lower than market value, and I agree with BoS that it was too good to be true 
and shouldve reasonably caused Mr O some concern. 
But Mr O hasnt provided any evidence to show he carried out any sort of due diligence 
before deciding to send his money to the company  over and above reviewing the website 
he had been sent the link to. For example, he readily accepted that he wouldnt be able to 
view the tractors in person. And only requested to arrange an appointment to view them 
after payment had been made. It doesnt appear that Mr O took any steps to verify the 
tractors themselves or asked to have sight of proof of ownership. Mr O has also told us 
that he didnt make any steps to verify the third-party shipping company. 
So, whilst I acknowledge that Mr O was ultimately persuaded by what the seller had told 
him, Im satisfied that he ought reasonably have carried out more checks before making the payments  there were a number of red-flags here that shouldve reasonably given 
some cause for concern. So, having taken everything into account, Im satisfied Mr O 
shouldve done more to ensure that what he was being told by the seller was genuine 
before he sent money to them in order to meet the required level of care under the CRM 
Code. Had he done so, I dont think he wouldve proceeded to make the payments. And 
so I cant fairly say that met Mr O met his requirements under the CRM Code, and I think 
this made a difference here. 
Mr O should get 50% of his losses reimbursed even if he didnt have a reasonable basis for 
belief, if BoS didnt meet its obligations under the CRM Code either. One of those 
obligations is to give an effective warning  one that is understandable, clear, impactful, 
timely and specific  if it identifies a scam risk in a payment journey.
In its response to Mr Os complaint, BoS has told us it cannot be certain what took place in 
branch, whether Mr O was appropriately questioned about the transfers or whether a scam 
warning took place when it shouldve done and so it has already offered to reimburse Mr O 
50% of his losses  the same amount I would award if I found any warnings werent 
effective. And so it seems to me it has already offered what Mr O would be entitled to under 
the CRM Code.
It follows that I find the offer made by BoS  to reimburse 50% of Mr Os loss to be fair and 
I dont require it to do anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc has already made a fair 
offer in resolution of this complaint. Bank of Scotland plc should pay this amount to Mr O  if 
it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2022.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman