DRN-3850085
The complaint
Mr M complains Cumberland Building Society didnt have arrangements in place to 
accommodate his hearing needs when he wanted to apply for a mortgage. He complains 
that hes lost out as a result.
What happened
Mr M and his wife are hard of hearing and until recently lived in rented accommodation. In 
addition, they shielded until the summer of 2022 as they were at heightened risk of Covid.
In January 2022 Mr M emailed Cumberland to explore the possibility of taking out a 
mortgage with them. He explained he had hearing problems and was shielding and said he 
wanted to know whether or not Cumberland would accept a mortgage application using 
Relay UK. Cumberland said that it couldnt accept a mortgage application using Relay UK 
but that it was looking into how to implement this.
Mr M emailed Cumberland again in August 2022 to ask whether it was now able to accept a 
mortgage application using Relay UK. He says Cumberland told him that it hadnt made any 
progress on this. Mr M complained saying that he hadnt been able to apply for a mortgage 
from Cumberland because of his hearing problems, and that meant hed lost out because it 
looked like he would have been eligible for one.
Cumberland investigated Mr Ms complaint and said that whilst it hadnt implemented Relay 
UK fully it did offer this option on a case-by-case basis. Cumberland gave Mr M the email 
address of the person to contact to arrange this. Cumberland apologised for the time it was 
taking to implement a permanent solution and offered £100 in compensation saying that its 
customer service hadnt been as good as it should have been.
Mr M was unhappy with Cumberlands response saying that it was disappointing it hadnt 
made more progress. He complained to us saying that had he been able to apply earlier he 
would have been able to get a mortgage before interest rates had started to increase. In 
other words, he said that he was worse off because Cumberland hadnt made reasonable 
adjustments for him. He was unhappy that Cumberland didnt have the option of using Relay 
UK in place when he originally contacted it and said that its final response showed it wasnt 
committed to implementing that option quickly. Mr M has told us that hes had to move into 
temporary accommodation whilst looking for somewhere to rent long-term and that this has 
had a significant impact on him and his wife. He didnt think the £100 compensation 
Cumberland had offered reflected the impact on him.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint and said that they thought 
Cumberlands offer was fair and that it didnt need to do more. Mr M didnt agree with our 
investigators recommendations and asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. So, his complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that Mr M has hearing difficulties  so does his wife  which means phones arent 
easy for him. And I also accept that they were both extremely careful during the pandemic 
and carried on shielding until the summer of 2022. That meant visiting a branch to apply for 
a mortgage wasnt an option in early 2022  and that applying by phone wasnt really either.
I can see that Mr M contacted Cumberland in January 2022 by email to check whether or not 
he could apply for a mortgage using Relay UK. Cumberland explained that this wasnt an 
option it had in place at the time but said that it would look into this. I agree with Mr M that 
this is something that Cumberland should have given some thought to beforehand  the duty 
to make reasonable adjustments is, after all, an anticipatory duty. So, this must have been 
disappointing.
I can also understand why Mr M was disappointed that when he contacted Cumberland 
again in August 2022 that Cumberland said that this option would take some time until it will 
be routinely available. I can, however, see that Cumberland was, by then, offering the 
facility on a case-by-case basis. Cumberland gave Mr M an email address of a member of 
staff who would be able to organise an appointment to apply using Relay UK. I agree that it 
would have been better if Cumberland had by then been offering that option routinely. My 
role is, however, to look at individual cases and decide whether or not the business has 
acted fairly and reasonably in the case Im looking at. So, I cannot overlook the fact that 
Cumberland gave Mr M the option of applying using Relay UK. I should add that I can see 
that Cumberland had been giving thought to the implications of using Relay UK, including 
whether or not it might put customer data at risk. And I think that was reasonable. Ive also 
taken into account the fact that Cumberland was a regional lender, and that prior to the 
pandemic applicants had the option of coming into its branches  equipped with hearing 
loops. In other words, that it had options prior to the pandemic that worked for customers 
who were hard of hearing.
In its final response, Cumberland accepted that it could have replied to one of Mr Ms emails 
quicker, that it could have been more robust and that it could have kept Mr M better informed 
in relation to the progress it was making. I think Cumberland was right to do so. Its offer of 
£100 reflected this.
Both parties have sent us the emails they exchanged between January and March 2022  
when Mr M first spoke to Cumberland about the possibility of applying for a mortgage using 
Relay UK  and in August and September 2022. I can see from those emails that the staff 
that Mr M spoke to were very helpful  Mr M had confirmed this himself  and answered lots 
of questions Mr M had so he could work out whether or not it would be worth applying for a 
mortgage from Cumberland. I can also see that Cumberland suggested two other alternative 
ways of applying  using secure email or, given that Mr M had mentioned hed just bought 
(but not yet used) a highly amplified phone, giving that a trial run even just as an introduction 
to build his confidence. 
In this case, given what Ive said above, whilst I agree that it would have been disappointing 
that Cumberland didnt have Relay UK in place in January 2022, I do think Cumberland tried 
to help Mr M as much as it could  including answering as many of his questions as it could 
and exploring alternative options with him. I do also think Cumberland took Mr Ms case 
seriously, and had he wished to go ahead with an application, that he could have done so 
when he got back in touch with Cumberland again in August 2022. In the circumstances, I 
dont think it would be fair to tell Cumberland to compensate Mr M for the impact of not being 
able to apply for a mortgage from them. I think Cumberland was right to offer Mr M 
compensation for the failings it identified in its customer service  namely not replying to one 
of his emails quicker, not being more robust and not keeping him better informed in relation to the progress it was making. I would probably have offered more than £100 in 
compensation, but I dont think £100 was unfair or unreasonable. In short, I agree with our 
investigator that Cumberland doesnt need to do more.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint as I dont think it would be fair to tell 
Cumberland Building Society to do more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman