DRN-3224974
The complaint
Miss G (through a representative) has complained that Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty 
irresponsibly provided her with a credit facility because it didnt carry out sufficient checks 
before granting it. Had Drafty made better checks, Miss G says it wouldve seen she was in 
a debt spiral. 
What happened
Miss G was advanced by Drafty for a running credit facility on 4 October 2018. Miss G was 
given a facility with a £2,470 credit limit. This was a running credit account where a 
consumer could either request funds up to their agreed credit limit in one go or take multiple 
drawdowns up to their limit.
Drafty suspended the facility after Miss Gs August 2019 repayment  which prevented her 
from drawing down any further funds. Shortly, after this, Drafty and Miss G agreed a 
repayment plan to repay the balance, initially for £4 per month. After six months it was 
expected the payments would increase to £148 per month. Miss G had some problems 
repaying her balance and an outstanding balance remains. 
Based on the most recent statement of account provided by Drafty, Miss Gs outstanding 
balance is being administered by a third-party collection agency with payments being made 
up to October 2021  which is the most recent information I have been provided. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Gs complaint. She thought the checks Drafty carried 
out before granting the facility were proportionate taking into account Miss Gs declared 
income and outgoings and the result of Draftys credit checks. So, she didnt think it was 
wrong to have initially approved the facility. 
There also wasnt anything in the checks or the way Miss G used the facility which wouldve 
led Drafty to conclude that Miss G was having financial difficulties. Finally, she also 
reminded Drafty of its obligation to treat Miss G fairly with the repayment of the outstanding 
balance. 
Drafty didnt disagree with the adjudicators assessment. 
Miss G didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment and asked for an Ombudsmans 
decision. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was offered.
To begin, I want to be clear that Miss G wasnt given a payday loan where she had to repay 
all of what she borrowed plus the interest due when she next got paid. She was given a 
facility where there was an expectation that shed repay what she borrowed plus the interest 
due within a period of at least 12 months.
As Ive said, Miss G was granted a running credit facility, with a £2,470 limit. According to 
the credit agreement, had she drawn down the full amount on the first day of having the 
facility, and repaid that amount over 12 months, she wouldve repaid a total of £3,345.42, 
meaning Miss Gs monthly repayments wouldve been around £279 (assuming she didnt 
take further drawdowns).
Before granting the facility, Drafty asked Miss G about her monthly income, which she 
confirmed was £3,800 per month and she also declared expenditure of £700 per month. 
Based on the information that Drafty gathered it seemed that Miss G would be able to afford 
the repayments she was committed to making. 
Drafty has provided us with the results of its credit checks that it carried out when it granted 
the facility. Ive reviewed the results, to see if Drafty was provided with information that 
alerted it to any financial difficulties Miss G may have been having or indicated to it that she 
wouldnt be able to afford the repayments towards the facility. 
When Miss Gs facility was granted, the credit checks showed Drafty the following 
information about Miss Gs finances;
3 accounts had been marked as in default on her credit file,
the most recent default had been recorded 38 months before the facility was granted 
and  
Miss G had nine active accounts.  
Its also important to note that the information Drafty got from the credit checks it did are not 
the same as it wouldve had if it had asked Miss G for a copy of her full credit report. There 
is, and wasnt, any regulation in place to say that either Drafty needed to do a credit check 
let alone one to a required standard. It carried out a credit search and obtained the results. 
Looking at the results Drafty obtained, it knew Miss G had some adverse credit file data, but 
that was recorded more than three years before Miss Gs facility was granted. While that is 
an indication of previous financial difficulties, it doesnt, in my mind indicate that Drafty 
wouldve concluded Miss G was having current difficulties. Finally, the number of active 
credit accounts, also, isnt that concerning, and doesnt indicate that Miss G was having 
difficulties.  
Given what Miss G declared, the loan repayment of around £279 per month looked 
affordable. Based on what Ive seen, I think it was reasonable for Drafty to have approved 
this facility, given the information it gathered. 
I also think, given this was the start of the lending relationship, it was reasonable for Drafty to 
have relied on the information it was provided. So, I dont think proportionate checks 
wouldnt have extended to Drafty asking Miss G to evidence her declared income and 
expenditure. Therefore, I dont think Drafty was wrong to have approved the facility.
However, that doesnt mean that Drafty hasnt done anything wrong. Ive also looked at how 
Miss G used the facility to see if there was a point at which Drafty should reasonably have seen that further allowing Miss G to take further advances was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful for her.
When the facility was approved, Drafty was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). The FCA had issued guidance on this type of lending and what it says should be 
expected from lenders when granting these types of loans. Within the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC) section 6.7.2R says:
A firm must monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action 
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties
In practice this meant Drafty needed to be mindful of how Miss G used the facility in order to 
step in if and when she showed signs of possible financial difficulties. Having looked at how 
Miss G had used the facility there werent any indicators that she wasnt using it as intended. 
She was making at least her minimal monthly repayment each month. So, I dont think Drafty 
needed to react earlier than it did to assist Miss G. 
And it was in August 2019 that both parties entered into a repayment plan and as far as I 
can see, Miss G has broadly made repayments each month. Miss G was paying £4 per 
month, this increased to £33 in August 2020 and then further increased to £40 in May 2021. 
Overall, I dont think Drafty was wrong to have approved the facility which means Im not 
upholding Miss Gs complaint. 
I understand, from the statement of account that Miss G is repaying the balance through a 
repayment plan, and Id remind Drafty of its obligation to treat Miss G fairly and with 
forbearance. 
I appreciate that Miss G will be disappointed with the outcome, but I hope my explanation 
has been useful for her to understand why Ive reached the conclusion that I have. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman