DRN-3675322
The complaint
Mr P complains that Eagle Star (now Zurich) provided unsuitable advice in relation to his 
pension in 1989 and that he has been disadvantaged as a result. 
What happened
In 1989, Mr P took out an Eagle Star (now Zurich) Rainbow Personal Pension Plan to enable 
him to contract out of SERPS.
In January 2006, Mr P first complained to Zurich about its advice as he believed he had 
been misled. However, Zurich stated that they did not provide any advice and did not uphold 
the complaint, indicating that the complaint should be referred to Pendragon Investment 
Consultants who had been the original advisory firm who had submitted the application. 
They stated that they believed Pendragon may no longer be trading and if that was the case, 
that Mr P should refer his complaint to FSCS.
Mr P complained again in 2020 and Zurich reiterated its position that they were not 
responsible for any advice in relation to Mr Ps pension. He referred his complaint to this 
service. The investigator found no evidence to suggest that Zurich were responsible for the 
advice and did not uphold the complaint. Mr P was not satisfied with this and thus the case 
has been referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is a significant amount of correspondence on file and I do not intend to address each 
element in detail. I also confirm Ive noted the various points Mr P has made in his 
submissions to us and to Zurich. However, Ive only concentrated on what I think is the 
important point in the complaint, namely whether Zurich provided any advice and therefore 
have a case to answer in respect of the alleged misselling. 
I have considered the evidence in the file in order to identify whether Zurich provided any 
advice to Mr P in relation to his pension, and therefore would be responsible for any 
allegations of having provided unsuitable advice. 
In their responses, Zurich have been consistent throughout in their assertion that they did 
not provide any advice to Mr P, either at the time the policy was taken out in 1989, or at any 
time since. 
Mr P has stated he believes there was a conflict of interest and refers to Pendragon as 
Eagle Stars agent, however I cannot find anything to support this allegation of conflict or 
position of Pendragon as an agent of Eagle Star.  Zurich have confirmed that Pendragon 
Investment Consultants were not an appointed representative of theirs. I can find no 
evidence to suggest that this is in any way inaccurate.
The information provided by Zurich indicates that the application for the Eagle Star Rainbow 
Personal Pension Plan was submitted via Pendragon Investment Consultants who were an 
Independent Intermediary. This means that they were able to recommend products from any 
life company, and retained responsibility for that advice. There is nothing to suggest that 
Pendragon were tied to Zurich or that Zurich benefited unfairly from Pendragon placing 
business with them. 
Mr P has stated he believes that Zurich had an obligation to show that he appointed an IFA 
and has asked Zurich to provide documentary evidence that they did not give him advice in 
respect of his pension. 
It is important to consider the practices in 1989.The regulatory requirements in 1989 when 
Mr P took out his plan were less stringent than they are now in terms of the level of detail 
and documentation retained. Nonetheless, whilst businesses have always had an obligation 
to keep documentary evidence of advice given, they are not obliged to keep documentation 
indicating that they did not give advice. 
Mr P references the statements in the marketing literature which he states induced him to 
take out the product. I have considered whether this can be considered to be advice, or 
misleading in any way, and cannot find evidence to support his claim. I agree with Mr Ps 
comments relating to the fact that the literature did reference the potential additional rebates 
that may have been available to him, however do not agree that they were in any way 
misleading or could constitute advice. 
Zurich have confirmed that they were set up as Administrator and Provider, and their only 
role was to administer the account in line with the prescribed rules. There was therefore no 
obligation or intention on their part to provide any advice in relation to the pension, either at 
outset or on an ongoing basis. 
I recognise Mr Ps frustration with the lack of clarity in relation to the intermediaries linked to 
his pension plan, however can find no evidence that Zurich has acted unfairly in their 
administration of his pension or in their dealings with him.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Joanne Molloy
Ombudsman