DRN-2421923
The complaint
Mr M and Ms K complained that XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited (Catlin) unfairly 
declined a claim under their travel insurance policy when they cancelled a trip to Sri Lanka.
What happened
In February 2019, Mr M and Ms K booked a holiday to Sri Lanka and paid a deposit. They 
bought travel insurance from Catlin in March. And they paid the balance for the holiday at 
the start of April. The scheduled departure date was in early May 2019.
On 21 April 2019, there were terrorist attacks in Sri Lanka. Following the attacks, Mr M 
contacted Catlins agent to see if he could cancel the trip and make a claim on the policy.  
He was told that he would be able to  but only if the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) 
issued a warning against all but essential travel.
Catlins agent suggested Mr M contact his travel provider to see what they were offering to 
do in the circumstances. When he did that, Mr M was told the travel provider only had a 
policy to offer a voucher for departures scheduled before the end of April.
On 25 April, the FCO issued a warning against all but essential travel to Sri Lanka. Mr M 
contacted Catlins agent the next day and asked if he could cancel. He was told that this was 
up to the underwriters  but in light of the FCOs advice, the agent didnt think thered be a 
problem. The agent told Mr M hed have to cancel his holiday and send the cancellation 
invoice to Catlin with a claim form.
Mr M contacted his travel provider again. He was told that the provider was still only issuing 
vouchers refunds for departures up to the end of April  and they couldnt provide an 
alternative destination for his holiday in May. The travel provider couldnt say when they 
would have a policy for departures due in May. And they told Mr M that the only alternative 
to waiting was to cancel the holiday and accept a partial refund.
Mr M cancelled on 26 April and submitted a claim to Catlin under his travel insurance policy 
for the balance.
A couple of weeks later, Catlin wrote to Mr M and Ms K and declined their claim on the basis 
that cancellation due to terrorism wasnt covered. Mr M challenged Catlins decision. Catlin 
dealt with that as a complaint. But they didnt change their view that Mr M and Ms K had 
cancelled their holiday due to terrorist activity. And that wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr M and Ms K brought their complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it and came to the 
view that Catlin should pay the claim. He agreed that the policy said that cancellation as a 
result of terrorism wasnt covered. But it also said that Mr M and Ms K wouldnt be covered if 
they travelled against FCO advice. So he said they couldnt make a claim either way  and 
that wasnt fair. The investigator thought that, in addition to paying the claim, Catlin should 
pay interest on it. And they should pay Mr M and Ms K £150 which theyd previously offered 
them for giving Mr M the wrong information when hed called them.
Catlin didnt accept the investigators view. They said it was clear from Mr Ms 
communications with him that he wasnt going to travel because of the attacks. So it was fair 
to say the holiday was cancelled due to terrorist activity  which was covered under the 
policy. And they thought the tour provider would have cancelled the holiday as a result of the 
FCO advice. They pointed out that Mr M and Ms K would have been able to recover their 
losses from the travel provider and referred to the terms of the policy, which they said 
supported their position on this point.
I didnt agree with our investigators view.  So I made a provisional decision.  In that, I looked 
at the terms our investigator did.  But I also looked at a third term, which set out that Catlin 
wouldnt cover costs which Mr M and Ms K could recover from their travel operator.  And I 
considered their travel providers terms and conditions, which said that the provider would 
cancel bookings and give a full refund in unavoidable and extraordinary circumstances  
one example of which was terrorist activity.
So I was satisfied that Mr M and Ms K wouldve been entitled to a full refund if theyd waited 
for their travel provider to cancel.  And that meant it was reasonable for Catlin to decline 
cover under the terms of their policy.
Catlin didnt comment on my provisional decision.  Mr M and Ms K didnt accept it.  They 
said they thought it was reasonable for them to rely on the information they were given by 
the insurers agents rather than try and interpret their policy themselves.  And they didnt 
think it was fair to say they shouldve have anticipated their travel provider would cancel the 
holiday and give them a full refund. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ms and Ms Ks complaint, in line with my provisional 
decision.
I do have sympathy for Mr M and Ms K.  Very shortly before they were due to go on holiday, 
events at their destination meant that it became unsafe for them to do that.  And their 
reluctance to travel was supported by the FCO issuing advice against all but essential travel 
just a few days before their scheduled departure.
And Ive seen that Mr M and Ms K were not helped very much by the information they were 
given by their travel provider.  But  as I said in my provisional decision  thats something 
theyd have to raise with the provider because theyd have been covered by the Package 
Travel Regulations 2018 which, in summary, say theyd have been entitled to a full refund.
In his response to my provisional decision, Mr M has set out the details of his contact with 
Catlins agents.  Hes highlighted that he wasnt told that terrorist activity was excluded  but 
he was told that (subject to underwriters approval) he would be covered if the FCO issued 
advice against all but essential travel.  And hes said that he was told hed have to cancel the 
holiday and get evidence hed done that if he wanted to make a claim.  Hes said he doesnt 
think its reasonable for him to have interpreted the policy terms himself when he was 
contacting Catlins agents for guidance.
Ive thought carefully about this.  And Ive looked again at the policy document.  I think its 
clear from the document that there are a number of situations in which Catlin wont provide 
cover.  And the agent made it clear that the information they gave Mr M was subject to 
underwriters approval.  So I think its reasonable to say that Mr M was made aware that 
what hed been told may change.  And theres never a guarantee that any claim made to an 
insurer will be settled  claims are always subject to consideration of their individual facts.I appreciate Mr M was told hed have to cancel his holiday if he wanted to make a claim.  But 
thats information - not an instruction.  It was Mr Ms choice to act as quickly as he did, based 
on the information hed got from Catlin and from his travel provider.  Because he did that, he 
didnt get a full refund from the travel provider. 
But that doesnt mean that Catlin should settle his and Ms Ks claim for the balance.  As I 
said in my provisional decision, theres a term in their policy which says they wont cover:
any costs incurred by you which are recoverable from a tour operator, public transport
operator, accommodation provider, holiday services provider or any other source, or for
which you receive or are expected to receive compensation or other assistance.
The balance of the holiday is a cost which Mr M and Ms K couldve recovered from their 
travel provider.  So I think it was reasonable for Catlin to decline their claim.  And I dont 
think they need to do anything differently to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im not upholding Mr Ms and Ms Ks complaint about XL Catlin 
Insurance Company UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman