DRN-3076753
The complaint
Mr R complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) unfairly closed his credit card account; 
that its staff member was rude to him on the phone; and his request for a subject access 
request (SAR) has not been met.   
Mr R is also unhappy with how Barclays have handled many of his calls in relation to 
handling his complaint.  
 
What happened
In October 2019, Mr R called Barclays to change the address on his credit card account. 
When he did so, the agent he spoke to said he couldnt find his account. Unhappy with this 
Mr R asked to speak to somebody else to complain. He was put through and that call cut out 
mid-way through the conversation. Mr R wasnt called back. 
Barclays said it had closed Mr Rs account because of dormancy and it had written to him 
about this. Mr R says he never got this letter. 
Mr R made a SAR request to Barclays to get information it holds related to this matter. To 
date this request hasnt been met. Barclays say Mr R needs to provide proof of identity 
documentation. Mr R also complained to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) 
about this. 
Barclays have paid over £500 redress to Mr R. It also awarded compensation for the way it 
handled Mr Rs complaint. 
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr R brought his complaint to this service. Another of our 
ombudsman decided this service doesnt have the power to consider anything to do with 
Mr Rs complaint about how Barclays have handled his complaint. So because of that, this 
isnt something I will be considering in this decision. 
One of our investigators then looked into the complaint points we could consider. In 
summary they found: 
- Barclays have shown Mr Rs credit card account was closed as the card hadnt been 
used for some time  in other words, it had become dormant.  
- Barclays provided evidence that a notice to close the account letter was sent. 
Barclays terms and conditions say it can close the account after its given two 
months notice. So Barclays havent done anything wrong by closing the account. 
- The Barclays member of staff Mr R spoke to in October 2019 about changing his 
address wasnt rude to him. Nor had he accused Mr R of lying. 
- Barclays should have called Mr R back, despite that not being its process, when the 
call cut-off after hed been transferred to speak to someone about making a 
complaint. This would have been better customer service. 
- Mr Rs address details when requesting a SAR didnt match Barclays records. Thats 
because Mr R had a different address to the one that was showing on Barclays 
systems as hed moved home. 
- Mr R had cleared this up with Barclays. But Barclays hasnt processed his SAR as 
its asked Mr R provide proof of identity documents. It was fair for Barclays to want to 
confirm Mr Rs identity before processing his SAR. This was in line with what the ICO 
had told Mr R. 
- Barclays have paid sufficient compensation for not calling Mr R back when it should 
have. 
Unhappy with what our investigator said, Mr R asked for the matter to be passed to an 
Ombudsman. 
In addition to what Mr R has already told this service, he adds that he had many more phone 
conversations with Barclays about his complaint. And the service he received in those calls 
was poor. Mr R also said that after appealing the ICO decision, the person who looked into 
that said the previous response was sufficient. 
It follows I must now decide this matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. I know this will disappoint 
him, so Ill explain why. 
Account closure
Barclays has given me records of Mr Rs credit card. These records range from 2013 till 
2018. I note from 2014 there isnt any spending activity on the account. Barclays has also 
sent me a technical record from its internal systems which lists various actions carried out on 
the administration of this account. Theres an entry dated in April 2017 which says, 
DORMANCY CLOSURE MAILING. Another entry, dated July 2017, says RATIONALISE 
ACCOUNT CLOSE. 
Barclays have sent me a copy of the terms of this account. I note it says: 
This agreement has no fixed term. This means it will continue until you or we decide to 
close your account. You can close the account by calling or writing to us, and we can close 
the account by writing to you. Unless we need to close your account immediately, well give 
you at least two months written notice
Given the records of the account Ive seen, Im satisfied Barclays acted reasonably in 
considering closing Mr Rs account for dormancy. 
Barclays dont have a copy of the letter and Mr R says he never received it. Where I dont 
have conclusive evidence, I can decide matters on what I think is most likely to have 
happened. Given the technical records Barclays have sent me show mail related to the 
account being dormant was sent, I think its more likely than not Barclays sent this.  Its possible Mr R might have had an issue with his post, but I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest this was the case. So Im satisfied Barclays closed the account fairly and that it most 
likely acted in line with the terms of the account by giving Mr R sixty days notice.
Mr Rs call about changing his address  
Barclays have given me the call recording for when Mr R called it to change his address. 
The staff member asks Mr R for his account number which he gives him. The agent then 
says he cant locate the account, and because of this tries again after reconfirming the card 
number. The staff member asks Mr R for his telephone number and postcode but still cant 
find the account. 
Mr R asks Barclays staff member why hed lie about this and asks to speak to the 
complaints team. Mr R says he was called liar, and the staff member raised his voice at him. 
Having listened to this call, Im not of the mind this was the case. The agent is respectful and 
helpful throughout and any increase in the volume of his voice was related to having a 
conducive conversation with Mr R. 
So I dont think Barclays have done anything wrong here. 
Mr Rs call is put through to someone in the complaints team and having listened to this call 
too Im satisfied it ends prematurely and abruptly. Barclays say its not within its process to 
call a customer back should the call cut off.  Its not my role to comment on the processes 
Barclays has in place to help it service its customer needs. But given Mr R wanted to make a 
complaint, it would have been helpful for Barclays to call Mr R back. 
Having said that, Barclays couldnt locate Mr Rs account. It says that was because the 
account had been purged from its frontline system as it had been closed. This is plausible 
reason and explains why its agent couldnt find the account details. It also might have made 
calling Mr R difficult. 
Ideally, if Barclays did have Mr Rs telephone number at hand, it should probably have 
called him back to handle the complaint. 
Subject Access Request 
Barclays say it wasnt initially able to find Mr Rs details as the address it held on its systems 
didnt match with what Mr R told it. I understand that once an account is purged by Barclays, 
it saves the customer details from that time. That would explain why it had Mr Rs previous 
address  the one before he moved.  But it appears as if this issue has been resolved and 
Barclays have an up to date understanding on Mr Rs address history. 
Barclays have however asked Mr R to go into a branch with identification for it to process his 
SAR. Barclays have sent me four letters that explain this, and I note three of them are 
addressed correctly  that is, to the address Mr R currently lives at. The letters explain what 
identity documents are needed. Mr R says he never received these. 
The ICO are, broadly speaking, the organisation that handles this type of complaint. And 
having considered it, they found Barclays are acting reasonably by asking Mr R to provide 
identity evidence before processing his SAR request. I note the ICO have also explained 
under which part of the GDPR rules Barclays have made this request. So, having given this 
matter careful thought, Im persuaded Barclays are acting fairly and reasonably by 
requesting Mr R goes into one of it branches with documentation related to proving his 
identity.  After all, Mr R has changed address and it appears hes had some problems with his post. 
Barclays have attempted to consider alternative forms of identity as Mr R has said he didnt 
have the documents it required. So I dont think Barclays have done anything wrong and are 
making efforts to the move the matter along.  
Lastly, Mr R says we havent considered his complaint point about the many calls he made 
to Barclays about his complaint and the poor service they show he received. That might be 
the case, but as Ive said before another ombudsman has decided we dont have the power 
to consider any complaint points that relate to how Barclays have handled Mr Rs complaint. 
So in summary, Im satisfied Barclays did nothing wrong when closing Mr Rs credit card 
account. That he wasnt spoken to rudely by Barclays agent who he called to change the 
account address. Nor do I think Barclays are acting unfairly by asking Mr R to provide it with 
identification documentation before processing his SAR. 
I do accept Barclays could have called Mr R back when he initially wanted to make a 
complaint  though its not clear if Barclays had his details to do this. But I think Barclays 
have already done enough to redress this. 
That means I wont be asking Barclays to do anything more than that which it already has. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
Ketan Nagla  
Ombudsman
