DRN-2703821
The complaint
Mr M brings a complaint, on behalf of Mr P and the late Mrs P, that Santander UK Plc 
(previously Alliance & Leicester) mis-sold them an endowment policy for mortgage 
repayment in 1999. He says the life cover within the endowment policy was unsuitable as 
they both had existing medical conditions. He also complains of the fees and commission 
payable under the policy and the term might not have been appropriate.
What happened
Santander was unable to consider the complaint as it couldnt locate any information about 
an endowment policy. 
Our investigator considered the information provided by Mr M, which included part of the 
mortgage application, some bank statements and screen shots provided by Santander to 
show the searches it had done. However, he wasnt persuaded there was sufficient evidence 
on which to reach a fair and reasonable outcome  the evidence didnt show that a policy 
was sold, or who by, nor did it show the features of the policy, such as the sum assured or 
the fund invested into, that would enable a suitability assessment to be carried out. He also 
wasnt persuaded the existence of existing medical conditions would mean an endowment 
was unsuitable. 
Mr M has asked for the matter to be reviewed. In summary, he is satisfied he has provided 
evidence of the existence of a policy in 1999 as it is referred to on the mortgage application. 
He is also convinced the premium for the policy is paid for within the mortgage repayments 
made to Santander. He is therefore of the view that Santander has been obstructive in this 
complaint by not providing information about the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr M feels very strongly about Mr P and the late Mrs Ps complaint. And 
although I have summarised the background and what has happened, including Mr Ms 
arguments, I would like to reassure both him and Santander that I have read and considered 
everything provided. In deciding this complaint, it isnt my role to comment on every point 
made; rather my findings will concentrate on the crux of the issue  whether Santander (or 
its predecessor Alliance & Leicester) is responsible for selling an endowment policy, and if 
so whether it was suitable.
Mr M has provided part of the mortgage application. We have asked for the full copy of this 
document, but it hasnt been provided; its unclear if its available or not. I accept what I have 
seen shows that Mr and Mrs P were arranging a mortgage of £85,000 over a term of 17 
years.  I also accept the application records that the mortgage will be part repayment and 
part endowment. And there is an annotation under endowment which suggests this might 
have been for £30,000, presumably leaving £55,000 on a repayment basis. 
This is certainly evidence that Mr and Mrs P intended to use an endowment policy to repay 
part of their mortgage. And I accept that mortgage was ultimately with Alliance & Leicester. 
But that, of itself, isnt evidence a policy was sold during that time, or that the sale was 
conducted by Alliance & Leicester. It is just as possible that the mortgage, and any 
associated policies were arranged by an independent financial adviser, who would be 
responsible for ensuring the suitability of any products advised on, if any advice was 
provided. And its also possible the endowment policy was one that was already in existence. 
But if it was, we dont have any details of that. 
Mr M has provided a number of statements to show that no new payments to endowment 
providers were in place after the mortgage was taken out in 1999. He has also provided 
evidence that a previous endowment policy was surrendered in May of that year. He has 
surmised, therefore, that premiums for the endowment must have be taken with the 
mortgage repayments  that the endowment policy was built into the mortgage. 
It seems Mr M might not fully understand how these mortgages work. An endowment 
mortgage, or more correctly an interest-only mortgage, is a mortgage where the borrower 
only pays back interest over the term of the mortgage. At the end of the term, the initial 
amount borrowed still needs to be repaid and this is usually done via an investment product, 
such as an endowment, taken out along side the mortgage. Mortgage lenders are just that, 
lenders; they are not life assurance companies that offer or manage endowment policies. So 
an endowment policy isnt built into the mortgage as such, even if it is being used as a 
repayment vehicle. 
That said, it has been known for some endowment premiums to be taken along with 
mortgage repayments, but that isnt typical. And even where that does happen, the premium 
is passed on to the life assurance company, which is separate to the lender. So even if I 
agreed with Mr M that the premiums were taken within the mortgage repayments, which Im 
not satisfied there is persuasive evidence of, that still doesnt tell us who sold the policy or 
who the policy provider is.  As Mr M knows, Santander doesnt have any information about 
endowment policies that might have been sold at that time  that isnt Santander being 
obstructive, as I have seen evidence of the searches carried out  but simply that 
information is no longer available after such a long period of time. Businesses do have data 
retention obligations and they arent permitted to retain customer data for longer than 
necessary. Here, I understand the mortgage was repaid in 2005 and so Mr and Mrs P 
ceased to be a mortgage customer at that time. Im therefore not surprised that Santander 
isnt able to provide anything further than it has. 
Further, even if I agreed that Santander is responsible for the sale of a policy, which again I 
make clear here I dont, we still wouldnt be able to reach a fair and reasonable outcome 
about the suitability of the policy or whether any refund is due because of fees or 
commission. Thats because we dont have enough information about the policy to establish 
whether it was suitable or what fees or commission might have been payable. That Mr and 
Mrs P had existing medical conditions doesnt necessarily preclude them from benefitting 
from life cover as they might with other types of insurance, such as payment protection 
insurance. Usually a life assurance provider would take account of any medical conditions 
and rate the policy accordingly  that is, the higher the risk of it needing to meet a claim the 
higher the premium. But that of itself doesnt mean life cover is unsuitable. In order to 
establish that, we would need the terms and conditions applicable to the cover provided, the 
sum assured of the policy, what premiums were paid and where they were invested, and 
what surrender value was received (Im given to understand that any policy was surrendered 
in 2005 when the mortgage was repaid). Without that policy information, it isnt possible to 
reach a fair and reasonable outcome about whether any policy was suitable; and it wouldnt 
be possible for any business to carry out a meaningful redress calculation such that Mr P and Mrs Ps estate could be fairly compensated, even if  I could conclude something had 
gone wrong. 
Overall, I dont uphold this complaint as there is insufficient persuasive evidence on which to 
reach a fair and reasonable outcome, or therefore find that Santander did anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and the 
estate of Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman