DRN-1999268
 
The complaint
Ms F complains Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard, acted irresponsibly when it 
allowed her to open a credit card account and subsequently, increased her credit limit.
What happened
Ms F opened a credit card account with Barclaycard in January 2015. In July 2016, her 
credit limit was increased to £8,500. Ms F paid the balance in full in August 2017 and in April 
2018, she closed the account.
 
In early 2020, Barclaycard contacted Ms F explaining that itd recently reviewed the way it 
set some of its customers credit limits. It noted it could see the limit it gave to Ms Fs 
previous account, may have been higher than it should have been at that time. It apologised 
for this.
After looking into this matter, Ms F complained to Barclaycard saying that itd lent to her 
irresponsibly. She said in order to pay back the credit card debt, she needed to re-mortgage 
her property  she re-mortgaged her property in August 2017 receiving a loan of £112,410 
and used £8,324 to pay her Barclaycard debt in full. Ms F said that she wanted Barclaycard 
to refund her all of the interest shed paid including the extra interest she will need to pay as 
a result of re-mortgaging her property.
Barclaycard didnt uphold Ms Fs complaint. It said itd carried out appropriate checks before 
agreeing to open her account. These included income and expenditure checks and a review 
of her credit file. Barclaycard also noted Ms F had managed her account well, making 
minimum repayments each month. In terms of the credit increase in 2016, Barclaycard said 
in addition to a review of her credit file which showed no adverse information, itd taken into 
consideration the way shed managed her account since it was opened in early 2015. These 
checks demonstrated she could afford the increase in credit.
Barclaycard did, however, recognise that its review letter had caused Ms F some 
inconvenience, so it paid her £75 compensation for this. Ms F was unhappy with 
Barclaycards response, so she brought her complaint to our service.
 
Our investigator didnt think we should uphold Ms Fs complaint. Overall, she was satisfied 
that Barclaycard had shown itd carried out appropriate checks before agreeing to lend to 
Ms F. She also noted that Ms F had managed her account well after opening the account 
and also after the credit limit increase. She felt these factors meant Barclaycard had done 
enough to ensure the credit card was affordable to Ms F.
 
Ms F disagreed with the investigators view. She didnt think that just because she was able 
to maintain the repayments, and do the right thing, this meant she could afford the credit 
she was given. So the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my findings, I understand that Ms F has raised a number of points during 
her contact with this service. Although I may not mention every point shes raised, Ive 
considered everything Ms F has said but limited my findings to the areas which impact on 
the outcome of the case. Ill also mention at this stage that where theres a dispute about 
what happened, Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the evidence.
The key question is whether the credit Barclaycard agreed to give Ms F, was affordable to 
her. As a lender, Barclaycard are under a duty to carry out proportionate checks to 
determine whether credit (and a significant increase to Ms Fs credit limit) was, as far as it 
could tell, affordable and sustainable and would not adversely affect the customer. A 
proportionate check will depend on many things, such as what a lender knows about the 
customer, size of credit, term for repayment, and their lending history.
Looking at Barclaycards records, Im satisfied it carried out appropriate and proportionate 
checks such as reviewing Ms Fs credit file and taking into account her income and 
outgoings. I also note Barclaycard made an offer to increase Ms Fs credit limit in 2016, 
which she accepted. I see at that time, Barclaycard took into consideration the way Ms F 
managed her account over an eighteen month period. 
I can also see from credit card statements that the majority of the balance was the result of 
balance transfers at a promotional 0% interest rate, rather than ongoing spending. So the 
main purpose of the application would seem to be debt consolidation and not new spending. 
This means the debt already existed when Ms F opened the Barclaycard account, after 
which point shed a more favourable rate than before. I see that it was only a year later that 
Ms F started to use the card for new spending. And even after this point, she made regular 
monthly repayments and stayed well within the credit limit. 
Ms F says she was only able to maintain regular repayments and stay within the credit limits, 
by robbing Peter to pay Paul. And that whilst it may have seemed she was managing her 
account well, she was, in fact, experiencing financial difficulties. Ive carefully considered 
what Ms F has said. But having looked at all of the evidence, I cant see at any stage before 
Ms F received the review letter, that she told Barclaycard about her financial problems. I 
make no criticism of Ms F for this  I just dont think Barclaycard should have realised there 
were any problems based on the information it had. If Ms F had told Barclaycard about her 
financial issues, or there were any signs of financial hardship such as missed payments, 
then I would have expected this to have been considered in the lending decision.
Ms F considers the outcome of the review shows Barclaycard did lend to her irresponsibly. 
But as Ive said, Ms F seems to have secured a more advantageous interest rate on existing 
debts as a result of Barclaycard accepting her application. And looking at everything as a 
whole, including the checks carried out before the lending decision and the way the account 
was managed, Im satisfied Barclaycard didnt act irresponsibly by lending to Ms F.
Nonetheless, I understand the outcome of the review so long after the account was closed, 
did cause Ms F unnecessary distress and inconvenience. I need to balance this with the fact 
that I dont think there has been any financial loss to Ms F as a result of the review. So 
overall, I think the £75 compensation for the inconvenience already paid to her by 
Barclaycard, is fair. 
Finally, I note Ms Fs point about re-mortgaging to pay off the Barclaycard debt. But on 
balance, given the extent of the borrowing and the way it was used, Im satisfied that this 
further lending wasnt for the sole purpose of paying the Barclaycard debt. Therefore, I cant fairly ask Barclaycard to pay any extra interest Ms F may need to pay as a result of this 
further lending.
For all these reasons, Ive come to the view that Barclaycard hasnt acted irresponsibly in 
Ms Fs case either by accepting her application, or by agreeing to the credit limit increase. 
On the face of it, the credit offered to Ms F was affordable. So whilst I appreciate she will be 
disappointed with this outcome, Im not upholding her complaint.
My final decision
Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman