DRN-2075045
The complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a policy that Mr W took out in 1988 in connection with a mortgage. 
The policy provided cover for Mr W if he couldnt work because of sickness, accident or 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W didnt agree with the adjudicators 
conclusions so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it
recommended was suitable for Mr Ws needs?
- Did Halifax give Mr W the information he needed to decide whether to take out
the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether
Mr W is worse off as a result. That is, would he have done something different 
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr W says he was put under pressure by Halifax to buy the policy, and that he wasnt given 
a proper choice about taking it. He says hed been made redundant a few months before he 
arranged his mortgage, so Halifax told him he had to take the PPI to get the loan he wanted. 
Mr W has also said he always planned to become self-employed, and that he eventually did 
so some time after the mortgage was arranged. I understand Mr W continued to pay the 
policy premiums after he became self-employed. 
Mr W considers self-employment wouldve affected his ability to claim on the policy. He says 
this, together with his continued payment of premiums, supports his suggestion that he 
wouldnt have bought the cover if hed been given a proper choice. Ive noted everything Mr 
W has said.
Halifax hasnt been able to provide much information from the time the policy was sold, 
which isnt surprising given the amount of time thats passed. Im also mindful that these 
events happened over thirty years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can 
fade over time.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr W and
Halifax when the policy was sold. 
And from what Ive seen, there is nothing to suggest that being self-employed wouldve 
prevented Mr W from making a successful unemployment claim on the policy once he 
became self-employed. This might explain why he continued to pay the premiums once his 
employment status changed. So I dont consider this point shows Halifax put him under 
pressure to buy the policy. 
Without anything else to support what Mr W has told me, I dont think I can fairly and 
reasonably say that Halifax didnt make him aware that the PPI was optional.
Halifax has accepted that it advised Mr W to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it
was unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. I say this
because:
- Mr W was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and
conditions (which Mr W has helpfully provided).
- Mr W says he was entitled to employer benefits if he couldnt work due to
sickness or accident, and that he had some savings. Mr W says the combination of 
his sick pay and savings meant he didnt have a need for the PPI. 
But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Ws employer benefits. Having the 
policy in place wouldve meant Mr W could use his employer benefits and savings to 
pay for other expenses. So I still think the policy wouldve been useful to him, despite 
his existing arrangements. 
- Mr W wasnt self-employed when the policy was sold. And as Ive already said, I 
dont consider his eventual self-employment wouldve prevented him from making a 
successful unemployment claim on the policy.
I understand Mr W may have had a medical condition when he took the policy out. 
But hes said this was managed by medication and generally didnt affect his ability to 
work. So I dont consider Mr Ws medical condition meant Halifaxs recommendation 
to take out the policy was unsuitable.
Overall, I think it unlikely he needed better advice or information about the policys 
exclusions and limitations.
- I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr W before he agreed to buy
it. But he took out the cover knowing he would have to pay something for it. The 
policy was competitively priced and the benefit covered his monthly mortgage payments. So I think it unlikely Mr W would have made a different decision if better 
information about the cost had been provided.
- Mr W says hed only been in his job for three months when he took out the policy. He 
says a successful unemployment claim required customers to have been working for 
six months. So he considers Halifaxs recommendation wasnt suitable because he 
couldnt have claimed if hed been made redundant during the first three months of 
the policy. 
But I note that clause 2(b) of the policy says:
Unemployment Insurance Benefit
If after the policy has been effective for 90 days an Insured Borrower suffers 
unemployment as defined abovethe Insurers will pay to the Policyholderthe 
monthly Insurance Benefit
Where an employment claim has been made evidence of 6 months continuous 
employment is required before the Insured Borrower is entitled to further 
unemployment cover.
This suggests to me that unemployment cover could be paid after the first 90 days of 
the policy, irrespective of how long the customer had been working. I think the 
reference to further unemployment cover in the final paragraph of clause 2(b) 
means six months continuous employment was required where two or more 
unemployment claims were made over the lifetime of the policy.
So Im not persuaded that Mr Ws relatively short period of employment meant he 
couldnt claim on the policy.
I accept that Mr W couldnt claim during the first 90 days of cover because of the 
policys deferred period. But Mr W wouldve received employer sick pay during that 
time if hed been off work sick, and hes told me he had savings he couldve used if 
hed been made redundant. So it seems he wouldve been able to cover his 
mortgage payments during the 90 day waiting period  which I dont consider to be 
excessive. As such, this point doesnt change my overall conclusions about the 
complaint.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should
have been. And its possible that Mr W may have been affected by the exclusion that 
affected people with pre-existing medical conditions. But keeping in mind what Mr W has 
said about the nature of his condition and how it is managed, I think its unlikely hed have 
made a different decision about buying the policy if the exclusion had been pointed out to 
him. Overall, I think he would still have taken out the policy.
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Halifax has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about that. Because Halifax didnt tell Mr W, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back to Mr W any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman