DRN-3878169
The complaint
Mr S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) discriminated against him in 
branch due to his ethnic origin.
What happened
Mr S went into a NatWest branch for assistance in downloading the NatWest banking app on 
his mobile phone. Mr S says that he was being assisted by a member of staff in the queue  
but before she had finished helping him  she helped people in the queue behind him and 
took them to a separate room. He felt that he should have been helped in a separate room 
ahead of those behind him in the queue, and that this was because those behind him were a 
different ethnicity and had been treated favourably as a result.  He was offered £50 
compensation but felt this was insulting. 
NatWest has said that the member of staff should not have helped the customers behind   
Mr S prior to finishing helping him. However, they said there was nothing to indicate this was 
due to racial discrimination. Theyve explained that the member of staff was new to the 
branch and was unsure how to satisfactorily manage the queue in the banking hall, which 
led to the issues Mr S faced. They said that feedback had been given to the branch and the 
member of staff and that they felt the £50 paid was fair in the circumstances. 
The complaint was referred to our service and our adjudicator looked into it. They issued a 
view in which they explained that while there was no dispute that Mr S had received poor 
customer service in branch, there was nothing to suggest this was as a result of anything 
other than inexperience on the employees part. And they felt the offer of £50 compensation 
was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr S disagreed with this as he felt some facts in the view were incorrect concerning the 
details of what happened on the day. He still felt he had not been treated fairly and that this 
was due to his ethnicity. As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think that the offer already paid by NatWest is fair in the circumstances, 
and I dont think it needs to take any further action to remedy the complaint. Ill explain why 
in more detail. 
The first thing I need to clarify is the fact that this service is unable to make findings on 
whether or not something constitutes discrimination as per the Equality Act 2010, this is for a 
court to decide. However, I can consider whether or not the business has acted in a fair and 
reasonable manner, and in order to do that I will take a number of things, including the 
Equality Act 2010, into consideration.
I appreciate there is a disagreement over exactly what happened on Mr S visit to the 
branch. And I dont think it is unreasonable that there are variations on what happened as 
memories can fade over time. What does not appear to be in dispute is that the member of 
staff started to help Mr S, and then began helping customers behind him in the line before 
his task had been completed. Its also agreed the other customers were taken into a side 
room while Mr S was not. 
I understand why Mr S feels so strongly about this incident and I appreciate him being able 
to talk openly about his experience. As it is not in dispute that Mr S has received poor 
customer service, Ive considered whether the offer made is in line with what I would have 
recommended in the circumstances. And in doing so, Ive considered if Mr S was treated 
differently because of his ethnicity.
Having carefully considered everything available to me, I think NatWests explanation that 
the member of staff was relatively new and their inexperience in managing the queue is what 
led to Mr S experiencing poor customer service is plausible. And I think its likely that they 
began helping Mr S and then went on to assist the people behind him in the queue without 
appreciating how this would make Mr S feel. NatWest has said this incident has now been 
discussed with the member of staff for training and development purposes, which I think is 
reasonable. 
Ive thought about Mr S comments that he feels the people behind him were helped first due 
to their ethnicity. Having done so, Ive seen no indication that he was treated any differently 
specifically because of his ethnicity and it appears the member of staff did go on to help     
Mr S download the app without issue. On balance, while I fully appreciate how Mr S felt at 
the time, I think its more likely the member of staff mis-managed the queue and how they 
approached it due to their inexperience. 
Ive considered the offer of £50 compensation and having done so, I think it is line with what 
I would have recommended had the complaint come to me with no offer on it. So, I think it is 
fair in the circumstances and I dont direct NatWest to increase this. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr S complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman