DRN-4330855
The complaint
Ms H and Mr H complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as More Th>n 
(RSA) have delayed in settling their claim for damage and have offered an inadequate 
settlement offer.
What happened
Ms H and Mr H insured their property with RSA.
In late 2021, during a storm, a tree fell onto their home, causing damage to the roof and 
roofing fascia. 
Ms H and Mr H submitted a claim to RSA. RSA was unable to send a surveyor immediately, 
so requested photographs and a quote from Ms H and Mr H. 
They provided these. After discussion, RSA agreed to pay for the removal of the tree. 
Mr H and Ms H arranged for the tree to be removed and sent the invoice to RSA in February 
2022. RSA settled this part of the claim in March 2022. 
RSA was unable to provide its own contractors to carry out the roof repairs and asked Ms H 
and Mr H to obtain quotes for the work. They did this and provided the quote to RSA in May 
2022. This was for around £2800 and included replacement of the full fascia and gutter with 
an alternative. 
RSA received this invoice but did not take action as the handler believed that the claim had 
already been settled. 
Ms H and Mr H chased progress and in autumn 2022 re-sent the invoice. 
RSA contacted the contractor and queried why the quote was for full replacement of the 
fascia when only part was damaged. The contractor advised that he would not complete a 
partial job and would only take on the work if the full replacement was included. 
RSA carried out a desktop assessment and considered that it would cost around £1500 to 
have just the damaged section of fascia replaced. It noted that there was a break in the 
board which could serve as a junction for repairs. RSA therefore offered Ms H and Mr H this 
amount in December 2022. 
Mr H and Ms H rejected the settlement. They said that they would be unable to get the work 
done for that sum, and they were unhappy that RSA had delayed so long in making an offer 
of settlement. 
RSA rejected their complaint. Ms H and Mr H contacted us. 
Our investigator considered that RSA should pay £350 compensation for the delay which 
was avoidable, and which was the fault of RSA. They felt that the offer of settlement was 
reasonable and that, by not accepting it, Mr H and Ms H had not mitigated the damage, 
which over the subsequent time had deteriorated. 
Ms H and Mr H did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
I issued a provisional decision in respect of this complaint in August 2023. In that provisional 
decision I set out that I did not think RSAs offer of settlement was reasonable, and that I 
considered that it had unreasonably delayed the claim, preventing Mr H and Ms H from 
getting repairs done. I thought that RSA should re-survey the property and then either 
complete all necessary repairs itself or accept Mr H and Ms Hs quotes for repairs if it was 
not able to carry out the repairs. I also thought that RSA should pay to Mr H and Ms H more 
compensation. 
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to 
comment. Mr H and Ms H have been in contact with this service checking progress and are 
aware of the provisional decision. Neither party has indicated whether they accept the 
decision, and no arguments have been provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have not received any further arguments or evidence in response to the provisional 
decision, I remain of the view set out in that decision. 
I therefore adopt my provisional decision and reasons as my final decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision and above, I uphold Mr H and Ms Hs 
complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as More Th>n to:
Within 14 days of this decision becoming binding, send an assessor to the property 
to determine what repairs are now necessary, including any which have been caused 
by the delay in repairing the initial damage;
Share that assessment with Ms H and Mr H within a further 14 days;
At that same time, set out to Mr H and Ms H whether RSA proposes to carry out the 
repairs directly, based on its assessment, or whether it wishes Mr H and Ms H to 
obtain quotes for the work;
If RSA decides to carry out the repairs, these must be commenced within a further 28 
days;
If RSA requests quotes, Mr H and Ms H should obtain 2 or more quotes for the work 
and provide these to RSA. If they exceed the scope of the assessment RSA has set 
out, the quotes should explain why this is;
RSA should then cash settle based on the lower of those quotes for the required 
work; and
RSA should pay to Mr H and Ms H £500 compensation for their distress and 
inconvenience.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman