DRN-3238271
The complaint
Mr H is represented by his mother, Mrs H, in bringing the complaint. She says Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited acted intrusively when it processed his application for a term 
assurance policy. She also says it failed to stop the application immediately on receipt of a 
medical disclosure, instead asking Mr H for sensitive, unnecessary information.
On their complaint form to this service, Mrs H says Mr H seeks an apology as a minimum.
What happened
Mr H applied for the policy on 20 April 2021 after having recently made a house purchase. 
He was referred to Aviva by his financial adviser and completed an application online. 
The policy he requested comprised both life and critical illness cover with a sum assured 
matching his mortgage lending. 
On receipt of the application, Aviva referred it to one of its underwriters for additional 
consideration. This was because Mr H had made a disclosure relating to a type of diabetes.  
On 25 April 2021, Aviva wrote to Mr H declining his application. It said it could not offer cover 
for applicants that had made a diabetes disclosure because of the ongoing coronavirus 
(COVID-19) pandemic and the unknown effect it may have on those with diabetes. 
Mrs H then contacted Aviva and complained on Mr Hs behalf. 
Aviva rejected the complaint in May 2021. It said it was sorry for the upset the declined 
application had caused both Mr H and Mrs H and explained how it did not mean to cause 
either of them any distress with its decision. However, it had not done anything wrong in how 
it processed the application. It explained how the full assessment of an application is 
completed after all the application questions have been answered. Its team of underwriters 
then applied the current COVID-19 philosophy in line with the situation at that time.  
Aviva also said it was permitted under relevant equality legislation to refuse insurance based 
on the content of medical disclosures. That was not a discriminatory action on its part. 
It told Mr H he could now consider reapplying for cover; its philosophy had changed following 
the introduction of coronavirus vaccines - though a doctors report would be required.  
So, the complaint was referred to this service. Mrs H said the condition Mr H has is through 
no fault of his own, and Aviva was poorly educated about it. She said they had to go through 
a huge application, and this could have been avoided at the point the diabetes disclosure 
was made. Instead, he was made to answer very personal questions about the condition and 
give his bank details for a direct debit that was never going to be set up.  
Mrs H said that a company the size of Aviva could alter its online application to stop 
applicants going further if they have disclosed a condition that will stop it agreeing to offer 
insurance. They feel Aviva ought to offer a proper explanation for its behaviour and they 
wanted an apology.   
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He did not think the complaint 
should be upheld. He said he recognised how receipt of a letter declining the application had 
clearly been upsetting for Mr H. He noted Aviva had apologised to him about that. 
However, he did not think Aviva ought to be liable for any compensation due to the impact of 
declining the application, as it was entitled to take such decisions. Further, though the 
questions Mr H was asked did require additional details, Aviva would have asked these of 
any applicant with a type of diabetes at that time.  
Mrs H said Mr H disagreed. She noted that Mr H hadnt asked the investigator to consider 
the impact on anyone else, just him. Given the outbreak of coronavirus, Aviva knew it was 
not going to offer any insurance to Mr H. So it shouldnt have been allowed to continue and 
ask him for personal information when it had no intention of providing him cover.  
Mrs H said Mr H wanted the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman, as they now felt a 
payment of compensation should be the very least Aviva ought to be asked to do. 
Our investigator was not persuaded to change his view, as he felt a letter of apology was 
sufficient to address Mr Hs concerns, and Aviva had not otherwise done anything wrong.  
Aviva did not have any other comments to make.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H and Mrs H now seek compensation, as they feel Mr H has been treated unfairly. I see 
that this matter is particularly emotive for them. I was sorry to learn that they felt deeply 
upset at the application process, and how it caused them a great deal of concern. 
This service can consider awards of compensation to account for upset, distress and 
inconvenience caused to a consumer through any relevant action or inaction by a business. 
We would consider this where we uphold a complaint. However, I do not believe that Aviva 
has acted unfairly in respect of the application process and I do not find that this complaint 
should be upheld. Though that will be disappointing for Mr H and Mrs H, it means I cannot 
award any compensation. Ill explain why below.  
When applying for personal term assurance cover, an insurer will ask a detailed set of 
medical questions to establish an accurate picture of an applicants medical circumstances. 
The reason for this is that relevant insurance law allows an insurer to consider at the point of 
a claim whether any misrepresentation has taken place at the application stage. 
Consequentially, an insurer is only liable to provide cover for circumstances that are 
reasonably disclosed to it upon asking an applicant clear, fair and unambiguous questions.  
Periodic guidance is issued by the Association of British Insurers (ABI) on this basis. Its 
Code of Practice: Managing Claims for Individual and Group Life, Critical Illness and Income 
Protection Insurance Products provides guidance to insurers about offering these policies. 
It principally covers fair treatment of claims for UK individual and group life, critical illness, 
income protection and other long-term protection insurance contracts. It does this in light of 
evolving industry practice, FCA regulations, the treating customers fairly (TCF) regime, the approach of this service, and the relevant law on consumer disclosures and representations.
The reason Ive set this out is to explain to Mr H and Mrs H that an insurer is obliged to 
obtain as much clear and relevant medical information as it can at the outset, rather than 
retrospectively underwriting insurance if a policyholder needs to make a claim in the future. 
To do this, the insurer may have to ask detailed questions which are sensitive and personal.  
Any applicant applying to Aviva for this type of cover would be asked the same questions 
that Mr H was when presenting a history of diabetes, this is to ensure it has the required 
disclosure on what Mrs H has explained is a complex condition.
Mrs Hs main point is that upon disclosing diabetes, Avivas online system should have 
refused to process the application further so as to avoid asking personal questions. But I 
disagree. The reason this did not happen is because Aviva did not have a blanket approach; 
instead the application was sent to its underwriting team for individual consideration.  
Even if Aviva had a policy of postponing applications whilst new and evolving information 
was coming to light around the impact of COVID-19, I would not expect it to decline 
applications in a wholesale manner because 1) the approach to underwriting was fluid and 
may change and 2) no two applications will be medically factually identical.  
To this end, by the time of the complaint outcome the following month, Aviva had changed 
its stance on applications including diabetes, and it told Mr H he could reapply, albeit that the 
underwriters would need a GP report. 
It is not required but nonetheless fairly common for insurers to write to treating medical 
professionals if an applicant has disclosed a condition which may affect the terms it can offer 
and the price it may charge. Thats a commercial decision for Aviva and not something this 
service would usually interfere with. My remit is to determine if Aviva acted fairly and 
reasonably in the circumstances of processing Mr Hs online application. And I believe it did.  
I can see Mr H and Mrs H hold particular concerns about the impact of Mr Hs condition and 
because of this, the application process is understandably sensitive for them. However, this 
doesnt automatically mean that Aviva should have done anything differently. It couldnt have 
known their views or assume what conditions any prospective applicant may suffer from. 
If Mr H wanted to obtain insurance for the event of any critical illness which may be insured 
against for a 32-year term, Aviva needed to know a complete picture of his medical history. 
When disclosures are made, this may impact an insurers ability to make an instant decision 
as it will need to review the impact of what it has been told. Insurers can then decide 
whether to offer standard terms, amended terms, postpone or decline cover altogether. 
And Aviva did not have to take a policy decision to auto-refuse applications including 
diabetes. It has shown us evidence that it sent the application to its underwriting team, and 
that was a fair decision for it to take, against the background of the COVID-19 outbreak. 
Given the fact it had changed its approach thereafter, I would not expect an electronic 
system to be amended to flatly refuse to offer prospective applicants insurance if they had 
diabetes. It was fair to look at new applications manually, against evolving information. 
I do not believe compensation is due to Mr H, as I do not agree that Aviva has done anything 
wrong. I note it has apologised to Mr H in good time, as well as inviting him to reapply for his 
insurance if he should wish to do so. I dont consider it should do anything more. My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman