DRN-3136572
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy about how Novia Financial Plc (Novia) distributed his brothers pension 
benefits after he passed away and the lack of clarity and communication around the 
processes followed. 
What happened
Mr Rs brother passed away in January 2020. He had a Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP) with Novia. There was no expression of wish or nominated beneficiary on the policy. 
Novia was informed that Mr Rs brother was unmarried and had no children or other 
dependants. In his will Mr R had asked for his assets to be distributed as follows: 30% to 
charities, 20% to Mr R and 10% each to five other beneficiaries.
Novia, on behalf of the SIPP trustees, made their decision on how to distribute the funds and 
wrote to the beneficiaries in Mr Rs will in April 2020 informing them each of their share. The 
funds were distributed as follows: 20% to Mr R and 16% to the other five beneficiaries. 
Mr R believes Novia made an error when they divided 30% of the plan value -which in the 
spirit of the will would have gone to charities- between the other five beneficiaries excluding 
him. He doesnt think it makes sense for Novia to apply the spirit of the will for him, but not 
for the others. He feels he should have received a higher share of the fund and is unhappy 
Novia havent given him a detailed explanation how they have arrived at their decision.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. He disagreed and so the complaint was 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree that Mr Rs complaint shouldnt be upheld.
The trustees of the SIPP have discretion on how they distribute death benefits and this 
means there is no set way they need to do this. They dont have to follow a will or even a 
nominated beneficiary form and can even distribute to beneficiaries that werent specified by 
the deceased if they consider this appropriate. Its this discretion that makes pension 
benefits fall outside someones estate and not be subject to inheritance tax. 
I want to be clear that I wont be making a judgement on whether I think Novias distribution 
was fair or whether a different way of distributing would have been more logical in my view. It 
would be inappropriate to replace the trustees discretion with my own. However, I can 
consider whether they fairly exercised their discretion; that is whether they reasonably 
considered all relevant information and didnt act negligently.
There is no dispute that the only relevant beneficiaries were the persons mentioned in the 
will. Novia excluded the charities from their distribution which they are entitled to do. They 
then divided this amount equally between all beneficiaries but for Mr R, which left them all 
receiving 16% each and Mr R still received slightly more at 20%. I cant see that they made 
an error, ignored any relevant information or came to an unreasonable decision here. 
I understand that Mr R wanted a detailed explanation on how the trustees had reached their 
decision. However, they couldnt share information about other beneficiaries with him and 
they had no obligation to justify their decision to not pay him a higher share.
I understand Mr R is also generally unhappy about the lack of clarity in Novias 
communications. However, as the SIPP didnt form part of the estate, Novia wasnt able to 
share information including valuations with Mr R until it was decided that he would be a 
beneficiary. Novia acknowledged that their information about the SIPP having a closed fund 
could have been clearer. They apologised which I consider acceptable in the circumstances.
I understand that the SIPP value decreased between the time Novia was informed about the 
death of Mr Rs brother and when it was cashed in. Ive considered whether Novia acted 
unreasonably here. However, moving funds into cash just before its ready to be paid out 
doesnt seem inappropriate.
My final decision
I understand this will be disappointing to Mr R, but I dont uphold his complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman