DRN-2042848
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1998 and 
attached to a credit card. Mr G says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
What happened
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators findings. He has stated that he definitely wasnt aware 
that PPI had been added to his credit card. Although Mr G accepts that the credit card 
application he signed included a ticked box requesting PPI, he has stressed that he didnt 
know he had the policy, and didnt see the premium payments on his statements.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs case.
I have firstly considered Mr Gs comments that PPI was added to his credit card without his 
knowledge. Although it does not know for certain where the sale of the PPI took place, 
Lloyds has suggested this was in a branch meeting. It has also provided the credit card 
application that was completed in 1998.
The application included a section relating to PPI. There was a box available in this section 
which could be ticked if the applicant wanted to take out PPI. This box was ticked on the 
form signed by Mr G.
This sale took place over 20 years ago, and consequently I consider it would be 
understandable if Mr G cannot recall it in detail. Overall, taking into account the evidence 
available from the credit card application, my view is that it is more likely than not that PPI 
was presented as an optional product and that Mr G chose to take out the policy.
Lloyds accepts that it recommended the PPI to Mr G, so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, my view is that 
it was. For example it seems that he wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover. And taking into account Mr Gs circumstances at the time the policy 
was sold to him, my view is that he would have found the benefits offered by PPI useful if he 
was not working.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But as I concluded above, my view is that he chose to take it out, and it also 
looks like it was affordable. Overall my view is that better information about the PPI would 
not have put Mr G off taking out the cover.
Although I appreciate that Mr G will be disappointed with my findings, my conclusion is that 
Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to him.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr G about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr G, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr G any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
John Swain
Ombudsman