DRN-3705849
The complaint
Mr H, through his representative, complains he took a credit facility from Gain Credit LLC, 
trading as Drafty, and that it lent to him when he was in financial difficulties. Better checks 
would have led Drafty to know that and not to have lent to him.  
What happened
Drafty offered a credit facility which commenced with a limit being determined and then the 
customer was able to draw down the amounts he or she required. The credit was unsecured 
and had no fixed duration. The credit facility was not a loan.
Briefly, Mr H applied for the credit facility of £500 in August 2020 and it was approved. The 
credit limit was increased twice, the last time being in February 2022 when it was increased 
to £740. The facility was used by Mr H and theres currently an outstanding balance. In 
April 2022 that was £763.78.
The credit agreement set out the total cost of the credit based on some assumptions to 
illustrate the likely cost to Mr H. On the assumption that Mr H drew down the full £500 on the 
first day and then repaid it (plus interest and charges) over 12 months in equal instalments 
then the total amount payable would have been just under £668. These worked out to be 
about £55 per month (Clause 5 in the agreement).
The arrangement did include a Billing Cycle which meant that a statement was produced 
ten days before Mr Hs salary payment, and it gave the minimum payment required for that 
cycle. It had to be the higher of certain calculations which are in the agreement at clause 6 
which I have not set out here.
A Continuous Payment Authority was used to take the minimum payments on or near Mr Hs 
monthly salary date. Other ways of payment were made available. 
Mr H complained to Drafty in April 2022 and received a final response letter (FRL) in 
May 2022 in which it said that it did not consider it had done anything wrong offering the 
facility with a £500 limit. However, it had also come to the view that from 
22 March 2022 it ought to have stopped Mr Hs continued use of the facility. And so, it said in 
the FRL that it would be content to put things right for Mr H. But it was only offering to refund  
interest and charges on new drawdowns from 22 March 2022. 
Mr Hs representative referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
In August 2022, one of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Draftys 
decision to approve the credit facility was right and overall, she did not think that there was 
anything for Drafty to put right initially. 
However, in relation to that part where Drafty ought to monitor the account during Mr Hs use 
of it, she considered that Drafty ought to have ceased allowing him to use the credit facility 
from 15 March 2022  a very similar date to that decided by Drafty in its FRL. 
Drafty agreed with our adjudicator in relation to the view and that the facility uphold date was 
15 March 2022. But its suggested way to calculate how it puts things right for Mr H has been 
rejected by his representative.
For completeness I have reviewed the credit facility complaint outcome relating to the initial 
approval in 2020 as well as the outstanding issue on the unresolved detail surrounding the 
redress.
Drafty has not agreed with our adjudicators redress calculations and so the whole complaint 
remains unresolved as neither party is content and I have considered it all. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the 
time the credit was offered.
Before lending money to a consumer or approving a credit limit a lender should take 
proportionate steps to understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what they are 
borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their financial situation.
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves did not set out compulsory checks, 
they did list several things a lender could consider before agreeing to lend. The key element 
was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to consider several different things, 
including how much was being lent and when the sum being borrowed was due to be repaid.
Initial approval of the credit facility. 
From Mr Hs application to Drafty I note he declared his monthly income as £1,600 and his 
monthly expenditure as £475. The Drafty FRL said it had verified that income figure and it 
further itemised Mr Hs declared monthly expenditure as £25 for rent, £25 for food, £275 for 
transport costs and £25 for other. Mr H told Drafty he spent £125 on other credit 
commitments. 
Some of these declared costs are wholly unreasonable, for instance £25 for food in a month. 
And the rent figure is so low I would have expected Drafty to have checked that. But even if 
Drafty had doubled his expenditure figure, then its likely still it would have concluded that 
Mr H could afford the £500 credit facility.  
The brief credit search results I have been provided with, carried out by Drafty in 
August 2020, shows that Mr H had total debt of around £15,000 and an £800 default had 
been registered just nine months before this application. The results also showed a 
delinquent account from nine months before but I think its likely to have been reference to 
the same account. 
I need to explain to Mr H that upon first approaching Drafty in August 2020 it would not 
usually be expected, and would not be proportionate, for Drafty to carry out a full and 
comprehensive financial review. Mr H was a new customer. And bearing in mind the £500 
credit limit granted and the monthly payments required to repay the facility within a 
reasonable period, Drafty was entitled to rely on the information given to it which suggested 
that Mr H had enough disposable income to service a credit facility with a limit of £500. And 
I say this even if it had increased his expenditure figure to something more realistic. 
Ive thought carefully about that default from nine months before Mr H applied to Drafty and 
that has prompted me to investigate what further checks might have shown Drafty if it had 
taken it a stage further. 
And what I have are some copy bank account statements from Mr H for May, June and July 
2020. They show that Mr H was earning about £1,700 a month for May and June 2020  it 
was higher in July 2020. And from those bank statements Ive seen that Mr H was paying for 
one other high cost loan and to a car company and was regularly drawing down on a credit facility similar in nature to Drafty but provided by another company. He was also using his 
overdraft facility. 
Having looked at all that Mr H has given me and Draftys information and submissions then 
I think that the initial credit facility approval was carried out after checks I would have 
considered proportionate. And the limit approved was likely to have appeared serviceable 
and able to be repaid within a reasonable time.
And so, I agree with our adjudicator in relation to the initial approval of that credit facility  
I do not uphold that part of Mr Hs complaint. 
Monitoring of the account 
After the initial approval of the credit limit at the start of the account facility, Drafty did have to 
monitor Mr Hs account and it has explained to us how it did that but very briefly. Also, it said 
it had written to Mr H and asked him to confirm his income and expenses. It did this is 
June 2021 and December 2021. Both times Mr H had replied to confirm his income was 
£1,700 a month and his expenditure remained the same at £475 a month. 
In light of my view about the particularly low and unreasonable figures for some of Mr Hs 
expenditure then I consider that these were two additional points when Drafty missed the 
chance to check the expenditure figures.  
I refer to the Financial Conduct Authority Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) chapter 6 
which addresses the expected Business Practices in relation to the monitoring of an 
account. One indication of a risk of a customer being in financial difficulties is where it seems 
that the customer is borrowing to repay borrowing.
The rationale for our adjudicators uphold of this part of Mr Hs complaint was that the 
continual repayment of the minimum payments each month ought to have prompted Drafty 
to have done something rather than allow that repayment pattern to continue. 
And in its FRL Drafty had come to a similar view. There was a slight difference in date  our 
adjudicator said the uphold date ought to have been 15 March 2022 whereas Drafty 
originally had said 22 March 2022. Drafty had altered its view to agree with the adjudicator - 
15 March 2022.
Mr H, recently, has provided us with a copy of his bank statements from around that time  
January to April 2022 - and I have reviewed them. Mr Hs salary seemed to have increased 
to around £2,130 a month. He was using his overdraft and it seems he was bumping along 
the underside of the limit of the overdraft as he was regularly taking credits from more than 
one lender to keep it under £2,100 which I think may have been the limit. 
Mr H was paying £295 by Direct Debit to a car company  likely a HP agreement of some 
kind. He was paying £550 to another person regularly. 
Mr H was regularly paying towards four high cost loans and was paying off a debt collection 
agent at £20 a month.  
So, in March 2022, if Drafty had chosen to look into the situation more closely I think it would 
have been clear that Mr H was struggling to repay the Drafty sums loaned to him. Plus, 
I think that he was borrowing to repay other borrowing, whether that was the other high cost 
loans, his overdraft or the Drafty account. 
The redress calculations issue 
There were several actions Drafty could have taken in March 2022. But as none of these 
were taken and it agrees about that. This complaint also has been passed to me to decide 
what Drafty ought to do fairly and reasonably to put things right. 
I dont think its fair and reasonable for a lender to allow a customer to continue using a 
facility that had become demonstrably unsustainable  instead I think its fair and reasonable 
to expect a lender to help the customer repay what theyve already drawn down and what they already owe. Where Mr Hs repayment record suggested he was already struggling to 
repay the amount owed, I dont think that Drafty continuing to allow interest to be charged on 
Mr Hs balance was fair and reasonable. 
So, although, I do accept that the balance up to the uphold point was legitimately lent and 
appeared affordable for Mr H at the time it was lent, once the point had been reached where 
Drafty accepted it ought to have exercised forbearance to allow Mr H to repay what was 
owed, then it ought to have ceased charging interest on this balance from 15 March 2022 
onwards.  
I realise Drafty has said it does not agree but thats my decision. 
Ive outlined below what Drafty needs to do to put things right for Mr H. 
Putting things right
My understanding that the current state of the account is that the debt was passed to a third 
party collector but the ownership of the debt remains with Drafty. 
So, I think it ought to bring that debt back in-house and remove any third party charges so 
these are not passed on to Mr H. And then Drafty ought to do the following:  
Re-work Mr Hs credit facility balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied to 
it from 15 March 2022 onwards are removed. 
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the credit facility once these adjustments have 
been made Drafty should contact Mr H to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. 
If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Hs credit file, it 
should backdate this to 15 March 2022.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mr H, along with 8% simple interest* on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. 
If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Drafty 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint in part and I direct that Gain Credit LLC, 
trading as Drafty, should put things right for Mr H as outlined in my decision above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman