DRN-3839072
The complaint
Mr F is complaining that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt process a chargeback claim he made for 
some faulty goods that he bought using his HSBC debit card.
What happened
In August 2020 Mr F bought two chairs online through a third-party company  who I shall 
refer to as S. He paid £450.86 for them in total using his HSBC debit card. When the chairs 
arrived, Mr F says he realised they were faulty, so he contacted S to arrange replacements.
He says S didnt reply, so he contacted HSBC and asked it to raise a chargeback.
HSBC didnt process the claim in time, which meant it became too late to process it. It 
offered him £30 in compensation. Mr F wasnt happy with this, so he referred his complaint 
to this service. Since then, HSBC has offered to refund 50% of the cost of the chairs and 
allow him to keep the chairs.
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint and I said the following:
Chargeback is the process by which a bank or credit card provider looks to resolve a 
settlement between a consumer and a merchant under the relevant card scheme. Initially the 
card provider will temporarily refund the payment back onto the card account and will raise a 
dispute with the merchant. The merchant is then required to respond within a prescribed 
period of time with any further information it wishes to provide and set out why it thinks the 
chargeback shouldnt go through. If the chargeback is defended, then the temporary refund 
is returned to the merchant.
It's not disputed the chairs supplied were faulty as Mr F provided photos of the issues when 
he first raised the dispute. However, its important to set out that a chargeback claim, isnt 
the same as holding HSBC liable for the actions of the supplier. The rules that surround 
raising a chargeback dispute are strict and set out when a chargeback claim can be raised, 
what information a consumer must provide to support the claim and the time limits for when 
the claim can be raised.
Ultimately, HSBC didnt raise the dispute in time which meant Mr F has become ineligible to 
raise it. I acknowledge that this was unprecedented times due to the impact of Covid-19 and 
many businesses were struggling to adapt. Im also conscious that the number of disputes 
raised by consumers during that time were significantly higher than normal. So its 
understandable that it would take longer than normal to process a chargeback claim. But I 
dont think this reasonably justified HSBC not processing the claim in time. HSBC should 
have reviewed the claim within a reasonable timeframe and informed Mr F of what he 
needed to do for it to be able to process the claim.
As I said, there are strict rules that set out when a consumer can raise a chargeback and 
these rules are set by the scheme provider  which in this case was VISA. In this case the 
relevant chargeback code would have been goods not as described or defective 
merchandise/services. However, to be eligible to raise a claim, it was a requirement under 
the rules that Mr F needed to have either returned the goods to the merchant or tried to 
return the goods but had been prevented from doing so.
Mr F still has possession of the goods and I havent seen anything to show hed looked to 
return the goods, other than an initial enquiry about looking to arrange a replacement. So, I 
dont think Mr F was eligible to raise a chargeback when he first contacted HSBC. But, I 
think HSBC should have made this clear when he first raised the chargeback. I think, on 
balance, had it explained this, he would have taken steps to try to return the goods. And, had 
he done so, I think he would have, either received a refund from the merchant, received 
replacement goods or been eligible to raise a successful chargeback claim. So I think Mr F 
has lost out because of what HSBC did wrong.
I acknowledge HSBC has offered to refund 50% of the cost of the chairs and for Mr F to 
keep the chairs. But the chairs still have the faults with them. I think this offer is fair if Mr F 
wishes to retain the chairs. However, I dont think its fair to require him to keep the chairs in 
their damaged state if he doesnt wish to do so. So I think HSBC should either:
1. Allow Mr F to retain the chairs and refund 50% of the amount he paid  i.e. refund 
£225.43; or
2. Arrange to collect the chairs and pay refund the full amount he paid for them  £450.86. 
In addition to the above, I think it should pay 8% simple interest (less tax if correctly 
deducted) on any refund it gives from 23 September 2020 (the date Mr F first raised the 
chargeback) until he gets it back. 
I also think Mr F has suffered avoidable distress and inconvenience in trying to resolve this 
complaint. HSBC has offered £30 compensation, but I dont think this is sufficient and I think 
it should pay £100 in compensation.
Mr F responded to accept my provisional decision and said he wanted to do option 2. HSBC 
didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said it told Mr F via the declaration form it 
needed evidence hed returned the goods. It maintained Mr F didnt provide the evidence it 
needed which is why it didnt agree to the full refund. Finally it said it doesnt collect or 
accept faulty goods and maintained it was Mr Fs responsibility to return them to the supplier.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken HSBCs comments into account, but Ive come to the same conclusion as I did in 
my provisional decision.
I accept the dispute form asked Mr F to provide evidence of the attempt to return the goods. 
But I dont think it would be clear to Mr F from this that he wasnt eligible to raise a 
chargeback unless hed returned the goods. I think a reasonable person would interpret this 
as its evidence HSBC needs to review the chargeback  not that they cannot make a 
chargeback claim without it. And, its ultimately, HSBCs delay in reviewing the claim thats 
prejudiced Mr Fs position. Ultimately, I remain of the opinion that HSBC has prejudiced 
Mr Fs ability to pursue the chargeback. And I think he would have received a full refund had 
it done what it should have.
I note HSBC says it cant collect the chairs. If its unable to do so, it should arrange for the 
chairs to be disposed of if Mr F decides he doesnt want the chairs any longer.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require HSBC UK Bank Plc to either:
1. Allow Mr F to retain the chairs and refund 50% of the amount he paid  i.e. refund 
£225.43; or
2. Arrange to collect or dispose of the chairs and pay refund the full amount he paid for 
them  £450.86. In addition to the above, I think it should pay 8% simple interest (less 
tax if correctly deducted) on any refund it gives from 23 September 2020 (the date Mr F 
first raised the chargeback) until he gets it back. 
It should also pay Mr F £100 in compensation if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman