DRN-3437409
The complaint
Mr G and Mr M have complained that, because of delay and poor service provided by First 
Complete Ltd in relation to their mortgage application, they were unable to complete their 
purchase before the end of the Stamp Duty holiday on 30 June 2021. They are asking First 
Complete to compensate them for the Stamp Duty of £6,000 they were required to pay.
Mr G has dealt with the complaint throughout on behalf of himself and Mr M.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 28 March 2022, in which a detailed timeline is given. All 
parties have a copy of that letter, so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will 
instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are 
published, so its important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr G and Mr M 
being identified. So for these reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Briefly, in the spring of 2021 Mr G and Mr M decided to buy a property, on a shared 
ownership basis in a new development. The developer directed them to a representative of 
First Complete to arrange the mortgage.
An application was made to a lender (LBS), but this was declined. Another lender was 
sourced (RB) and an application was made to that lender, which was successful and a 
mortgage offer was issued on 22 July 2021. However, the Stamp Duty holiday granted by 
the government had expired on 30 June 2021, as a result of which Mr G and Mr M had to 
pay Stamp Duty on their purchase.
They complained to First Complete, saying that its poor service and delays were the cause 
of them missing the deadline for the Stamp Duty holiday. First Complete didnt uphold the 
complaint. In its final response letter, First Complete set out the timeline and explained the 
delays were as a result of information requested by the two lenders approached, which was 
information those lenders reasonably required. First Complete noted that a refund of the 
broker fee of £100 had been offered as a gesture of goodwill, which First Complete said was 
still available.
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr G and Mr M raised their complete with our service. An 
investigator looked at what had happened. She wasnt persuaded that the length of time 
taken for the mortgage offer to be issued was as a result of any error on the part of First 
Complete, other than a short delay which didnt impact the overall timeline, and a request for 
information that had already been provided. She asked First Complete to pay a further £100 
for this, bringing the total compensation to £200. 
Neither First Complete nor Mr G and Mr M agreed with this. First Complete said it didnt think 
it had done anything wrong to justify an enhanced award of compensation. Mr G said he felt 
it was absurd that First Complete was even given the opportunity to disagree with the 
investigator. He said that it made his blood boil to think of the disregard First Complete held 
for customers, procedures, policies and the Financial Ombudsman Service. Mr G was 
adamant that First Complete had not provided a full record of what had happened and so we 
had not been able to review the full facts of the case.
Following this the investigator asked First Complete for its call logs. On reviewing these, 
Mr G said there had been many more calls, but wasnt able to provide records of these. As a 
result, the investigator wasnt minded to change her view and so the matter has been 
referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said at the outset, I wont set out all the details of whats happened. I have, however, 
reviewed the timeline of events, and taken careful note of everything the parties have said.
I note Mr G and Mr M had a decision in principle theyd been given by another lender. 
However, rather than applying to that lender, they decided to proceed with a mortgage 
application through First Complete. They were, however, free at any time to apply to the 
other lender if they had chosen to do so.
Other than the issues identified by the investigator, Im not persuaded that the length of time 
taken for the mortgage offer to be issued was unduly protracted as a result of anything First 
Complete did, or didnt do. This was largely down to the developers and/or the mortgage 
lenders. Ive looked at what was requested by both LBS and RB, and this is information that 
lenders are legitimately entitled to request in order to assess and underwrite the 
applications. 
Lenders are entitled to set their own criteria, and conduct their own risk assessments in 
relation to mortgage applications. So although I appreciate it was frustrating for 
Mr G and Mr M that LBS declined the first application, Im not persuaded this was the fault of 
First Complete. RB was also entitled to conduct its own underwriting and request any 
information it thought appropriate in order to assess the application.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr G and Mr M were hoping for. I dont underestimate 
how strongly Mr G has expressed his unhappiness about First Complete. But after 
considering the timeline of events, Im unable to find that missing the Stamp Duty holiday 
was the fault of First Complete.
Putting things right
I agree that Mr G and Mr M were asked for repeat information, and that there was a short 
period when they werent updated about progress of the application. I note that the broker 
fee of £100 was refunded. The investigator thought First Complete should pay a further £100 
compensation for customer service failings. I think this is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances, and is proportionate to the errors and delays identified.My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I direct First 
Complete Ltd to pay Mr G and Mr M compensation of £100 (in addition to the £100 already 
offered, making a total of £200). I make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman