DRN-3403400
The complaint
Miss T complains about the exchange rate used by HSBC UK Bank Plc when she received a 
payment into her account. 
What happened
On 5 February 2021 Miss T called HSBC to ask about exchange rates from USD to GBP. 
HSBCs call handler explained they couldnt confirm a specific exchange rate as they change 
on a regular basis. Miss T asked for the current exchange rate on the date of her call and it 
was provided. The call handler also confirmed there would be a fee of between £6 and £12. 
Miss T asked how she could check the exchange rate that would apply to the transfer and 
was told she could do so on the date it would be received. 
Miss T asked to speak with a manager, but after waiting a long time on hold was told none 
were available. 
On 11 February 2022 Miss T received funds into her current account. The funds were sent in 
USD and converted to GBP by HSBC using the rate of exchange applicable on the day. Miss 
T went on to complain that the rate used was unfair and that shed been charged a fee. 
HSBC sent Miss T a final response on 4 March 2021 but didnt agree it had made mistakes 
with the exchange rate used. HSBC paid Miss T £50 to apologise that a manager didnt 
speak to her when she called. 
Miss T referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought HSBC had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take further action. Miss 
T asked to appeal so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to Miss Ts call with HSBC and understand she wanted to get an understanding 
of the exchange rate the transfer would receive. The call handler confirmed there was no 
way to provide an indicative rate for a future point. They also explained that HSBC would 
convert USD to GBP based on its exchange rate on the day funds were received. 
The call handler gave Miss T the rate of exchange for 5 February 2021. But listening to the 
call, the rate given was wrong. In addition, when Miss T asked to speak with a manager she 
was left on hold for an extended period. I agree the way Miss Ts call was handled was poor. 
But I think its fair to note that the call handler did specifically confirm they couldnt give Miss 
T the exchange rate information she asked for. 
HSBC received the USD transfer on 11 February 2021 and converted it to GBP using its 
exchange rate on the day. I know Miss T feels the exchange rate used was unfair. But Im 
satisfied HSBC used its USD/GBP exchange rate applicable on 11 February 2021 as 
claimed. 
HSBC paid Miss T £50 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by the way 
her call was handled on 2 February 2021. Im satisfied HSBC has paid an offer that fairly 
reflects how the call was handled and the trouble and upset caused to Miss. As Im satisfied 
HSBC has paid a fair settlement Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman