DRN-2671858
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Santander UK plc acted unreasonably when it asked her to attend a 
branch to make a payment out of her account without telling her she needed to bring certain 
documents with her. She also complains that Santander closed her accounts without a valid 
reason.
Mrs A is represented by Ms A.
What happened
Mrs A had a current account with Santander. She phoned Santander on 17 September 
2019 and asked to make a payment from her account. She says she was kept waiting for 
fifteen minutes before being told she couldnt make the payment over the telephone. She 
says she was told she had to visit a branch.
Mrs A says Santander had closed her local branch and so she had to make a twenty-five 
mile round trip to get to a branch. She attended the branch on 25 September 2019. She 
says the manager was very rude to her and informed her she couldnt make the withdrawal 
without identification documents. Mrs A says she had her bank card and her bus pass, but 
these werent accepted. She says she wasnt told to bring documents when shed 
telephoned. She says the manager told her I dont know you and appeared to be enjoying 
the fact that she couldnt assist her.
Mrs A came back to the branch the next day. She brought her driving licence with her. 
She says she was kept waiting for twenty-five minutes and was then taken into a private 
room to make the withdrawal. She says the person who dealt with her was also rude. 
When Mrs A returned home, she says she received a call from the fraud team at 
Santander and was asked questions about the withdrawal. She was then told the payment 
would be made.
A few days later Mrs A says she received a letter from Santander telling her that all of her 
accounts would be closed, after thirty days, because her behaviour in the branch on 25 and
26 September had been abusive and threatening. Mrs A says this is untrue.
Mrs A complained about what had happened. Santander investigated her complaints. It said 
it couldnt complete the payment on the telephone because Mrs A wasnt registered for 
telephone banking. It said this was a security process to protect customers. So, she was 
told she had to attend a branch.
Santander said its terms and conditions allowed it to close accounts where a customer 
had acted abusively, offensively or violently towards its staff. It said a senior manager 
had reviewed the evidence about what had happened on 25 and 26 September. It said 
as a result it was deemed necessary to end the banking relationship with Mrs A.
Mrs A didnt agree. She said she felt humiliated by what Santander had said. So, she 
complained to our service. Our investigator looked into her complaint. He said it wasnt 
unreasonable for Santander to decline to make the payment when Mrs A wasnt 
registered for its telephone banking service. He also thought it wasnt unreasonable for 
Santanders branch to require Mrs A to provide evidence such as a driving licence when 
she wanted to make a significant payment out of her account.
Our investigator said it was difficult to reach a conclusion about what may have happened 
in the branch. He hadnt been able to view the CCTV and he wasnt present at the time. 
But he said he had listened to the various telephone calls that had taken place and he had 
read Santanders notes.
Having done so, he didnt think it was unreasonable for Santander to have asked 
questions about the payment. And, he thought it was unlikely that Santanders staff 
wouldve gone out of their way to antagonise the situation. He also said Santander had a 
right to decide who to have as its customers in the same way as Mrs A wouldve been 
free to decide who she wanted to bank with. So, he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs A didnt agree. She said she was very upset about what Santander had said. She 
said that expressing frustration and exasperation did not amount to abusive or 
threatening behaviour. She said Santander had no good reason to close the account 
and this was an extreme move on its part.
Because Mrs A didnt agree the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two parts to Mrs As complaint. Ill deal with each separately. 
Santander refused to allow the payment from the account to be made by 
telephone
Ive listened carefully to the call on 17 September 2019. Santander explained to 
Mrs A that it couldnt accept her instructions because of its security procedures. 
The procedures indicated that the payment could only be requested by telephone 
if Mrs A was registered for the telephone banking service. She wasnt registered 
for that service.
Santander has explained to Mrs A that the purpose of its procedures is to 
protect customers from scams and fraud. I think thats fair and reasonable.
I can also see that Santander offered to send Mrs A the necessary 
documentation to enable her to register for telephone or online banking. She 
declined. In these circumstances it explained to her that she would have to go to 
a branch to make the payment. I understand Mrs A was upset by this. She says 
she needed to make the payment immediately and the nearest branch was a 
twenty-five mile round trip away. But the payment shed requested was for a 
significant amount. So, I dont think it wouldve been fair or reasonable to expect 
Santander to make an exception because of what Mrs A had said.
Ive also thought about what Mrs A has said about not being told she needed to 
bring documentation with her to the branch. Having listened to the call, I agree 
that this requirement was not brought to Mrs As attention. And it also wasnt 
mentioned in the letter from Santander dated 18 September. But I have also considered the fact that Mrs A had attended a branch in July to make a payment 
from her account. On that occasion she had been asked for her driving licence. 
So, I think its reasonable to say she wouldve known this was something she 
could be asked for when she visited the branch in September.
Having considered everything here, I dont intend to uphold this part of Mrs As 
complaint. 
Santanders decision to close Mrs As account
At the outset Id just point out that its not our role to tell Santander who it should 
or shouldnt offer banking services to. But when it decides to end a banking 
relationship, we can look at whether it has acted fairly and reasonably.
In this case there are conflicting versions about what happened on 25 and 26 
September when Mrs A and Ms A visited the branch. It is clear that before 
coming to the branch on 25 September, Mrs A was already unhappy that shed 
had to make the visit. It was a long trip and she thought Santander shouldve 
allowed her to make the payment over the telephone. She was also frustrated 
before she came back on 26 September because she had to return with 
identification documents. I can understand why Mrs A wouldve felt this way.
Santander says that Mrs A and Ms A were rude to its counter staff and were 
shouting. It also says its staff felt threatened by their behaviour.
When there are conflicting versions of events, I have to consider any 
supporting evidence that is produced in order to decide whats most likely, on 
balance, to have happened.
There is no dispute that on 26 September the member of staff who attended 
Mrs A told Mrs A and Ms A that she felt a little petrified when she was dealing 
with them. There is also evidence, provided by Santander that a 
contemporaneous report was made to senior management about what had 
happened. The report stated that the incident had upset members of staff and 
the person making the report said shed never been spoken to in that way 
before.
Ive also considered the fact that Mrs A has been a customer of Santander for 
a very long time. Santander hasnt provided any evidence to suggest there 
was any previous unacceptable behaviour. Ive also listened to a number of 
calls between Mrs A and Santander. It is clear that during these calls Mrs A is 
frustrated and annoyed about what shes being told. She is assertive. But 
theres no instances where she raises her voice or uses threatening or 
abusive language.
Santander says Mrs A questioned what she was being told. It says she shouted 
at staff and didnt accept that she should be asked to provide identification. She 
also didnt accept she should have to answer questions about what the payment 
shed requested was for. Santander says Mrs A made abusive comments about 
the competence of its staff.
I dont think Santander acted unreasonably when it asked for identification or 
when it asked for more information about the purpose of the payment. I think both of these things were part of its procedures and were designed to protect its 
customer from potential fraud. So, whilst I agree that Mrs A was entitled to 
challenge or question these procedures, that doesnt mean she should shout at 
staff or question their competence.
Mrs A denies she did anything during the two branch visits to cause Santander 
staff to feel petrified. She also denies that she shouted or was abusive. And, 
Mrs A says she was upset at how she was treated when she was in the branch.
I asked Santander to provide a copy of the CCTV footage for the two dates when 
Mrs A visited its branch. It did provide this information to our service. 
Unfortunately, due to technical difficulties, I havent been able to view the CCTV 
footage. Im sorry that is the case. It might have helped me to see what 
happened on the dates in question. But it wouldnt have enabled me to confirm 
what was said or whether voices were raised.
So, having thought about the information I have been able to see, I think its fair 
to say that something happened during the branch visits which caused 
Santander to decide it wanted to end the relationship. I think its likely both 
parties played some part in that. And, it is the case that Santander is entitled to 
end the relationship if it wants to.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions. These state that where Santander 
decides to end a banking relationship it will usually give 60 days notice. But, in 
certain circumstances it can give either no notice or a shorter period of notice. 
These circumstances include abusive, threatening and violent behaviour 
towards staff, bankruptcy, dishonesty, suspicion of fraud or other criminal 
activities or misuse of an account. So, the instances listed are of activities or 
actions which a reasonable person would say are unacceptable in a banking 
relationship.
Threatening and abusive behaviour is usually something that would be likely 
to cause a reasonable person to suffer fear or alarm.
Having considered what Santander and Mrs A have each said, Im not 
persuaded, on balance, that Mrs As behaviour in the branch crossed the line 
such that she caused fear or alarm. Thats not to say the branch staff wouldve 
found it easy to deal with the fact she was challenging the procedures. But, 
despite what Ive said about Mrs As behaviour in the branch, Santanders terms 
and conditions still entitled it to end the relationship if it wanted to, provided it 
gave her the necessary notice.
Ive also looked at the Principles for exiting a customer published by UK 
Finance in June 2019. These set out best practice guidance. The Principles 
state that once a decision has been made to end a banking relationship 
certain actions should be taken.
Ive looked at whether Santander followed the guidance set out in the Principles. 
The decision to close the account should be informed and proportionate. One of 
the actions that should be taken is to ensure that communications with the 
customer set out the reasoning for the decision clearly. An appropriate period of 
time should be given to allow the customer to make alternative arrangements. 
And the communication should provide details about how the customer can 
make representations or appeal the decision.Ive looked at the communication sent to Mrs A when Santander told her it 
would close her account. The letter referred to the terms and conditions. It also 
said that the reason for the decision was due to your abusive and threatening 
behaviour in the branch on 25 and 26 September 2019. Thirty days notice was 
provided. No information was provided about how to make representations or 
appeal the decision.
As Ive mentioned above, its not our role to force a business to provide banking 
services when it chooses to withdraw them, as long as it acts in line with its terms 
and conditions. Wed also expect the business to have regard to the Principles 
Ive referred to.
Its clear the relationship had broken down following the visit on 26 September 
2019. But, given what Ive said above about what happened, I think 60 days 
notice wouldve been more appropriate and proportionate in the circumstances.
Santander provided 30 days notice and it didnt inform Mrs A of any way she 
could make representations or appeal against its decision. So, I think Mrs A 
experienced distress and inconvenience because of the way Santander 
communicated its decision and the short time period it provided to Mrs A to make 
alternative arrangements.
Having considered everything here, on balance, Im intending to uphold Mrs As 
complaint about Santanders decision to close her account, in part.
After Santander decided to close the account, I think its communication should 
have given her sixty days notice and should have set out the additional 
information about her right to make representations or seek to appeal the 
decision, as referred to in the Principles.
Mrs A has experienced distress and inconvenience as a result of what happened. 
She had to make alternative arrangements within a short period of only thirty 
days. This was much shorter than the period set out in the terms and conditions. 
The terms and conditions reflect the fact that, in general, sixty days is a 
reasonable period of time to make alternative arrangements. So, she has been 
inconvenienced because of the short period of notice.
Ive set out above why I agree that Santander was able to close Mrs As account. 
But I think Mrs A was distressed not just because shed received notice about this 
but also because there was no apparent means available for her to appeal the 
decision or to seek additional time. I think this added to the distress caused.
Because of the inconvenience and distress caused, I think Santander should pay 
Mrs A £100 by way of compensation. I think thats fair and reasonable.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold 
Mrs As complaint in part about Santander UK plc. I think Santander UK plc made 
mistakes in the period of notice it provided to Mrs A about the closure of her 
account and in the way it communicated this decision to Mrs A. I intend to require 
Santander UK plc to:
pay Mrs A £100 by way of compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
she experienced as a result.I do not intend to uphold any other part of Mrs As complaint.
Mrs A responded to the provisional decision. She said:
it wasnt reasonable to have expected her to remember that she needed to bring 
identification with her to the branch when she attended to make the withdrawal;
if the CCTV footage had been viewed it wouldve shown that Santanders account of 
what happened when she visited the branch was untrue;
Santander should apologise for stating that shed acted abusively, offensively or 
violently and retract these statements; and
£100 was not enough by way of compensation for whatd happened.
Santander also responded to the provisional decision. It said:
It was important that it fully supported its front-line colleagues when they faced 
unacceptable behaviour from customers. The decision to close Mrs As account was 
made by a person in a senior role, after considering all of the information, and was 
made independently;
It repeated that Mrs A was in breach of terms and conditions which included abusive 
or threatening behaviour to colleagues;
Thirty days notice to close the account was enough time for Mrs A to rearrange her 
finances; and
It didnt think it should be asked to offer an apology or pay £100 by way of 
compensation.
So, I now have to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered again the first part of Mrs As complaint. As I said in my provisional decision, 
I dont think Santander acted unfairly or unreasonably when it asked Mrs A to visit the 
branch and to produce identification before it permitted the withdrawal. 
The withdrawal was for a significant amount of money and I think Santander acted 
appropriately when it asked her for identification. Whilst I can understand what Mrs A has 
said about not recalling that shed been asked for identification when she visited the branch 
to make a withdrawal a few months earlier, I dont think it was an unusual requirement. So, I 
remain of the view that Santander acted fairly and reasonably when it asked her for 
identification.
Ive also reconsidered the second part of Mrs As complaint. And, Ive thought about what 
both Mrs A and Santander have said. There is still a dispute about what happened on the 
dates when Mrs A visited the branch.
I agree with Santander when it says its important for branch staff to be fully supported. 
Thats why the terms and conditions give Santander the right to close an account 
immediately where a customer behaves in a manner which is abusive, threatening or violent. 
The type of behaviour referred to in the terms and conditions is such that a reasonable 
person would say it was unacceptable. Such behaviour would cause fear and alarm. But that doesnt mean a customer cannot challenge or question branch procedures. It is acceptable 
to do that  as long as its done in a way which doesnt cause fear or alarm.
Mrs A did challenge the procedures when she attended at the branch. She was entitled to 
do that, provided she wasnt abusive, threatening or violent.
I carefully considered all of the information thatd been presented to me. Santander did 
provide the CCTV footage to our service but for technical reasons I wasnt able to view it. 
As I said in my provisional decision, although it might have helped me to see what 
happened on the dates in question, it wouldnt have enabled me to confirm what was said 
or whether voices were raised.
I read the statements provided by Santander. I noted Santander said a senior manager had 
reviewed and confirmed the decision to close the account. He hadnt provided a written 
report  so, I wasnt able to consider that. I also thought about how Mrs A had behaved on 
previous occasions. Shed been a customer of Santander for many years. There was no 
record of any previous conduct which caused concern. And I listened to calls shed made to 
Santander about the withdrawal request. As I said, Mrs A was assertive during these calls  
but thats not the same thing as being abusive or threatening. There were no previous 
recorded instances of shouting or abusive behaviour.
Having taken all of this into account, on balance, I wasnt persuaded her behaviour on 25 
and 26 September 2019, crossed the line in a way which meant shed breached the terms 
and conditions for the account. I remain of that view. 
It is still the case, however, that Santander was able to close the account, without giving a 
reason, so long as it provided notice as set out in the terms and conditions. So, although I 
know Mrs A would like Santander to apologise for the wording it used in its letter giving her 
notice to close the account, I dont require it to do that. Ive decided that compensation is an 
appropriate way to resolve this complaint. I have commented further below about the way 
Santander communicated its decision. 
In my provisional decision I referred to the Principles for exiting a customer published by 
UK Finance in June 2019. These state that a financial institution must act proportionately 
when deciding to close an account. In this case, I was satisfied Santander was able to 
close the account  but I thought it was proportionate for it to have given Mrs A sixty days 
notice. And, when communicating its decision, I also said it shouldve provided the 
additional information, such as the right to make representations, set out in the Principles. 
For those reasons, I thought £100 was appropriate compensation.
Having considered everything here, I havent changed my view that, for the reasons set out 
in my provisional decision, this complaint should be upheld in part. I think Santander should 
pay Mrs A £100 by way of compensation for distress and inconvenience she experienced 
when it only gave her thirty days notice to close her account and for the way it 
communicated that decision to her.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint about Santander UK plc, in part.
Santander UK plc should now:
pay Mrs A £100 by way of compensation for the distress and inconvenience she 
experienced when it provided her with only thirty days notice of its decision to close 
her account and in the way it communicated that decision to her.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman