DRN-3678060
The complaint
Miss P complains about how British Gas Services Limited (British Gas) invoiced her for a 
callout under her home emergency cover. 
What happened
Miss P has a home emergency cover with British Gas. She called British Gas out to fix some 
lights in her home and Miss P paid £60 for this callout under the terms of her cover.
Two further visits were then needed to fix ongoing issues with the lights.
The first of these visits wasnt charged, and Miss P says she was told by British Gass 
engineer that she wouldnt be charged for the second of these additional visits due to it being 
an ongoing issue with the lights.
British Gas then charged Miss P an additional £60 for the second additional visit. This was 
due to the reason for the visit being incorrectly recorded on British Gass system.
Miss P didnt pay the additional £60 so British Gas sent her four letters to ask for payment, 
with the fourth letter saying that her debt could be passed to a debt recovery company. 
Miss P wasnt happy about being charged the extra £60 and she complained to British Gas 
about it, and for her distress. She asked that her cover would be stopped at the end of the 
policy year.
British Gas apologised for its mistake in charging her the extra £60. It cancelled the invoice 
and paid £50 goodwill to Miss P. 
Miss P remained unhappy so she brought her complaint to this service. She asks for 
compensation for her distress she says was caused by British Gas sending her letters 
asking for payment. She also asks that her home emergency cover ends at the end of the 
policy year.
Our investigator looked into Miss Ps complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought the £50 
goodwill payment made by British Gas was in line with what this service would expect in 
similar situations. She also said she found that British Gass system had made an error, 
meaning that her policy had mistakenly renewed, but British Gas had corrected that error 
when Miss P told it.
British Gas agreed with the view and confirmed Miss Ps cover would stop at the end of the 
policy year. Miss P didnt agree with it, so her complaint has been passed to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from the notes I have that British Gas made some mistakes handing Miss Ps 
callouts, including telling her that she wouldnt be charged for the final visit. 
When British Gas then invoiced Miss P for the cost of that visit, its my understanding that 
this caused her confusion and distress. British Gas then contacted Miss P asking for 
payment and it did this about every two weeks by letter. I can see from the file that Miss P 
was engaged with a different division of British Gas during this time.
Miss P then escalated her complaint within British Gas around the same time the fourth letter 
was sent. It seems to me that Miss P found the wording of this letter, which mentions 
passing her debt to a debt recovery company, particularly threatening. But I can see British 
Gas told her that this letter would have been automatically sent because it hadnt received 
payment of the £60. It also confirmed that the debt had been cancelled.
It seems to me that British Gas corrected its errors quickly when Miss P told it. It has 
cancelled the incorrect invoice, it has agreed to stop the policy at renewal in line with Miss 
Ps wishes, and its paid £50 for her distress. 
I understand that Miss P has found the situation particularly stressful, but the amount of 
goodwill paid to her (£50) is in line with what this service would recommend in similar 
situations, and Im not persuaded to ask British Gas to pay more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman