DRN-3890700
The complaint
Mr L complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) said it was unable 
to consider a claim he made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mr L bought a wetsuit from an online supplier (M) for £139.99. He wasnt happy with the 
quality of the wetsuit and so he asked M for a refund, but they refused. Mr L made a claim to 
the county court and he was successful. Judgement was awarded against M for the sum of 
about £170, which included the cost of the wetsuit, interest and court costs. M didnt pay 
Mr L or reply to his emails.
At this point, Mr L made a section 75 claim to AESEL. It replied by saying it was unable to 
intervene in claims that had been resolved via the county courts. Mr L complained but 
AESEL maintained its position. So, Mr L approached this service.
Our investigator didnt think AESEL needed to take any further action. He said the breach of 
contract had already been decided by a court and he didnt think it would be fair to ask 
AESEL to pay for something when there were other ways to recover the money.
As Mr L disagreed with the investigators view, his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. I came to a different conclusion to our investigator, so I sent a 
provisional decision to Mr L and AESEL to give them an opportunity to comment. Mr L said 
he had nothing further to add while AESEL didnt reply. So, my findings and my decision 
below are substantially the same as set out in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. In this case, AESEL has said it was unable to consider 
Mr Ls claim under section 75 because hes pursued the matter through the courts. It thinks 
he should pursue the defendant for settlement. 
Having carefully considered the evidence, I dont think AESELs position is fair. Under 
section 75, AESEL is jointly and severally liable for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation against the merchant. And I dont think that liability is discharged just by 
obtaining a county court judgement against the merchant. It would be different had Mr L 
received payment from the merchant but thats not the situation here. 
So, I think AESEL should have considered Mr Ls claim under section 75. And, had it done 
so, I think the claim would have been successful. Let me explain why.
Mr L used his credit card to pay for the wetsuit, which means that section 75 is relevant to 
this case. Certain technical criteria need to have been met for a section 75 claim to be valid. 
The cash price of the goods must be more than £100 and up to £30,000. And there must be 
a debtor-credit-supplier agreement in place. I see no problem with either of those criteria so I 
can go on to consider whether I think there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation in 
this case. 
The relevant law  in this case the Consumer Rights Act 2015 - says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Mr L contacted M just over a month after he bought the 
wetsuit to say there were problems with it. He said his son had used it on two occasions in 
the sea for a total of about 45 minutes. And there were now a number of small tears and 
splits in two panels of the wetsuit (20 to 24 separate marks). Mr L sent photographs to 
support what he was saying. M said the damage looked to be caused by fingernail marks, 
commonly caused by pinching the material when taking the wetsuit on and off. M said the 
damage wouldnt be covered under warranty as it was caused by accidental damage after 
Mr L had bought the wetsuit. Mr L disputed this argument. He said his son only ever took the 
wetsuit off under supervision as he has ME and is physically weak. He said the position of 
the damage, in the groin area, isnt an area that would be natural to pinch. And 20 marks 
would not be caused, in just one area, by taking the wetsuit off once before the damage was 
noticed. He said it was more likely there was a fault with the material of the wetsuit. 
The key issue here is whether there was a fault with the wetsuit at the point of sale or 
whether it was damaged accidentally after the sale. Neither Mr L nor M have provided any 
independent evidence to support their view on how the wetsuit was damaged. So, Ive 
looked at the information that is available, including the photographs Mr L provided, and 
considered whether the wetsuit was of a quality that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory. 
Wetsuits can be a struggle to put on and take off and I can understand how marks can be 
made by pinching or catching the surface with fingernails. But I have no reason to doubt 
what Mr L has said about the circumstances surrounding the damage. And he said the 
wetsuit was only used twice and under close supervision. Having carefully considered the 
evidence, Im more persuaded by the evidence put forward by Mr L and I dont think its likely 
the wetsuit was damaged in the way M have suggested. 
Theres an onus on M to show the wetsuit conformed to the contract when it was supplied. 
And as I dont think a reasonable person would consider a wetsuit to be of satisfactory 
quality if the surface starts breaking up after two uses, I dont think its done that. So, in light 
of the above, I think there has been a breach of contract. 
Putting things right
In these circumstances, the consumer can ask the merchant to repair or replace the goods 
in a reasonable amount of time and without significant inconvenience. Mr L asked M to do 
that, but it refused. So, I think it was reasonable for Mr L to reject the goods and seek a full 
refund. As we know, M has not given Mr L a refund despite him obtaining a county court 
judgement. So, as AESEL has joint liability for the loss, I think it should provide Mr L with a 
full refund. In doing so, it has the right to take possession of the wetsuit if it wishes to do so.
Mr L also asked AESEL to refund him the legal costs he incurred in seeking a county court 
judgement. And interest on the amount he wanted refunded. I dont think it would be fair to 
ask AESEL to pay Mr L for the costs he incurred in seeking a county court judgement. It was 
his decision to pursue M through the courts and he could have made a claim under section 
75 earlier and avoided those courts costs. But I do think AESEL should pay interest to Mr L 
for the loss of use of the money. My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that American Express Services Europe 
Limited should do the following:
re-work Mr Ls credit card account from the date it said it was unable to consider his 
claim, as if £139.99 had not been paid, refunding any payment made, interest and 
charges in respect of that amount; 
if this calculation results in a credit balance, it needs to refund this and pay interest 
on it at a rate of 8% simple per year calculated from the date of said credit balance to 
the date of settlement1; and
take possession of the wetsuit if it chooses to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman
1 If American Express Services Europe Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr L how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr L a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.