DRN-2972131
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy about the way Shawbrook Bank Limited handled her claim under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.   
What happened
In September 2017 Mrs R purchased double glazed windows and doors from a supplier and 
entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook.
The installation took place in November 2017. Soon after installation, Mrs R experienced 
issues with the windows. She was unable to resolve these with the suppler and, having 
exhausted other avenues, raised a section 75 claim with Shawbrook in May 2020.
Shawbrook upheld the claim on the basis that an independent report concluded that 
remedial work was required. It said the supplier should attend and carry out the remedial 
work at no cost to Mrs R.
Mrs R wasnt happy with the response. She said that the supplier had already had several 
opportunities to resolve the issues and had failed to do so. She said she wanted a full refund 
and referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said that because remedial work had already 
been undertaken by the supplier, and because there were still outstanding issues which the 
independent report had said required remedial work, she said the supplier shouldnt be given 
any further opportunities to carry out remedial work.  The investigator said Shawbrook 
should refund Mrs R the full cost of the installation.
Shawbrook obtained a response from the supplier and said that neither it, nor the supplier, 
agreed with the investigator. So, Ive been asked to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, Section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation. In order to uphold Mrs Rs complaint, I would need to be satisfied that the 
provisions of section 75 apply, that theres been a breach of contract and that Shawbrooks 
response wasnt fair or reasonable.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act requires a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement (DCS). 
Mrs R paid for the windows and the installation with a loan from Shawbrook, so Im satisfied 
that there is a DCS agreement. This means Mrs R has a like claim against Shawbrook as 
she does against the supplier if theres been a breach of contract.
Has there been a breach of contract?
The relevant law says that goods supplied must be of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose 
and services must be carried out with reasonable skill and care. If this isnt the case, then a 
breach of contract can be said to have occurred.
Ive looked at all of the available evidence. I can see that following completion of the 
installation of the windows, the supplier attended to undertake remedial works on the 
following dates:
December 2017  fitted remake sealed unit and adjusted bathroom window handle
February 2018  fitted sealed unit to bifold door
July 2018  replaced and fitted sashes/windows
September 2018  refitted sashes/windows
January 2020  work undertaken to allow Mrs R to open/close several windows
I can also see that in January 2020, the supplier undertook an inspection and produced a 
schedule of remedial works to be undertaken. Legal action was ongoing at this time. When it 
ended, Mrs R agreed with the supplier that a single joint expert would carry out an inspection 
and report on the outstanding issues.
Ive looked at the single joint expert report dated May 2021. This concludes that remedial 
work is necessary. The contents of the report are well known to all parties, so I wont repeat 
it here, save to say that the report identifies that extensive remedial work is needed.
In considering whether theres been a breach of contract, Ive thought about whether the 
windows were of satisfactory quality and whether the installation was carried out with a 
reasonable level of care and skill. Taking everything into consideration, and in particular 
taking into account the conclusions of the single joint expert, Im of the view that theres 
enough evidence here to show that theres been a breach of contract. I dont think that a 
reasonable person would expect to experience faults and endure so many attempts at 
remedial works within a relatively short time of the installation. Looking at the remedial, work 
already undertaken, Im persuaded that the supplier has already had fair opportunity to 
rectify the defects. Its clear from the single joint expert report that there are outstanding 
issues which require remedial work, so Im bound to conclude that the previous attempts by 
the supplier to rectify things have failed. I dont think its fair to expect Mrs R to allow the 
supplier a further opportunity to undertake remedial works. Mrs R should be allowed to reject 
the windows.
Was Shawbrooks response to the section 75 claim fair and reasonable?
Ive had regard to the relevant legislation in considering whether Shawbrooks response to 
the section 75 claim was fair. Because Im satisfied that the installation of the windows 
wasnt carried out with a reasonable level of skill and care, and because the previous 
attempts at remedial work has failed, Im of the view that Mrs R should be allowed to reject 
the windows. So I dont think it was fair for Shawbrook to uphold the claim but expect Mrs R 
to allow the supplier a further attempt at remedial work.  
Putting things right
To put things right, Shawbrook Bank Limited must:- Refund the deposit and all payments made towards the agreement plus simple 
interest of 8% per annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement
-  Pay compensation of £150 for trouble and upset
- Arrange for the windows to be collected and returned to the supplier once Mrs rs 
preferred contractor has removed them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited must take the steps 
set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman