DRN-3231408
The complaint
Mr R complains that Oplo HL Ltd wrongly recorded arrears on his credit file. He says this 
stopped him getting a mortgage and increased the cost of his borrowing. He asks that his 
credit file is corrected and for compensation.  
What happened
Mr R took out a secured loan with Oplo in September 2020. The loan is secured on a buy to 
let property. Oplo made an error which resulted in it recording two months arrears on Mr Rs 
loan account. It corrected the loan account. But it had recorded the arrears with the credit 
reference agencies (CRAs) and it didnt correct this.
In June 2021 Mr R looked into applying for a mortgage to buy a property to live. He says his 
broker told him that due to the arrears on his credit file only two lenders would lend, and that 
would be at a high interest rate. Mr R says he had to continue to rent a home. Mr R says the 
finance he took out in October 2020 was more expensive due to the arrears. He told Oplo 
this matter was making him anxious. 
Oplo gave a letter to Mr R about the arrears, for him to show to lenders. It paid £100 
compensation and said it would correct Mr Rs credit file. 
Mr R provided his credit report for November 2021 and this still showed two months arrears 
recorded in September 2020 for his Oplo loan account. Mr R says £100 isnt sufficient 
compensation. 
Our investigator said he couldnt be certain that Mr R would have been offered a mortgage 
without the arrears on his credit file, or that Mr R would have been able to access credit at a 
lower interest rate. But the incorrect information had caused him frustration and upset. The 
investigator said Oplo should ask again for Mr Rs credit file to be corrected, and pay £400 
compensation (in total) for the upset caused.
Oplo didnt agree. It said its offer of £100 is fair and it acted promptly when Mr R complained. 
It said it asked the CRAs to correct Mr Rs file. It says it doesnt have access to Mr Rs credit 
file and cant check the correction has been made.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Oplo made an error. It recorded arrears on Mr Rs loan account for August and September 
2020. Mr Rs first payment wasnt due until October 2020. Oplo says it didnt realise it had 
reported the arrears to the credit reference agencies until Mr R contacted it in June 2021.
Theres no dispute that Oplo made an error. I have to decide if its done enough to put 
matters right. 
Oplo says it didnt realise it had reported arrears on Mr Rs credit file to three credit reference 
agencies in September 2020. I assume that Oplos system reports arrears automatically and 
(despite knowing it made an error with Mr Rs account) it didnt check if the arears had been 
reported to the CRAs. I appreciate that Oplo doesnt have access to Mr Rs credit report, but 
I havent seen anything to suggest it checked its systems at the time, or warned Mr R to 
check his credit report and contact it if there was a problem.
Mr R raised his complaint on 9 June 2021 and Oplo issued an (undated) letter to Mr R the 
same day saying the arrears were due to a technical error. Oplo says Mr R can show this 
letter to lenders, to explain the arrears. 
Lenders take a range of factors into account when deciding whether to lend. I dont know if 
Mr R or his broker showed Oplos letter to lenders. But in any case, I cant be certain that 
Mr R would have been offered a mortgage if the arrears hadnt been recorded on his credit 
file  an offer would have been subject to the lenders affordability assessment and lending 
criteria. While Mr R says hed have been able to borrow at a lower rate, he hasnt provided 
evidence to support this. This isnt surprising as lenders dont usually share this sort of 
information. I can understand Mr Rs frustration about this.
Mr R cant provide evidence of financial loss, and without this I cant fairly require Oplo to 
pay compensation for it. However, Mr R was worried about the effect of the arrears on his 
ability to borrow and his cost of borrowing. I can require Oplo to pay compensation for the 
worry and inconvenience caused to Mr R. 
Oplo says it asked three CRAs to update Mr Rs files in July 2021, and received confirmation 
from all three. It cant provide evidence of this, due to the way the corrections are reported. 
Mr R told Oplo in September 2021 that a CRA was still reporting the arrears. Oplo hasnt 
said if it took further steps to correct this. Mr R provided his credit report dated November 
2021 still showing the arrears.
I dont know whether the failure to correct Mr Rs credit file was due to an error by Oplo or 
the CRA. But I hope Oplo will agree that it wasnt fair for the arrears to have been wrongly 
recorded and remain on Mr Rs credit file for more than a year. Mr R has confirmed that his 
credit files have now been corrected.
Oplo says its offer of compensation is fair because it acted promptly to put matters right once 
Mr R made it aware of the error in June 2021. But when considering what compensation is 
fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the effect Oplos error had on Mr R. 
Oplo made the error in September 2020. Mr R only became aware of this in June 2021. Hes 
worried that hes paying more for credit taken out while he was unaware of the arrears on his 
credit file. Mr R found out about the arrears when he was looking to apply for a mortgage. 
The process of buying a property and applying for a mortgage can be stressful. Mr R was 
told by his broker the arrears limited his options and he felt he had to put his plans to buy a 
house on hold until this was sorted out. The arrears were still shown on Mr Rs credit file in 
November 2021. When he contacted Oplo, Mr R told it the matter was making him anxious. 
Given the effect this has had on Mr R, I think its fair and reasonable to require Oplo to pay 
compensation of £400 (in total).
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Oplo HL Ltd to pay £400 to Mr R (it can 
deduct the £100 it offered if it has already paid this).Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman