DRN-1626397
 
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with an administration charge UK Insurance Limited, trading as Privilege 
Insurance, (Privilege) charged when he made a mid-term amendment to his car insurance 
policy.
Mr J feels that as a loyal customer, who previously hadnt made any amendments, he 
shouldnt be charged the admin fee.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr J made a change to his motor insurance policy to cover a new car that 
his wife would be driving. The admin charge for doing so was £26.88 and the increase in 
insurance premium was approximately £21.
Mr J was unhappy with the admin fee and complained to Privilege. Privilege didnt uphold Mr 
Js complaint. 
Mr J remained unhappy and referred his complaint to our service. He felt that as a loyal 
customer, having had insurance with Privilege for several years, he shouldnt have to pay 
this charge. Mr J was also unhappy that the relevant policy terms about the admin fee state 
that it may be charged. He felt that Privilege didnt have to charge it and the charge wasnt 
fair relative to the increase in the insurance premium.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Js complaint as she found that the fee charged was fair 
and reasonable. She explained they were acting within the policy terms by charging this 
admin fee and this had been brought to Mr Js attention when he took out the policy, in his 
paperwork and when he called up to make the change. Mr J wanted examples of where the 
fee wouldnt be charged and our investigator explained that this would be commercially 
sensitive information for Privilege that we wouldnt share.
The complaint has now been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Js frustration at having to pay an admin fee for what he considers to be a 
relatively small change to his policy. But having considered this matter carefully I havent 
decided to uphold his complaint and Ill explain why below.
The terms of Mr Js policy, in relation to admin fees, state; If you make any temporary or 
permanent changes to your policy during the year you may have to pay an administration fee 
as well as any additional premium.. Please refer to your schedule for detailsMr Js policy schedule then states; Our current administration fee to amend your policy is 
£26.88
This is the amount that Privilege then charged Mr J for the change to his policy. So I cant 
fairly say that Privilege treated Mr J unfairly by charging the admin fee set out in its terms 
and conditions to make the change. Admin fees are charged to cover the cost of carrying out 
one off administrative tasks, such as making an amendment to the policy. And we think its 
fair for insurers to charge a reasonable fee when carrying out such administrative tasks.
Mr J asks in what circumstances Privilege would not charge an admin fee as its terms only 
say that a fee may be charged. And why didnt it choose not to charge one here. But thats 
a business decision for them to make on each policy amendment. We look at the 
circumstances of Mr Js individual complaint rather than any wider decisions a business has 
made or might make and so it would be inappropriate for me to comment on this here. 
Mr J may think that the value of the admin fee may seem high relative to the cost of the 
increased premium, but the admin fee was chargeable in this instance, the amount is set out 
in the terms and conditions and isnt calculated proportionate to the change in premium. 
Even if the additional premium had been significantly higher, the administration to change 
the policy would remain the same. 
I appreciate that Mr J feels strongly about this matter and will no doubt be disappointed by 
what Ive said. But, in this case, I think Privilege have treated Mr J fairly and reasonably in 
this case by charging the admin fee of £26.88 when Mr J amended his policy. It follows that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman