DRN-4107611
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Dante Partners LLP failed to provide her with suitable advice about the 
transfer and subsequent investment of her pension savings.
What happened
Mrs H has been assisted in making her complaint by a firm of solicitors. But for ease, in this 
decision, I will simply refer to any communication as having been with, and from, Mrs H 
herself.
In 2014 Mrs H held pension savings with two unrelated firms. She says that an unregulated 
introducer put her in contact with Dante.
In November 2014 Mrs H completed an application to open a self-invested personal pension 
(SIPP) with a firm I will call G. The pension savings she previously held were transferred 
into her new SIPP in December 2014. The paperwork that Mrs H completed when she 
opened her SIPP doesnt indicate that she had been assisted in making the transfer by a 
financial advisor. 
Following the transfer, Mrs Hs pension savings were invested by a firm I will call B. Those 
investments were generally high risk and illiquid. The fund into which the investments had 
been placed entered liquidation in May 2020, and it is likely that Mrs H has lost those 
investments.
Mrs H complained to both Dante and G about what had happened. In its response to Mrs Hs 
complaint G said;
Dante Partners LLP on behalf of its authorized representative, IPO Capital Partners 
Limited, was regulated for the purposes of making financial promotions to retail 
clients. It was they who were responsible for any promotion or approach to Mrs H
Dante told us that it had no records that Mrs H had ever been its client, or that it had 
received any commission relating to her pension investments. Moreover Dante said that it 
had never been authorised to give advice on pensions, nor had it ever provided such advice. 
It said it had no knowledge of who the unregulated introducer was that Mrs H said she dealt 
with.
So Mrs H asked us to consider both her complaints. I understand that G has now entered 
administration, so that complaint will need to be referred to the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme. In this decision I will only be considering the actions of Dante.
Mrs Hs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He said that he had seen 
no evidence to persuade him that Dante had provided any advice to Mrs H, or had any 
involvement, either directly or through an appointed representative, in the transfer. So he 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mrs H didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mrs H and by Dante. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Mrs H has asked that I consider a number of other similar cases that have been decided by 
us in the past. We consider every complaint on its own individual merits. However I cannot 
agree that the approach our investigator has taken on this case (and that I am also taking in 
my findings below) is inconsistent with our approach on other similar cases.
There is no contemporaneous evidence to show what happened before Mrs H completed the 
SIPP application form that was sent to G. The application form is blank in relation to the 
section that would provide details of any advisor. So I cannot be sure what, if any, 
involvement Dante had in influencing, or advising, Mrs H to transfer her pension savings and 
subsequently invest them through B.
I accept that it seems most likely that Mrs H did have contact with an unregulated introducer 
before making her decision. And it is equally possible that introducer might have passed 
himself off as a representative of Dante. But Dante says it has no records of any dealings 
with Mrs H, nor has it ever received any commission in relation to her. I have not seen any 
evidence to support the assertion made by G about the involvement of Dante in this matter.
Dante was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority around the time Mrs H transferred 
her pension benefits. But its regulation provided a specific restriction. It was not allowed to 
carry on any investment services and activities (to which MiFID applies) on a regular basis 
except reception and transmission of orders in relation to one or more financial instruments 
or investment advice. I havent seen anything to make me think that Dante was in breach of 
that restriction  to do so would be an extremely serious matter indeed.
In summary, like our investigator, I am not satisfied that any persuasive evidence has been 
provided to show that Dante provided Mrs H with advice before she transferred her pension 
savings, and subsequently invested them. Whilst she might have received some advice 
I cannot reasonably conclude that came from Dante. In cases such as these it would fall to 
Mrs H to persuade me that, on the balance of probability, what she is complaining about is 
supported by the available evidence. Im not satisfied that is the case here. So I dont think 
this complaint should be upheld.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Dante Partners LLP
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman