DRN-3577776
The complaint
Miss B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) didnt 
give her the interest rate she expected on two Balance Transfers  in March 2002. Miss B 
wants all the subsequent transfer fees and interest refunded.
What happened
Miss B says Barclaycard sent her a promotional letter offering a balance transfer at 0% 
interest rate in March 2022. The letter said she had to make the transfer before 30 April 
2022. So using her online app on 13 March 2022, she applied for two balances to be 
transferred to Barclaycard to take advantage of the offer. After the transfers were processed, 
she was told she would be paying interest at 6.9%, not 0% as shed expected. So she 
complained to Barclaycard asking for the transfer fees and interest to be refunded.
Barclaycard agreed it had sent Miss B a promotional offer letter which did offer a 0% balance 
transfer if she made the transfer before 30 April 2022. However, Barclaycard says this offer 
was not made until sometime in April 2022. So when Miss B applied for a balance transfer in 
March, it applied the interest rate which it says she agreed to online  that is the interest rate 
of 6.9%. Barclaycard said it didnt do anything wrong, so it rejected her complaint.
Our investigator also rejected the complaint saying there was no evidence to show Miss B 
saw the promotional offer letter in March 2022.
Miss B disagreed with our investigators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B and Barclaycard have produced copies of the promotional leaflet which Barclaycard 
says was sent to Miss B in April 2022. I have looked at it very carefully. The date shown at 
the top of the offer letter is April 2022 and it clearly states the promotional offer of 0% 
interest on balance transfers closes on 30 April 2022.
 
Miss B says she received the letter in March. Ive considered all shes said about this but I 
have not seen any evidence to show she did receive it in March. And Barclaycard cannot 
produce any evidence to show when they sent the leaflet to Miss B. It is also unfortunate that 
the letter does not say when the offer itself starts. But all the evidence I have seen here 
would suggest to me that its more likely than not that this letter was sent to Miss B in April 
2022, when Barclaycard says it was.
 
Having decided that, I cannot see any evidence that Miss Bs transfers made in March 2022 
would have been able to take advantage of the promotional offer made in April.
There is also evidence here which shows me that its likely that Miss B would have been 
aware of the applicable rate on the balance transfers when making them too. I say this 
because I have looked at screenshots which Barclaycard produced; it says they give a 
summary of the online pages Miss B would likely have seen during the application to transfer 
the two balances. It seems from those pages that she would likely have been aware that she 
was applying for the balance transfers at the 6.9% interest rate and agreed to the terms and 
conditions for that interest rate. As this was the prevailing offer in March, I dont think 
Barclaycard did anything wrong by applying the interest rate of 6.9% to the balance transfers 
applied for in March.
 
I do appreciate Miss B says these balance transfers had put her in a worse financial position. 
However, I have not seen enough evidence to uphold this complaint for Miss B.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman