DRN-2578399
The complaint
Miss H says S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at Home (LaH), irresponsibly lent to her. 
She says that she couldnt afford the loan repayments and that LaH shouldve seen this and 
not lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about seven home collected loans LaH provided to Miss H between August 
2018 to October 2020. Ive put some of the information Ive been provided about the loans in 
the table below. 
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedTerm 
(weeks)date ended
1 22/08/2018 £225 24 05/12/2018
2 05/12/2018 £400 33 29/05/2019
3 27/03/2019 £250 46 04/03/2020
4 29/05/2019 £400 33 20/05/2020
5 04/03/2020 £250 46 28/10/2020
6 03/06/2020 £200 33 outstanding
7 28/10/2020 £375 46 outstanding
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Hs complaint. She thought that the repayments were too high a 
proportion of Miss Hs income from loan 2 onwards and the lending pattern itself was harmful 
from loan 5 onwards. So, she though that loans 2 to 7 shouldnt have been approved. 
LaH disagreed. Briefly, it didnt think that loan 2 was too high a proportion of Miss Hs 
income, particularly as she had no other lending and there were no problems repaying loan 
1. And going forward, as Miss H had borrowed five smaller loans in 19 months, it didnt think 
this showed a pattern of dependency by loan 5. 
As no agreement was reached the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Broadly 
speaking, this all means that LaH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice, this means it should have carried out proportionate checks to make 
sure Miss H could repay her loans in a sustainable manner. Additionally, there may come a 
point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that the 
lending was unsustainable.
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons.
Our adjudicator thought that Miss H was repaying too high a proportion of her income from 
loan 2 onwards. I have independently reviewed the evidence of Miss Hs income and 
expenditure and have come to the same conclusion. Whilst the loan repayments were not 
large Miss Hs income was modest and seems to have been comprised of benefits only. So 
she would have very little leeway to deal with any further financial problems going forward. 
Taking all of this into consideration I think the amount Miss H was due to repay from loan 2 
onwards was too high. And it was likely she would have problems making the repayments 
over the longer time frames of these loans. 
Ive also considered the pattern of lending up to loan 5 and I think the lending history and 
pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that further lending would likely be 
unsustainable. Miss H had been borrowing from LaH for a significant time by loan 5 without 
a break. There was little sign at this point of her being able to repay these loans sustainably, 
that is without further borrowing. And, generally, the amounts she was borrowing werent 
decreasing appreciably. So I think LaH was irresponsible to continue lending after this point.
Ive considered all of the points LaH made in response to the adjudicators view. But these 
arent new points  theyre factors already taken into account in the adjudicators 
assessment, and they dont demonstrate to me that the lending from loan 2 was sustainable. 
So the points raised by LaH havent changed my decision and Im upholding this complaint.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress LaH should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Miss H from loan two, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss H may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss H in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss H would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LaHs liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
LaH shouldnt have given Miss H loans 2 to 7.If LaH has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if it is able to do so and then 
take the following steps. If LaH is not able to buy the debts back then LaH should liaise with 
the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) LaH should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss H towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
it has already refunded.
B) LaH should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss H 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss H originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) LaH should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss H as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Miss H having made 
overpayments then LaH should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. LaH should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B 
and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans If this results in a surplus then 
the surplus should be paid to Miss H. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then 
LaH should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss H. LaH shouldnt pursue 
outstanding balances made up of principal LaH has already written-off.
E) LaH should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Hs credit file in relation to 
loans 2 to 4. The overall pattern of Miss Hs borrowing from loan 5 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Miss Hs 
credit file. LaH does not have to remove loans 5 to 7 from Miss Hs credit file until these have 
been repaid, but LaH should still remove any adverse information recorded about these 
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LaH to deduct tax from this interest. LaH should give 
Miss H a certificate showing how much tax LaH has deducted, if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Miss Hs complaint. 
S.D. Taylor Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman