DRN-2120499
The complaint
Its been agreed AXA France IARD should accept responsibility for this complaint. To keep 
things simpler, Ill refer to AXA as the seller of the PPI in my decision.
Mr T says AXA mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In December 1997 Mr T took out the policy alongside a credit agreement he signed up to 
when buying goods in the store. 
Mr T said he had a long term health problem when he took out the PPI.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ts complaint. She didnt think Mr T wouldve taken out the 
insurance if AXA had made him aware that the policy wouldnt have covered accident and 
sickness claims for any health problem Mr T had when he bought it.
AXA disagrees with our adjudicators view. AXA says that theres nothing to suggest the 
severity of Mr Ts condition following an injury and the prolonged affect it had on his ability to 
work at the point of sale or after. 
AXA said Mr T would have been able to claim for any other condition that caused him to take 
a sufficient period of time off work.
And AXA said that although Mr T had also been tested for a (different) seriously debilitating 
and life limiting condition that didnt mean he had that condition and further clarification was 
required about this. Overall, AXA didnt feel there was evidence that Mr Ts medical condition 
would negate his need for the policy and so it didnt agree to uphold the complaint without 
more information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA needed to give Mr T enough clear information about the PPI for him to be able to make 
an informed choice about whether it was right for him. 
Mr T told us that hed suffered an injury in 1990. He said that whilst he managed the 
resulting health problems this caused him with pain killers hed also had to take time off work 
from time to time. And he told us those issues were ongoing. 
I've checked the policy document. 
It looks like the policy Mr T bought didn't cover claims resulting from any sickness, disease, 
condition or injury:
which he knew about, or ought to have known about in the 12 months before the 
policy started, or
for which he received advice, treatment or counselling from any doctor during the 
12 months immediately before the policy start date.
So I think its likely that the policy wording wouldve excluded cover for accident and 
sickness claims for Mr Ts health problems resulting from the injury he had in 1990. 
And I think this limitation on cover for health conditions is likely to have mattered to Mr T. 
I say this because it seems that Mr Ts condition had already had an impact on him being 
able to do his job before he took out this PPI. So, when he took out this PPI in 1997, I think 
Mr T might reasonably have expected that his health condition might continue to have a 
significant impact on his day to day life and lead to him needing to take more time off work.
But I dont know what was said when the policy was sold to Mr T or how the PPI was 
presented or explained to him. And when Mr T signed the credit agreement, which included 
the PPI option, there wasnt anything obvious on the form that pointed out what the policy 
didnt cover. And nothing I can see that wouldve alerted Mr T to think that his health might 
be an important issue.
I think its likely that Mr T wouldnt have bought the policy if hed understood that he wouldnt 
be able to claim for absence from work due to his ongoing medical problems. 
I've taken into account that AXA says Mr T wouldve been able to claim for absence from 
work resulting from other accident or illness. 
And I can see that he couldve claimed under the unemployment part of the policy as well  
despite his medical condition. 
But I dont think its likely that this wouldve been enough to make Mr T think the policy was 
worthwhile for him. I say this because it wouldve seemed reasonable to Mr T at the time that 
his most likely reason for absence from work would be due to his ongoing health issues 
arising out of his injury in 1990 since that had mostly been why hed had to take time off 
since his injury. 
So what AXA says about this isnt enough to make me think this is a complaint I shouldnt 
uphold. 
I dont think I need comment further on what AXA has said in response to our adjudicators 
opinion about the condition for which Mr T was tested as this doesn't affect my overall view. 
Based on all the information I've seen already, I think Mr T has lost out because of what AXA 
did wrong and it should put things right. 
Putting things right
AXA should put Mr T in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The policy 
should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already and AXA should:Pay Mr T the amount he paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest 8% a year .
If Mr T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mr T that relates to this PPI sale, 
that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Ts complaint and AXA France IARD should put 
things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman