DRN-1971950
The complaint
Mr and Mrs U complain that Nationwide Building Society treated them unfairly when it 
blocked their account. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs U had a current account with Nationwide. On 17 January 2020 Nationwide 
blocked the account. 
When Mr U called, Nationwide advised the account had been blocked due to concerns about 
the number of large cash withdrawals that had been completed over the previous six 
months. Nationwide said the pattern of cash withdrawals was unusual. Mr and Mrs U 
explained that they were using the cash to pay builders, who preferred being paid in cash. 
Nationwide asked Mr and Mrs U to supply an invoice to show the building work was being 
completed. Nationwide said it wouldnt remove the account block until it saw an invoice. 
Mr U went on to visit a branch and the Police were called to speak with him. Mr U has told us 
the Police had no concerns he was the victim of a scam. 
On 20 January 2020 Mr and Mrs U closed their account. They complained to Nationwide and 
it responded on 29 January 2020. Nationwide said the account terms allow it to block a 
transaction or account if has concerns about how it has been used and that it had genuine 
concerns Mr and Mrs U may have been the victims of a scam. Nationwide didnt uphold the 
complaint and it was referred to our service. An investigator reviewed what had happened 
and thought Nationwide had acted reasonably and dealt with the complaint fairly. Mr U 
asked to appeal, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs Us concern that their account was blocked and the Police were 
called during a branch visit. But businesses are obliged to check their customers arent the 
victims of frauds or scams. In addition, the account terms allow Nationwide to stop a 
transaction or block account if it has genuine concerns about the way it is being operated. 
Ive considered the nature of Nationwides concerns to see whether they were reasonable. I 
dont doubt Mr and Mrs Us cash withdrawals were entirely legitimate and, as they say, used 
to pay for building work. But Nationwide has provided bank statements that show the level of 
cash withdrawals in the six-month period, leading up to the account block, were unusually 
high. 
Given the frequency and amounts involved, Im satisfied Nationwides decision to highlight 
them and ask additional questions was reasonable  and in line with the account terms and 
conditions. 
Mr U advised the cash was used to pay for building work and Nationwide asked for an 
invoice to verify what it was told. I appreciate Mr and Mrs U found Nationwides request 
somewhat invasive, but Im satisfied it was trying to protect their account and money by 
ensuring they werent victims of a scam. Im not persuaded that Nationwides request for an 
invoice was unfair or unreasonable. 
In much the same way, I can understand why Mr U was shocked when the Police attended 
his branch visit. Nationwide has confirmed the visit was instigated due to genuine concerns 
that Mr and Mrs U may have been victims of a scam. Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs U 
but I think the decision to ask the Police to attend the branch was reasonable. 
Ultimately, Mr and Mrs U chose to close their account. Whilst I understand the questions, 
request for evidence and branch visit by the Police were distressing, I havent been 
persuaded Nationwide treated Mr and Mrs U unfairly. For the reasons Ive given above, Im 
satisfied the decision to block their account was taken due to genuine and legitimate 
concerns about the unusually high number of cash withdrawals. And, for the same reasons, 
Im satisfied the request for evidence was based on a genuine concern that Mr and Mrs U 
may have fallen victim to a scam. As I havent found anything to show Nationwide made a 
mistake and I think its dealt with Mr and Mrs Us complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any 
further action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs U to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman