DRN-3004945
The complaint
Mr W complains FCE Bank Plc trading as Ford Credit (FCE) refused to extend his car 
finance agreement.
What happened
In November 2017, Mr W entered into a 39 month personal contract purchase agreement 
(PCP) for a new car. The cash price of the car was £13,888. He was required to pay £157 
per month followed by an optional final payment of £6,859. The agreement was due to end 
in March 2021.
In January 2021, Mr W asked whether it would be possible to extend the agreement by 12 
months. He said due to the impact of Covid-19 and the national lockdown, he wasnt able to 
use the car as expected, meaning it had travelled much less miles than planned. He said he 
was willing to pay the same monthly instalments if the extension was approved.
FCE didnt agree to the extension and Mr W complained. FCE said the impact of Covid-19 
was beyond their control and there were no concessions for their customers for the 
subsequent loss of use of the car. They said support was only available for those who were 
suffering financial difficulty as a result of the pandemic. They outlined the options available to 
Mr W which included handing back the car, part exchanging it, selling it privately or 
modifying the agreement via the dealership to refinance the final payment over a two year 
period. 
Mr W said he is a pensioner who has a disability which impacts his mobility meaning he 
relies heavily on the car so handing it back without an alternative one wasnt possible for 
him. He said he had tried to apply for a new finance agreement with FCE but that was 
refused, the dealership wouldnt part exchange his car and he wouldnt be able to afford the 
final payment even if it was spread over two years as the instalments would increase. 
Unhappy with their response, he referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case wasnt upheld. They believed FCE had acted in line with the terms 
of the agreement and it wasnt reasonable for it to be extended. Mr W disagreed. He 
maintained his position and added he believed FCE had victimised him because hes in 
receipt of a pension and he has a disability. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons.
Mr W acquired the car under a regulated consumer credit agreement with FCE therefore our 
service is able to consider this complaint.
When looking at this case, I must decide whether FCE acted fairly when the agreement 
ended and whether it was reasonable to decline Mr Ws request to extend it.
As a starting point, Ive reviewed Mr Ws agreement with FCE. In regards to what happens at 
the end of the term, it sets out that Mr W can either exercise the option to buy the car by 
paying the final amount (£6,859) plus the option to purchase fee or hand the car back. These 
end of agreement options are common in PCP agreements so I dont find anything unusual 
about them. I can see Mr W signed the agreement in November 2017 so Im satisfied he was 
aware of the same. 
Prior to the agreement coming to an end, its common practice for the business to send 
correspondence to the consumer outlining the end of contract options. In this case, FCE said 
such correspondence was sent to Mr W. Ideally I wouldve been provided with a copy of the 
same but at the time of writing this decision, FCE hasnt provided a copy so I cant see what 
was said. However they have provided a transcript of the call in January 2021 with Mr W. 
Having read it, I can see the advisor set out the available options to him and I believe they 
acted reasonably by doing so. The options included returning the car, buying the car by 
paying the final amount by modifying the agreement, doing a part exchange or selling the car 
privately.
Based on the above, its clear there is no term that provides Mr W the right to extend the 
agreement. The terms require Mr W to either return the car or if he wanted to keep it he 
would be required to pay the final payment of £6,859. They also advised on the other options 
available to him so I satisfied FCE acted fairly and applied the terms of the agreement. 
Ive carefully taken into account Mr Ws personal circumstances and I can appreciate why 
being in possession of a car is of great importance to him given his disability. I sympathise 
for the situation he now finds himself in especially as its clear he has explored some of the 
other options noted above. He said he cant afford to pay the final payment so modifying the 
agreement wouldnt be a feasible option. He tried to part exchange the car at the dealership 
but he was told this wasnt possible due to stock levels and his application for further finance 
with FCE was declined. I dont know the reasons why the finance was declined and this may 
be something Mr W wants to explore further with FCE. Our service can consider complaints 
related to lending but as Mr W hasnt specifically complained about this issue, it wouldnt be 
appropriate to provide any further comment in this decision.
Given what Mr W has said about the loss of use of the car because of the Covid-19 
pandemic, Ive considered whether there is any guidance about what firms should do in such 
circumstances. The Financial Conduct Authority released a lot of guidance about Covid-19 
and the impact on consumers. The guidance specific for car finance agreements was 
released in April 2020 and it set out what firms were expected to do for those experiencing 
financial difficulty such as meeting the contractual payments due to the pandemic. It outlined 
the expectations and the types of support that should be provided. However as there is no 
indication Mr W was in financial difficulty due to Covid-19, I dont find the guidance would 
apply in this case. 
I understand Mr Ws frustration at not being able to make full use of the car throughout the 
duration of the agreement especially as he continued to pay the monthly instalments. 
However I cant ignore the fact the pandemic was an unforeseen event that neither he or 
FCE couldve envisioned. It was beyond the control of either party. 
Mr W said FCE has discriminated against him due to his disability and the fact he is in 
receipt of a pension. Ive considered the relevant legislation like the Equality Act and how it might apply here, but Im satisfied Mr W hasnt been treated any differently because of his 
disability, I believe the business has been fair and reasonable. I say this because Im 
satisfied these terms and end of contract options would apply to all agreements irrespective 
of an individuals age, disability or whether they were in receipt of a pension. I hope it helps 
Mr W to know that someone impartial and independent has looked into his concerns.
Overall, I believe FCE has acted fairly, in line with the terms of the agreement and it isnt 
reasonable to say they should extend the agreement to reflect the lost time due to the 
pandemic. I understand my decision will disappoint Mr W but I hope he accepts my findings.
Lastly, Im aware while this complaint has been at our service Mr W has retained possession 
of the car and according to FCE the last payment was in February 2021. As the agreement 
ended in March 2021 and neither the final payment was paid or the car returned, its most 
likely this has impacted Mr Ws credit file. I dont find this to be unreasonable as FCE have a 
duty to accurately record the status of the agreement. I strongly encourage Mr W and FCE to 
get in contact with each other to discuss a suitable way forward.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman