DRN-3950512
The complaint
Mr M and Miss P complain that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) hasnt carried 
out the full repairs needed to their car following an accident, under their motor insurance 
policy. 
Ill refer to Mr M for ease of reading in my decision. 
What happened
Mr M was involved in a car accident in 2021. He took his car to be inspected at the main 
dealer to assess the damage. Due to the cost involved in the repairs Mr M then decided to 
make a claim. 
Mr M says the main dealer found damage to the pedestrian sensor located behind the front 
bumper. It wasnt broken, but he was advised this would cause a problem in the future. Mr M 
says he made Admiral aware of this. He says the sensor is designed to trigger a system that 
pops the bonnet up to push a pedestrian up over the windscreen in the event of a collision.  
Admiral arranged for an inspection and advised Mr M itd be best for its approved repairer to 
complete the repairs as this could all be done in-house. Mr M says there was a delay before 
his car was taken for repairs. It then took over a month for the car to be returned to him in 
April 2021.
In December 2021 a warning light came on in Mr Ms car. He thought this was related to his 
original claim and the pedestrian sensor, so he contacted Admiral. Admiral says there was 
no damage to the sensor when it repaired the car. And its in-house engineer didnt think the 
main dealer had removed the front bumper and grill section of the car to carry out a full 
inspection to identify a fault with the sensor. The engineer referred to the main dealer 
carrying out a visual inspection only, and that no issues were found when it stripped the car 
down. 
Mr M didnt agree with this outcome and referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She says Admirals engineer provided a detailed 
account of why the current damage wasnt part of the original claim. She found the expert 
engineers account more persuasive than the information provided by the main dealer Mr M 
visited. 
Mr M didnt think this was a fair outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider his 
complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I will 
explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Ive read the report Mr M obtained following his visit to the main dealer. This says:
Your vehicle health check. 
Warning lamps  Concerns  active hood strip bent but warning not on dash. Did not want to 
try straighten [sic] incase brought active hood message on.
Horn/Wipers/Washers  Concerns  front bumper broken due to impact
Ive also read the comments provided by Admirals in-house engineer. I have copied 
excerpts from his response below:
due to the proximity of the position of these sensors and the function even slight impacts 
(not necessarily leaving any obvious damage due to mitigation components and design/form 
of the bumper) can cause this sort of issue this is what has occurred here.
And:
No professional Repairer would or should rely on an assessment carried out by someone 
else this is not best practice and any reputable garage will always assess vehicles 
themselves. Must be noted the Policyholder did not in fact obtain another estimate but is 
simply referring to the Main Dealer [MD] health check document (this is not an estimate) 
which details alleged issues and provides figures but does not provide a detailed 
assessment or evidence to support the claims in this document. 
Also:
Our AR [approved repairer] compiled a fully detailed assessment including inspection of the 
stripped vehicle, which specifically included was [sic] individual inspection and check of this 
sensor which was found to be undamaged. If it had been in any way damaged, the AR would 
have replaced it and would have nothing to gain by not doing so.
if the bumper had been removed and due to the bumper damage, it would not have been 
possible to refit it so the Policyholders garage did not then remove the bumper, or in fact 
compile an accurate estimate.
the MD advice on the sensor is purely from visual inspection with front bumper and all 
other components still in place. Also has to be appreciated this sensor which runs along the 
front of the vehicle is not straight and has to be naturally curved to accommodate the 
contours of the front of the vehicle. So would reiterate unless the bumper and grilles were 
removed accurate inspection and assessment of this sensor could not be done. This was 
though done, and this sensor checked by the AR in the claim repairs.
they did not wish to straighten in case a hypothetical fault occurred. In any case 
straightening of this component is not a recommended method as any form of damage or 
distortion to this sensor will mean it requires replacing so any attempt to "straighten" is not a 
recognised method, I would think any MD would be fully aware of this. 
Ive read the repairers report that confirms the Active hood system, which is linked to the 
warning light Mr M has an issue with, was found to be working okay when inspected. And 
Ive seen the screenshot Mr M sent of a message he received from the main dealer. This 
says the bumper couldve been removed and refitted in its damaged state. Ive thought carefully about all of this. I dont dispute Mr Ms recollection of the conversation 
he had with the main dealers engineer. And I note the reference in its health check report to 
the active hood strip that was bent. But there is no evidence to show the front of the car was 
dismantled in order for a full inspection to be carried out, or of any damage that was found at 
this time.
Its clear that Admiral stripped the bumper and grill from the car and so had access to the 
sensor strip  but it didnt identify an issue. The report also shows this sensor wasnt 
activated before or after the repairs. I note from Mr Ms comments that the warning light 
came on in December 2021. This was around ten months after the accident. 
I acknowledge Mr Ms point that Admirals engineer says a minor impact can cause the 
problem he is now experiencing  so why couldnt this have been caused by the claim 
accident. But on balance Im more persuaded by Admirals expert engineer and the detailed 
information supplied in support of the sensor issue having occurred after the repairs. As a 
result, I dont think its fair to ask Admiral to carry out further work. 
Mr M also complains about delays in arranging and completing the repairs. I can see it was 
around a month from the inspection of his car until it was taken to Admirals approved 
repairer. It took around a further month for the repairs to be completed. In its complaint 
response Admiral says there were delays in getting hold of parts needed for the repairs. 
Im aware that global supply issues affected the availability of car parts around this time. Im 
sorry Mr M had to wait longer than he expected, but I dont think Admirals repairer was to 
blame for this. Its likely that another repairer will have experienced similar issues. 
I can see that Mr M was provided with a courtesy car, whilst his car was with the repairer. I 
can understand this caused him some inconvenience as the car was smaller than his. But I 
can see from his policy terms that a courtesy car is defined as a small car, which isnt 
intended to be like for like with the policyholders. I note Mr Ms comments regarding fuel 
economy. But again, I dont think Admiral did anything wrong when arranging the courtesy 
car that it did. 
Finally, Mr M says he wanted the repairs to be completed by the main dealer, but Admiral 
persuaded him otherwise. I can see from his policy terms that he can specify a repairer but 
will need to provide two quotes, incur an additional excess and he wont receive the benefit 
of a courtesy car. It was also discussed that Admirals approved repairer could complete all 
the work  whereas the main dealer couldnt.  
I dont think Admiral behaved unfairly here. Mr M wouldve paid a higher excess fee and 
potentially been without a car whilst his was being repaired, had he chosen to use an 
alternative repairer. 
In summary, although Im sorry Mr M has experienced a problem with his car, I dont think 
Admiral behaved unfairly when relying on its policy terms and carrying out the repair it did. 
So, I dont think its responsible for carrying out further repairs.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Miss P 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 Mike Waldron
Ombudsman