DRN-1051604
 
The complaint
Miss D complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) sold her overdraft onto a 
debt management company when she had a repayment arrangement. The debt 
management company then reported a default on her credit file, which shed been previously 
told would be removed.
What happened
Miss D had an overdraft debt on her current account with RBS. A previous ombudsmans 
decision that was issued in August 2016 considered the service Miss D had received in 
relation to this current account when it was frozen. That decision concluded that RBS should 
remove the record of the default on Miss Ds account, subject to her entering into an 
arrangement to repay the overdraft debt. 
Miss D and RBS came to an arrangement that she would pay £10 a month towards the debt, 
and RBS removed the record of the default from Miss Ds credit record.
However, in 2018, RBS sold on the remaining debt to a debt purchaser. This resulted in the 
default automatically re-reporting on Miss Ds credit record. 
RBS apologised for the stress and inconvenience Miss D was caused. It said that it 
shouldve told the debt purchaser that Miss Ds account should not be defaulted providing 
she kept to the payment arrangement. 
But it has since contacted this company and arranged for the default to be removed. It 
offered to pay Miss D £100 for the upset this had caused.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and said she thought RBS had done 
enough to put things right. She said RBS had asked the debt purchaser to remove the 
default, and she felt its offer of £100 was fair and reasonable to acknowledge what had 
happened. 
Miss D didnt accept the investigators findings. She said shed been trying to rebuild her 
credit over the past two years and hadnt missed a repayment. But this had left her feeling 
that she was back to where she had been previously through no fault of her own. She didnt 
feel the £100 recognised the error RBS has made, as this had happened to her before. She 
said shed registered with a different company for access to her credit record, and then 
realised the default was showing again. This had meant she was turned down for credit 
shed applied for. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I can understand Miss Ds strength of feeling about whats happened, particularly as I can 
see that shed thought the situation had been resolved following the outcome of the previous 
ombudsmans decision. Its clear that it will have been upsetting and frustrating for the 
reporting of the default to appear again.
My decision here cant address whats already been looked at by our service. So although I 
fully appreciate how the issues Miss D has now experienced are linked to RBSs earlier 
actions through the way that complaint was resolved, I can only consider the current 
complaint aspects about the re-reporting following on from RBSs sale of the debt. 
This happened because RBS sold on the debt onto a third party in mid 2018. RBS said that 
Miss Ds account had been rightfully defaulted, but it made a manual amendment to its credit 
file reporting as a result of our final decision. It said its systems showed the correct status of 
the account was that it was in default and this is how the debt purchaser then reported it.
But RBS has acknowledged that it shouldve told the third party of the agreement to not 
show the account as defaulted as long as Miss D was keeping to the payment arrangement. 
It has since done this, and I understand that the status has now been corrected.
I dont think that RBS acted wrongly when it decided to sell on the debt, as this was 
something it was entitled to do. The previous ombudsmans decision made no reference to 
any impact of it on RBSs commercial decision or ability to take this action. So while I can 
understand why Miss D has disagreed with RBS being able to sell on the debt, I dont think 
this breached the direction of the previous decision. 
Miss D didnt become aware that the default was showing again until mid 2019. Shes said 
this was when she used a different company to view her credit file and has told us that she 
was turned down for credit facilities in January 2019. So I appreciate that this will have 
caused her concern. 
Once it was aware of what had happened RBS took steps to put things right for Miss D. It 
wouldnt have necessarily known what the third party company wouldve been reporting for 
the debt; and wouldnt have had access to view the information on Miss Ds credit file. But it 
wouldve been aware that it had needed to make manual changes to its own reporting which 
was information that shouldve been passed on to the third party company. 
However, the third party company is separate to RBS. RBS has no control over what 
information that company does report and can only give it the information about Miss Ds 
debt and ask it to amend the reporting now that it is the owner of it.
And I understand that Miss D has been in contact with the third party company and it has 
agreed to look into the matter of why the default is reporting.
For this mistake, RBS has offered Miss D £100 by way of an apology. I acknowledge that 
she doesnt consider this to be fair because of the earlier reporting that was the subject of 
the previous ombudsmans decision. And that decision awarded Miss D compensation of 
£200.
I do appreciate how this matter has impacted upon Miss D and her desire to rebuild her 
credit rating to help with her future plans. And Im sorry that shes found these difficulties in 
putting back her credit record to the status that it was in before RBS sold on her debt.
But, taking everything into account, I think RBS has responded to her complaint positively 
and has taken action to put the matter right as soon as it was made aware of the problem. I can see that it has requested that the third party company make the changes to remove the 
default a number of times; and there seems to be little more that is within its capacity to do.
Miss D has told us that she has had some credit facilities turned down, and has provided 
evidence of this; but I dont think I can say with any certainty that this is directly because of 
RBSs sale of her debt onto the third party and its reporting, when there are a number of 
factors that a prospective lender may take into account in deciding whether to offer credit to 
someone.
Its because of this that I think the £100 RBS offered, along with its apology and action to 
contact the new owner of the debt, represents a fair and reasonable resolution to Miss Ds 
complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should pay Miss D £100, as it has 
already offered to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman