DRN-3858724
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained about how Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) has handled
arrears on their mortgage and mortgage current account (MCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs W have previously complained to this service and a final decision was issued on
29 February 2020. The decision concerned the legal action Barclays had taken and was
upheld in Mr and Mrs Ws favour. The decision said that Barclays should refund any legal
costs charged since 2016, excluding the costs associated with the initial action. It also
awarded Mr and Mrs W £750 for their time, trouble, upset and incidental costs.
Since then, at the time of complaining, Mr and Mrs W said there was still no repayment plan
in place even though theyve made every mortgage payment on time and cleared a lump
sum of £6,000 off of their arrears.
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy that when they paid off the lump sum, they say Barclays
requested the sum be split between the arrears on their mortgage and MCA. Mr and Mrs W
say the interest rate on the MCA is higher and so their preference would have been for the
whole lump sum to contribute to the MCA, allowing them to clear their arrears faster. Mr and
Mrs W dont think it was fair for Barclays to have insisted it be split.
Mr and Mrs W are also concerned that Barclays is still reporting to credit reference agencies
that they were not making their payments on time. Barclays initially said that Mr and Mrs W 
were making their payments late as a result of making their payments manually. Barclays
now says it has attempted to record a repayment plan on its system several times, but there
is a system error which shows the plan as having been broken even though payments have 
been made on time. Barclays is still looking into how to resolve this error.
In the meantime, Barclays has now made amendments to Mr and Mrs Ws credit files to
show that they have been making payments in line with an arrangement on their accounts.
But every month, a new missed payment is recorded, and Mr and Mrs W are concerned this
will continue to happen in future. They say this has caused significant damage to them as
they have higher interest rates on other products they have taken and have been unable to
obtain a government renewable heating scheme they applied for as a result.
Mr and Mrs W believe the system error has been causing problems dating back over a few
years. So, they think Barclays should have established the problem sooner and that it should
have come out during their previous complaint. They say that if that had happened, they
believe their own legal expenses should have been refunded. And they feel this is even
more reason for Barclays to consolidate their arrears, which they have so far refused to do.
Mr and Mrs W say this has all had a significant impact on their wellbeing, particularly for
Mrs W who is on medication for high blood pressure.
Barclays has not issued a final response letter about all of these issues but confirmed the
ombudsman service could investigate the complaint. So, our investigator looked into Mr and
Mrs Ws concerns and upheld the complaint. They understood Barclays was still trying to
resolve the technical issue but said it should make sure there was no ongoing impact to
Mr and Mrs Ws credit files, which means monitoring and amending the account every month
until the problem is resolved. They also thought Barclays should pay Mr and Mrs W £300 for
the distress and inconvenience caused.
I issued a provisional decision on 15 March 2023. Below is an extract of what I said: 
I think Mr and Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Id like to make it clear that I cant issue any further findings in relation to what was
already considered by the ombudsman that previously issued a final decision. My findings
will focus on what has happened since that complaint was resolved as follows.
Repayment plan
I can see that Mr and Mrs W discussed a repayment plan with Barclays in July 2020 and
were under the impression at this point that everything was in order. They were then told by
their complaint handler that the person they spoke to didnt have the authority to set up the
plan as discussed and so an arrangement wasnt actually in place. It seems to have taken a
long time to get a plan arranged, as I cant see this happened until around January 2021,
when Mr and Mrs W received a letter setting out how much they would need to contribute to
both the mortgage and MCA going forward.
Despite making their payments on time every month, Mr and Mrs W received letters advising
them they had broken their arrangement. It doesnt appear as though Barclays realised the
error lied with its own system until around September 2021 and to date, as far as Im aware,
the issue has still not been resolved and I think this will have had a significant impact on
them.
Ive also thought about Mr and Mrs Ws concerns about the higher interest rates theyre
paying on products taken with third party lenders. I appreciate their view that the missed
payments previously appearing on their credit files could have contributed to their interest
rates being higher, but its difficult for me to find that this was the sole reason for that. Mr and
Mrs W are still in significant arrears despite their commitment to regularly paying off the
amount they owe. Their credit files will still need to show that they are in an arrangement to
repay those arrears, and this has been the case for the last six years.
So, while I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs W, Im not persuaded Barclays can
be held responsible for their higher interest rates elsewhere, or if their application for a
government renewable heating scheme was unsuccessful. But I do think Barclays should
award greater compensation for the longevity of its computer system error and the impact
this has undoubtedly had on Mr and Mrs W. I think £500 is a more acceptable figure.
Lump sum payment
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy about how the lump sum payment of £6,000 was allocated
against their outstanding debt. They say Barclays insisted the sum be split between the
arrears on their mortgage and the arrears on their MCA and they dont think this was fair as
the interest rate on their MCA is higher than on their mortgage.I asked Barclays, via our investigator, to confirm its thoughts on this matter. In particular
whether there was any requirement for Mr and Mrs Ws deposit to be split between both
accounts, and if so, where this is stated in the terms and conditions of their account.
Barclays hasnt provided an answer to this question after multiple requests and so I havent
seen enough to persuade me Mr and Mrs W had to do this, or that it was appropriate for
them in the circumstances. Mr and Mrs W say their preference would have been for the
whole lump sum to contribute to the MCA, allowing them to clear their arrears faster and
they believe their MCA would have been completely repaid by now were it not for this.
As Barclays hasnt been able to demonstrate why the deposit was split, I think its more likely
than not Mr and Mrs W were told to split the payment went they didnt need or want to. So,
Barclays should adjust Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage account and MCA to reflect that the full
£6,000 was credited to the MCA if this would have benefitted Mr and Mrs W. Barclays should
provide a copy of its calculations to Mr and Mrs W so they can see the impact this has had
on their accounts.
Consolidation of arrears
Mr and Mrs W have repeatedly asked for their arrears to be capitalised and understood this
had always been refused.
I found an internal email dated 23 June 2022 in Barclays records that says the panel agreed
the arrears on the mortgage could be consolidated given all of the ongoing IT issues. This
was said on the condition Mr and Mrs W completed a new income and expenditure and
made an arrangement to repay the arrears on the MCA.
I can see that two Barclays representatives were asked to share this information with
Mr and Mrs W, but I havent seen anything to confirm this was done. I asked Barclays, via
our investigator, to confirm its thoughts on this but, as Ive explained above, I havent
received a response despite several requests and extensions given. So, based on what Ive
seen, I think Barclays should make arrangements to consolidate Mr and Mrs Ws arrears if
Mr and Mrs W agree.
I think its reasonable to find Mr and Mrs W would more likely than not have accepted this
offer promptly considering the history of their contact with Barclays. So, I think the
consolidation should be back dated to 23 June 2022, when Mr and Mrs W should have been
informed of the offer and could have provided an income and expenditure and agreed a new
sum for any remaining arrears on the MCA.
Any future arrangement Barclays makes with Mr and Mrs W to repay any outstanding sum
due on their MCA should factor in the above reconstruction of their account  with the
£6,000 having been paid solely towards the MCA at the time the payment was made.
Barclays should provide Mr and Mrs W with up-to-date statements of their accounts after all
of the adjustments have been made along with any relevant calculations. And Barclays
should ensure Mr and Mrs Ws credit reports reflect the above adjustments and accurately
reflect any ongoing arrangement for arrears on the MCA.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Barclays responded to our request for further information the same day my provisional 
decision was issued. Since then, Barclays and Mr and Mrs W have accepted my provisional 
decision with no further comments. 
I havent seen anything in the information Barclays provided that would change my 
provisional findings considering both parties have accepted the proposed outcome. So, for 
the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, I still think Mr and Mrs Ws complaint 
should be upheld and Barclays should put things right as set out below.
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK Plc should:
Adjust Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage account and MCA to reflect that the full £6,000 
lump sum was credited to their MCA when the payment was made.
Consolidate the arrears on Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage, back dated to June 2022.
Agree a suitable repayment plan for any outstanding arrears on Mr and Mrs Ws 
MCA account.
Provide Mr and Mrs W with a copy of its calculations and up-to-date statements on 
both accounts in relation to the above adjustments.
Ensure Mr and Mrs Ws credit report is up to date and accurately reflects the above 
adjustments. It should continue to accurately reflect any ongoing agreement 
thereafter.
Pay Mr and Mrs W £500 for the continued stress and inconvenience caused to them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK Plc to put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman