DRN-3944198
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy that Vitality Health Limited declined a claim made under a private medical
insurance she had the benefit of.
What happened
Mrs L and her husband, Mr L, took out a private medical insurance policy in March 2019
(the policy). The policy is underwritten by Vitality on a moratorium basis.
At the end of 2020, Mrs L was diagnosed with cancer in her right breast. She made a claim
on the policy to cover the cost of treatment which was declined by Vitality. Having
considered her medical records it concluded that the treatment she needed was for a pre-
existing medical condition and not covered under the policy.
Unhappy, Mr L  on behalf of Mrs L  complained to Vitality. And after it maintained its
position, a complaint was brought to our service.
Our investigator concluded that although information obtained from Mrs Ls GP and
consultant radiographer supported that Mrs Ls condition was pre-existing, her consultant
surgeon had notified Vitality that there had been no cancer diagnosis in the past. And
further, although she did have a lump in her right breast before the policy taken out (which
had been benign), the lump which was cancerous was a different lump to the one which had
been investigated previously. It was a new lump in the same area.
As such, our investigator recommended Vitality to:
- obtain evidence from the consultant surgeon to explain why he feels the lump is 
different to the lump investigated in the right breast before the policy was taken out;
- review the claim based on the further evidence provided by the consultant surgeon 
and notify Mrs L of the outcome of its view and whether the further evidence affected 
its claims decision.
- pay Mrs L £150 for the distress and inconvenience shed experienced.
Vitality has contacted the consultant surgeon for further information. But as it didnt confirm
whether it accepted our investigators other recommendations, the complaint was referred to
an Ombudsman to consider. I asked our investigator to check whether Vitality accepted the 
remaining recommendations accepted. Vitality replied to say that although it was happy to
consider any further clinical information received from the consultant surgeon, it was unsure
about what more it shouldve done. It didnt think any compensation was warranted.
I issued my provisional decision in January 2023, explaining why I wasnt intending to uphold 
Mrs Ls complaint. An extract of which appears below:
..
Vitality has an obligation to treat customers fairly. It must also handle claims fairly and
promptly  and mustnt unreasonably decline a claim.
Vitality declined Mrs Ls claim for treatment because she had the benefit of a moratorium
policy. And it concluded that the treatment Mrs L wanted covered related to a pre-existing
medical condition.
Appendix 1 of the policy terms and conditions sets out the guide to the moratorium clause. It
says Vitality wont pay for: treatment of any medical condition or related condition which in 
the five years before your cover date start date you:
- have received medical treatment for,
- had symptoms of,
- have asked advice on
- or, to the best of your knowledge were aware existed.
This is called a pre-existing medical condition.
However, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, the policy goes on to
say that:
a pre-existing medical condition can become eligible for cover providing you have
not:
- consulted anyonefor medical treatment or advice or
- taken medication
for that pre-existing medical condition or any related condition for two continuous
years after your cover start date.
Under the policy, a related condition is any symptom, disease, illness or injury which
reasonable medical opinion considers to be associated with another symptom, disease,
illness or injury. It could be deemed to be an underlying cause of, or directly caused by,
another medical condition.
Mrs Ls GP completed a form at Vitalitys request in January 2021. They confirmed that:
- Mrs L had been diagnosed with cancer in the right breast;
- the very first signs and symptoms of this condition started in February 2019 and she 
first consulted a doctor about this then;
- shed been aware of the symptoms before taking out the policy in March 2019 
although shed been reassured and discharged as shed been told the lump in her 
breast was benign;
- a mammogram identified changes to the right breast lump.
So, although Mrs Ls consultant surgeon wrote a letter in January 2021 to say that Mrs L had
recently been diagnosed with cancer in the right breast and there were no prior pre-cancer
or cancer diagnoses in the past, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Vitality to
conclude that the treatment Mrs L wanted covered under the policy was for a pre-existing
condition - of which shed had symptoms of and/or had advice on within the five years before
taking out the policy. And which had not become eligible for cover under the terms of the
moratorium.
Its not disputed that Mrs L hadnt received any diagnosis of cancer in her right breast before
taking out the policy. But a lump had been identified. And although advised to have been
benign at the time, I think the available medical evidence from the time Vitality took the
decision to decline the claim supports its conclusion that it was the same lump that had nowbecome cancerous  which shed consulted medical professionals about within two years
from the policy start date.
Thats also supported by the consultant radiographers letter dated December 2020 which
reflects that a mass in Mrs Ls right breast had been previously sampled in 2019
symptomatically. But when reviewed in 2020, its appearance looked equivocal. A biopsy
was taken, and cancer had been identified.
Im aware that the consultant surgeons secretary called Vitality after the decision was taken
to decline the claim and shortly before Mrs L was due to start treatment in January 2021.
Vitalitys notes reflect that it was told the consultant was of the view that Mrs L had a new
breast lump but in the same area of the breast. It wasnt the same lump originally
investigated back in 2018/2019.
However, without anything further from the consultant surgeon to explain why they
considered it to be a new lump, I dont think Vitality acted unfairly or unreasonably by
maintaining its decision to decline the claim at that stage. Particularly in light of the report of
the consultant radiographer dated December 2020 (referred to above) which specifically
refers to the size of the mass which had been investigated in 2019 and that it was this same
mass which had changed in appearance.
As I dont think Vitality acted unfairly or unreasonably, I dont think it would be fair or
reasonable to direct Vitality to pay any compensation to Mrs L for any distress or
inconvenience experienced as a result of not asking the consultant surgeon to explain why
they considered Mrs L had a new lump to the one that was investigated before the policy
was taken out in 2019.
Mrs L is, of course, free to forward any further evidence from the consultant surgeon to
Vitality explaining why he deemed the lump which required treatment in 2021 to be a new
lump in the same area of the previous lump which had been investigated in 2019, contrary to
the consultant radiographers report. And indeed, Vitality has confirmed that it has contacted
the consultant surgeon for further information as recommended by our investigator but hasnt
yet received anything from them. Its said that if it receives anything further, it will arrange for
one of its doctors to review. And it will reassess the claim if it receives anything different to
what its already received. I think thats fair and reasonable and in line with what Id
reasonably expect it to do.
.
I gave the parties an opportunity to provide any further information in response. Neither 
Vitality nor Mrs L replied. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything further for me to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings set out in my provisional decision. 
So, for this reason  and for reasons set out in my provisional decision (above) which forms 
part of this decision  I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint. My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman