DRN-3069912
The complaint
Mr F on behalf of the estate of Mrs F complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc 
(M&S) sent a cheque to the late Mrs F despite being told some four years ago that she had 
passed away. 
What happened
Mr F says M&S sent a cheque to the late Mrs F some four years after she passed away for 
just over £413. He says he asked M&S to reissue the cheque to Mrs Fs daughter, but that 
request was ignored. Mr F says there has been a loss of interest on the money and would 
like a new cheque issued.
M&S says the cheque was issued following a review of Mrs Fs account and it refunded 
charges. It says it also paid interest on that amount. M&S says it has apologised for the 
mistake and says its records were not updated following Mrs Fs passing away. It says it did 
re-issue the cheque to Mrs Fs daughter and paid her £100 compensation. M&S accepts it 
sent a further letter by mistake addressed to Mrs F for which its apologised.
Mr F brought the complaint to us and says interest should be calculated to June 2021. Our 
investigator thought that M&S had dealt fairly with it and had sent the cheque and 
compensation to Mrs Fs daughter. The investigator explained that we could only order 
compensation for trouble and upset to the original customer and compensation for 
inconvenience generally to the estate. The investigator thought M&S had fairly apologised 
for the further mistaken letter being sent.
Mr F doesnt accept that view and says the compensation is derisory and says M&S hasnt 
explained why it continued to write to the late Mrs F. He would like to know why it happened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that M&S has dealt fairly with this complaint. 
I also make clear that whilst there has been a different bank involved in this complaint, I 
intend to just refer to M&S for the sake of convenience.
There is no question here that M&S wrote to the late Mrs F and sent her a cheque. I 
appreciate that would have caused distress to those that received that letter. But Im also 
satisfied that M&S has explained what the cheque was for and also explained that it didnt 
update its records when Mrs F passed away.
The main part of this complaint is around the failure to re-issue that cheque to Mrs Fs 
daughter. But Im satisfied having looked at M&Ss records that it did reissue the cheque and 
also paid compensation for the inconvenience caused to Mrs Fs daughter of £100. Im also 
satisfied that there was no loss of interest as Mr F says, as interest had been calculated up 
to June 2021 and after the cheque was cashed. Im satisfied the problem was sorted out 
within a relatively short time period and that there was no financial loss.
I appreciate Mr F says the compensation is derisory, but I can see that the investigator has 
explained how we approach such matters when dealing with compensation awards for 
estates. I have made clear that Im satisfied the compensation award is fair and reasonable 
for what I have explained was relatively minor inconvenience to the estate.
I have no doubt M&Ss further letter in May 2021 addressed to Mrs F again caused distress. 
But I can see that M&S accepts that it made a mistake. I appreciate Mr F would like an 
explanation for that mistake, but Im satisfied that M&S has explained it made a mistake and 
that its not our role to direct it to explain why it took place. We are not M&Ss regulator.
Overall, Im satisfied that M&S has dealt fairly with the main parts of this complaint and in 
those circumstances, I dont require it to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs F 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman