DRN-1543910
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited declined his claim against his private 
medical insurance policy. 
What happened
In 2012 and 2013, Mr H had treatment for tongue cancer. In November 2018, Mr Hs dentist 
referred him to the same consultant oral and maxillofacial surgeon who had previously 
treated Mr H. On 6 December 2018, Mr H contacted AXA and AXA authorised a consultation 
with the consultant and asked Mr H to call back with a procedure code, if the consultant 
recommended a procedure. 
On 12 December 2018, Mr H spoke with AXA again and said that his tooth extraction was 
planned for 19 December 2018. AXA said that it needed further information from Mr Hs 
consultant, which Mr H provided. After considering Mr Hs consultants letter of                      
6 December 2018, AXA declined Mr Hs claim. It said that his membership doesnt cover 
tooth extraction in the circumstances that arose here, or preventative treatment. Mr H had 
the tooth extracted as planned. AXA maintained its position. 
Mr H says, in summary:
When he spoke with AXA on 6 December 2018, it didnt indicate that it wouldnt pay 
for the treatment, so he committed to have the tooth extracted on                             
19 December 2018.  Also, he didnt think that AXA would authorise the procedure 
quickly enough and his consultant was about to be unavailable for several weeks. 
AXA paid for his consultation with the consultant on 6 December 2018. 
On the invoices, the consultant described the procedure in terms that are covered by 
his policy. 
His consultant says that this procedure is a continuation and direct result of his 
previous treatment for tongue cancer, rather than an isolated event. 
 Without this procedure, there would be a greater risk of future medical problems and 
treatment, which will cost AXA more. 
Mr H wants AXA to reimburse him for the cost of the procedure, which was £2,020. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that AXA had treated 
Mr H unfairly in rejecting the claim. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. He asked that an ombudsman consider his 
complaint. Mr H said that the key point is that the removal of his tooth wasnt an isolated 
event - which isnt covered under the policy - but a consequence and continuation of his 
treatment for tongue cancer in 2012, which is covered under the policy. He says that his 
consultant referred to this in his letter of 6 December 2018 and AXA hasnt demonstrated 
that this isnt the case. Mr H said that AXA should be required to demonstrate why it 
disagrees with his consultant that the extraction of the tooth is a continuation of the cancer 
treatment, so this service should provide evidence that his consultant had been contacted for 
his input.  
The investigator explained to Mr H that this service wouldnt contact his consultant and its 
for him to provide any evidence he wants us to consider. Mr H responded to say that he 
didnt wish to provide anything further, but he wanted confirmation that we had read, 
understood and considered what his consultant had written. 
Mr H has also referred to this service representing private individuals against the vested 
interest of medical insurers. We dont represent individuals, but we do look at complaints 
between consumers and insurers impartially, listen to both sides and come to a decision 
thats fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy. The membership handbook 
includes the following: 
3.2 Eligible treatment
Your membership covers eligible treatment. [] 
Eligible treatment is treatment of a disease, illness or injury where that treatment: 
Falls within the benefits of this plan and is not excluded from cover by any term in this 
handbook [] 
Is not preventative (for details see 4.14) 
4.14 Genetic tests, preventative treatment and screening tests 
Health insurance is designed to cover problems that youre experiencing at the moment, so it 
generally doesnt cover preventative treatment [] 
What is not covered for genetic tests, preventative treatment and screening tests? 
We do not pay for:
preventative treatment []Mr H had the Extra Care Option, so the following provision is relevant. 
4.35 Teeth and dental conditions
[] 
Extra cover if you have the Extra Care Option 
If you have the Extra Care Option, we will cover the following types of oral surgery when 
you are referred for treatment by a dentist:
reinserting your own teeth after an injury
removing impacted teeth, buried teeth and complicated roots
removal of cysts in the jaw (sometimes called enucleation).
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint because I dont think that AXA treated him unfairly. I say 
that because:
The consultants letter of 6 December 2018 says that Mr H had a granuloma  a 
small lump  next to a loose premolar tooth. The consultant says that Mr H needs the 
removal of the tooth and closure of the socket to prevent osteoradionecrosis, which I 
understand is deterioration of the bone caused by chemoradiotherapy or 
radiotherapy. 
Mr Hs consultant doesnt say that the treatment Mr H needs - the extraction - is a 
consequence and continuation of Mr Hs previous cancer treatment: he says that 
removal of Mr Hs tooth is for preventative reasons.  Mr Hs membership doesnt 
cover preventative treatment. 
Even if I came to a different view about that, Mr Hs policy provides cover for 
investigations into cancer and treatment to kill cancer cells. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest the removal of the tooth and the closure of the socket was either an 
investigation into cancer or treatment to kill cancer cells. 
Mr Hs policy covers oral surgery for reinserting teeth after an injury, removing 
impacted or buried teeth and complicated roots, or removal of cysts in the jaw. 
Mr H accepts that the treatment he had doesnt come within those categories. 
The consultants choice of procedure code on the invoice isnt definitive. The 
consultant gave further information which revealed that the reason for the tooth 
extraction was preventative. 
AXAs authorisation of the initial consultation with the consultant doesnt commit it to 
authorise any subsequent procedure. I can quite understand why Mr H proceeded with the treatment for the reasons hes 
explained. Also, osteonecrosis is a serious complication hed wish to avoid. Mr Hs 
consultant said that if Mr H develops osteonecrosis it will be very expensive to treat. 
But Im afraid that, as Mr Hs policy doesnt cover either preventative treatment or this 
sort of oral surgery, he proceeded without the benefit of cover. 
 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr H but, based on what Ive seen, there are no grounds to 
uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman