DRN-3107985
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros (Ocaso) declined 
a claim they made for an escape of water under their home insurance policy.   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
For Ocaso to be able to rely on a policy exclusion it needs to demonstrate it has been 
fairly applied.
Ocaso points out it is entitled to reply on the opinion of experts when reaching its 
decision, which I agree with. However, it should also take into account all of the other 
information it is presented with. 
The report comments the pipework was concealed, and the pipework under the 
shower tray (where the cracked pipe was eventually located) wasnt observed. 
Having looked at the pictures, the wooden batons supporting the structure were not 
removed when the testing was completed, and readings taken.
The picture of the shower tray enclosure provided by the business shows a dark 
discoloration on the floor either side of the middle baton. Having compared this to the 
images provided by Mr and Mrs D, Im satisfied this is in the same location as the 
cracked waste pipe. This suggests to me the pipe had in fact been leaking. 
The thermal imaging from the flood test similarly shows a temperature anomaly in the 
same position.
The shower had not been used for some time, but still meter readings show 
heightened moisture levels in the surrounding structure which suggests they had 
been saturated.
While the sealant of the shower tray may well have deteriorated and contributed to 
the leaking water, Im not persuaded it would have been at such at rate to solely 
cause the extent of damage highlighted.
Based on all of the information provided by both parties, Im not persuaded Ocaso 
has applied the policy exclusion of failed sealant fairly as it didnt fully consider all of 
the information provided regarding the cracked pipe. I think it is more likely than not 
the cracked pipe, which would not have been visible to Mr and Mrs D, or it appears 
the leak detection specialist, caused the damage claimed for. 
Given I think the claim has been unreasonably declined, based on what Mr and 
Mrs D have said Im satisfied this caused them trouble and upset. I think Ocaso 
should pay them £200 compensation to recognise this. 
For the above reasons, I uphold this complaint.
 
Putting things right
To put things right Ocaso should:
Consider the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy
Cover any costs Mr and Mrs D may have incurred in the trace and access of the 
leak, subject to receipt of evidence of the cost
Pay Mr and Mrs D £200 compensation 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint against Ocaso SA, Compania de 
Seguros y Reaseguros. I direct it to put matters right as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman