DRN-3319006
The complaint
Mr A complains that advice he was given by an appointed representative of Quilter Financial 
Services Ltd in regard to the transfer of his pension savings was inappropriate. And he 
further complains that the appointed representative has failed to provide him with the agreed 
on-going servicing of his pension savings.
What happened
The advice that Mr A is complaining about was provided by an appointed representative of 
Quilter. So although Mr A had no direct dealings with Quilter, it is that firm that is responsible 
for the advice he was given, and for dealing with his complaint. For ease, in this decision, 
I will generally refer to Quilter as the business that Mr A dealt with.
Mr A has been assisted in making this complaint by a claims management company (CMC). 
But, again for ease, in this decision I will generally refer to all communication as having been 
with, and from, Mr A himself.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2022. In that decision I explained 
why I thought the complaint should be upheld and what Quilter needed to do to put things 
right. Both parties have received a copy of the provisional decision but, for completeness, 
I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Mr A held pension savings in a personal pension plan. I can see that he has said his 
pension savings had been subject to reviews and transfers on a number of 
occasions. But this complaint is only dealing with the advice that was provided to 
Mr A by Quilter in July 2012.
In July 2012 Quilter provided Mr A with a detailed summary of its advice. In brief, it 
noted that his pension savings were not currently invested in line with the attitude to 
risk that it had measured and agreed with him. It noted that his current provider did 
offer an alternative investment fund that might be suitable. But it thought that there 
were better options offered by a different provider. And it told him that the 
administration costs charged by that provider were a little lower. So it recommended 
that Mr A move his pension savings to the new provider and invest them in the 
suggested fund. Mr A accepted Quilters advice.
 
As per the agreement he had signed, Quilter charged 5.5% of the transferred 
pension savings value for its advice. It has recently confirmed that charge would only 
have been payable if Mr As pension savings were transferred. And it also agreed to 
provide him with ongoing servicing of his pension investments. Mr A agreed to pay 
an annual charge of 0.5% to Quilter for that work.
In August 2019 Mr A complained to Quilter about the advice hed been given in 2012. 
And he also said that hed had no further contact with the advisor despite paying the 
ongoing servicing charge. When it looked into Mr As complaint Quilter didnt agree 
that its advice had been unsuitable. But its advisor wasnt able to show that hed tried 
to contact Mr A to arrange any reviews of his pension investments. So it upheld that 
part of Mr As complaint and offered to refund all the servicing charges hed paid 
since 2012. And it offered Mr A £250 to reflect the trouble and upset hed had been 
caused. Mr A didnt accept Quilters offer so he brought his complaint to this Service.
In its final response to Mr A Quilter accepted that it was unable to demonstrate that 
he had been provided with the ongoing servicing of his pension investments that he 
had paid for. So it correctly offered to refund the fees that he had paid. I do think that 
compensation needs some further enhancement to reflect the investment growth that 
Mr A has lost in the intervening period, and I will explain more about that later in this 
decision. But I dont think there is anything further I need to decide about this part of 
Mr As complaint.
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act 
honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
And it is on that basis that I will consider the advice that was provided to Mr A about 
the transfer and ongoing investment of his pension savings.
 
I have looked carefully at the recommendation report that Quilter provided to Mr A. It 
seems likely that the report was supplemented by at least one meeting and so some 
additional information might have been provided to Mr A. But in the absence of any 
recordings or minutes of those discussions I think it fair and reasonable to conclude 
that the report reflects the entire advice that was provided to Mr A.
I think at this stage it is important to reflect on the agreement that Mr A entered into 
with Quilter. The firm has recently confirmed to us that its agreement with Mr A would 
only require him to pay a fee if he accepted its advice, and transferred his pension 
savings. So that immediately opens up the moral risk that advice will be given to 
transfer, even if that is not entirely in a consumers best interests, so that the advice 
fee can be charged.
Here Quilters report identified that Mr As current pension investments didnt 
correctly match the risk profile that it had measured for him. Quilter had assessed 
that Mr A could reasonably be considered to be an adventurous investor. Given 
what I know of Mr As circumstances I dont think that was an unreasonable 
assessment.
So I dont think it would have been unreasonable to conclude that Mr A might want to 
consider changing the funds into which his pension savings were invested. Quilter 
identified that Mr As existing provider did offer a fund that broadly matched his risk 
profile. But it said that other funds, only available with a different provider, might 
provide a better rate of return.
As I said earlier, Quilter has sent us a copy of the suitability report it says it provided 
to Mr A. And Mr A had also sent us a copy of that same report. I have been perturbed 
to note that there is at least one difference in the text contained in those two reports 
(that are both dated 27 July 2012). And that difference relates to Mr As recorded 
preference to not invest in the fund available with his existing provider.
In the report sent to us by Quilter, it says that You do not want to use this as it will be 
more expensive than a passive fund which I have recommended. And in the copy of 
the report sent to us by Mr A it says You do not want to use this as it has a lower 
crown rating than a passive fund which I have recommended.
I think that this discrepancy might reasonably lead to a conclusion that two versions 
of the same report were produced. It is of course possible that Mr A suggested both reasons for not remaining with his existing provider. But on balance I think it far more 
likely that Quilter, in its report, was simply attempting to provide a degree of 
explanation for its decision to recommend a transfer  Im not persuaded that either 
reason fairly reflected Mr As own independent beliefs.
In its suitability report Quilter noted that the charges levied by the new provider it was 
recommending were a little lower. And so, it said, even if investment returns were 
also a little lower Mr A might still be better off by transferring. But Quilter then 
reassured Mr A by saying In reality of course I believe the fund growth prospects will 
be as good, if not better, in your new plan.
That statement doesnt suggest to me that Quilter expected a transfer to a new 
provider to significantly outperform a change in investment with Mr As existing 
provider. And of course I think being better off would be the basic expectation of Mr A 
in accepting Quilters advice. But by Mr A accepting the transfer Quilter would be 
entitled to a significant fee equal to 5.5% of the transferred pension savings. That 
would put a long term drag on the value of Mr As pension savings and he would 
need to see significantly improved investment returns over an extended period in 
order for the transfer to be beneficial.
 
Im not persuaded that the transfer, when considering the significant charge that Mr A 
would need to pay, was in his best interests. I accept Quilters argument that there 
was the probability of his investments performing a little better, both in terms of the 
provider charges being reduced, and the possibility of better returns. But I think those 
marginal gains were more than outweighed by the significant charge that became 
due to Quilter. Money it wouldnt be entitled to receive had it not recommended, and 
Mr A agreed to, the transfer.
So on balance I dont currently think the advice that Quilter gave to Mr A, to transfer 
his pension savings to a new provider, was appropriate. I currently think Quilter 
should also pay Mr A some compensation in relation to the advice fee he paid to the 
firm.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Mr A has said that he is delighted with my provisional decision. Quilter 
has said it has nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided me with any new evidence or further comments I see 
no reason to alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that 
I uphold Mr As complaint and direct Quilter to put things right as set out in my provisional 
decision, and repeated below.
Putting things right
Had Quilter provided more suitable advice, I think Mr A would have left his pension savings 
with his existing provider. It is possible that he might have changed the fund into which those 
pensions savings were invested, and I think it likely that he might have received similar 
investment returns to those he received following the transfer. So I dont think he has 
suffered a direct investment loss in relation to the transfer.But I dont think the advice fee that Mr A paid to Quilter would have become due. And, as 
I explained in my provisional decision, Quilter has already agreed that it should refund the 
ongoing service charges that it has received. Each of those charges would have benefited 
from investment growth had they remained within Mr As pension savings. So any refund 
needs to be increased to take account of those returns.
So to put things right Quilter should;
Refund the advice fee that Mr A paid in 2012
Refund any ongoing servicing charges it has received from Mr As pension savings
Add investment returns to each of those refunds in line with the benchmark set out 
below, from the date the charges were taken to the date of my final decision.
Additional interest at a rate of 8% simple per year should be added to the total 
calculated above from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement if the 
compensation is not paid to Mr A within 28 days of Quilter receiving Mr As 
acceptance of my final decision
The benchmark that I consider to be suitable is the FTSE UK Private Investors Income total 
return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index). 
It is made up of a range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to 
get a higher return. Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided 
within the index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of 
comparison given Mr A's circumstances and risk attitude.
The compensation should be paid into Mr A's pension plan. The amount paid should allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Quilter is unable to pay the compensation into Mr A's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the 
compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr A wont be able to 
reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr A's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. In the absence of any comments on my provisional 
decision I think it is reasonable to assume that Mr A is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at 
the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, as Mr A would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint and direct Quilter Financial Services Ltd to 
put things right as detailed above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 Paul Reilly
Ombudsman