DRN-1991801
The complaint
Mr T has complained about Grove & Dean Ltd T/A Performance Direct. Hes not happy 
about the cancellation fee he was charged when he cancelled his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
In November 2019, Mr T purchased a motor insurance policy online for £399.42. The next 
day, Mr T decided to cancel the policy and was charged a £55 cancellation fee. Mr T doesnt 
think this fee is fair as he says the policy was only in place for a short amount of time and 
that he wasnt provided with a service or cover.
Performance Direct say prior to purchasing the policy, Mr T had agreed to certain terms  
one being that in the event Mr T chooses to cancel the policy for any reason within 14 days 
purchasing it, a charge of £55 would be made. Therefore, they didnt uphold Mr Ts 
complaint. However, Performance Direct agreed to reduce the cancellation fee to £35 as a 
gesture of goodwill. So, they refunded Mr T a total of £364.42.
Mr T remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into Mr Ts concerns. In summary, he said Mr T had agreed to the terms online which 
explained that if the policy was cancelled within 14 days, there would be a £55 fee charged. 
Therefore, he didnt think Performance Direct had treated Mr T unfairly or unreasonably.
Mr T disagreed. So, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr T and I can understand why he is frustrated 
about this. But I have to look at what is fair and reasonable to both sides. 
Performance Direct have sent us a screenshot of what Mr T would have seen when 
purchasing the insurance policy online. Before proceeding to the payment page, Mr T would 
have had to agree to the terms of the policy. On this same screen, Performance Direct set 
out information on the fees they charge. I can see one of the fees listed is a cancellation fee 
of £55. It explains this would be applied if the policy is cancelled within 14 days of purchase 
 which is what Mr T did in this case.
Ive also had a look at the terms and conditions of the policy which Mr T would have had to 
agree to before proceeding to pay for the policy. In these, it also explains that a non-
refundable cancellation fee of £55 is applied if the policy is cancelled within 14 days of 
purchase.
Having thought about everything, Im satisfied Performance Direct made it clear when Mr T 
took out the policy that a cancellation fee would be applied if he cancelled the policy within 
14 days.
I appreciate Mr T doesnt think it was fair for Performance Direct to apply this charge given 
that he cancelled the policy so soon after purchasing it. However, as Ive explained, the 
terms and conditions are clear in that a charge would be applied if the policy was cancelled 
within 14 days of purchase  this is regardless of how shortly after it was cancelled.
I know Mr T feels this is just Performance Direct looking to make money, but it does cost to 
cancel a policy and the details of this were set out to Mr T when he took the policy out. So, I 
cant say Performance Direct have acted unreasonably. 
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr T was hoping for. But as the cancellation fee was 
applied correctly, in line with the policy terms and conditions, I have no grounds to tell 
Performance Direct to waive or reimburse it.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2020.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman