DRN-3657030
The complaint
Mrs K complains that the car she acquired through a conditional sale agreement with 
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In June 2021, Mrs K acquired a new car through a conditional sale agreement with 
Santander. She noticed excessive movement when the windows were partially open and 
contacted the supplier about this. The supplier wasnt able to resolve the issue and Mrs K 
was told it was a characteristic of the car. Mrs K raised a complaint with Santander. An 
independent inspection took place which confirmed the issue, but the complaint wasnt 
upheld.
Santander says that Mrs K contacted it in March 2022 about the car windows rocking when 
open. It arranged an independent inspection which confirmed that with the nearside rear 
and nearside front windows in a part open position the glass had excessive lateral 
movement which would in our opinion be considered unacceptable. Santander contacted 
the supplier which said: All these are fixed items and cannot be adjusted (unlike some). 
They are replaced only. Although replacing the items would have the same result of the 
windows moving ... This is due to the size of the window and not uncommon for these to 
move when lowered due to no support at the top being there from the door. The supplier 
said that it had investigated the issue, but it couldnt be fixed. Santander didnt uphold the 
complaint saying the issue was a characteristic and not a fault. It noted that the supplier had 
offered to replace the vehicle as a gesture of goodwill, but Mrs K hadnt accepted this.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He didnt think the car was of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply. He noted the repair attempts and that the supplier had said there was no 
fix and said that a reasonable remedy now was for Mrs K to be able to reject the car. He 
noted that Mrs K had still had use of the car but that this was impaired by the issue with the 
windows. Because of this he thought it reasonable that Mrs K remained liable for the monthly 
repayments up to the point of settlement subject to a 5% reduction to reflect the issue with 
windows. He also thought she should be paid compensation of £250 for the distress and 
upset the issue had caused. 
Mrs K didnt think our investigators redress was sufficient. She said she had put over £1,000 
of extras on the car which would be lost if the car was returned.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs K entered into a conditional sale agreement with Santander in June 2021 to acquire a 
new car. Under the regulations, specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015, Santander can 
be held liable in certain circumstances if the car supplied wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Satisfactory quality takes into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car. In this 
case as the car was supplied new, it is reasonable that Mrs K would expect it to be free from 
faults, including minor defaults, for a reasonable period of time.
Mrs K identified an issue and contacted the supplier about this. The issue was investigated 
but she was told that there was nothing that could be done. It was suggested the issue was 
a characteristic of the car. While I note these comments, having considered Mrs Ks 
testimony and the video provided I do not find that this issue is something that Mrs K should 
be expected to accept. She acquired new car and would expect it to be free from faults and 
while slight movement of the windows may have been acceptable in this case it appears the 
issue is much more prevalent. This is supported by the conclusions of the independent 
inspection which states that there was excessive lateral movement in the nearside rear and 
nearside front windows when part open and later noted this as being of an unacceptable 
level. It noted movement in the other windows but said this wasnt excessive. The report 
notes the issue would have been present from the point of supply and wasnt due to wear 
and tear.
Based on the evidence provided I do not find that the car was of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply. Because of this I find that Santander is required to remedy the situation. In 
this case, Mrs K provided an opportunity for the issue to be repaired and the supplier has 
said that there isnt a fix. Therefore, I agree with our investigator that the reasonable remedy 
is for Mrs K to be allowed to reject the car. I note Mrs Ks comments about having paid for 
extras on the car but as I do not find that repair is a reasonable remedy and Mrs K has 
explained the distress the issue has caused, I think rejecting the car is now the fairest 
resolution.
While I appreciate the issue has caused Mrs K distress, she has still had use of the car. 
Therefore, I find it reasonable that she remains liable for the repayments due to the date of 
settlement. However, I also appreciate the use may have been impaired due to the issue 
with the windows and so agree the repayments should be subject to a 5% reduction.
The issue, and the process of trying to resolve this, has caused Mrs K distress and 
inconvenience. Because of this I agree with our investigator that she should be paid £250 
compensation. 
Putting things right
As I do not find that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply, I uphold this 
complaint.
Santander should:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the car (if this has not been done already) at no further cost to Mrs K;
refund the Mrs Ks deposit/part exchange contribution of £4081;
Mrs K remains liable for the repayments due to the point of settlement subject to a 
reduction of 5%, any additional amounts that have been paid should be refunded;
pay 8% simple yearly interest on any refunded amounts from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement;
pay compensation of £250 for the distress or inconvenience thats been caused;
remove any adverse information that may have been recorded about this agreement 
from Mrs Ks credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mrs K asks for one.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Santander Consumer (UK) Plc should take 
the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman