DRN-2094543
The complaint
Mr A complains HSBC UK Bank Plc will not refund a disputed transaction.
What happened
Mr As account was credited with £8000 by way of an online transfer on 4th September 2019.  
The following day, a withdrawal was made for just under £3000 using his genuine card and 
PIN.  A few days later, Mr A complained about this activity on his account.  
He told HSBC he had lost his card and had realised this around 5th September.  He said he 
couldnt have been involved in the transactions as he was at school at the time.  He 
confirmed he had not shared his PIN with a third person  but he did say he had these 
details stored in his phone.  However, the phone was still in his possession and was 
password protected.
The credit into Mr As account was subsequently reversed but because the account only had 
a very small balance, this reversal left Mr A in an overdraft of just under £2800.
HSBC carried out its investigation but in its final response dated 4th December 2019, it said 
it was holding Mr A liable for this money.  It also decided to close his account.
Mr A then complained to this service.  He told us he had lost his card around 3rd September 
and realised it was missing the following day.  He said he had tried to access his online 
banking, but this had been blocked.  He wanted to use the ATM to check what was going on 
but couldnt find his card. He explained he was at school when he noticed and that he had 
spoken to his teacher about this.
Our investigator didnt think she could ask HSBC to do anymore.  She thought Mr A had 
authorised this transaction on his account by giving a third party his details.  But Mr A 
insisted he hadnt and wouldnt do such a thing.
The matter was then passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid I wont be upholding this complaint either because Mr As account of what has 
happened here just isnt credible.
I dont think Mr A made this transaction himself.  I dont think he even knew of the credit 
being applied to his account.  But I think Mr A knew his account was going to be used by a 
third person and I think he gave this person his card, PIN and online banking details.
Mr As online banking was accessed just after the credit was applied and just after the chip 
and PIN transaction took place.  HSBC told us a screenshot was detected during the latter 
log in.  On both occasions, the device used to log on was an unknown device  although the 
records show Mr A logged on with his usual device just after the credit had been applied too.
If the other successful attempts were not Mr A logging on  and I think its argued that it was 
not  then I can see no credible explanation as to how a fraudster could have stolen Mr As 
debit card and yet managed to access his online banking details in the process. There is 
also no credible explanation of why Mr A didnt report this money in his account when he 
logged in himself.
The records then show Mr As usual device was used to log onto online banking and attempt 
to reset his password.  I think this was Mr A.
The relevant rules say HSBC can hold Mr A liable for transactions on his account if they 
were more than likely made by him or by someone with his authority.  I think the latter 
scenario applies here and so I cant say HSBC has done anything wrong in how it has dealt 
with Mr As complaint.
I know much has been said about whether Mr A had stored his secure details on his phone 
and whether this was a breach of the terms and conditions of his account.  I have made no 
findings in this respect as I dont think this is how the third party gained his details.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman