DRN-2540073
The complaint
Mr B and Ms B complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) provided them with a 
poor service when their interest-only mortgage was coming to an end 
What happened
Mr B and Ms B had an interest-only mortgage on a property. The property was sold, and the 
mortgage paid off in November 2019. The 25-year term was due to mature on 25 August 
2019 which was the anniversary of the date the loan was drawn down. RBS had a different 
maturity date on its system which was 7 July 2019. Mr B and Ms B believed this issue of the 
date had been sorted back in 2012 when RBS confirmed that it was 25 August 2019 and 
gave them compensation of £150. But when the management of the account went from 
RBSs branch to its mortgage centre there wasnt a record retained of the clarification that 
RBS had supplied to Mr B and Ms B in 2012.
Mr B and Ms B plan was to put their house up for sale and pay off the mortgage. The 
property was worth in excess of £1m and the outstanding mortgage was for about £100,000. 
In early 2019 Mr B and Ms B got a pre-maturity letter from RBS with a repayment date of 7 
July 2019. They wrote to RBS to say that this wasnt the correct date.
 
RBS wrote to them on 10 April to say that they had investigated the matter and that the 
repayment date was 7 July 2019. Mr B and Ms B contacted the RBS end of term team on 11 
April when the adviser confirmed that the repayment date was 25 August. There was a 
discussion about the property going on the market and Mr B and Ms B wanted a period of 
grace if the sale hadnt concluded by that date and they say that the adviser offered them a 
12-week period. Mr B and Ms B say they asked for confirmation in writing but didnt get it.
Mr B and Ms B followed up with a letter on 12 May and RBS responded on 21 May with a 
letter referring to the Term End date not as August but again as 7 July and said that if the 
sale wasnt completed by then, but they had a sale agreed then completion would take place 
within a further 12-week period. In default of this, RBS would look to put a formal extension 
in place.
 
On 26 May 2019 Mr B and Ms B wrote to RBS to say that the property was on the market 
but wanted to confirm the repayment date and the period of grace. RBS replied on 4 June 
without confirming the repayment date but said that RBS could offer the grace period if Mr B 
and Ms B contacted the end of term team. Mr B and Ms B responded by writing back to RBS 
about the two items they had written about before.
RBS responded on 21 June 2019 to uphold Mr B and Ms Bs complaint and that Mr B and 
Ms Bs term would expire in August and that they would have the 12 weeks period of grace 
thereafter. No compensation was offered. RBS says thats because Mr B and Ms B werent 
looking for compensation. Our investigator also recommended that this complaint should be 
upheld and suggested compensation of £150. Mr B and Ms B disagreed saying in summary 
that the investigator had underestimated the significance of some of the points that they 
were making and that £150 was inadequate compensation for what they went through.
 
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision in this complaint. I set out the relevant excerpts from my 
provisional findings and decision below:
It would seem that Mr and Ms B and RBS were working to the same objective which was to 
sell this property and pay off the mortgage at about the same time as the mortgage matured. 
But a good deal of friction developed in the relationship which resulted in Mr B and Ms B 
bringing this complaint to us. Mr B and Ms B had thought they had cleared up the issue of 
the date when the mortgage was to mature back in 2012 when they had to bring a complaint 
which RBS upheld. So, they reasonably concluded that they could plan around the August 
date. But RBS doesnt seem to have recorded that on its system.
 
This date was of significance given RBSs period of 12 weeks grace that it offered borrowers 
if they were unable to sell their property by the date the mortgage matured. If RBS worked 
off an incorrect repayment date of 7 July instead of 25 August, Mr B and Ms B were only in 
fact being given a period of 5 weeks from the correct maturity date and being treated 
differently than other customers in the same position. I dont believe that Mr B and Ms B 
should have been put in a pressurised position to sell their property with that uncertainty 
about the date hanging over them. The fault lay with RBSs failure to correctly record when 
the maturity date was. But despite Mr and Ms Bs attempts from February onwards to get 
RBS to confirm the correct date and ease their concerns, the first time that RBS do confirm it 
in writing is 21 June, less than three weeks before RBS had told them the mortgage was 
going to mature.
Whilst RBS was of course giving Mr and Ms B some leeway to sell the property after the 
date of maturity, we would expect the lender to do that when, as here, a sale looked to be 
pending. RBSs time period of 12 weeks seems quite tight compared to those of some other 
lenders I have come across. That of course is a matter for them but if the time period is tight, 
there is an onus on them to operate with the correct repayment dates. In this case Mr B and 
Ms B told them that they were using the wrong date for several months before they corrected 
it. On that basis I uphold this complaint.
Mr and Ms B say that they suffered a financial loss because of the diminution in their sale 
price through a forced quick sale. But Ive no evidence that they sold at an undervalue and 
their correspondence at the time doesnt indicate that they were being forced to sell at a 
reduced price, so I wont make an award for financial loss.
 
Mr B and Ms B suffered an amount of trouble and upset. As RBS was operating under a 
tighter time frame than they expected, they had reasonable concerns about being forced into 
a sale. Even though that didnt come about, my view is that this was a genuine concern and 
an unnecessary pressure on Mr B and Ms B. Ms B has a serious illness and they didnt need 
this extra pressure when they were already going through the stress of selling their house at 
the end of its term. They also had the frustration of continually writing to RBS to try and get a 
response to what was a straightforward but fundamental issue as to when their term ended. 
RBS could have of course eased that pressure and frustration by simply confirming what 
they should have known which was the correct date that the mortgage was to mature.
 
Our investigator thought that the proper measure of compensation should be £150. I note he 
took the view that RBS always held out the prospect of a further extension beyond the 12-
week period and that should have eased Mr B and Ms Bs concerns. But a further extension 
wasnt automatic. I note that RBS in two of their letters refer to the possibility of a formal 
term extension after the 12-week period. Mr and Ms B say that when they went to their local 
branch, they were told that this involved an interview about taking out a new mortgage which I assume they may or not have qualified for. I can understand why this may not have wholly 
eased the pressure Mr B and Ms B felt under.
     
Weighing all this up, I believe that an appropriate award for Mr B and Ms B is £400. I know 
Mr and Ms B have other concerns about RBSs administration which I have considered but 
not set out in detail.  But Im not a regulator nor am I investigating RBSs systems. My role is 
to assess how this particular complaint affected them. As my award differs from our 
investigator, I shall issue a provisional decision and will consider any further submissions or 
evidence I receive from Mr and Ms B or from RBS before issuing my final decision.
I issued my Provisional Decision and invited further submissions from Mr B and Ms B and 
RBS for my consideration before 15 January 2021. Mr B and Ms B responded to my 
Provisional Decision to say that they agree with my findings. RBS made no further 
submissions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After issuing my Provisional Decision, I invited submissions from Mr B and Ms B and RBS 
but have received no further submissions that challenged the findings that I made. In the 
light of that, I reviewed my decision and my view is that it represents a fair outcome to this 
complaint. So, in those circumstances, I uphold this complaint and require RBS to pay Mr B 
and Ms B £400.    
Putting things right
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc should pay Mr B and Ms B £400. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require The Royal Bank of Scotland plc to pay Mr B and Ms B 
£400.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman