DRN-2707360
The complaint
Ms L complains that she hasnt received the ongoing service that she says she paid for from 
Tilney Fund Managers Limited (Tilney). She says she paid 0.85% of her pension fund for 
Tilney to ensure her investments remained suitable  but she doesnt think that Tilney has 
demonstrated that it did provide such a service. Ms L would like a refund of the fees, an 
apology for the tone of Tilneys response to her and to be allowed to transfer to another 
provider without any exit penalties.
What happened
In January 2010 Ms L received a report from Tilney in respect of her existing pension plans. 
She was given a recommendation to transfer her pensions into a new self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP) and invest into a mixed (moderate rated) portfolio. She was advised to 
withdraw the tax-free cash to provide an income while her business was becoming 
established  and for the residual fund to remain invested. The report also confirmed the 
need for her to review her SIPP and noted that annual reviews would involve annual 
meetings and a fee will be payable each year to conduct the review. 
Over the following years Ms L communicated with Tilney as she made a number of ad-hoc 
withdrawals from her plan  but she didnt have any annual review meetings. 
In January 2018 Ms L received a letter which explained that the service Tilney offered her 
was being renamed a core investment management service. Tilney provided a summary of 
the changes and updated charges through a confirmation of fees and custodian change 
document. Ms L says she noticed a service fee within the updated charges which was 
payable to Tilney in return for a yearly review of her situation. So in January 2019 Ms L 
complained. She said shed never had any communication with an adviser at Tilney and so 
she wanted a refund of all the fees shed paid for this service. 
Tilney didnt uphold the complaint. It said that it had tried to arrange a meeting with Ms L on 
six occasions between 2011 and 2016. But Ms L had declined these invitations which it 
therefore didnt think entitled her to a refund of the ongoing fees that had been agreed. Ms L 
didnt accept this outcome and brought her complaint to us where one of our investigators 
looked into the matter.
He didnt think the complaint should be upheld because:
The fees were explained and made clear at the outset through the point of sale 
documentation.
Hed seen evidence of the contact Tilney had made with Ms L on a number of 
occasions and was satisfied that it had made enough effort to arrange reviews with 
her.  
He thought Tilney had a responsibility to ensure Ms L was aware of its service and 
should have sent reminders, kept in touch and provided the service where required. 
He was satisfied that Tilney had done that and thought it had acted fairly. 
Ms L didnt agree. She made the following points:
The emails we had provided were just evidence of Tilneys response when she 
wanted to make withdrawals from her plan.
She hadnt seen the long document before and therefore questioned its relevance. 
We hadnt sent her the list of communications that Tilney had provided to us which 
showed its contact with her.
She had investigated the letter that Tilney said it sent her on 15 November 2019 and 
discovered that the employee who wrote the letter had left Tilney in 2017. She 
therefore disputed its authenticity. 
The investigator said he was satisfied that Tilney had made enough efforts to arrange a 
review and provided all the documents that hed referred to  but Ms L remained unhappy 
and asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman  so it was passed to me for a 
review.
My provisional decision  
In my provisional decision I said Ms Ls complaint should be upheld. I said I thought Tilney 
had made Ms L aware of its ongoing plan costs, but I didnt think it had carried out all the 
annual reviews that it said it would. I said Tilney should establish the value of Ms Ls plan 
now  had the fees not been deducted on the appropriate dates for the reviews which didnt 
take place. I made the following points in support of my findings:
Tilneys suitability report from 2010 set out the charges for its independent 
management service. It explained that Ms Ls plan would require regular reviews 
which needed annual meetings and a fee will be payable each year to conduct the 
review. So while its explanation could have been clearer, I thought Tilneys 
documentation confirmed that an ongoing charge would be applied to the pension 
and it would review Ms Ls situation annually.  
Until 2017 there wasnt a clear separation of the charges taken in respect of the 
annual reviews, but after 2017 Tilney did set out its charges as being 2% of the fund 
 which included a service fee of 0.85%. It also explained what service should be 
provided for the fee.
So I thought Tilney had made it clear that a (service) charge would be part of its 
overall proposition and Ms L should expect annual reviews from Tilney to that end. 
But when I looked at each year in isolation to see if the annual review had been 
carried out  which I thought was Tilneys responsibility, I found that some reviews 
had been missed, and by 2013 Ms L had made it clear that she didnt think any 
further advice was necessary. So I thought Tilney should refund the charges for the 
2012 and 2014 reviews, as well as those from 2015 to 2020. 
I didnt think Tilneys communications with Ms L regarding administrative matters fell 
under the annual review definition. So I didnt think they should be considered within 
Tilneys attempts to conduct an annual review with Ms L.
I didnt think Tilney had treated Ms L unfairly in respect of a potential transfer of her 
pension to another provider and I thought the question of Tilneys general level of 
service to Ms L had been covered within my findings.
But I considered the specific issue of Ms L unhappiness with Tilneys tone in the 
way it handled her complaint wasnt an activity we could look at.
 
I said Tilney should calculate any redress due according to my proposal and should 
also pay Ms L £150 for the distress and inconvenience the matter had caused.
Responses to my provisional decisionMs L accepted my provisional decision although she said she hadnt received a letter from 
Tilney dated 2020  which wed referred to, and asked for a copy to be sent to her. She was 
anxious having established that she didnt receive a similar letter from November 2019 and 
thought the copy wed been provided with showed it was written by someone that left Tilney 
in 2017. But she accepted that even seeing the letter wouldnt have any bearing on the 
outcome of the complaint.
But Tilney didnt accept my provisional decision and it made the follow points in reply:
Before the unbundling exercise in 2017 Tilney had a separate financial advice fee 
of around £1,500 which it applied in such situations. This wasnt included in the 
service fee that it received and therefore it didnt receive any fees for the apparent 
missed reviews of Ms Ls SIPP.
The extract Id referred to from the 2010 suitability report confirmed that ad-hoc fees 
would be payable, on top of the service fee, for Tilneys review service.
After 2017 the 0.85% service fee was applied for ongoing reviews  but only to 
monitor if the investment remained suitable. A review to establish the continued 
suitability of the SIPP would involve deeper analysis and attract a separate fee for 
standalone advice. Therefore the 0.85% service charge wouldnt have entitled Ms L 
to the kind of review she might have expected. 
It didnt accept that it should refund any of the fees for those reasons. 
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. I think Tilney 
ought to put Ms L into the position shed now be in, had it not applied service fees for the 
reviews it didnt carry out in 2012 and 2014 or for those after 2015 that Ms L didnt think 
would be beneficial to her.
Tilney latest submissions seem to be inconsistent with its previous position, which was that it 
did try to contact Ms L for a review and therefore it had done everything possible to meet its 
independent management service. It now says that, prior to 2017, there was separate fee 
for any financial advice Ms L might have required and even after 2017 the service fee that 
Ms L paid didnt offer anything more than a simple monitoring of the suitability of the 
investments within her SIPP. 
The change in fee structure that Tilney announced in 2017 gave clarity to the total charge 
that it applied, which remained unaltered at 2% for the value of portfolio held by Ms L. It 
confirmed the annual charge of 2% would comprise an annual management charge of 
0.75%, a platform, fee of 0.4% and a service fee of 0.85%. The letter was clear that the 
service fee is payable to Tilney and covers the service and advice costs for the ongoing 
suitability activities associated with the management of your investments. Dependent upon 
your circumstances and preferences, your financial planner will make contact with you each 
year with a view to checking your situation and any changes in your plans to ensure your 
investments remain appropriate. This will be deducted from your investment portfolio.  
I understand Tilneys desire to refer to its broader financial review and advice service (which 
attracts a higher fee and is payable every time a client takes financial advice) but I dont 
think thats the right suggestion here. The letter is clear in regard to what Ms L should expect 
for her service fee and I havent seen any evidence that this review, which should have been instigated by a financial planner, was offered to her every year. And Ive set out previously 
the years when I think the review wasnt properly carried out. I dont think its fair for Tilney to 
suggest Ms L would have needed to pay for an additional service in order to have her plan 
reviewed properly when, in the years Ive referred to, she wasnt even offered the review as 
set out in the 2017 letter.
And by 2013 Ms L had made it clear that she didnt think she needed a future review which 
was covered in the letter by Dependent upon your circumstances and preferences. So I 
think as Ms Ls had expressed a preference not to continue with any reviews, Tilney had the 
opportunity to simply remove that option in the future along with the service fee that it 
applied. I dont think the depth of the review is the important point here as I cant see that 
any review was carried out in the years Ive set out. 
So it wouldnt seem appropriate to suggest that the service review would have been 
inappropriate for Ms L when it wasnt carried out. In that situation it would be difficult to 
conclude that the service review wasnt sufficient for Ms Ls purposes, particularly as she 
had expressed concern about the benefit to her of any kind of review. 
Tilney has also raised concerns about my provisional findings around the service fee being 
applied before 2017. It says there wasnt a service fee at that time, only a separate £1,500 
advice fee. I dont think it was likely that Ms L would have agreed to pay £1,500 each year 
simply to confirm the suitability of her contract. That would have been disproportionate to the 
initial fee that she paid to transfer her pension in the first place and if Ms L had been advised 
of the need to pay such a fee each year to review her plan then I think its likely she would 
have questioned the initial suitability of the recommendation.  I dont think its reasonable to 
suggest that the financial advice fee was an appropriate alternative for Ms Ls 
circumstances. 
But in any case, the 2017 letter confirmed that the total charge of your existing investment 
management service is made up of the same components as referenced in the new charges. 
Until now, costs for all these elements have been presented together in one total charge.  
So that clarified that the composition of the overall 2% fee was the same before 2017 as it 
was afterwards, which included a cost of around 0.85% for the ongoing service of the SIPP 
in line with the definition of the independent management service that I set out above.
I dont think I can draw any other conclusion, based on that evidence, other than that Ms L 
should have expected to pay 0.85% of her fund each year in return for an ongoing service 
which meant that, at the very least, your financial planner will make contact with you each 
year with a view to checking your situation and any changes in your plans to ensure your 
investments remain appropriate.  And Ive seen no evidence that this review was carried 
out, or required by Ms L in 2012, 2014 and from 2015 to 2020. So I think Tilney ought to 
refund those service charges in way Ive set out below. 
As I said previously, I cant consider Ms Ls comments about the way Tilney dealt with her 
during the complaint process as its not an activity I can look into. But more generally, when 
taking into account Ms Ls complaint about Tilneys overall level of service during this time, I 
think Ive covered that within my overall findings. 
But I dont think Tilney should have to allow Ms L the opportunity to transfer to a different 
provider except on the same terms as it would usually offer her. 
I dont think it should have to remove any exit penalties that might be legitimately in place 
because I dont think Tilney has put up an unfair exit barriers or treated Ms L unfairly over 
any transfer request.
Fair compensationMy aim is that Ms L should be put as closely as possible into the position she would probably 
now be in if she had paid her service fee purely for the years that Tilney attempted to 
provide her with an annual review. 
Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Ms L's circumstances 
and objectives when she invested. 
What should Tilney do?
To compensate Ms L fairly, Tilney must:
Establish, at the date of this decision, the notional value of Ms Ls investment had the 
fees not been deducted for the years that Ive indicated above. The calculation 
should take account of the date when the fee would have been deducted to allow for 
the subsequent growth on each one. Tilney may need to approach the product 
provider for a reconstruction of the notional value.
If there is a loss, Tilney should pay into Ms L's pension plan to increase its value to 
the notional value identified above. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If Tilney is unable to pay the total amount into Ms L's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Ms L's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age. 
For example, if Ms L is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Ms L would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Ms L £150 for the disruption caused to her retirement planning.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Tilney deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Ms L how much has been taken off. Tilney should give Ms L a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
8% simple interest per year can be paid from the date of the decision to the date of 
settlement if compensation is not paid within 28 days of Tilney being notified of acceptance.  
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I uphold Ms Ls complaint. My decision is that Tilney Fund 
Managers Limited should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Tilney Fund Managers Limited should provide details of its calculation to Ms L in a clear, simple format  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman