DRN-1655516
The complaint
Mrs K complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a package bank account (PBA) 
on a number of occasions.
What happened
Mrs K had had a PBA with Barclays since 2006. In July 2012 the account was changed so 
that it was an account with a Tech Pack. This was changed to a fee-free account in 
November 2012. And then a Tech Pack was added again in May 2014. One of the main 
benefits of the Tech Packs was mobile phone insurance.
One of our adjudicators agreed with Barclays that we arent able to look into Mrs Ks 
complaint about the sale of the PBA in 2006. This is because of the time limits that apply to 
our service. Mrs Ks representatives agreed with this. 
So weve investigated only the PBA sales of July 2012 and May 2014. 
The adjudicator assessed the evidence and said these PBAs werent mis-sold. 
Mrs K didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs Ks representatives say that changes to the account were without her knowledge; and 
that, in part because she did not speak good English, she was deceived by Barclays. 
Its hard now to know exactly what happened, and what was said. But the computer notes 
made by staff in 2012, on Mrs Ks bank account records, suggest that she told Barclays 
she was interested in mobile phone insurance. However, Mrs K says this isnt true, and 
that bank staff carried out all the actions on her account.
Before I could fairly say Barclays did something wrong, such as adding to Mrs Ks account 
without her agreement, I would need some supporting evidence. In a situation like this, it 
wouldnt be fair to make Barclays prove that it didnt do something wrong. 
And the records do suggest there was a discussion and that Mrs K was told what she was 
agreeing to:
For both the 2012 and 2014 sales, Mrs K signed a document which sets out fairly 
clearly that she is agreeing to a Tech Pack and that she would have to pay for this.
The records also suggest that Mrs Ks account had a phone registered with the 
insurer on three occasions  February 2010, July 2012 and May 2014. Each time the 
same phone number was registered; the first two times it was a Nokia phone 
registered, and the third time an HTC phone. I can see there is a note on the system 
dated 12 July 2012 which says:
 Has first additions wants to upgrade to tech pack for mobile phone 
insurance, has nokia wants me to register it for her
This supports the view that there was a discussion. I agree its possible a member 
of staff wrote a false record  although I think its unlikely. But even so, I think its 
very unlikely that a member of staff would also have registered Mrs Ks phone with 
the insurer, without her knowledge or consent, on three different occasions. Its 
much more likely that Mrs K either did this herself, or asked Barclays staff to do it 
for her. And this was several years ago, so it wouldnt be surprising if Mrs K 
doesnt now remember all the details of what happened. 
I dont know how well Barclays explained the costs and benefits of the Tech Pack. But, 
even if it had explained everything to Mrs K in full detail, including the costs, I still think its 
likely shed have found it useful. And the evidence does suggest that she knew about the 
mobile phone insurance and wanted it, even if she now doesnt remember that. 
Overall, I dont think the PBA was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman