DRN-2734466
The complaint
Miss L complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) didnt make a payment and 
couldnt explain why.
What happened
On 28 April 2020, Miss L asked Co-op to make a payment of £3,800 to an ISA she held with 
another bank. It was returned on 29 April 2020. On 15 June 2020, Miss L called Co-op again 
and the payment was successfully made.
Miss L complained that she couldnt get an explanation why the payment failed. She was 
told by the receiving bank that the problem lay with Co-op. Co-op said theyd made the 
payment and it was returned by the receiving bank. Miss L said she couldnt get answers 
from Co-op and their call handlers - and their complaint responses werent good enough. 
She said she called Co-op on numerous occasions to try to make the payment again, and 
each time it failed  and Co-op couldnt say why. 
Co-op said the payment details were correct and the payment was processed correctly. 
They couldnt say why the other bank had returned the funds. They wondered if the reason 
was possibly something to do with the funding of the ISA, but to understand exactly why, 
Miss L would need to speak to the ISA provider. Co-op only had records of calls from Miss L 
to their customer services team on 28 April 2020, 7 May 2020 and 15 June 2020. They said 
they believed their service on those calls was of a good standard.
Miss L brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator said she thought the Co-op 
acted reasonably. She could see from Co-ops records that the payment of £3,800 was sent 
on 28 April 2020 and then returned by the other bank. The payment was then made 
successfully on 15 June 2020. She couldnt see that there had been any other attempts at 
the payment in the meantime. She said we cant look at how Miss Ls complaint was handled 
by Co-op as complaint handling wasnt a regulated activity.
Miss L asked that her complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can sense Miss Ls frustration. She wanted to make a transfer of £3,800 to her ISA at 
another bank, but the payment failed. Co-op couldnt tell her why that had happened. The 
other bank then said it wasnt down to them  so she was caught between two stools in 
trying to work things out. She says she tried to make the payments several other times after 
28 April 2020  without success. And again, Co-op couldnt say why. She then called Co-op 
on 15 June 2020 and the payment went through. She says she called Co-op many times to 
try to get to the bottom of what happened but got nowhere.
I want to assure Miss L that Ive looked at everything to do with her complaint. Ive listened to 
her calls with Co-op and looked at their records and notes.
When Miss L tried to make the payment on 28 April 2020, it was released by Co-op. There is 
nothing to suggest it didnt go through OK. But it was then returned on 29 June 2020 by the 
receiving bank. Under those circumstances Co-op wont be advised why that happened  
thats a matter for the other bank to discuss with Miss L. Thats because it was likely that the 
reason was something to do with Miss Ls account with them. I can see thats what Co-op 
advised Miss L to do. Co-op  on their calls with Miss L tried to be helpful by suggesting it 
may have been an issue with the set up of the ISA at the other bank  but they wouldnt 
have known that  and it seems to me they were just trying to be helpful by saying what 
might have happened at the other bank. Ive seen the Co-ops records as to what happened 
with the payment  and the reason for the rejection was that the receiving account was 
blocked and the customer needs to check the payment details.  So  what Co-op told Miss 
L was correct.
Miss L says she tried to make the payment several times after 28 April 2020  but theres 
nothing in Co-ops records that says she did. Neither are there any other calls to Co-op until 
7 May 2020  when they advised Miss L that it had been returned by the other bank, and 
she would have to speak to them. The next call from Miss L was on 15 June 2020  when 
the payment went through successfully. But  on that call  the call handler does say Miss L 
had tried to make payments on a number of other occasions  without success. Ive listened 
to this call and we asked Co-op about it. Its not clear that the other failed payments referred 
to are in fact to Miss Ls ISA or not  as there were also two blocked card payments on 5 
June 2020. So, the call handler may have been referring to those. Its just not clear enough 
for me to uphold Miss Ls complaint on that aspect.
Turning to Miss Ls comments about Co-ops complaint process. Our investigator was 
correct - we dont look at the substance of a response to a complaint. This service is 
governed by strict rules about what complaints we can, and cannot, look at. These are 
covered in The Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook. This defines a complaint as being 
about a financial product or service. So, complaints specifically about a businesss complaint 
handling or processes arent included. Miss Ls concerns about Co-ops response here are 
specifically about how they handled a complaint and replied to it, so  this aspect of her 
complaint isnt one we can look at. But  Miss L has said Co-op didnt log her complaint, so I 
will deal with that.
Miss L says she raised a complaint after the first failure on 28 April 2020  but theres 
nothing in Co-ops records to say she did. And she didnt raise a complaint in the call on 7 
May 2020. I listened to the call of 15 June 2020  and the complaint was raised then. Co-
ops final response was sent to Miss L on 25 June 2020. So  while Im not going to 
comment on the substance of what Co-op said  it does seem to me that they responded to 
Miss Ls complaint in a timely manner. 
So  and I know that Miss L will feel disappointed by my decision, Im not going to ask Co-op 
to do anymore here. 
(continued))
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman