DRN-3484551
The complaint
Mr M complains about Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) for reporting 
incorrect information to credit reference agencies, and for not reporting a debt management 
plan to credit reference agencies. He wants Halifax to amend his credit report to show that 
Mr M was making payments in September and October 2018. 
What happened
Mr M had a credit card account with Halifax. 
In July 2018, Mr M received his July statement. This asked for a minimum payment of 
£144.37 to be made before 6 August 2018. 
Mr M made this payment by direct debit on 6 August 2018. He also made an additional 
manual payment of £5.63 on the same date. 
Mr Ms August statement was then generated around 12 August 2018. It required a minimum 
payment of £145.02 to be made before 6 September 2018. 
Mr M entered into an agreement with a debt management company around 18 August 2018. 
Halifax acknowledged the offer from Mr M of £13.56 per month shortly afterwards. 
Mr M made his first agreed payment on 14 September 2018. He made a further payment of 
£13.56 on 15 October 2018. 
In October 2018, Halifax sent Mr M notice of missed minimum payments for September and 
October. 
In December 2018 Halifax sent a default notice to Mr M. 
Mr M later reviewed his credit file and saw that it was showing missed payments for August, 
September and October 2018. He complained to Halifax. He felt that Halifax ought to have 
reported the payments that were made, and that it was inaccurate to report August as 
missed when Mr M had paid a full payment in August 2018.  
Halifax responded to Mr M not upholding his complaint. Halifax was satisfied that it had 
reported to credit reference agencies accurately. 
Mr M complained to us. Our investigator has looked into this and did not recommend that 
Halifax do anything further. She explained that businesses are required to report accurate 
information to credit reference agencies and because Mr M had missed contractual minimum 
repayments it was not inaccurate to report these as missed. There was no obligation to 
report the agreement and so she did not consider that Halifax had acted wrongly.
Mr M did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr M considers that his credit report showing a missed payment for August 
2018 is unfair, given that he made a full payment in that month. 
Halifax has provided evidence showing the payments made and what was reported to credit 
reference agencies. This does show that arrears started accruing in August 2018. 
I have reviewed the payments and accept that Mr M made a payment on 6 August 2018, but 
this was as payment of his July statement. He did not make the minimum payment required 
by his August 2018 statement and instead made the reduced payment as had been offered 
by his debt management plan. 
I understand why Mr M feels that it is unfair that his report does not show that he was 
making some payments, but I agree with my colleague that the reporting is accurate in that it 
shows that the minimum contractual payments required by the card were not made in those 
months. 
I appreciate that Mr M feels it would be a fairer representation of his payments, and efforts to 
pay, if the credit reports showed that he had agreed a repayment plan, and that the reduced 
payments were being made, but I cannot say that what was reported was unfair or 
inaccurate. 
Consequently, whilst I understand that Mr M will be disappointed, I agree with my 
colleagues view and do not uphold Mr Ms complaint. I do not ask Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint and do not ask Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman