DRN-3722521
The complaint
Mr M complains about the increase in the price of his home insurance policy with Lloyds 
Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds).
What happened
Mr M has had his home insurance policy with Lloyds for a considerable number of years. In 
March 2022 he received his renewal documents and saw that his premium had increased 
from £224.85 in 2021 to £425.49 for the year commencing 2022.
Mr M complained to Lloyds about the increase. He said he was a loyal customer and was 
very upset that the price had increased so dramatically and didnt think this was fair. Lloyds 
said that the new premium had been calculated correctly according to the level of cover 
provided and that Mr M wasnt charged more than he would have been had he been a new 
customer. It said that Mr Ms property was more likely to suffer damage from flood in the 
future and this was the main reason for the price increase.
Mr M wasnt happy with Lloyds response and brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the matter but didnt think that Lloyds had treated Mr M unfairly or 
differently to other customers. Mr M didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that having his premium increase so significantly when hed made no claim on 
his policy mustve appeared to Mr M to have been very unfair. Mr M has been a loyal 
customer of Lloyds for a long time and was understandably upset by the increase in price.  
However, its not the role of this service to tell insurers how to charge for their policies. The 
risk of insuring a property is the insurers, so its right that it should decide how to assess and 
price risk. Each year Lloyds is entitled to reassess its risk factors (and the data it obtains) 
when setting the price of its policies. So, prices can go down as well as up depending on 
how Lloyds reassesses the risks that year. 
This service looks at whats caused the insurers view on risk to change  and whether thats 
the same for all of its customers  to see whether we think the premium has been charged 
fairly. This means, among other things, applying its pricing model consistently and giving 
policyholders the chance to shop around to find a better deal from another insurer. And just 
because another insurer can offer a similar policy for a lower price doesnt necessarily mean 
the original price offered was unfair. Thats because each insurer has its own idea of risk. 
Lloyds say that the main reason for Mr Ms price increase in 2022 was because it believes 
that his property was more likely to suffer damage from flood in the future. We asked Lloyds 
for more information about this, and it has provided us with confidential information which 
Ive been able to consider as part of the complaint. Im unable to share that information 
because its business sensitive but Id like to reassure Mr M that Ive checked it carefully. 
Having done so, I can see that Lloyds has obtained information from an independent third 
party and used this to assess the risk of flooding to Mr Ms property. I dont think this was 
unreasonable. Lloyds considered the risk of surface water flooding to be greater than 
previous years and this resulted in the price increase. 
Ive not seen anything that makes me think that Mr M has been treated any differently to 
other customers in similar circumstances, so I dont think this risk assessment was unfair.
Lloyds has also provided information that Mr M engaged with Lloyds during his recent policy 
renewals and telephoned it to discuss his quotes. Having done so he was offered a 
discretionary discount on the cost of his policies between 2017 and 2021. Lloyds say it was 
not, however, able to offer a similar discount for 2022. Whilst I understand that this would 
have been disappointing for Mr M, I dont think it was unfair for Lloyds to decide not to apply 
a discretionary discount. 
Mr Ms insurance was a one-year contract, and the cost and terms can change at each 
renewal. Its important that any significant changes are highlighted by Lloyds so that Mr M 
can choose to renew his insurance or look elsewhere. Ive looked at Mr Ms renewal 
documents for 2022 and can see that the price in 2021 and the new price is clearly shown. 
Mr M is also advised that he might get a better price if he shops around. I know that Mr M 
doesnt wish to go elsewhere for his insurance, but that is his choice and Im satisfied that 
Lloyds properly advised him of his option to do so. 
Whilst I understand my decision will come as a huge disappointment to Mr M, I cant say that 
Lloyds has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances and Im therefore not 
upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman