DRN-4192414
The complaint
Miss P has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has refused to refund her the 
money she lost as a result of a scam. While HSBC initially credited the lost funds to Miss Ps 
account, they later debited the funds following the results of their investigations.
HSBC has debited further funds from Miss Ps account since this complaint has been with 
our service. This will not be considered within the decision.
What happened
Miss P had been investing in cryptocurrency for several years via the business Coinbase 
when she started talking to someone via an online dating app. This person suggested Miss 
P should use Binance, a different cryptocurrency exchange, instead.
Miss P did some research and decided to try Binance herself. Miss P made an initial deposit 
and started to trade with BNB fast trading. Miss P did a small test withdrawal from the 
investment which was successful before continuing to trade. However, when Miss P tried to 
make a larger withdrawal, she was told she would have to make a tax payment.
After researching online about tax payments Miss P felt the request was reasonable and 
made the requested payment. Miss P was then told her funds had been frozen due to money 
laundering and a further payment would need to be made.
At this point Miss P realised she had fallen victim to a scam.
Miss P made the following payments into the scam:
Date Payee Amount Payment Method
17 June 2021 Binance £1,000.00 Credit Card
17 June 2021 Binance £1,077.04 Credit Card
18 June 2021 Binance £4,000.00 Credit Card
24 June 2021 Binance £4,000.00 Credit Card
2 July 2021 Binance £5,099.85 Credit Card
3 July 2021 Binance £2,552.04 Credit Card
3 July 2021 Coinbase £1,586.55 Credit Card
4 August 2021 Binance £1,000.00 Credit
4 August 2021 Binance £4,000.00 Credit
4 August 2021 Binance £4,000.00 Credit
4 August 2021 Binance £1,586.55 Credit
4 August 2021 Binance £2,552.04 Credit
11 October 2021 Binance £4,000.00 Re-debit
11 October 2021 Binance £4,000.00 Re-debit
Our Investigator considered Miss Ps complaint and thought it should be upheld in part. 
HSBC accepted our Investigators decision. Miss P disagreed, so this complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It has not been disputed that Miss P has fallen victim to a cruel scam. The evidence provided
by both Miss P and HSBC sets out what happened. What is in dispute is whether HSBC
should refund the money Miss P lost due to the scam.
I would like to point out at his time that its not unusual for a bank to refund payments while it 
carries out an investigation and to later re-debit the same amount if it finds it was either not 
able to recover the money or is not liable for it.
I will not be able to uphold this complaint based on HSBCs decision to refund and then re-
debit Miss Ps account alone.
Recovering the payments Miss P made
HSBC was unable to process a chargeback for the payments Miss P made in relation to this 
scam.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
As the scammer was not a party to the payments, Miss P does not have a valid claim 
against the company she paid. This is because the company provided the service, which 
was to purchase the crypto currency. The subsequent transfer to a wallet would not give rise 
to a valid chargeback.
So, Im satisfied HSBC was unable to recover Miss Ps money.
Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974
As Miss P made the payments into the scam via her credit card I have considered if HSBC is 
liable to her under s.75. As a starting point, its useful to set out what the Act actually says:
75(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or
(c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier
in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the 
debtor(3) Subsection (1) does not apply to a claim
a. under a non-commercial agreement,
b. so far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a 
cash price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000
To summarise there must be:
1. a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 12(b) or 12(c); and
2. a transaction financed by the agreement; and3. a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract related to that transaction;
4. but not a claim which relates to any single item which the supplier has attached a 
cash price below £100 or in excess of £30,000
In Miss Ps case the transactions dont meet these requirements. The business Miss P paid 
from her HSBC credit card account was not the business that scammed her. She paid a 
legitimate cryptocurrency exchange and then forwarded these funds to the scammer. So, 
she did not lose her money until the funds were sent from her BInance/Coinbase accounts to 
the scammer. The debtor-creditor-supplier agreement has therefore been broken and 
Section 75 doesnt apply in these circumstances. 
Should HSBC have prevented the payments Miss P made?
Miss P has accepted she authorised the payments she made to Binance/Coinbase albeit on 
the scammers instruction, so the starting point here is that Miss P is responsible. However, 
banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the 
risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to 
guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether HSBC should have stepped in when Miss P was attempting to 
make the payments, and if it had, would it have been able to prevent the scam taking place.
The payments Miss P made into the scam were to a new payee she had not previously paid, 
but it wouldnt be reasonable for me to suggest HSBC has to step in every time one of its 
customers makes payments to a legitimate business that they havent previously paid.
The first four payments were also for relatively low amounts that I wouldnt have expected to 
trigger HSBCs fraud prevention systems, prompting it to step in.
The fifth payment Miss P made was for a larger amount that I would expect to have triggered 
HSBCs fraud prevention systems generally. But Miss P had previously used her credit card 
account to make regular payments to another cryptocurrency exchange so this payment 
would not have been out of character for how Miss P used her account generally, and for 
this reason I wouldnt have expected this payment to have been picked up by HSBCs fraud 
prevention systems either.
So, I dont think HSBC missed an opportunity to prevent this scam up to this point.
However, before Miss P was able to make the final two payments to Binance she had three 
payments declined for amounts close to and over £5,000. While HSBC sent Miss P an SMS 
to confirm the payments were being made by her, I think it should have stepped in and 
questioned her about what the payments were for at this stage. 
Had HSBC questioned Miss P about the payments she made on 3 July 2021 I see no reason 
why she wouldnt have explained what the payments were for, and HSBC would likely have 
uncovered the scam preventing any further loss. So, HSBC is responsible for the payments 
Miss P made from 3 July 2021 onwards.
Miss P has further argued that all payments to Binance should have been stopped by HSBC 
as there was information available on the FCA website and HSBC has banned payments to 
Binance.
But the information on the FCA website did not indicate Binance to be a scam or prevent it 
from converting currencies. And HSBC didnt ban the use of Binance until after Miss P made 
these payments. So, this information doesnt change my decision.Did Miss P contribute to her loss?
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take
responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000).
In the circumstances I dont think it would be fair to say Miss P contributed to the loss. I say 
this because the scammer went to great lengths to present the investment as legitimate and 
gain Miss Ps trust. There was also limited information about the scammer available at the 
time that would have helped Miss P realise she was falling victim to a scam.
Miss P also carried out her own online research before investing and paying future tax 
payments to the scam. So, I dont think Miss P could have foreseen the risk that she was 
being scammed.
Crediting and re-debiting of two £4,000 payments 
HSBC initially refunded all the payments Miss P made on her credit card in relation to the 
scam but after finding it was not responsible for Miss Ps loss it re-debited the two payments 
of £4,000.
As I have explained above, I dont think HSBC is responsible for any of the payments Miss P 
made until 3 July 2021 (after the two £4,000 payments were made) and so I dont think it 
was unreasonable that HSBC decided to re-debit these amounts.
Having decided on what HSBC is responsible for in relation to the payments Miss P made, I 
will now cover the other points Miss P has raised.
Increase in credit card limit
Miss P has told us HSBC increased her credit card limit without asking her and if it had not 
done so she would not have lost so much to the scam.
I can see Miss Ps credit limit had been increased several times prior to the limit increase to 
£20,000. Information provided by HSBC shows Miss P had made the requests to increase 
her credit limit to both £10,000 and then to £20,000. 
Following each request HSBC manually assessed Miss Ps affordability for the credit and 
based on its affordability checks granted the increase to Miss Ps credit card limit.
As HSBC followed its usual checks before granting the increased credit limits to Miss P I 
dont think it has done anything wrong.
Rejection of loan applications 
Miss P applied for a loan of £11,000 on two occasions, the 15 and 19 November 2021. The 
application failed both times after HSBC assessed Miss Ps affordability to repay the loans. 
At this time HSBC would also have been aware of the balance on Miss Ps credit card. As 
this had increased, Miss Ps ability to afford the loan had likely fallen. So, I dont think it was 
unreasonable that HSBC took the decision to reject these loan applications.
In any case Miss P applied for a lower value loan (£8,000) on 19 November 2021 which was 
conditionally approved, and she decided not to proceed. As HSBC appeared to be willing to offer this loan to Miss P I dont think it can be held responsible for her not proceeding with 
the application.
Interest charged on credit card balance (two £4,000 payments)
Miss P has said it was unfair for HSBC to charge her interest on the £8,000 balance. But as 
Ive said above, as HSBC is not responsible for Miss Ps loss it is entitled to charge her 
interest on her credit card balance.
HSBC told us it had paid Miss P £50 compensation for the customer service issues she 
faced, which I think was fair in the circumstances. Miss P said that this payment had not 
been made to her and that HSBC had instead made a payment of £50 in relation to a 
different complaint.
Since this complaint has been with our service HSBC has paid Miss P £75 in relation to the 
service received. I think this is fair and I wont be asking HSBC to pay Miss P anything 
further in relation to service and the points covered in this decision.
I understand HSBC has re-debited further transactions from Miss Ps credit card account 
since she brought her complaint to our service. If Miss P is not happy about HSBC re-
debiting her account, she will need to raise a second complaint.
Putting things right
HSBC UK Bank Plc should refund payments Miss P made into the scam from 3 July 2021.
HSBC UK Bank Plc should add 8% simple interest per year to the amount it pays Miss P 
from the time Miss P made the payments to the time HSBC UK Bank Plc provides the refund 
(less any lawfully deductible tax).
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to put things right by doing what Ive 
said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman