DRN-3453410
The complaint
Ms G Mr G complain about the exchange rate used by Nationwide Building Society when 
they transferred funds from an account in Spain. 
What happened
On 27 September 2021 Ms G and Mr G transferred €159,000 from an account in Spain to 
their Nationwide account in the UK. They say that they checked what charges would be 
made and what exchange rate would be used to convert the money to sterling. They noted 
that Nationwides website said that it would use its standard exchange rate on the day of 
the transaction. They took this to mean the relevant inter-bank mid-range market rate. 
The bank in Spain did not convert the payment; Nationwide did. It used an exchange rate of 
£1 to €1.1877; that meant that, for each euro sent, Ms G and Mr G received 84.20p. Mr G 
complained to Nationwide. He said that the exchange rate used was significantly different 
from the rate he had expected to receive based on published rates. He thought that he and 
Ms G had lost between £1,900 and £2,400 as a result. 
Nationwide did not accept that it had done anything wrong. It said that it is unable to provide 
an exact exchange rate for any particular transaction, as rates change throughout the day. It 
could have given an indicative rate if it had been asked to, but even that could not be 
guaranteed. It said that the exchange rate used had been reasonable. 
Ms G and Mr G referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered 
what had happened. She thought that Nationwide had acted fairly and so did not 
recommend that the complaint be upheld. Ms G and Mr G did not accept that assessment 
and asked that an ombudsman review the complaint.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint here is that Nationwide did not use the exchange rate that it said it would use, 
but instead used one that meant Ms G and Mr G received less than they should have done. I 
must therefore have regard to what Nationwide said it would do and the rate it said it would 
use.  
Nationwides account terms say this about payments made from outside the UK in a foreign 
currency:
If the payment is in a Foreign currency, we will convert the payment into pounds sterling 
using our standard inbound exchange rate. Our standard inbound exchange rate may vary, 
depending on the payment type.
What is meant by the standard exchange rate is not defined or further explained. It is not, for 
example, linked to any external rate or other measure. This extract from the account terms 
say therefore that Nationwide can vary the rate it uses, but little else about what the rate 
might be for any given transaction. 
In my view, however, that does not mean that Nationwide could use whatever rate it chose 
when converting the payment in this case. That would not be fair or reasonable. On the other 
hand, I do not believe that its standard exchange rate meant  as Mr G contends  the  
inter-bank mid-range market rate on the day of the transfer. It was rather less specific than 
that. 
In my view, what Nationwide had to do in order to treat Ms G and Mr G fairly was to use a 
rate that was reasonable in the circumstances, having regard amongst other things to 
market conditions at the time. 
Mr G has compared the rate used to the mid-market rate published by one of the leading 
foreign exchange providers in the UK. I have reviewed the historical data published by that 
and another provider. The first provider has a published rate for 27 September 2021 of 
£0.86764 to €1; the second has a rate of £0.85649. Nationwide used a rate of £0.8420. That 
means that Ms G and Mr G received some £2,300 less than they would have done if one of 
those other rates had been used. 
However, that does not mean that the rate used by Nationwide was unfair or unreasonable. 
The website of the first currency exchange business says that it uses the mid-market rate for 
its Converter service. But it goes on to say that this rate is for information only. It is not the 
rate that customers will receive. As an example, the current published rate on that site for a 
euro to sterling conversion is £0.826; the actual rate offered to customers is £0.837. 
The second website says in its marketing material that it can be used to send money for less 
compared to banks and traditional providers.
For these reasons, I dont believe that I can fairly say that the exchange rate Nationwide 
used was unreasonable. Whilst it was less favourable than other published rates, those rates 
were provided by specialist businesses expressly claiming to be cheaper than providers 
such as Nationwide; and they were not necessarily the rates available to customers. 
In the circumstances, I dont believe that the exchange rate used by Nationwide was 
unreasonable. It was broadly in line the rates offered by other providers at the time. 
In its response to this service, Nationwide referred to another foreign currency receipt and 
suggested that this meant that Ms G and Mr G were familiar with its processes. I dont 
accept that, however. The payment in question appears to have been a card refund 
(possibly from an airline) and was for very much less than the transaction which has led to 
this dispute. It was not directly initiated by Ms G and Mr G. Nationwides submissions in 
relation to this earlier transaction have not therefore influenced my findings in resect of the 
€159,000 payment.    
    
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Nationwide Building Society to 
take any further steps to resolve Ms G and Mr Gs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2022. 
Mike IngramOmbudsman