DRN-2844871
The complaint
Mr P complains that Redmayne-Bentley LLP, referred to as the business, failed to carry out 
his instructions to buy International Consolidated Airlines Group (IAG)  British Airways  
shares, referred to as IAG or IAG shares. 
What happened
Mr P has an execution only stockbroking account with the business and through this he 
holds IAG shares. 
On 15 September 2020, Mr P received an email from the business Corporate Actions 
department, notifying him of upcoming IAG rights issue. It said hed received 3,450 rights 
which could be exercised into 5,175 new shares at a cost of 4,761 Euros. 
I note the business says the offer was to be used to strengthen the companys balance sheet 
and entitled Mr P to purchase 5,175 new shares at a cost which was equivalent to 
£4,424.81. 
Corporate Action required an instruction from Mr P by Tuesday 22 September 2020, 
confirming acceptance, and required the funds to be available in his account. 
The business didnt uphold the complaint. In short, it said:
On 22 September 2020, Mr P phoned the business and spoke to an adviser dealing 
with IAG shares. He was concerned that the share price had fallen to 94 pence. After 
asking a series of questions, he was told that once the business had submitted its 
instructions to the registrar, it was unable to amend its instructions if the share price 
fell further.
Its clear that Mr P hadnt made his mind up on whether to take the rights issue and 
said: A decision I have to make later. He was told that email instructions would 
suffice, and he said he would 'Make up my mind today and come back'.
Later that day, Mr P called back and spoke to a different operative and paid 
£4,424.81. He asked for email confirmation once the payment had been processed 
and to re-set his Client Web Access (CWA) password. At no point during that call did 
he mention that the payment was for IAG Corporate Action.  
Theres also no evidence to say that Mr P (officially) instructed the business to take 
up the rights issue on his behalf. 
Mr P was provided with the correct information, including an application form and 
warning that if it didnt receive any instructions from him, this would mean that he was 
letting his entitlement lapse. So, its satisfied that Mr P knew he had to provide 
instructions in order to purchase shares, and the consequence of not doing so. 
Unhappy with the business response, Mr P referred his complaint to our service. He 
maintains that on 22 September 2020, he telephoned the business and paid £4,424.81 in 
order for it to carry out his instructions to buy IAG shares. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
The instructions about purchasing the shares were made clear to Mr P, and 
furthermore allowed him to make an informed choice. 
Mr P needed to do two things in order to take up the offer: firstly, he had to respond 
to the email, and secondly, he had to ensure that he had adequate funds to take up 
the offer. Whilst he transferred the funds to his account, shes seen nothing to say 
that he sent his email response/instructions.   
Whilst Mr P doesnt disagree and maintains that he made his intentions clear during 
a phone call, that doesnt fulfill the requirement. 
During the first phone call Mr P was concerned about the share price and undecided 
about whether to purchase additional shares. During the second call  to a different 
operative  he explained he wanted to make a debit card payment to his account and 
the operative said shed need to call back on a secure line. 
Having listened to both the calls, shes satisfied Mr P knew what was required of him, 
but he failed to make his intentions clear in writing.  
Whilst Mr P says he shouldve been probed further about what he wanted, the 
business wasnt obliged to provide any advice either, because his account was an 
execution only account. 
Mr P disagreed with the investigators conclusion. In short, he made the following key points:
He couldnt get into the business website to carry out the required transaction. He 
used his email address for the username instead of his account number. It was his 
mistake that he couldnt get into its website. 
The second time Mr P called the business he spoke to a different operative to the 
first one. Nevertheless, he made clear that he wanted IAG rights issues. The second 
call recording doesnt provide a record of the conversation that went on previously. 
Failure to disclose that information is a serious breach of trust. 
The business has erased part of the conversation and is only providing some of the 
discussions. 
Hes been dealing with the business since September 1985, and he settles payment 
without delay. 
Hed like the investigator to listen to the call he had with the business complaints 
manager.  
A reputable share dealer shouldve asked him which shares he was buying with the 
money. He paid money into his account in good faith, but the business failed him. 
The investigator having considered the additional points, and having listened to additional 
phone calls, wasnt persuaded to change her mind. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr P says, Im unable to safely 
say that the business has behaved unreasonably in the circumstances. But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note Mr Ps strength 
of feeling about this matter. Hes provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, 
which Ive read and considered carefully, including all of the phone calls. However, I hope he 
wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in 
as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr P and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and 
reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice. 
But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than 
not to have happened.
I note the email (dated 15 September 2020) that Mr P received from the business made 
clear the following:
1. Take up the new shares
If you wish to take up some or all of your entitlement (including any excess
application), please reply to this email by Tuesday 22nd September 2020. Please
note that you must have funds to cover your full application, including any excess
application, available in your account by this date. If you make an application and
insufficient monies are available, we will take up the maximum number of new shares
as possible with the funds available in accordance with the terms of the offer.
Please state your instructions clearly and quote the above reference. You will
receive a confirmation email of your instructions.
If you wish to make a payment to your Redmayne Bentley account by electronic bank
transfer, please visit our website at: www.redmavne.co.uk/payment and follow the onscreen 
instructions. Please check with your bank for clearance times. 
I dont doubt that Mr P, when he initially called the business on 22 September 2020  in 
response to the above email  was interested in purchasing additional IAG shares. I note the 
call was about querying the rights issue and (potential) concerns he had about the share 
price going down  he wanted to know if itd go back up but was undecided whether to 
exercise his rights issue. Im mindful that at this point he didnt have the money in his 
account to proceed with the application.  
Whilst Mr P was perfectly entitled to make enquiries about the share price and take some 
time in deciding whether it was the right course of action for him, this didnt negate or 
supersede the requirements the business set out in the email of 15 September 2020. In 
other words, simply calling the business up to discuss the issue and share price didnt mean 
that Mr P no longer had to provide a response to the email quoting his reference number, 
which was clearly a requirement. This would explain why he never received a confirmation 
email. 
I note that Mr P, in response to his question, was told that the deadline for payment was that 
day, but the cash would be taken probably the next day. After checking with Corporate 
Action, he was also told that once hed submitted his instructions  presumably regardless of 
price drop  he wouldnt be able to withdraw. I note the operative says its a difficult decision 
for him to make. After accepting that its a difficult decision to make, given market volatility, Mr P says 
something along the lines of ok, so what I have to do is send the email to you isnt it?, to 
which the operative says yes, if you want to accept the offer, you send us an email letting us 
know.  
Mr P then asks: do you contact me about the money or what do I do? it seems there is no 
ambiguity about the email issue, just where/how hed pay the money into his account. Hes 
told that the account number to send the funds to is on the original email. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr P says, Im satisfied that he 
knew, or ought reasonably to have known, what he had to do, in order successfully to 
instruct the business to buy additional IAG shares. But for whatever reason, perhaps 
because he thought hed made his intentions clear on the phone, Mr P didnt provide the 
requisite written instructions, to legitimately enable or oblige the business to act on his behalf 
and buy the shares. 
I note that when Mr P called the business back and spoke to the second operative, he briefly 
mentioned that the email didnt go through but then didnt mention the point again. He said:
I was trying to make payment to your Corporate Accountit did not accept my emailand 
also I have to pay through/on telephone please. The operative replied ok, youd like to pay 
by debit card? to which Mr P replies yes, the operative then, after establishing his account 
details, offered to call back on a secure line to take payment. 
I note that at this point only Mr P was aware of the background preceding his second call, 
but the operative wasnt, and he made no effort to explain what hed meant by the email not 
going through. So, in the circumstances, I cant blame the second operative for not 
(automatically) knowing why Mr P wanted to pay into his account and cant blame her for not 
asking about his motives, given that all he wanted to do was pay some money into the 
account using his debt card. Im mindful that this was an execution only account and the 
business merely did what it was told to.  
In my opinion, if, without formal instructions, the business had purchased IAG shares (as Mr 
P intended), but he later changed his mind because the share price fell, the business would 
have no justification for acting in the way that it did  notwithstanding the telephone 
conversations. It didnt have an email response from him and hadnt provided a confirmation 
of accepting/receiving his instructions. So, Im unable to say that it acted inappropriately in 
the circumstances. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that Mr P wanted to purchase IAG 
shares. I note he says that this was the whole point of him paying into his account. But 
notwithstanding his conversation with the first and second operative, there were still no 
written instructions in response to the email, instructing the business to buy the IAG shares. 
So, the business wasnt obliged to exercise his rights issue. I note the business says that the 
money Mr P paid in, in theory could be used to purchase any other shares and I agree. 
As Ive mentioned earlier, the business was an execution only broker service, so it wasnt 
obliged to offer advice or do anything until it had received instructions in the prescribed way. 
Im persuaded that Mr P had only fulfilled one of two key requirements, so after hed paid the 
money into his account, he still didnt send the email and therefore the business wasnt 
obliged or authorised to do anything.   
I note the business says:When Mr P (name anonymised) contacted Redmayne Bentley later on in the day to make 
payment he did not advise what the payment was for and it would not be reasonable to 
expect the Dealing room advisor (having not spoken to the client previously) to ask what the 
payment was for with clients adding money to execution only accounts for a variety of 
reasons. And even if she was made aware of the reason for the payment, Mr P should have 
emailed Redmayne Bentley confirming that he wanted to take up the new issue.  
Im mindful of the points Mr P makes about the call logs and duration, but none of that 
changes my decision. Despite what Mr P says Im not persuaded that the business has 
deliberately erased parts of the conversation. Its likely that Mr Ps records show a different 
call length because they including call waiting time and ringing. In any case, this isnt an 
issue that persuades me to change my mind. 
On the face of the evidence and on balance, despite what Mr P says, Im unable to safely 
say that the business didnt follow his instructions - because they werent formally provided. 
I appreciate Mr P will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what he wants to hear. But on the face 
of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him 
what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman