DRN-2628616
The complaint
Mr A complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited refused to indemnify him 
following a claim made against his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In 2018 Mr A was in an accident, he was breathalysed at the scene and found to be over the 
legal limit of alcohol. 
In 2020 Mr A complained to Watford. Hed received a letter from it saying that he owed 
around £13,000, which is what it had paid the third party as a result of the accident. He said 
he didnt know he would have to pay anything, and he thought his insurance would cover it. 
He also said hes previously paid the insurance premium in full and was told he had nothing 
further left to pay.
Watford didnt agree to waive the debt, so Mr A complained to our service. He said he hadnt 
received the policy terms when he took out the insurance, so he didnt know he wouldnt be 
covered if he was involved in an accident whilst over the legal limit of alcohol.
Our investigator didnt think Watford needed to waive the debt. She thought it was entitled to 
ask for it, even though it had taken some time after the claim to do so.
Mr A didnt agree with that. He said he believed he was insured and Watfords actions were 
unfair. So the matter has come to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Watfords policy is clear that if someone is found to be over the legal limit for alcohol, no 
cover under the policy will be provided.
The policy goes on to say:
Right of Recovery 
If under the laws of any country in which this insurance applies, We have to make 
payments which but for those laws would not be covered by this Policy, You must 
repay the amounts to Us.
This means, as the issuer of insurance, Watford is legally obliged to indemnify the third 
parties to the accident, even though Mr A has breached his policy terms by being over the 
legal limit for alcohol whilst driving. So Watford doesnt have a choice whether to cover the 
third party for the claim, nor does it need Mr As permission to do so.
Mr A doesnt dispute that he was over the legal limit for alcohol when he was stopped. But 
he says when he took out the insurance he wasnt given a policy document, so he didnt 
know he wouldnt be covered in this scenario. Whilst I accept he may not have known this, or 
received his policy documents, I dont think it follows that Mr A doesnt have to pay the 
money back to Watford.
The issue for me to decide is whether Watford ought to have covered Mr A during the time 
he was knowingly driving whilst above the legal limit. Mr A's knowledge about what was 
contained in the policy documents about this isn't the real issue here. I don't think knowledge 
of what was said in the documents would have caused Mr A to do something different. So 
Watford doesnt have to bear the costs of the claim.
Mr A also says he wasnt told that he would owe Watford for any money it had to pay out to 
the third party as a result of the claim. Mr A says in 2018 he was initially chased for his 
outstanding insurance premium of around £1,000, which he then paid in April 2019. He says 
when he paid this, he was told there was no further debt to pay on the policy, so he shouldnt 
have to pay anymore.
Watford says he was told that he wouldnt be indemnified in 2018, but it wasnt until 2020 
that the claim was finally settled, as some parts had been in dispute with the third party. Ive 
seen a copy of the letter that was sent in 2018; Im satisfied it was clear that Mr A wouldnt 
receive cover under his policy. So I dont agree Mr A wasnt told. I accept its possible he 
didnt receive this letter. But I dont think this means Watford shouldnt be able to pursue him 
for the claim amount as Im satisfied its acted fairly in not providing cover.
Overall based on everything Ive seen, Im not going to interfere with Watfords decision to 
seek recovery of its costs from Mr A. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman