DRN-2164028
The complaint
Mrs K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has paid service charge and major works arrears 
on her behalf and capitalised these to her mortgage, when it shouldnt have done so. 
What happened
Mrs K has her mortgage through HSBC for a leasehold property. For a number of years 
Mrs K has been in arrears for her service charges and work that has been carried out. I 
understand Mrs K has been in dispute about the amount owed. 
In June 2019, a consent order was agreed whereby Mrs K needed to pay nearly £16,000 to 
the claimant in relation to the arrears. Mrs K gained HSBCs agreement to pay the arrears in 
order to protect its security in the property. HSBC agreed, in its letter of 27 June 2019, that it 
would do so on provision of a breakdown of the outstanding amounts. It also requested a 
summary of costs and inspection of receipts for service charges be sent within one month of 
payment to Mrs K. 
A breakdown of the arrears was sent to HSBC on 31 July, received by it on 2 August 2019. 
And HSBC subsequently made payment (in more than one transaction). During this time  
Mrs Ks legal representative queried the amount owed with the claimants legal 
representative, as they believed the amount included costs and there hadnt been an order 
for costs. 
Mrs K complained. HSBC didnt uphold the complaint; it was satisfied it was entitled to pay 
the amount ordered and said it couldnt become involved in any dispute with the claimant. 
Our investigator also concluded HSBC hadnt done anything wrong. She was satisfied it was 
entitled to protect its security over the property and referred Mrs K back to court for any 
dispute she had about the amount owed. 
Mrs K disagrees. She has argued that the claimant had breached the consent order and 
HSBC was wrong to act on a consent order that was invalid. The transaction should have 
been done in accordance with the outline in the letter of 27 June 2019. She says the bank 
hasnt completed the transaction in accordance with the lease mortgage agreement. It says 
the bank should be retrieving the amount back from the claimant; the consent order had 
expired. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two different events happening here; a court decision as to the amount owed by 
Mrs K to the claimant and HSBCs decision to pay that. 
Mrs K has argued that the consent order was invalid and/or that it had expired. However, 
Mrs K hasnt provided any legal authority in support of her argument. The consent order 
required Mrs K to pay the claimant nearly £16,000 by 1 August 2019. That was the 
requirement agreed by a court of law. There is no expiration date on that order, other than 
the deadline which Mrs K was required to make payment by. That Mrs K thinks the order is 
invalid doesnt, of itself, make it so. And I havent seen any evidence the order was set 
aside. 
I understand Mrs K thinks the amount in the court order is wrong.  As set out above, the 
amount owed was agreed in court. Any argument Mrs K has about the amount is a matter for 
the court to decide. Mrs K has also said the claimant breached the order  but the order 
didnt set out any requirements on the claimant. In any event, if a legal order has been 
breached that is a matter for the court. 
Mrs K has argued that HSBC should never have made the payment to the claimant and she 
now seeks for it to retrieve that payment; specifically Mrs K refers to the letter of 27 June 
2019. I should point out this letter does not of itself impact or override the requirement of the 
consent order; it simply sets out what HSBC requires to see before it makes payment 
instead of Mrs K. And although HSBC wrote to Mrs Ks legal representative on 24 July 2019 
to say it was still waiting a breakdown of the arrears amount, this was subsequently received 
by HSBC on 2 August 2019. 
Mrs K said HSBC didnt have her authority or agreement to make the payment. But it didnt 
need her agreement. I understand that under the mortgage deed Mrs K is required to pay all 
rent, service and other charges and comply with all the obligations of the lease. Similar 
provisions are in the mortgage terms and conditions  to pay all taxes, rates and charges for 
the property. And those conditions allow for the bank to step in and comply with obligations 
that borrowers fail to. Im satisfied that reasonably entitled HSBC to pay the amount owed 
under the consent order in order to protect its security in the property.
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award against HSBC.    
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman