DRN-2730595
The complaint
Mrs Z, Mr A1 and Mr A2 complain about the incorrect information Barclays Bank UK Plc 
gave them about their mortgage. Mrs Z, Mr A1 and Mr A2 feel theyve suffered a financial 
loss as a result of this incorrect information, as their mortgage reverted to the banks 
standard variable rate (SVR) before they could sort out alternative arrangements.
What happened
Mrs Z, Mr A1 and Mr A2 had a buy-to-let mortgage with Barclays, the term of which was due 
to end in September 2020. The mortgage was on a fixed interest rate that was due to end on 
2 May 2020. In January 2020 Mrs Z called Barclays to ask about a new deal. Barclays told 
Mrs Z that she would need to call back after 13 February, within three months of her interest 
rate ending.
Mrs Z called back on 13 February 2020, and as the mortgage term was coming to an end, 
an appointment was arranged for 29 March 2020 to discuss the options for the mortgage as 
she couldnt take out a new rate with only a few months left on the term. When the 
appointment took place, Mrs Z asked for the mortgage to be extended. Barclays declined the 
application. Without a term extension, the term was not long enough to match any of the 
interest rate products Barclays were offering at the time. As a result, the mortgage reverted 
to the SVR in May 2020.
In March 2020 Mrs Z complained to Barclays. She complained about two of her buy-to-let 
mortgages at the same time, as the same thing had happened. She was unhappy that the 
mortgage would revert to the SVR and they had missed out on getting a lower rate. She said 
that it was Barclays fault they were left with no time to make alternative arrangements for 
the mortgage, and in the meantime, a global pandemic had hit which seriously restricted 
their options. She asked for a short extension with a reduced interest rate whilst she sourced 
a re-mortgage elsewhere.
Barclays issued a final response letter in May 2020. This letter dealt with their response for 
both mortgage accounts. They said that Mrs Z should have been told when she called in 
January that she would need to apply for a new mortgage after 2 February rather than just a 
rate switch. Barclays offered to pay Mrs Z £200 for the distress and inconvenience this 
misinformation caused for both mortgages. The letter gave Mrs Z the number to call to 
discuss the options for the mortgage going forward.
Barclays issued another final response letter later that same day to apologise for the way 
Mrs Zs complaint had been handled. They offered another £100 to recognise the distress 
this caused. The mortgage was redeemed in July 2020.
Mrs Z brought her complaint to our service, and Mr A1 and Mr A2 gave us their consent to 
consider it. Mrs Z has also complained about the other mortgage account, but that is being 
dealt with separately to this one.
Our investigator looked into things, and whilst he agreed Barclays could have handled things 
better, he felt the compensation theyd already offered was enough to put things right.
Mrs Z disagreed. She said that if she was aware of the correct position earlier, she would 
have had enough time to sort arrangements for the mortgage before the interest rate deal 
was due to end. This would have avoided the mortgage going onto the SVR and so shes 
suffered a financial loss as a result of Barclays mistake. The mortgage was redeemed in 
July 2020, but she calculated that she was due a refund of £823.23 as a result of the 
increased payments shed made before then.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the complaints been passed to 
me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays have accepted that when Mrs Z called them on 22 January 2020, they should have 
told her that she would need to extend the mortgage term in order to get a new rate. And 
that this would need to be done from 2 February (within 90 days of the product expiry), 
rather than 13 February as shed been told. Instead, they told her that she would need to call 
back after 13 February if she wanted to take out a new rate. What this meant was, Mrs Z 
didnt take any action on sorting out her mortgage until 13 February, which is when she says 
she discovered shed need to extend the term in order to get a new rate. 
An appointment was booked for 29 March, which was the earliest Mrs Z was available due to 
plans to be out of the country. It was during that appointment that the extension was 
declined. Mrs Z says she tried to re-mortgage, but was left with limited options as a result of 
the banks refusing new lending during the Covid-19 pandemic. It was only when lenders 
started offering new mortgages again that she was able to re-mortgage.
Ive thought about whats most likely to have happened had Barclays given Mrs Z the correct 
information when she called on 22 January. If Mrs Z had been told then that shed need to 
make an appointment to discuss a term extension, I think she would have agreed to that at 
the time. When she called on 13 February, the wait for an appointment was at least three 
weeks, and so I think if an appointment had been arranged on 22 January, it could have 
taken place within a month, and before Mrs Z was due to leave the country. So, if things had 
happened as they should have, I think Mrs Z would have been aware that she couldnt 
extend the mortgage term with Barclays by the end of February. A month earlier than she did 
know about that.
Mrs Z says that the problem with the credit file that was the reason for the declined 
application (missed payments), wouldnt have been there in January if the application had 
been made then. But I dont think an application would have taken place in January in any 
event given the wait times for appointments. So Im not persuaded that Barclays decision to 
extend the term would have been different had the correct information been given.
Ive thought about whether Mrs Z would have been able to re-mortgage with another lender 
before 2 May 2020 when the interest rate product was due to end, in order to avoid reverting 
to the SVR. Im not currently persuaded that she would have.
Mrs Z has said she would have delayed her plans to leave the country in order to sort the 
mortgage out. So if shed known at the end of February that she would need to re-mortgage 
elsewhere, I think she would have taken steps to do that as its clear that retaining a 
competitive interest rate on the mortgage was important to her. But mortgage applications with a new lender are not straightforward, and can take time to be 
processed and approved without anything out of the ordinary causing delays. And whilst 
Mrs Z may have been able to make an application before the country went into lockdown, 
Im not persuaded that the new mortgage would have completed before 2 May 2020.
 
As part of a re-mortgage application, a valuation would have been needed. These werent 
taking place during the lockdown and lenders were experiencing significant delays in 
processing and approving applications. There are many variables that can affect how long a 
mortgage application will take to process and complete, this was even more the case during 
the pandemic. As a result, unfortunately due to wider circumstances outside of both parties 
control, Im not persuaded that Mrs Z, Mr A1 and Mr A2 would have been able to re-
mortgage before their existing mortgage reverted to the SVR.
Mrs Z, Mr A1 and Mr A2 re-mortgaged in July 2020. Im persuaded they re-mortgaged as 
soon as they were able to, but this was delayed due to the impact of the pandemic. Im not 
persuaded the delay in redemption was a direct result of Barclays mistake. 
As a result, Im not satisfied that Barclays mistake has led to the financial loss that Mrs Z 
claims. 
Mrs Z also asked Barclays to extend the current interest rate in the meantime whilst she was 
unable to move the mortgage elsewhere. I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclays to 
decline this. The interest rate had ended, and as Im not persuaded the reason Mrs Z was 
unable to re-mortgage was a result of Barclays mistake, I dont think they needed to reduce 
the interest rate. 
Barclays have offered a total of £300 in order to apologise for the distress and 
inconvenience their mistakes have caused across both mortgage accounts. Considering all 
the circumstances, I think this is a reasonable amount. Whilst I appreciate Mrs Z has 
explained the distress caused has been far greater, I think this situation was made 
significantly worse by the impact of the pandemic. Which whilst it was something outside of 
Mrs Zs control  it was not a direct result of Barclays actions, for the reasons Ive explained 
above.
So whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mrs Z, Mr A1 and Mr A2, I dont 
think Barclays need to do anything further to put things right.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A1, Mr A2 and 
Mrs Z to accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman