DRN-2328560
The complaint
Mrs Z complains about the poor service she received from The Share Centre Limited 
(TSC) when she phoned it to try to sell some shares and when she asked it to close her 
account and delete her information. She says shes lost money because she couldnt sell her 
shares when she wanted to.
What happened
When Mrs Z phoned TSC in September 2019 to sell her shares, she was told she had failed 
its electronic verification checks and that she would need to send in documentation to verify 
her identity before she could sell her shares. She said that, when she complained, TSC told 
her the member of staff shed spoken to was inexperienced.
TSC said that although Mrs Z had dealt with an inexperienced member of staff, it hadnt 
made a difference to the outcome. Mrs Z hadnt been able to sell her shares because TSC 
hadnt been able to verify her identity. It confirmed that it had acted on her instructions to 
close her account and that it would remove her details from its records on receipt of a written 
instruction to do so. 
After Mrs Z referred her complaint to this service, TSC told us that it had provided her with 
some wrong information. It said it could act on her email instruction to delete all personal 
information it held about her.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld, concluding that, 
whilst the need to check Mrs Zs identify might be frustrating, TSC hadnt made any errors in 
requesting the additional information. 
Mrs Z didnt agree. She said, in summary, that:
She shouldnt be penalised for a member of staffs inexperience.
Someone should have told the member of staff that one share certificate contained her 
middle name and the other one didnt.
The member of staff shouldnt have been given the responsibility of taking instructions to 
sell shares because he was unprepared.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSC accepts that the member of staff who Mrs Z spoke to when she tried to sell her shares 
was new and inexperienced, and that this inexperience showed in the way he didnt explain 
the situation to Mrs Z as clearly as he should have. I find that, despite an inexperienced 
member of staff being involved, TSC didnt make an error here. TSC has various legal and 
regulatory obligations which it is required to fulfil to prevent money laundering and fraud. 
Unfortunately it couldnt successfully verify Mrs Zs identity using electronic checks. It says 
this is probably because Mrs Z had lived at her current address for less than five years. I 
accept this would have been very frustrating for Mrs Z. Shes provided evidence to show that 
she told the business which manages her investments that shed moved, and it had updated 
its records. But whether she did or didnt do this seems to make no difference to the 
outcome of the electronic checks. TSC was obliged to follow its procedures and it explained 
that, in order to take her instructions and sell her shares, it would need to see documentation 
so that it could complete its identity checks. 
So I dont find TSC made an error here. I would expect it to say sorry for the poor quality of 
the explanation Mrs Z received during the phone call. And I can see that, in response to her 
complaint, it did apologise for any distress caused. I consider this to be fair and reasonable.
Mrs Z says she received several emails after shed asked for her account to be closed and 
that this made things confusing. When an account with TSC is opened or closed, various 
communication is automatically generated, and I can see TSC apologised that Mrs Z would 
have received this.
Mrs Z says the price of the shares she wanted to sell has gone down. For the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont find TSC has made a mistake, so it follows that I dont find it is obliged to 
compensate her for any difference in share price.
TSC has told us that, if Mrs Z wants to sell her shares, she can still arrange this with TSC, 
but she will need to send it the required information for it to verify her identity.
Turning to Mrs Zs right to be forgotten request. TSC wrongly told Mrs Z that it needed her 
request in writing. It hasnt deleted her personal data whilst her complaint has still been 
under investigation. But its told us it will accept her original instruction to delete her personal 
records after this complaint is closed. I dont find that it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman