DRN-3036106
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) didn't deal with a claim under her 
travel insurance policy as it should have.
What happened
Mrs S had a travel insurance policy with IPA. She travelled abroad on 13 December 2019 
and returned on 10 January 2020.
On arrival at her destination her baggage had been delayed. When it arrived at the airport 
Mrs S had to take a taxi to the airport to collect it.
While on her holiday Mrs S also had a rucksack stolen, the contents of which belonged to 
her, although some of them she had bought to be used by a disabled child she was visiting.
On her return to the UK in January 2020, Mrs S made two claims on her travel insurance 
policy, one for the taxi to collect her delayed baggage. The second one for the stolen 
rucksack and its contents to the value of £601.57.
IPA declined the first claim in March 2020, as delayed baggage is not covered under the 
policy Mrs S has. It overlooked the second claim and didn't begin dealing with this until 
November 2020 and reached its outcome in January 2021.
IPA agreed to pay some of this claim but declined to cover the items Mrs S had taken for the 
use of the child she was visiting. Meaning after depreciation and the excess Mrs S had to 
pay, IPA valued her claim at £70.33.
Mrs S complained to IPA, it upheld her complaint regarding delays, offering her £75 for this, 
but didnt uphold her complaint about the outcome of her claims. Mrs S remained unhappy 
and so brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator upheld Mrs S complaint, in summary he said that even though not all the 
items in Mrs S bag was for her own use. She had proved she had purchased them and was 
travelling with them in her possession when they were stolen, so they should be covered. He 
also believed IPA should increase its offer for compensation from £75 to £250, as he felt 
delaying the claim for almost a year was unacceptable. IPA initially disagreed with the 
investigator but later agreed to his findings. Mrs S also agreed to the investigators findings, 
so he arranged for the complaint to be closed.
IPA contacted Mrs S to let her know her revised claim value, taking into account all items, 
minus depreciation and the £50 excess, was £376.08. Mrs S then contacted the investigator 
and said she no longer agreed that he had considered the compensation for delays fairly. 
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate I have summarised the detail of Mrs S complaint in far less detail than she has 
in her submissions. This is not meant as a discourtesy, but as both parties have agreed to 
the outcome and value of the claim, Ive only considered the compensation for delays in this 
decision. Having done so I have to tell Mrs S, Ive reached the same outcome as our 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons, Ill explain.
Mrs S initially registered her claim for the stolen backpack in January 2020, she didnt submit 
the forms and evidence immediately as she had to gather her receipts and proof of 
ownership. The full details were submitted on 14 March 2020, IPA mistakenly declined the 
claim on 4 November 2020 and then eventually made an offer on it on 21 January 2021.
There were delays of around seven and a half months between it being submitted and 
incorrectly declined. Then a further two months of it being looked into before being partially 
accepted.
IPA has told us that during that time Mrs S made a number of calls to IPA where she was 
rude or abusive to its staff and those calls had to be terminated. I understand that Mrs S was 
frustrated with the handling and delays of her claim, but I dont think its appropriate to take 
those frustrations out on IPAs staff members.  
I do agree with Mrs S that these delays and the incorrect exclusion of some of her items was 
unfair and unacceptable, and so I think its right that Mrs S should be compensated. 
When taking all things into account Im satisfied that £250 is a fair compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the delays in IPA dealing with Mrs S claim.
Putting things right
As its already agreed IPA should settle the claim including all items contained in the stolen 
rucksack  minus depreciation. It is entitled to deduct any excess due from the amount it 
pays Mrs S. It should add 8% simple interest to Mrs S claim from the date the Mrs S 
submitted the full details on 14 March 2020 until the date of payment.
It should also pay Mrs S £250 for the delays and service it provided when dealing with her 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint about Inter 
Partner Assistance SA, and now require it to.
Settle Mrs S claim in line with the instructions above adding 8% simple interest 
Pay Mrs S £250 distress and inconvenience 
Her Majestys Revenue & Customs may require that IPA deduct tax from the interest paid to Mrs S. If it does 
and Mrs S requests it, IPA must provide her with a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off, so she may 
reclaim it if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman