DRN-3210924
The complaint
Mr C complains that St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) failed to provide him 
with information about his pension fund in a timely manner. He also complains about the 
system SJP uses to communicate with him.
What happened
Mr C had a pension fund with SJP. He contacted it at the end of January 2021 and asked it 
to provide him with advice about his retirement options. He says SJP wasnt able to provide 
information to him in the way hed asked.
Mr C says its not good enough for SJP to only provide him with information using a standard 
approach. He says it should be able to provide him with advice in the way that he requests 
and not just in the way that suits SJPs systems. He says SJP was ultimately able to provide 
him with the information he sought. It did that in March 2021. He says this shows SJP hadnt 
been honest when it told him it couldnt provide him with an illustration in the way hed 
requested.
In addition, SJP used encrypted emails to correspond with Mr C. Mr C says this method of 
communication is not suitable because he cannot download or store the emails and the 
emails disappear off the system after 90 days. He says he needs to be able to access the 
information for at least two tax years. Mr C says encryption of emails was a reduction in 
service level which has introduced a barrier to him being able to access information which is 
necessary to make decisions on his investments. He asked for this to be added to his 
complaint.
SJP investigated his complaints. On 13 April 2021 it issued a final response letter to the 
issues hed raised about the information hed requested at the end of January 2021 and start 
of February 2021. It said it had responded to his queries and provided information to him at 
the time. It had told him it would have discussed the information with him at a review meeting 
scheduled for 12 February 2021. It didnt think there had been an unreasonable delay 
providing him with the information before he logged his complaint on 9 February 2021. It said 
it had now provided Mr C with the information he'd requested and whilst it didnt accept any 
redress was due, it acknowledged Mr C had been caused trouble and upset as a result of 
the time taken to respond to his concerns. It offered him £250 by way of apology.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with this response. He said it didnt address the issues hed raised. 
SJP sent a further letter to Mr C on 20 April 2021. It said it only sent communications to its 
clients by post or encrypted emails for the reasons explained on its website. It said Mr C 
could save encrypted emails in .pdf format or he could take screenshots if he wanted to 
retain the information for more than 90 days. 
SJP said Mr C had complained on 9 February which was prior to the date the review 
meeting had been scheduled. As a result thered been a delay in providing the information to 
him, which was due in part, it said, to its advisor seeking confirmation that he could continue 
to communicate with Mr C about the matters hed complained about.
Mr C didnt agree. He referred his complaint to our service. He also told us SJP had taken an 
unreasonable period of time to respond to his complaint and had ignored one of his 
complaints in its final response letter.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. He thought SJP had explained to Mr C why 
emails were encrypted. He said our service had no remit to tell SJP to alter its approach and 
there was no evidence that SJP was treating Mr C differently to how it treated its other 
customers.
Our investigator also looked at how Mr Cs request for information had been dealt with. SJP 
had a method of providing cashflow projections and he thought it was reasonable for it to 
use its standard approach. It had also offered to meet Mr C to discuss the matter. Our 
investigator said that answers to some of the questions Mr C had raised had not been 
forthcoming and some of the information had initially been inaccurate. But, the information 
had been provided to him, albeit two months later. Our investigator thought these matters 
were servicing issues and Mr C hadnt suffered any financial loss as a result. He thought the 
offer of £250 was fair and reasonable.
Mr C responded to what our investigator had said. He said he was willing to accept £250 for 
the service failure. But, he thought it was ridiculous to say that SJP could use its standard 
approach. He thought that was the same as saying it could deliver whatever service it 
wanted and didnt have to offer advice other than in the way it chose. He thought our 
investigator had failed to address the fact that Mr C paid SJP an Adviser fee. Mr C also said 
the encrypted email service was a reduction in service level.
Our investigator considered what Mr C had said. SJP confirmed that there had not been any 
change in its encryption policy since the date when Mr C had accepted its terms of business. 
So, our investigator didnt change his view.
Because Mr C disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has raised several issues about the service he received. Ill deal with each separately:
Mr Cs request for information about a target retirement date of age 60
Ive looked closely at the sequence of events here.
Mr C sent an email to SJP on 30 January 2021. That email set out a proposed plan to retire 
at age 60 with an initial income of £3,000 per month. It also included information about 
potential additional capital being available from around age 65. From age 65 Mr C said he 
wanted to use this additional capital and his pension fund to provide an income of £2,500 per 
month.
In his email Mr C also indicated that he had other reserves available to him including 
premium bonds, a potential inheritance at age 65 and proceeds from the potential future sale 
of a second home he owned.
At the end of the email he posed two questions and asked for some projections and advice: 
His questions were:Is this a realistic plan and what actions might need to be taken to make it 
easier and/or tax efficient tax efficient; and
Is there  any risk or disadvantage with taking the tax free lump sum earlier 
and investing it in different tax free investment vehicles and are the charges 
higher?
 
The adviser responded the same day and said he would get back to Mr C the following week 
with projections and thoughts. 
On 3 February 2021 SJP sent Mr C a cash flow modelling report. Mr C wasnt happy with 
this report because he didnt think it had taken account of everything hed told SJP in his 
initial request. He also didnt think it was appropriate for SJP to use a standard model when 
responding to his request for advice.
There was a series of subsequent emails exchanged. At this point, Mr C wrote to SJP to 
express his frustrations. He said he wanted to know if the level of income hed mentioned in 
his earlier email could be sustained. He also asked further questions about the tax 
implications of taking income as opposed to a tax free lump sum.
SJPs adviser wrote to Mr C on 4 February 2021. I think this was an important email because 
in it SJP explained that there were various multifaceted options available to Mr C and each 
of those options could have different implications. But, by way of summary SJP assured Mr 
C:
..your plan is achievable and sustainable, however, ultimately the income streams 
will be taxable.
It is important to note that SJP offered to explain all the models that had been provided to 
Mr C at the meeting which had been scheduled for 12 February 2021. This offer to explain 
the models had also been included in SJPs email of 3 February when the cash flow 
modelling was sent to Mr C initially.
Mr C wasnt happy with this response. On 9 February, he asked for further projections and 
cancelled the meeting. He complained to SJP that it had failed to provide the advice hed 
asked it for and the advice it had provided was riddled with errors. He set out again the 
information he wanted. 
I can see that SJP did provide him with all of the information he wanted, in the format hed 
requested, on 10 March 2021  which was just over a month after hed requested it. Part of 
the reason for that delay appears to have been the fact that a complaint had been raised and 
the adviser was uncertain whether that should be resolved before he could respond to the 
specific information request.
Having looked at the sequence of events here, Im not persuaded that SJP has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. Whilst there were issues with some of the information in the cash 
flow reports provided to Mr C, those reports were provided to him in the context that there 
would be a meeting to discuss his requirements and to provide advice on how his objectives 
could be achieved. SJP also offered to explain the cash flow modelling report at the meeting. 
But, Mr C wasnt prepared to attend the meeting until he got all the information hed 
requested. 
Id just point out that when Mr C first contacted SJP on 4 February he had concluded his 
email with a request for some projections and advice (emphasis added). The advice Mr C was seeking here was about decisions that would have a significant impact 
on his future and his retirement plans. Giving advice in these circumstances is regulated by 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The adviser is required to assess the clients 
demands and needs, consider how those demands and needs can be met, set out the 
advantages and disadvantages of the various options available and then make a personal 
recommendation to the client about how to proceed. This requires the clients active 
participation  which generally includes a conversation during which information is 
exchanged and different options are presented, evaluated and assessed against the clients 
objectives. So, I think it was reasonable, given the wording in the email from Mr C, for SJP to 
expect that there would be a meeting to discuss things further rather than simply provide 
information by way of response to his request.
Mr C has complained that SJP was only willing to give him advice using standard models. 
But, whilst the information it had sent to him was compiled using a standard model, I dont 
think SJP intended the cash flow modelling to be treated as advice. It was one of the tools 
that SJP intended to use when providing advice to Mr C about how he should proceed and it 
had told him it would explain the cash flow modelling report in more detail at the scheduled 
meeting.
Mr C has commented on the fact that he was paying an advisor fee to SJP. Having looked 
at the exchange of emails, Im satisfied SJP was willing to give Mr C advice  its email of 4 
February makes that clear. And, I think if hed attended the meeting that had been scheduled 
for 12 February, SJP wouldve been able to progress his request for advice. 
Having considered everything here, Im not persuaded Mr C was willing to engage with SJP 
in the way that would have enabled it to give him advice about how best to achieve his 
objectives. As mentioned above, it did send him the information he requested on 10 March 
2021  but that letter was not an advice letter, it did not contain a personal recommendation. 
There was a delay sending this information to Mr C, but having taken everything into 
account, Im not persuaded SJP acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Encryption of emails
Mr C says that SJP has refused to communicate with him using standard (unencrypted) 
email. Instead, he says, it insists on using a system where emails are encrypted and deleted 
after a three month period. Although he can download and retain emails, any attachments 
are undated. He says this means he isnt able to access important information. He says he 
needs to be able to access these emails for at least two tax years.
SJP says it introduced encrypted emails in 2016. It didnt proactively inform its clients at that 
time about the introduction of encrypted emails. Mr C says that it should have informed its 
clients because this change was a reduction in service levels.
Ive looked at the process that occurs when SJP sends an encrypted email. The client 
receives an alert with a link to the email. The link expires after thirty days. There is also a link 
to questions and answers which provide more detail about why encryption is used and how 
the service works. Once the client clicks on the link, there is a registration process during 
which a password is selected and a validation code is sent. 
So, although SJP didnt formally write to its clients to tell them about the introduction of 
encryption, I dont think it needed to do that. I say this because the client was informed as 
soon as the first encrypted email was received and was invited to register for the service. 
The questions and answers also made clear the reasons why encryption had been 
introduced. I dont consider those reasons to be unreasonable given the goal was to improve the security of client information. Mr C didnt have to register for the service. He still had the 
option to receive his correspondence by post if he preferred that method.
After Mr C complained about the retention periods for the emails, SJP told him it could send 
him correspondence by post if he didnt want encrypted emails. It also told him that if he 
wanted to retain encrypted emails for longer than 90 days, he could save the email as a .pdf 
or screenshot. SJP also indicated it was willing to provide further assistance if he required it.
Mr C has a choice about whether to use the encrypted email service or not and he has been 
given information about how he can retain the information for longer periods, if he does 
choose to use the encrypted service. Having considered everything, Im satisfied SJP acted 
fairly and reasonably when it sent encrypted emails to Mr C.
Complaint handling
Mr C says that SJP took an unreasonable period of time to consider his complaint and its 
response ignored one part of his complaint.
SJP has offered Mr C £250, without prejudice, by way of compensation for the trouble and 
upset hed been caused as a result of the time taken to respond to his concerns. Our 
investigator thought that was fair and reasonable. I also think it is fair and reasonable.  That 
said, under the rules which apply to our service, we cannot look into complaints which are 
solely about how a business handled a complaint. Thats because complaint handling is not 
itself a regulated activity. It means I cant tell SJP what to do in this respect, although I would 
hope that it honours its £250 offer, if it hasnt done so already.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about St. Jamess Place Wealth 
Management Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman