DRN-3271379
The complaint
Miss O complains about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC handled her chargeback claim.
What happened
Around February 2020, Miss O asked Barclays to start a chargeback claim for a payment 
she authorised in January, which was for a car shed purchased. Miss O told Barclays she 
was unhappy with the purchase because the car was faulty. She said the merchant had 
made an attempt at repairing the car, but this hadnt resolved the problem, so she now 
wanted a refund. Miss O said the merchant wasnt willing to help and was unresponsive to 
her communication attempts.
After Barclays started the chargeback process, both Miss O and the merchant provided 
submissions to support each side of the chargeback claim. Barclays later decided to decline 
the chargeback. Miss O complained because she felt the bank gave her misleading 
information at the time. Miss O says she was told shed be given two opportunities to submit 
evidence to support her claim and was advised to withhold some information in the 
beginning, so shed have further evidence to submit the second time around  but this 
second opportunity wasnt given to her. Miss O also says she was never given copies of the 
merchants evidence despite notifying Barclays it hadnt sent this to her. As a resolution, 
Miss O wants to be reimbursed the value of the payment  which was £3,700.
In its response, Barclays stood by its decision to decline the chargeback and said it had 
followed the process correctly. The bank explained that the merchant demonstrated that 
Miss O had accepted its terms and conditions and that the payment was legitimate. Miss O 
remained unhappy and asked this service to review what had happened.
Originally, one of our investigators decided that Barclays had acted fairly. After the 
investigator looked into things further, she concluded that Barclays had indeed given Miss O 
misleading information as well as failed to send her the merchants evidence. However, the 
investigator was satisfied that this didnt impact the outcome of Miss Os chargeback claim, 
concluding that Barclays had fairly relied on the merchants evidence and declined the 
chargeback. 
The investigator added that Miss O was still in possession of the car, so she didnt satisfy the 
requirements of the relevant rules. Our investigator recommended that the bank pay Miss O 
£150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused her.
Barclays agreed with our investigators recommendation. Miss O didnt agree  she felt it 
wasnt practical for her to return the car to the merchant and thinks she satisfies the 
requirements of the relevant rules given she made an attempt to return the car. Miss O feels 
the chargeback claim should be decided by the relevant card scheme (VISA) and not the 
bank.
Because Miss O didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did Barclays give Miss O misleading information?
Ive listened to the calls that took place between Miss O and Barclays around the time. 
During one of the calls, I can see Miss O was told by the Barclays representative that she 
should withhold her evidence until after the merchant submits its own evidence. She was 
also advised shed have a second opportunity to challenge the merchants submission. I 
cant say for certain whether this advice was in line with the chargeback process Barclays 
follows. But it seems to me that this advice was indeed misleading as Miss O wasnt given 
multiple opportunities to submit further evidence. So I can understand why this caused 
distress to Miss O, as she felt the chargeback claim was decided without her putting forward 
all the information that she believes would support her claim.
I can see that Barclays wrote to Miss O in March 2020, explaining that its letter is 
accompanied by the merchants submission regarding the chargeback claim. Miss O wrote 
back around a week later, pointing out that the bank didnt enclose the information from the 
merchant. I cant see that these documents were ever sent to Miss O, so I can understand 
why she feels she was never given the opportunity to fully represent her side of the facts and 
challenge the merchants submission.
I share our investigators view that Barclays acted unfairly by giving misleading advice to 
Miss O and for failing to send her a copy of the merchants submission. But, for the reasons 
Ill set out below, Im not of the view that Barclays unfairly declined Miss Os chargeback 
claim.
Did Barclays unfairly decline the chargeback?
Before I set out my view on this point, I think its useful to point out that the chargeback 
scheme is a voluntary code that Barclays is part of. Theres no guarantee that a chargeback 
claim will be successful in recovering funds for a customer and Barclays is required to follow 
the relevant card scheme rules  which, in this case is set out by VISA. Ive considered 
these rules as part of my decision.
The chargeback process allows the relevant merchant the opportunity to defend the claim. 
Generally, card issuers wont take a chargeback any further at this stage if the submission 
by the merchant is satisfactory. But, if the bank thinks its necessary, the claim can be 
escalated to the arbitration stage  where the card scheme (in this case VISA) decides 
whether the chargeback should be granted based on its rules. As part of my decision, Ive 
considered whether Barclays fairly declined the chargeback and whether it shouldve 
escalated the claim to arbitration.
Looking at the VISA rules, I think Miss O had a valid reason to raise a dispute. The rules say 
that a dispute may be raised where the purchased goods are damaged or defective or where 
the cardholder disputes the quality of the goods. However, having a valid reason for dispute 
doesnt necessarily mean the chargeback shouldve been successful and that Miss O 
shouldve had the payment returned to her account. 
The VISA rules say that before a dispute is initiated, the cardholder must return or attempt to 
return the goods. At the time the chargeback claim was raised, Miss O still had possession 
of the car she purchased from the merchant. Miss O says she attempted to return the car, 
but the merchant stopped communicating with her and had moved its business to a different location. Miss O says she visited the location she purchased the car from, but the merchant 
was no longer trading from there.
However, I dont think Miss O satisfies the VISA rules for attempting a return. I say this 
because the rules say that Miss O needs to show that the merchant either refused the 
return, instructed her not to or refused to provide a return merchandise authorisation. Ive 
looked at the submissions the merchant sent to Barclays and I cant see anything that 
suggests the merchant acted in a way to prevent Miss O returning the car. 
Miss O says she wrote to the merchant in February 2020, which was the first time she 
requested a refund and shes provided a screen shot of the messages sent to the merchant 
at the time. Again, I cant see anything in these messages that suggest the return was 
rejected or that Miss O was ignored.
Miss O says she visited the merchants business address to return the car but, by then the 
merchant had moved to another location. Ive looked into the new business location for the 
merchant and it seems to me that the merchant had moved further away from Miss Os 
home address. So I can appreciate Miss Os comments about the journey. I also understand 
Miss Os reluctance to take time off work to drive the car to the merchants new location  
especially given shes self-employed.  
However, in my opinion, it wouldnt have been unreasonable for Miss O to drive to the 
merchants new business address to return the car. Although the merchant was now located 
further away from her, it doesnt seem to be an unreasonable distance in comparison to the 
location Miss O made the purchase from. And, I can see from one of the calls Miss O had 
with Barclays, that the bank informed her of the need to return the car  so it seems likely to 
me that she was aware that she needed to do so in order to get her money back. 
Taking into account the VISA rules, Im not of the view that the merchants move to a 
different location demonstrates a refusal or instruction not to return the car.
Barclays says it decided to decline the chargeback claim because the merchant was able 
and willing to provide services to Miss O. It added that Miss O had accepted the merchants 
terms and conditions and that the payment she now disputes, is a genuine payment for the 
agreement she made with the merchant. Ive considered the information submitted by the 
merchant and I think Barclays acted fairly in reaching this conclusion  Ill explain why.
The merchant has provided the following documents that form part of the sale of the car to 
Miss O:
a pre-delivery inspection form  which details an extensive list of parts and functions 
of the car that were inspected. Miss O seems to have signed this form declaring that 
all listed items have been inspected
the merchants terms and conditions  this sets out the terms for rejecting the car or 
arranging repairs via the merchant and, among other things, sets out the complaints 
procedure
an invoice for the sale of the car  this highlights that the car was sold as seen with 
no warranty. Theres also a separate note setting out that Miss O was given a three-
month gearbox and engine warranty
and an invoice for the repairs that were arranged by the merchant
The information from the merchant suggests Miss O was happy with her purchase at the 
time. I dont doubt that a fault emerged shortly after the purchase and the inspection report 
Miss O provided, as well as the repair invoice the merchant submitted, makes it apparent 
that something went wrong. Miss O tells this service that the merchant remained unwilling to help and became 
unresponsive to her communications. But the evidence tells me otherwise. It seems the 
merchant agreed a three-month engine and gearbox warranty at the point of sale and so it 
went ahead and arranged for repairs to the car. If the merchant was unwilling to help Miss O, 
I think its unlikely that the merchant wouldve arranged repairs at its own expense. 
Miss O sent us an itemised phone bill covering February 2020, showing multiple calls that 
were made to the merchant. I can see that some of these lasted at least a few minutes  this 
suggests to me that she was able to speak with the merchant for at least some of these 
calls. I cant say for certain that the merchant engaged with Miss O on every occasion she 
made contact with it, but the length of some of the calls makes me think that the merchant 
wasnt as unresponsive as Miss O suggests. And, as I said earlier, I cant see anything that 
makes me think Miss O couldnt return the vehicle or that the merchant refused the return.
As our investigator mentioned, the merchant claims Miss O prevented the dispute from being 
resolved and ignored the merchants communications. I havent seen anything that 
substantiates this claim, so I havent taken this into account as part of my decision.
Miss O thinks the chargeback shouldve been escalated to VISA to decide. But, as Ive set 
out above, I think Barclays took into account the submissions from both parties. And I think it 
fairly declined the chargeback  in line with the VISA rules. So Im of the view that the bank 
acted reasonably when it didnt escalate the chargeback to VISA to decide.
In summary, Barclays has to take into account the VISA rules as part of this chargeback 
claim. Under the rules, Miss O needed to return the vehicle; or attempt to return it in order to 
satisfy the requirements of the rules. In my opinion, Barclays acted fairly when it decided to 
decline the chargeback claim and not escalate the dispute to arbitration. So I wont be asking 
the bank to review its chargeback decision.
Putting things right
Barclays acted unfairly when it gave inaccurate information to Miss O about the chargeback 
process. The bank also failed to send her a copy of the merchants submission.
From what Miss O tells us, she was already going through a stressful time because shed 
purchased a car that developed a fault soon after. The banks failings wouldve only added 
further stress and inconvenience to her. To put things right, Barclays should pay Miss O 
£150 compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding this complaint in part. To put things right, 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Miss O £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman