DRN-2978868
The complaint
Miss G complains that Nationwide Building Society told her she was eligible for an interest-
free arranged overdraft for 12 months, when she wasnt.
Shed like: to switch back to her previous account; a refund of the overdraft interest charged; 
reimbursement of fees shes paid for breakdown cover as a result of losing the package of 
benefits she had with her previous account; and compensation.
What happened
In February 2021 Miss G changed her Nationwide current account from a Flex Plus to a Flex 
Direct account. Shes said she did this because she was told she could take advantage of an 
interest-free arranged overdraft for 12 months by switching.
On 18 May 2021 Nationwide debited £136 from Miss Gs account. This was interest on her 
overdraft. Miss G complained.
In their final response Nationwide accepted that Miss G had been given incorrect information 
about her eligibility for the interest-free overdraft; she wasnt eligible because shed 
previously held a Flex Direct account. Nationwide apologised for the mis-information, 
refunded the interest charged on 18 May, agreed to remove the interest incurred in May up 
to the point Miss G cleared her overdrawn balance, and offered to switch Miss G back to a 
Flex Plus account if she contacted their call centre.
Unhappy with this response Miss G brought her complaint here.
What Nationwide told us
Nationwide said they were aware of Miss Gs circumstances and told us they had previously 
refunded overdraft interest to help her. They accepted Miss G had been given incorrect 
information about her eligibility for the interest-free overdraft but said theyd not be refunding 
what shed paid for breakdown cover because she knew that by switching her account, shed 
lose that benefit. They added that Miss G has since paid off the overdraft facility and that 
they wouldnt look to refund any further charges.
What Miss G told us
Miss G told us that she wouldnt have switched her account if she hadnt been told shed get 
an interest-free arranged overdraft for 12 months. She says she would have stayed with the 
Flex Plus account because it had more benefits. She also told us Nationwide didnt refund all 
the overdraft charges until August 2021. Miss G feels Nationwide are treating her badly and 
that its personal.
Our investigators view
Our investigator upheld Miss Gs complaint. She said it was clear Miss G had switched from 
Flex Plus to Flex Direct on the basis of incorrect information provided by Nationwide. And 
that shed wrongly been given the expectation of 0% interest on her overdraft for a year.
She said she was satisfied Nationwide had now refunded the overdraft interest theyd said 
they would, and she thought that was fair in the circumstances. She also said Nationwide 
should refund the additional costs Miss G had incurred for her breakdown cover (£11 per 
month from February 2021) because it was only Nationwides incorrect information that had 
prompted Miss G to switch away from the Flex Plus account and its benefits. And she said 
Nationwide should pay Miss G £100 in recognition of the inconvenience and distress caused 
by misinforming her about her eligibility for an interest-free overdraft.
Our investigator said its reasonable to expect Miss G to contact Nationwide if she now 
wishes to open a new Flex Plus account. Finally, she said shed found no evidence to 
suggest Miss Gs treatment by Nationwide had been targeted or deliberate.
Miss G didnt accept this. She said Nationwide delayed refunding the interest. And she said 
Nationwide should switch her back to a Flex Plus account automatically as though shed 
never switched in February 2021. Finally, she said the £100 compensation isnt enough 
because shes had to chase Nationwide to get her refund and been rebuffed and ignored. 
She said shes been treated inhumanely and discriminated against based on her disability, 
gender and ethnicity.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. I uphold Miss Gs complaint and agree that Nationwide should reimburse the 
extra shes paid for breakdown cover and pay her £100 compensation. Ill explain why I think 
this is fair compensation.
Nationwide misinformed Miss G that if she switched her account from a Flex Plus to a Flex 
Direct shed benefit from 0% interest on her overdraft balance. This was an attractive option 
for Miss G given her financial situation at the time and she promptly switched, which meant 
losing the benefits of the Flex Plus account and paying separately for breakdown cover.
If Miss G hadnt been misinformed and hadnt switched, shed have paid the usual monthly 
fee for the Flex Plus account (£13) and been charged interest on her overdraft.
But due to Nationwides mistake, Miss G ended up paying £24 a month for her breakdown 
cover (£11 more per month than the Flex Plus account fee) and her expectation of an 
interest free overdraft wasnt met. Indeed, she continued to be charged interest on her 
overdraft until she paid it off on 25 May 2021.
The decision to switch meant Miss G incurred a financial loss of £11 a month which she 
wouldnt otherwise have incurred. So, I agree with the investigator that Nationwide should 
refund the additional cost Miss G paid for her breakdown cover from February 2021. I think 
reimbursing this cost until December 2021 or until such time as Miss G has returned to a 
Flex Plus account (whichever is sooner) is fair as thatll give her an opportunity to re-open 
her Flex Plus and cancel her separate breakdown cover.
The decision to switch also caused Miss G some distress and inconvenience. Im mindful 
that she was upset when she discovered she was still being charged interest, and because she wasnt expecting this cost the interest charge left her short of funds. Shes also had to 
chase Nationwide after they agreed to refund. To acknowledge this, I think its reasonable 
that Nationwide pay Miss G £100.
But I dont agree with Miss G that Nationwide should pay more than this because I find 
theyve already gone a significant way to remedying what happened here by refunding the 
overdraft interest.
This interest would have been charged even if Miss G hadnt been misinformed and shed 
stayed with the Flex Plus account. And its not certain this interest would have been 
refunded if Miss G had stayed with the Flex Plus account. Although Nationwide had given 
Miss G some relief from overdraft charges on the Flex Plus account since March 2020 due 
to her work being disrupted by the pandemic, this was a temporary measure. By refunding 
the overdraft interest as they have done, Nationwide have effectively given Miss G an 
interest free period despite her ineligibility for the interest free overdraft.
So, in the round, and taking into account the fact that Miss G has received a refund of 
interest, I think £100 is fair compensation.
Miss G has said that Nationwide should switch her back to a Flex Plus account as though 
she never switched in February 2021, and she thinks Nationwide should do this without her 
having to make contact with them. But, like our investigator, I dont think its unreasonable to 
expect Miss G to make contact with Nationwides call centre to arrange this. That said, if 
Miss G chooses to switch back to the Flex Plus account, Id expect the benefits of the 
account to be available to her as if shed never switched away.
Miss G has also said that shes been discriminated against on the basis of her disability, 
gender and ethnicity. I understand her to be saying that Nationwide have, by misinforming 
her about her eligibility for an interest-free arranged overdraft, and prompting her to switch 
away from her Flex Plus account, treated her less favourably than other customers and 
because of her protected characteristics.
I know that Miss G has very particular experiences of Nationwide which make her feel this 
way, and so I can appreciate why she thinks whats happened here was something more 
than poor customer service. But Ive seen nothing to suggest Miss G was given incorrect 
information in February 2021 deliberately, or as a result of those past experiences. Nor do I 
think she was treated less favourably than other customers  the terms and conditions of 
Nationwides current accounts make it clear that if someone has previously held a 
Nationwide current account they wont be entitled to any introductory rate or offer for that 
product again. So, Im satisfied that no customer who, like Miss G, had previously had a Flex 
Direct account with an interest-free overdraft wouldve been eligible for that interest free 
overdraft again.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, to put things right Nationwide Building Society should:
refund the additional cost Miss G paid for her breakdown cover from February 2021 
until she re-opens her Flex Plus account (or until December 2021 if thats sooner); 
and
pay Miss G £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by misinforming her 
about her eligibility for an interest-free overdraft if she switched her account.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold Miss Gs complaint about Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman