DRN-3341213
The complaint
Mr Y complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of his claim following an accident, 
under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Y was involved in a car accident. He claimed to AXA and it determined his car was a total 
loss. As his car couldnt be repaired it offered a settlement payment for the market value. Mr 
Y didnt think its offer was fair. He also questioned the policy excess charge and the 20% 
reduction AXA applied for the car having been previously written-off. 
AXA told Mr Y his car couldnt be returned to him as it was a Category B write-off. It says 
this meant it couldnt return to the road. His car had been written off during an earlier claim 
through AXA. But Mr Y had been able to retain the salvage and repair the car with the 
payment he received on that occasion. 
Mr Y also raised concerns with the standard of service he received from AXA whilst it 
handled his claim.
AXA paid Mr Y £125 compensation to acknowledge poor communication during its handling 
of his claim. This included long hold times when Mr Y contacted it by phone. But it says its 
valuation cannot be increased, the excess is always payable, and it applied a reduction for 
the previous write-off to reflect the impact this has on the cars market value. AXA 
maintained the car was a category B write-off and couldnt be repaired. 
Mr Y didnt think AXA had treated him fairly and referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. The valuation figures he obtained for Mr Ys car 
were less than the payment AXA had offered, so he didnt think its offer was unfair. He 
thought the policy terms were clear that an excess charge applied, and it was fair that a 
reduction was made to account for the previous write-off. 
Our investigator thought it was fair that the salvage of the car was retained given the 
category B write-off decision. And that AXAs compensation payment was reasonable for the 
poor service it had acknowledged.  
Mr Y didnt think this outcome was fair and asked for an ombudsman to consider his 
complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold this complaint. I understand Mr Y will be 
disappointed, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
I have split my decision into sections to cover the issues Mr Y raised. 
Valuation
Mr Ys car was determined to be a category B total loss after his accident. This category 
means the car cannot be repaired and must be scrapped. 
I have read Mr Ys policy terms to understand whats expected here. The terms say:
We will pay for loss of or damage to
1. Your car. 
We may choose to replace them, to repair them or pay an amount equal to the loss or 
damage. We will not pay more than the market value of your car at the time of the loss less 
any excesses.  
Also:
Market Value
The cost of replacing your car with another of the same make and model and of a similar 
age, mileage and condition at the time of the accident or loss. The market value may also be 
affected by other factors such as a valid MOT, how you purchased your car and whether it 
has previously been declared a total loss.
I have seen the engineer report that confirms it was uneconomical to attempt a repair of Mr 
Ys car. The report says, Repair costs will far exceed the vehicles PAV, with structural 
damage and SRS deployment. The vehicle is deemed to be unsuitable for any safe form of 
economic repair category 'B'. This supports AXAs decision to offer a settlement payment 
based on an estimate of the market value.  
My role here is to consider whether AXA has reached its valuation fairly and reasonably in 
line with the terms of the policy. 
The terms say the most AXA will pay is the market value of the car taken at the time of the 
loss. We find that generally the most reliable way to reach a fair valuation is to look at the 
industry trade guides. They provide valuations based on the same make, model, age, 
condition, and mileage of the car using a nationwide search giving likely selling prices. 
This is the approach AXA took. The engineers report shows it arrived at an average 
valuation of £1,245. However, it had valued the car at £1,700 when Mr Y made his claim 
earlier in 2021. AXA decided it was fair to use the higher valuation of £1,700 but to apply a 
20% reduction because the car had been declared a total loss earlier in 2021.
We obtained valuations from the main industry trade guides for Mr Ys car to see if AXA had 
treated Mr Y fairly. The average of these valuations gives a figure closer to the lower of 
AXAs valuation. Because it based its offer on the previous valuation for £1,700, which 
benefitted Mr Y, I dont think it behaved unfairly. 
We dont think its unreasonable for an insurer to apply a deduction when a car has 
previously been declared a write-off. This is likely to have a negative impact on the price a 
consumer is prepared to pay for the car, and therefore impacts on its market value. In the 
circumstances I dont think AXA behaved unfairly by deducting 20% from its valuation to 
reflect the fact the car had previously been a write-off. AXA also deducted the policy excess from its settlement payment. I have read Mr Ys policy 
terms to understand what is expected here. The terms say:
Excess/Excesses
The amount you must pay towards any claim even if the incident is not your fault. 
Mr Ys policy schedule shows an excess of £650 is applicable in the event of a claim. I 
understand he had already paid an excess charge in relation to the claim he made earlier in 
2021. But the policy terms are clear that an excess is payable toward any claim, which 
includes Mr Ys most recent. Because of this Im satisfied AXA has been fair in applying this 
charge in line with its policy terms. 
Salvage
Mr Y says he would like to have retained his car once AXA had confirmed its settlement 
offer. And says he couldnt have replaced it for the amount he was offered. 
I understand that Mr Y had been able to retain salvage of his car following his earlier claim in 
2021. He was able to arrange repairs himself using the settlement payment he received at 
that time. 
However, there is a difference here in that although the car was declared a total loss earlier 
in 2021 - it wasnt a category B write-off and didnt have to be scrapped. A category S or N 
write-off can be repaired, whereas a category B cant. So, there was no opportunity for Mr Y 
to arrange a repair himself on this occasion.
I can understand why Mr Y was disappointed as he couldnt replace his car for the payment 
he was offered. But I dont think its been shown that AXA treated him unfairly.    
    
Customer service
In its complaint response AXA acknowledged failings in the standard of customer service it 
provided to Mr Y. Particularly regarding the standard of communication. 
I have read the records provided and considered the testimony provided by both parties. 
AXA says Mr Y waited for long periods to get through on the phone. It also refers to him 
being passed around different departments. In the circumstances I think its fair for AXA to 
compensate Mr Y for these issues. But I dont think the time taken from Mr Y reporting the 
accident, to AXA communicating its settlement offer was unreasonable. 
In summary, having considered all of this, I dont think AXA treated Mr Y unfairly in relying on 
its policy terms and offering the settlement payment it did. The standard of service couldve 
been better, but I think its compensation payment for £125 was reasonable to acknowledge 
this. So, I cant fairly ask it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman