DRN-3026009
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that GE Money Home Lending Limited (GE Money) unfairly turned 
down their claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs B bought a timeshare membership from a business I will call C, in June 2006. 
The cost of the timeshare was £15,406 and that was paid by a deposit of £5,595 and a loan 
of £15,406 taken with GE Money. The loan was in joint names and set to run for 10 years. 
Both the deposit and the proceeds of the loan werent paid to C, but to a different business, 
F, that was said to act as a stakeholder. 
Mr and Mrs B made a subsequent purchase from C in May 2007 and a complaint about this 
has been decided by this service separately.
Mr and Mrs B said that when they took out the timeshare they were told that booking would 
be say and there was sufficient availability, the product was a resalable investment and the 
resorts were for members only. They say they were pressurised during the sales process 
and the timeshare constitution was later amended.
So Mr and Mrs B said that C misrepresented the product to them at the time of sale and 
breached its agreement with them by failing to make suitable holidays available. Mr and Mrs 
B said that had they known what C said wasnt right, they would not have taken out the 
membership in the first place.
In February 2018 Mr and Mrs B, using a representative, complained to GE Money. It said the 
loan was paid off in 2007. As the sale took place many years before the complaint, GE 
Money said that meant the complaint had been brought too late under the relevant 
provisions contained in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). It also noted that the loan proceeds 
had been paid to F and not C, so it didnt think there were the right types of agreements in 
place for the CCA to apply to this complaint.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think GE Money needed to do 
anything further. They agreed that the claim under s.75 and s.140A CCA had been brought 
too late, so they didnt think GE Money needed to consider the substance of the claim. They 
also looked at s.140A CCA, but they didnt think that provision applied as the loan predated 
the enactment of that provision.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative responded to explain why they thought the complaint had 
been brought in time. So the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to tell GE Money to do anything further to resolve the matter 
and Ive explained why below.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
I also have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision. And 
I want to assure Mr and Mrs B, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not 
because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to 
us. But, Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Were there the right arrangements in place for Mr and Mrs B to make a claim under the 
CCA?
Under s.75 CCA, a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a precondition to a claim under 
that provision. The same agreement is needed for the timeshare contract to be considered 
under s.140A CCA. GE Money has said that here there was no such agreement in this case, 
as the supplier of the timeshare was C, but the loan proceeds went to a different business, 
F, so no claim could be brought.
Having considered all of the evidence and law, I dont think the position is as simple as GE 
Money suggests. There is case law that demonstrates that it is possible a court would 
conclude that there were the right arrangements in place that gave rise to Mr and Mrs Bs 
claim under s.75 and s140A CCA. What is crucial is the relationship between the supplier of 
the service C and the business that took the payment F. But Ive not gone on to make a 
finding on that point as, even if I did think there were the right relationships in place for the 
claim, I think GE Money would have a total defence under the LA.
Was the claim under s.75 CCA brought in time?
Mr and Mrs B said that C misrepresented to them the nature and benefits of the timeshare 
agreement and breached its agreement with them, so they say GE Money is jointly liable 
under s.75 CCA. But if GE Money could show the claim was brought outside of the time 
limits set out in the LA, it would be entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to answering the 
claim. I should make it clear however that Im not deciding if any right that Mr and Mrs B may 
have to bring these claims has expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts. In this 
decision Im considering if GE Money has acted fairly and reasonably in turning down Mr and 
Mrs Bs claims.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under s.2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967. It was held in Laws v. The Society of Lloyds [2003] EWCA 1887 
that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered by s.2 LA or an action brought for 
a sum recoverable by statute within s.9 LA. Under both of those provisions, a claimant has a 
period of six years to bring a claim from the date on which the cause of action accrued.
Here Mr and Mrs B brought a like claim against GE Money under s.75 CCA. That claim was 
brought under the CCA, so would be covered by s.9 LA. Again, it means Mr and Mrs B had 
six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to being a claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. So, in Mr and Mrs Bs case, thats when they could have 
brought a claim for misrepresentation against the supplier or the like claim against GE Money. I think that was the date they entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare, so in 
June 2006. It was at that time that they entered into an agreement based, they say, on the 
misrepresentations of C. They say, had the misrepresentations not been made, they 
wouldnt have bought the timeshare. And it was on that day that they suffered a loss, as they 
took out the loan agreement with GE Money.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued on June 2006, so Mr and Mrs B 
had six years from then to bring a claim. But they didnt try to contact GE Money about their 
claim until February 2018, which was outside of the time limits set out in the LA. So I think 
GE Money acted fairly in turning down this misrepresentation claim.
The limitation period for a claim for breach of contract is six years from the date a cause of 
action accrued as set out in s.5 LA. Here Mr and Mrs B brought a like claim against GE 
Money under s.75 CCA. That claim was brought under the CCA, so would be covered by s.9 
LA. Again, it means Mr and Mrs B had six years from the date on which the case of action 
accrued to being a claim against GE Money.
The cause of action for a breach of contract accrued on the date the contract was breached. 
I think that was the date C didnt do what it should have done under the agreement. It was 
on that day Mr and Mrs B suffered a loss as they didnt get what they had paid for.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued on June 2006, so Mr and Mrs B 
had six years from then to bring a claim. But they didnt try to contact GE Money about their 
claim until February 2018, which was outside of the time limits set out in the LA. So I think 
GE Money acted fairly in turning down this breach of contract claim.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising out 
of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination but I 
think this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
Our investigator considered whether Mr and Mrs B could have made a claim under s.140A 
CCA and concluded that they couldnt as that provision didnt apply to their credit agreement. 
S.140A CCA was introduced by the Consumer Credit Act 2006. Schedule 3 of that Act sets 
out to what credit agreements s.140A CCA applies. In short, if a credit agreement had 
completed before 6 April 2008, no claim under s.140A CCA could be brought in respect of 
that credit agreement. GE Money has shown that Mr and Mrs Bs agreement was paid off in 
2007 so I dont think they are able to make a claim under s.140A.
GE Money didnt consider any s.140A CCA claim and I think it should have done so, so I 
cant say it acted fairly in not responding to the claim. But for the reasons set out above, I 
dont think it would have upheld the claim if it had properly considered it. So, I dont think it 
needs to do anything further.
The LA applies to a claim under s.140A CCA too. It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] EWHC 
3264 (QB) that when considering s.140A CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran from the 
date that the credit agreement ended if it was not still running at the time the claim was 
made. As with an action under s.75 CCA, the limitation period is six years, so Mr and Mrs B 
would have to bring an action within six years of June 2006. As they didnt do that, I think 
they brought their claim too late.
Mr and Mrs Bs arguments on limitationI appreciate Mr and Mrs B may say they didnt know about the time limits Ive referred to 
above in the LA, but Im afraid thats not generally accepted as grounds for extending the 
limitation period. Mr and Mrs Bs representatives made several arguments why they dont 
think our investigator is correct about limitation. I will deal with each in term.
They argue that under s.11A LA, time didnt start to run for limitation purposes for Mr and 
Mrs B until they first had knowledge that they could start proceeding against GE Money. This 
provision is titled Actions in respect of defective products and applies to an action for 
damages by virtue of Part 1 of the Consumer Protection Act 1987. However, this applies to 
actions that arise out of products and not services such as timeshares, so I dont think it 
assists Mr and Mrs B. Neither in my view does s.14 LA, which simply defines what is meant 
by date of knowledge in other provisions that dont apply to Mr and Mrs Bs claim.
S 14 LA provides for a second period in which a claim for negligence can be made. Looking 
at what happened, when Mr and Mrs B purchased the timeshare and took out the finance, I 
think there was an obligation to give Mr and Mrs B sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable them to make an informed choice about whether to take out the loan. 
But Im not persuaded a duty of care arose or advice was provided that could give rise to a 
claim to which s.14A LA could apply.
Mr and Mrs Bs representatives say that, under our own rules, a consumer can make a 
complaint to a business within six years of the event happening or three years of when a 
consumer realised they had a reason to complain. But the rules the representatives are 
referring to set out the time limits within which a consumer needs to complain to a business 
about a regulated financial activity. Those rules apply to Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
governed complaint handling, which in the current context, is a complaint that GE Money 
unfairly turned down their claim. But the reason it decided to turn down the claim was 
because it didnt think it was legally liable due to the operation of the LA, so that is why I 
have considered that legislation.
Overall, I think GE Money fairly considered the things it needed to when it said the claim was 
brought too late. Its ultimately for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mr and 
Mrs B may have against the supplier or GE Money has expired under the LA. But, as far as I 
can see from the information available, any claim that Mr and Mrs B might have against the 
supplier and/or GE Money has most likely exceeded the time limits set out in the LA . I think 
it is reasonable to take this into account in these circumstances. And I am not persuaded 
that GE Money acted unfairly in declining the claims.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against GE Money 
Home Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman