DRN-4404996
Complaint
Ms L has complained about a credit account PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA (PayPal) 
provided to her. She at the time she was approved she was already in a lot of debt and 
relying on credit.
Background
PayPal provided Ms L with a credit account with an increased credit limit of £3,000.00 in 
October 2022. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Ms L and PayPal had told us. And she thought 
PayPal hadnt done anything wrong or treated Ms L unfairly in relation to providing the credit 
limit increase in October 2022. So she didnt recommend that Ms Ls complaint be upheld. 
Ms L disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Ls complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold the complaint. Id 
like to explain why in a little more detail.
PayPal needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
PayPal needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Ms L 
could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
PayPal says it initially agreed to offer Ms L a limit increase after it checked her income and 
carried out a credit search. And the information obtained indicated that Ms L would be able 
to make the monthly repayments due for this credit limit increase. On the other hand Ms L 
says that she shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive considered what the parties have said about the limit increase. 
Whats important to note is that Ms L was provided with a revolving credit facility rather than 
a loan. This means that PayPal was required to understand whether a credit limit of 
£3,000.00 could be repaid within a reasonable period of time, rather than all in one go. And a 
credit limit of £3,000.00 required smaller monthly payments in order to clear the full amount 
owed within a reasonable period of time, than say a loan of the same amount would. 
For the credit limit increase, it appears as though PayPal relied on Ms Ls account having 
been managed well in the years since her account had been opened. In the first instance I 
should make it clear that it isnt immediately apparent to me how it would automatically be 
the case that a borrower could afford a higher amount of credit simply because they might 
not have defaulted on a lower amount.
That said, PayPals credit check did indicate that Ms L didnt have previous difficulties with 
credit in the form of defaults and county court judgements (CCJ). Ms L was reasonably 
indebted at the time as well. Its also fair to say that Ms L had around £250 a month in terms 
of credit commitments as well. 
Ms L was making more than just the minimum payment  indeed she made a large lump 
sum balance payment prior to limit being increased. So Ms Ls actions and repayment record 
did indicate that she might be able to make the payments on a higher credit limit. Equally, 
Ms L had not been maxing out the facility and owed just over £1000.00 when the limit 
increase took place. Furthermore, PayPal wouldnt have known about Ms Ls partner taking 
loans out in order for Ms L to have made the payments concerned either.
Given the amount of the likely increased monthly payments, I do think that it would have 
been reasonable and proportionate for PayPal to find out a bit more about Ms Ls regular 
living costs before offering the credit limit increase. As PayPal didnt obtain this information, 
Ive considered the information Ms L has provided with a view to deciding what it might have 
found out about Ms Ls regular living costs had this information been asked for.
Having done so, I dont think that PayPal would have made a different decision even if it had 
asked Ms L for more information. I say this because the information Ms L has provided about 
her finances at the time appears to show that when her committed regular living expenses 
and existing credit commitments were deducted from the funds going into her account, she 
did have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the repayments due. 
Its possible that Ms Ls position might have been worse than what it looks like, or that it 
worsened after the credit limit increase took place. But it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for 
me to use hindsight here, or say that PayPal should have known this was the case. This is 
especially as the available information indicates proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have shown that Ms L could repay what she could owe at the time the lending decision 
was made. 
So overall while I can understand Ms Ls sentiments, I dont think that PayPal treated Ms L 
unfairly or unreasonably when increasing her credit limit. And Im not upholding Ms Ls 
complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Ms L. But I hope shell understand 
the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding this complaint, Id like PayPal of its obligation to exercise 
forbearance and due consideration should it intend to collect on the outstanding balance on 
Ms Ls account and it be the case that she is experiencing financial difficulty.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman