DRN-1714994
The complaint
Mr C complains about incorrect information given to his lender by his broker during the 
process of a mortgage application.
What happened
Mr C began discussions in July 2018 with RSC New Homes, an authorised representative of 
First Complete Ltd (trading as PRIMIS Mortgage Network). RSC was to give Mr C advice 
about the arrangement of a mortgage for the purchase of a property. 
Mr C applied for the mortgage through RSC in March 2019. He was advised that the 
mortgage term would be 27 years and interest would be fixed for a period of 2 years at a rate 
of 1.99%. However, this was based on incorrect information about the purchase price of the 
property, given by RSC to Mr Cs lender. 
When the correct information was eventually given to the lender, it offered a mortgage with a 
fixed interest rate for a period of 5 years at 2.95% and repayable over a 35 year term 
instead. Mr C was unhappy about this as it was going to cost him considerably more than 
the mortgage he thought he was going to get. So he raised a complaint.
RSC accepted it made a mistake and offered £150 compensation for this. Mr C remained 
unhappy, saying he only got the correct information about the mortgage very close to 
completion of the house purchase. So he felt he didnt have enough time to pull out of the 
process and had to go through with it. He now feels bound to this mortgage product for 5 
years. Mr C referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the information and didnt think RSC needed to do more. He 
said RSC was at fault for raising Mr Cs expectations but that it had already acknowledged 
its error and paid Mr C compensation to say sorry for the mistake. But he didnt think it was 
RSCs fault that Mr C had ended up with a more expensive product. Mr C disagreed with the 
investigators opinion and so the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr C is unhappy. He believes hes been left out of pocket with a more 
expensive mortgage product than the one he was told he could get. But Im afraid I wont be 
upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
RSC made a mistake when it told Mr C he could get a mortgage over 27 years with a fixed 
interest rate of 1.99% for 2 years. Its accepted that and offered compensation for it. But I 
must determine whether RSC has actually prevented Mr C from obtaining a cheaper product 
 resulting in Mr C incurring actual financial loss  or whether such a product wouldve likely 
been unavailable to Mr C irrespective of RSCs actions. 
Mr C says the investigator has made assumptions on his behalf about what Mr C would or 
would not have done. I should point out that as an impartial dispute resolution service, we 
look at all the available information in order to reach a fair and reasonable resolution to a 
complaint. But that doesnt mean we always have all the information wed like. And where 
there isnt enough evidence of what happened or what wouldve happened, we have to 
consider what we think most likely in the circumstances.
In Mr Cs case, I dont think there was any actual financial loss. I say this because the 
incorrect mortgage information was given to Mr C in March 2019, the correct mortgage 
product was offered to Mr C in April 2019, contracts were exchanged and the purchase 
completed in May 2019. So I think that although Mr C only became aware of the correct 
mortgage offer relatively late in the process, contracts had not been exchanged and would 
not be exchanged until several weeks later. I therefore dont agree that it was too late for 
Mr C to back out of the purchase if he was unhappy with the product hed been offered. I 
consider it more likely Mr C weighed up his options and decided to continue with the 
purchase, despite not getting the mortgage product hed been initially told he could get. I can 
tell Mr C was disappointed because his expectations had been raised. But if the mistake 
hadnt been made and Mr C was offered the right product from the start, I think, from what 
Ive seen, that its likely he still wouldve gone ahead with the purchase.
Mr C has raised some points I dont disagree with. Hes said he might have been able to pay 
off some more of his debts and wait for his property to increase in value, in order to get a 
more economical mortgage product if RSC hadnt corrected its error so late in the process. 
This is possible. But I cant safely say this wouldve been likely or certain as the availability of 
mortgage products depends very much on the market, and rates often fluctuate. I dont know 
how long Mr C wouldve waited if he had pulled out of the sale, and what products wouldve 
been available at that time, so I cant say hes suffered any financial loss here.
Mr Cs also told us hes unhappy the broker misled him about the original mortgage 
application being approved. Ive looked into this, but havent seen evidence the broker tried 
to do that. So I cant fairly say that more compensation is warranted for this. All things 
considered, I think the £150 it has offered is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman