DRN-2248048
The complaint
Mr A complains that a car he acquired with finance from Oodle Financial Services Limited 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. 
In my provisional decision I explained why I didnt think the transmission fault could have ben 
present or developing at the point of supply.  I also explained why I didnt think the fault with 
the injector was likely to have been present or developing at the point of supply.
Oodle said it accepted my provisional decision. Mr A disagreed with it and made several 
points which Ive summarised as follows:
The car was problematic when he bought it
He has spoken to mechanics who have advised him that the car was of poor quality 
He has spoken to a dealership who advised him that the issues he experienced were 
not normal for this model of car
He felt it was odd that no one had asked him for the service book or spare key for the 
car
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about the points which Mr A has made. Having done so, my decision hasnt 
changed. 
I appreciate that Mr A has experienced some problems with the car but as I explained in my 
provisional decision, there isnt enough evidence to show that these problems were present 
or developing at the point of supply.
Im unable to comment on what the mechanic and/or the dealership has advised Mr A 
because he hasnt provided any evidence to support this. Even if Mr A was advised that the 
car had unexpected problems, this isnt enough to prove that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.
I appreciate that Mr A has since voluntary terminated the agreement. The service book and 
spare key should have been returned with the car.
Overall, my view hasnt changed. I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. It follows that Ive reached the same 
conclusions as I did in my provisional decision. I wont be asking Oodle to do anything 
further. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman