DRN-2486164
The complaint
Miss A complains that Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with a claim under her car insurance 
policy, incorrectly.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in 
detail here. I will instead focus on the reasons for my decision.
Our investigator who looked at Miss As complaint upheld it in part and awarded £250. But I 
disagreed with this view and issued a provisional decision. In short, I considered Aviva had 
tried to contact Miss A before it settled a claim when it was told by a third party insurer that 
her car had been involved in an accident. This had initially impacted on her no claims 
discount (NCD). I acknowledged that Aviva didnt call Miss A back when it said it would. But I 
was satisfied it tried to contact Miss A by letter in which it clearly explained what had 
happened and why it needed to speak with her. I also found that when Aviva did receive 
evidence from Miss A that she wasnt involved in the accident, it acted quickly to restore her 
NCD. Overall, I thought the steps taken by Aviva, were fair and reasonable.
In response to my provisional decision, Aviva didnt add anything further. In summary, 
Miss A said:
The recordings showed that Aviva didnt call her back as it had undertaken to do; 
In another recording to the third party insurer, Aviva admitted it thought the accident 
involving her car was a case of mistaken identity. So it wasnt fair that Aviva had 
settled the claim as it did;
Aviva hadnt acted fairly towards her and shouldve done more to contact her before 
settling the claim.
So the matter has been passed back to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my reasoning, I understand that Miss A has raised a number of points 
during her contact with this service. Although I may not mention every point she's raised, Ive 
considered everything Miss A has said but limited my findings to the areas which impact on 
the outcome of the case. I'll also mention at this stage that where there's a dispute about 
what happened, I've based my decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the evidence.
Having reconsidered everything, Im not intending to uphold this complaint for the following 
reasons, which I set out in full in my provisional decision.
Our service doesnt decide who was at fault in an accident. That is the role of the courts. 
Instead, we look at whether the insurer acted in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy, as well as whether the insurer acted reasonably in the way it went about assessing 
the claim, in line with those policy terms.
With that in mind, Ive considered the terms of Miss As motor insurance policy. And I can 
see that within her policy document the following is explained;
The insurer is entitled under this policy to: 
Take over and conduct the defence and settlement of any claim in your name or any 
other person insured by your policy.
This term isnt unusual within insurance policies. It means Aviva can make its own decision 
about whether its reasonable to contest a third-party claim or whether it would be better to 
settle it. I appreciate this might mean Aviva makes a decision its policyholder disagrees with. 
But the terms and conditions are clear here. 
Whilst Aviva does have the right to make its own decision on whether to defend or settle a 
claim, given the impact a claims history can have on future insurance premiums, Id still 
expect it to carry out a fair and reasonable investigation into the loss. So, Ive thought about 
the investigation Aviva carried out in this case.
Aviva received information from a third party insurer about an accident that happened in 
January 2019. This seems to have been reported to Aviva in February 2019. But it wasnt 
until September 2019 that Aviva began to make enquiries about the accident. Initially it 
thought this was a case of mistaken identity as the driver of the car purported to be driving 
Miss As car, wasnt Miss A. Further the incident didnt happen in the city where she lives. 
But Aviva were told by the third party insurer that details were swapped at the scene of the 
accident and the named owner of the car (who wasnt driving) could potentially match the 
name of Miss A. This is discussed during a call with the third party insurer on 11 September 
2019. So Im satisfied it was reasonable for Aviva to seek further information from Miss A. 
Aviva contacted Miss A by phone  the call recording was provided to this service and was 
made on 11 September 2019. I can hear Miss A saying that she was unable to speak at that 
time and she requested a call back. Aviva admits that it didnt call Miss A back. However, 
Aviva did follow up this call with a letter (the letter).
The letter was sent to Miss A on 16 September 2019 but was dated 2 September  Ive seen 
screen shots showing the letter being sent on 16 September, so Im satisfied this was when 
it was sent. The letter gave Miss A details of the alleged incident and said that if she didnt 
contact Aviva within seven days to discuss the issue, it would assume the allegations were 
correct and would likely settle the claim. The letter also noted that this could affect Miss As 
claims history and her policy. So whilst Aviva didnt call Miss A back as it said it would, Im 
satisfied that on balance, the letter was a reasonable alternative.
Miss A says she doesnt remember receiving the call, or the letter. Ive listened to the call 
and Im satisfied that Aviva did call Miss A. In terms of the letter, I can see it was correctly 
addressed. Ive taken into account that the majority of correctly addressed mail is correctly 
delivered, and Ive not been told about any particular problems Miss A had in receiving her 
post at the time. So although I accept it is possible that Miss A didnt receive the letter from 
Aviva, Ive to assess what is more likely to have happened on the balance of probabilities. 
And I think that its more likely that the letter from Aviva must have been received by Miss A 
and for whatever reason, she no longer recollects this.I also note that Miss A received her renewal documents in November and December 2019 
for the period 2019/ 2020. The documents clearly show her NCD reduced from four years to 
two years from the previous policy. And her premiums had also increased. The policy also 
noted that there had been an accident in January 2019. 
Despite the letter sent to her in September 2019 by Aviva and the renewal documents sent 
to her at the end of 2019, the first record Aviva have of Miss A making contact about the 
accident was on 13 January 2020. It was soon after this point Miss A provided evidence 
showing that she could not have been involved in the reported incident. Aviva then agreed to 
have the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) report and its internal records updated. 
This was agreed with Miss A over the phone on 3 February 2020. 
So it took around three weeks for Aviva to resolve the issue once contacted by Miss A. This 
leads me to conclude that if Miss A had responded to Avivas letter in September 2019, its 
likely the incident would not have impacted on the cost of her insurance when it came up for 
renewal in November/ December 2019. Overall, I think Aviva have acted reasonably and 
fairly in terms of the investigation it carried out and the decision it made to settle the claim.
That said, there was a delay by Aviva in contacting Miss A  it was told about the incident in 
February 2019 but didnt contact Miss A until September 2019. But whilst there was a delay, 
Aviva still contacted Miss A two months before her insurance renewal date. As Ive outlined 
above, it took Aviva around three weeks to resolve matters when she contacted it in January 
2020. So following this same timeline, if Miss A had contacted Aviva in September 2019 as 
she was requested to do in the Aviva letter, I think its likely the issues would have been 
resolved before her renewal date in November/ December 2019. Therefore, I cant fairly say 
the delay impacted on the cost of Miss As premiums.
In any event, Im unclear as to whether Miss A suffered any financial loss as a result of the 
increase in premiums in December 2019. The intermediary who set up the policy in late 
2019 did adjust her premiums in early 2020, which I think is likely to have been a result of 
the accident being removed from Miss As records. According to her policy document dated 
7 December 2019 the premiums (with charges) were set at £1,732 for the year or £163 each 
month  but her policy was adjusted in January 2020 and showed her premiums were 
£1,008 or £80 each month (after the first month). Miss A hasnt said whether she received a 
refund for any overpayments she may have made before the adjustment  if she hasnt she 
can approach the intermediary about this (this will be the business named on her policy).
Miss A stresses that it isnt about the financial loss, but about the inconvenience and distress 
shes suffered. She didnt know how this incident came about and by Aviva settling the claim, 
this caused her a great deal of anxiety. Whilst I appreciate how difficult this situation was for 
Miss A, I cant fairly hold Aviva responsible for the distress and inconvenience caused. I say 
this because Aviva were told by a third party insurer that Miss As car was involved in an 
accident. And there was sufficient information to make it necessary for Aviva to contact 
Miss A about the incident. So whilst I dont doubt how upsetting this all was for Miss A, Im 
satisfied that, on balance, this was caused by the report of an accident involving her car 
rather than anything done by Aviva.
As noted above, in response to my provisional decision, Miss A said she didnt receive the 
letter sent to her by Aviva. But as Ive said above, as the letter was correctly addressed, I 
think its likely that it was correctly received. Further, I appreciate that Aviva did undertake to 
call Miss A back but didnt. However, I think the letter that followed this call made it 
reasonably clear that if Miss A didnt contact Aviva, it would settle the claim. This is 
something it was entitled to do under the terms of Miss As policy as Ive outlined above. So I 
think sending Miss A information by post to the correct address, was a reasonable step to 
take when it didnt speak to her by phone.I accept Aviva did initially think this was a case of mistaken identity. But as I set out in my 
findings above, I can hear on the same call Aviva were also given information from the third 
party insurer that prompted it to change its view. And as Ive noted above, Aviva then called 
Miss A and wrote to her to find out whether she was involved in the accident. I think this was 
fair and reasonable in light of the information Aviva had been given. 
I can also see Aviva did restore Miss As NCD when she provided proof of not being involved 
in the accident. This was all done within a reasonable timeframe. And this did lead to 
Miss As insurance provider reducing her premiums. To date Miss A hasnt provided any 
evidence of any loss as a result of the claim settled by Aviva.
So whilst I understand Miss A is disappointed and frustrated by my findings, for all the 
reasons Ive set out above, Im not upholding her complaint.
My final decision
Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman