DRN-3033851
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Alpha Underwriting Limited (Alpha) mis-sold her a pet insurance 
policy.
What happened
In 2019 Mrs C bought pet insurance for her dog to cover the cost of any accidents or 
illnesses. As her dog had received treatment for a cyst previously she says she phoned 
Alpha before she bought the policy to check whether this would count as a pre-existing 
medical condition. She said she was told it wouldnt, so she went ahead and bought the 
policy with Alpha.
In December 2020 Mrs Cs dog had a cyst removed and she put in a claim to cover the cost 
of the treatment. Alpha declined the claim on the basis it was a pre-existing condition. In light 
of the telephone call she says she had with Alpha before she bought the policy, Mrs C 
complained that the policy had been mis-sold. She also complained that the claim had been 
declined. Alpha didnt uphold the complaint, so Mrs C brought it to this service. 
Our investigator explained that this service couldnt investigate Mrs Cs complaint that her 
claim had been declined. He said that was because it was the responsibility of the 
underwriters of the policy, and not Alpha, to consider complaints about claims, and that 
business was not one within this services jurisdiction. But he said he could consider whether 
the policy had been mis-sold to Mrs C, and Mrs C confirmed that she was happy for this 
service to look at that issue alone. Our investigator said there was no evidence to support 
Mrs Cs contention that Alpha had told her cysts would not be classed as a pre-existing 
medical condition. And so, he didnt think it would be reasonable to say the policy was 
mis-sold. 
Mrs C remains unhappy and so her complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mrs C bought her pet insurance from Alpha in 2019, she did so on a non-advised 
basis. That means Alpha didnt advise or recommend that she buy the policy, it simply gave 
information about the policy and Mrs C needed to decide if the policy was suitable to meet 
her needs. When a sale is made on this basis, theres an obligation on the seller to make 
sure the consumer is given enough information that is clear, fair and not misleading so that 
they can make an informed choice about whether the policy is right for them. And they 
should highlight any unusual or onerous parts of the policy, or any particular exclusions. 
Alpha said Mrs C bought the policy online through a price comparison site. It said one of the 
questions she was asked was whether she wanted to cover any pre-existing medical 
conditions for her dog. And the question included a note to explain what it meant by a 
pre-existing condition. Alpha has also said that once Mrs C chose its quote, she needed to 
tick a box to confirm shed read the terms and conditions of the policy. 
The terms and conditions of Mrs Cs policy includes a section titled What is not insured?, 
which includes Any claim for illness or accidental injury that relates to a pre-existing 
condition. The policy document also includes a definition of a pre-existing condition. 
In light of the above, Im satisfied Alpha provided clear, fair and not misleading information 
about the relevant exclusions in the policy, including pre-existing conditions, during the sales 
process and within the terms and conditions it gave Mrs C.
Mrs C hasnt said she was unaware of the exclusions in her policy. Indeed, she says she 
called Alpha to see if the cysts her dog had previously would be classed as a pre-existing 
condition. Her complaint is that she was told by Alpha that they wouldnt be. Unfortunately, 
theres no evidence of that conversation other than Mrs Cs recollection of what was said. 
Alpha said it found a recording of one call Mrs C made shortly before she took out the policy, 
but that call was solely about setting up her direct debit for the policy. It couldnt find any 
other calls around the time says she called Alpha before buying the policy.
Alpha also said its Customer Service team would never confirm a condition would be 
covered over the telephone as they are trained not to do that. Instead, they are told to say 
Alpha may look to cover the condition, but it would be subject to a review. A trained assessor 
would then consider the claim and all the relevant information. As evidence of that approach, 
it highlighted the call Mrs C made to Alpha in December 2020 when she asked if the removal 
of a cyst would be covered under her policy. And Alphas call handler said she couldnt 
advise her either way and said she should submit a claim, which would then be reviewed.
I dont doubt Mrs Cs recollection of what she was told by Alpha before she bought the 
policy. Mistakes happen and telephone calls dont always go the way they should. But, in 
light of the above, I think it would be unfair to say Alpha mis-sold the policy to her without 
any further evidence of what was said in that telephone call. 
Im sorry to hear about the problems Mrs Cs experienced but, for the reasons Ive given, I 
dont think Alpha needs to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman