DRN-3081845
The complaint
 Mr H has complained that TSB Bank plc (TSB) acted irresponsibly by agreeing to increase 
his overdraft limit. He says TSB failed to carry out proper checks and that it failed in its duty 
of care to him. Hes unhappy with what TSB has agreed to do to put things right for him. 
What happened
 Mr H complained about TSB agreeing to increase his overdraft limit to over £3,000. One of 
our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that TSB should rework Mr Hs account 
to remove the effect of all the interest, fees and charges which were added to his overdraft 
from April 2020. 
TSB accepted our adjudicators view and refunded the interest and charges to his account, 
but Mr H disagreed. He feels he should never have been given the overdraft and wants the 
outstanding balance of his account to be written off or reduced.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what TSB has already agreed to do to 
put things right for Mr H is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his complaint. Ill 
explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect it to put the consumer in the position they would be in if that 
wrong hadnt taken place. In an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a consumer in the 
position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt have, but we also 
have to bear in mind that often the core debt is made up of money that the consumer has 
spent.
So where a business continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should 
have realised was unsustainable, wed typically think it fair to put the consumer in the 
position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. 
This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any 
credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those 
interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year. 
In this case, Mr H is left with an outstanding balance even though hes been refunded the 
interest, fees and charges applied from April 2020. But while Mr H has been left with a 
balance on his debt and he might be unhappy with this, TSB has done what Id normally 
expect it to do here. 
And Im satisfied that it is reasonable for us to ask TSB to refund charges from April 2020 
onwards, and not earlier. When Mr H increased his overdraft limits in late 2019 there were 
no signs that he was struggling financially or that he wouldnt be able to maintain the 
overdraft limits he was applying for. He was receiving regular income and passed TSBs 
credit checks, so I dont think it was unreasonable for TSB to agree the limit increases hed 
requested. 
Mr H only told TSB about his difficult personal circumstances in December 2019, at which 
point TSB waived some of the charges on his account, carried out an assessment of his 
financial circumstances, and agreed a reducing overdraft limit to help him repay his overdraft 
in an affordable way. I think those steps were appropriate at the time. But when Mr H then 
didnt make the first two payments to reduce the overdraft on his account, I think TSB should 
have taken action to stop the account from deteriorating further by stopping charges and 
interest on the outstanding balance and moving the account to collections.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what TSB has already agreed to do to put things 
right for Mr H is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his case and Im not requiring 
it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Mr H to decide whether he wishes to 
accept TSB offer. 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what TSB Bank plc has already agreed to 
do to put things right for Mr H is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his case. So Im 
not requiring it to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman