DRN-4088624
The complaint
Mr M complains that Capital One (Europe) plc was irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
Mr M was provided with a credit card by Capital One in July 2022. The credit limit was set at 
£750. He says that adequate checks didnt take place before the lending was provided. He 
says that his credit file at the time showed he had taken out several loans in the months 
leading up to his credit card application and that he had defaulted on a previous loan and 
missed payments on other accounts. Mr M says that he was struggling financially at the time 
and the additional lending made his situation worse.
Capital One issued a final response letter in November 2022. It said that before lending it 
carried out a credit worthiness check to assess what credit limit would be affordable for 
Mr M. It said it asked about Mr Ms income and housing costs and assessed his credit 
commitments based on his credit file. It then applied an estimated amount for his non-
discretionary expenditure based on statistical data. It said based on this the credit card with 
a credit limit of £750 was affordable. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He thought that Capital One carried out 
reasonable checks before providing the lending and based on the information gathered this 
suggested the lending was affordable.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view. He said he had suffered enormously due to 
the Capital One credit card.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Capital One will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
I think Capital One carried out reasonable checks before it provided Mr M with the credit 
card. I say this because it asked him about his income, caried out a credit check which it 
said didnt raise any concerns and assessed his expenses based on Mr Ms declared 
housing costs, the information his credit file and an estimate for his other non-discretionary 
costs. Noting the size of the credit limit provided compared to Mr Ms income I find these 
checks reasonable. However, just because I think Capital One carried out proportionate 
checks, it doesnt automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about 
what the evidence and information showed. 
I have looked at the results of Mr Ms credit check. This shows that Mr M had four other 
credit cards at the time with a total limit across the cards of £3,150. These were taken out in 
December 2021. Taking out multiple credit cards in a short space of time could raise 
concerns but Mr M was operating the cards within the credit limits and there was no adverse 
information recorded about these accounts. As Mr Ms credit file didnt raise any concerns 
about how he was managing these cards I do not find this alone meant that the lending 
shouldnt have been provided.
Mr M had said in his application that he was a homeowner and his mortgage payments on 
his credit file were in line with the housing cost he had declared. Additional to this Mr M also 
had another loan on which the repayments were recorded as £129 a month and Mr Ms 
credit file showed no issues with these. Taking the results of Mr Ms credit file into account I 
do not find that these meant that the credit card with a £750 limit shouldnt have been 
provided.
Looking at the affordability of the lending, Mr Ms income was recorded as £31,500 a year 
and noting the other information provided about his employment, I find it reasonable that 
Capital One relied on this. Considering Mr Ms monthly income and taking into account his 
housing costs and other costs (including his other credit commitments), I do not find this 
would suggest a credit limit of £750 should have been considered unaffordable.
Mr M also said that the fees and charges on his account were excessive. I have looked at 
the information provided to Mr M and can see that the agreement clearly set out the fees and 
charges on the account. As this information was available to Mr M I find he was able to make 
an informed decision as to whether to go ahead and as he signed the agreement he agreed 
to its terms. 
In conclusion, while I am sorry to hear that Mr M has experienced issues since receiving the 
Capital One credit card, I do not find in this case that the evidence supports this complaint 
being upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman