DRN-1605834
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with how Nationwide Building Society dealt with their application 
for additional borrowing on their mortgage. They want £750 in compensation.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had a mortgage with Nationwide for a number of years. In March 2019 they 
approached the society to borrow an additional amount on their mortgage so they could 
carry out some home improvements. By mid-May 2019 Nationwide had turned down this 
application. 
Mr and Mrs B werent happy with this. They complained about the service Nationwide had 
given them during their application. Nationwide accepted there had been problems. These 
included but werent limited to: poor communication; being put on hold for long periods of 
time; Mr and Mrs B being told their application had been accepted when it hadnt; and being 
given conflicting information about why their application was declined. Nationwide 
apologised to Mr and Mrs B and offered them £250 in compensation.
 
Mr and Mrs B werent happy with this and brought their complaint to us. They said due to 
their experience with Nationwide they applied for a mortgage elsewhere using a mortgage 
broker. They told us this cost them £500. Mr and Mrs B want Nationwides compensation to 
include this amount as well as the £250 its already offered.
 
One of our investigators looked into this issue. Briefly, she said it was Mr and Mrs Bs choice 
to move their mortgage elsewhere and Nationwide couldnt be held liable for the broker fee 
they paid. Our investigator thought the £250 Nationwide had already offered was fair in the 
circumstances here. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree. In short, they said they felt they were left with no option but to 
work with a third party. 
As this matter remains unresolved, its been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in far less detail than has 
been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. If theres something 
Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to 
comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. 
Theres no dispute over what happened here. Nationwide accepts the service it provided to 
Mr and Mrs B was below the standards it strives to provide. So I dont need to decide if the 
society has done anything wrong. This means Ive focussed on what I think is the crux of the 
matter: is Nationwides offer of £250 compensation fair and reasonable? I think it is. Ill 
explain why.
 
Mr and Mrs B made their application for additional borrowing to Nationwide on 31 March 
2019. By 14 May 2019 the society had emailed them to say it had declined their application. 
This was just over six weeks after they applied. Im satisfied this is a typical time scale for 
such applications. I dont think it was excessive. Nor do I think Nationwides handling of the 
application delayed it by a significant amount. With this in mind and taking into account 
Nationwides apology to Mr and Mrs B, Im satisfied its offer of £250 is fair and reasonable. 
Its in line with what I would typically award in such situations.
 
I know Mr and Mrs B also want Nationwide to refund their broker fee. But Im not satisfied 
this would be fair and reasonable. I accept Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with how their 
application had been dealt with. Similarly, I would also expect them to have been 
disappointed when their application was turned down and Nationwide wouldnt lend them the 
money for the home improvements they wanted to do.
 
It was Mr and Mrs Bs decision to look for an alternative mortgage provider  a decision they 
were perfectly entitled to make. But it was their decision, not Nationwides. Nor did they have 
to use a mortgage broker. Again, that was their choice. It follows that theres no fair and 
reasonable basis for me to tell Nationwide to cover the cost of the £500 broker fee.
 
In summary, for the reasons Ive outlined above, Im satisfied Nationwides offer of £250 is 
fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr and Mrs B the £250 it 
has already offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2020. 
John Miles
Ombudsman