DRN-2159323
The complaint
 This complaint is about a mortgage that, until recently, Mr S held with HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
Hes unhappy with how HSBC handled his enquiries about letting his property out.
 
What happened
  The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them to any 
great extent here. Instead Ill give a brief summary in my own words and then focus on giving 
the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. 
Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr S wanted to let his home, which was mortgaged to HSBC at the time, out to tenants. At 
the beginning of September 2019, he initially asked if he could do so through a social 
housing charity, and was told no. He then asked if he could let the property directly to people 
receiving benefits from the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP). HSBC wrote on 
26 September 2019 to say he could. This was confirmed in a conversation on 
30 September 2019.
On 29 November 2019, Mr S had another phone conversation with someone at HSBC who 
told him, wrongly as it turned out, that he could have rented his property out through the 
social housing charity. By now, Mr S had decided to re-mortgage to a different lender; he 
complained that hed been denied the opportunity to let the property out two months earlier, 
and had missed out on the lost rent. HSBC offered Mr S £100 compensation, which our 
investigator thought was fair. Mr S has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, 
and we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases. 
Mr S has focused his request for an ombudsmans decision around the mistaken information 
he was given during the phone call of 29 November 2019; I appreciate the importance he 
attaches to it, but its not what the underlying complaint turns on. 
The crux of this complaint is that Mr S asked HSBC two different questions; he received 
different answers to each, and both were correct. At the beginning of September 2019, he 
was told he couldnt let through a social housing charity; at the end of September 2019, he 
was told he could let directly to DWP claimants. 
Mr S might question why HSBC makes that distinction, but thats a policy matter for HSBCs 
commercial discretion. My remit isnt to say what HSBCs lending policy should be; rather, 
its to ensure that policy is applied fairly and communicated accurately. Im satisfied that 
happened in respect of both enquiries Mr S made in September 2019, and that Mr S made 
his decision to change lenders in reliance on accurate information.
Its common ground that the wrong information was given in the 29 November 2019 call, but 
Im satisfied Mr S suffered no detriment as a result. He had already made his decision to 
change lenders by then; all the error did was to create, briefly, a false expectation that he 
could have let the property out through the charity after all. The reality was that he couldnt, 
as he had been correctly told at the outset.
 Mr S is particular unhappy that in its response to the complaint, HSBC didnt acknowledge 
the mistake of 29 November 2019; he regards this as a very serious matter with the potential 
to affect other consumers. He thinks it might a matter for the FCA to look into, and warrants 
HSBC paying him more compensation than hes been offered. 
Contacting the FCA is Mr S prerogative; but the handling of complaints is not itself a 
regulated activity. Its something that the regulator requires financial businesses to do. But 
that isnt enough to make it a regulated activity within the meaning of the rule; that is, one 
from the list of activities set out in the legislation from which we derive our powers. 
Were able to consider concerns about complaint handling in some limited circumstances, 
but there is another thing that we need to consider and that is that we can only make an 
award for any poor customer service in handling a complaint if were upholding the 
underlying issue being complained about and it is intrinsically linked. As Im not upholding 
the main thrust of Mr S complaint, then it follows I wont be upholding any complaint and 
award any compensation for how his complaint was handled. 
Mr S has been put to some unnecessary trouble and upset, and its right that he should be 
compensated for that, and for his time in bringing the complaint. In the circumstances, I think 
the £100 offered by HSBC and endorsed by our investigator, is fair.
My final decision
  I uphold this complaint in part only. In full and final settlement, I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc 
to pay Mr S £100. I make no other order or award.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman