DRN-3760031
The complaint
Ms K complains that the Co-operative Bank Plc have prevented her from making 
transactions. Also, that their fraud prevention strategy is inconsistent.
What happened
Ms K tried to make an on-line purchase using her Co-op Bank debit card and found the 
transaction was blocked.
Ms K tried to pay for a coffee and this transaction was declined which she found 
embarrassing and stressful. Also, when she tried to take money out this was declined, and 
she was told to contact Co-op Banks fraud section. 
Also, Ms K says she didnt get a response to messages she sent and, when contacting Co-
Op Bank about the block and the need to credit her account to avoid missed payments, she 
was kept on hold and didnt get a response. 
Ms K says she did get two calls, but she was busy at the time and feels let down as she 
didnt get a promised email from one representative and the other hung up.
Ms K also questions Co-op Banks fraud strategy. This is because she can spend a high 
amount on her credit card but small transactions on her debit card are blocked.
Co-op Bank said they were concerned about possible fraud and made numerous attempts to 
speak to Ms K via sms and automated calls but couldnt get to speak with her. 
Ms K complained to our service; however, our investigator couldnt see that Co-op Bank had 
done anything wrong.
As Ms K remains dissatisfied this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the view that I agree with the conclusions reached by our 
investigator. I appreciate Ms K will be disappointed, but Ill explain why this is.
I should first explain this service doesnt regulate business processes, procedures or 
policies, and this includes fraud prevention strategies for debit and credit cards. I say this 
because we arent the regulator of the financial services industry and our role is to consider 
each individual case. And, where we think a business hasnt acted fairly and reasonably in 
the circumstances, our role is to decide what should be done to put right any financial, or 
non-financial losses that a consumer has experienced.
Also, banks such as Co-op Bank are aware of fraud and scams and are constantly on the 
lookout for them. So, Co-op Bank have confidential security measures and procedures in 
place to try to safeguard their customers accounts and, in the terms and conditions that Ms 
K has agreed to they say:
we may block access to your account to protect you and us from unauthorised access to 
your account
And, when comparing action on two different types of accounts, it is important to note that a 
debit card is linked to a bank account and requires sufficient funds in the account. And, a 
credit card which is a standalone account gives access to a pre-agreed credit limit.
So, whilst I do understand why Ms K challenges Co-op Banks fraud prevention strategy, for 
the above-mentioned reasons our role isnt to assess if Co-op Bank fraud prevention 
processes and strategies are correct for different products.
Although Co-op Bank have the right to block transactions, I did assess whether their actions 
here were fair and reasonable. This is because it is clear they caused Ms K embarrassment, 
stress and frustration.
Whilst I can fully understand Ms Ks feelings, Im satisfied they were both fair and 
reasonable. This is because the block wouldve been automated and, as detailed by the 
investigator, there is evidence that Co-op Bank made numerous attempts to contact Ms K by 
text messages, calls to her landline and mobile number and secure messaging to try and 
unblock these transactions. 
However, unfortunately they were unable to speak to Ms K. And, although there is 
information on disconnected calls on both sides, I think it was reasonable of them to make a 
number of efforts and keep the blocks in place until they could be sure Ms Ks interests were 
protected. Also, as mentioned above, this course of action is explained in Co-Op Banks 
terms and conditions.
While I understand Ms Ks frustrations and challenge, I havent seen anything which 
suggests Co-op Bank have acted unreasonably or unfairly here and I dont think they need 
to do anything further in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman