DRN-4145353
The complaint
Ms T complains that Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) gave her misleading and confusing 
information about switching an account.
What happened
Ms T decided to switch her current account to an RBS account from another  linked  bank, 
to take advantage of an offer which would pay her £175 for switching her account. Having 
initiated the switch Ms T spoke with RBS on the phone and was incorrectly told that because 
of the link between RBS and her old bank, she would not be eligible for this incentive. 
Ms T therefore tried to cancel the switch and was given conflicting information about whether 
she could cancel the switch or not. The account switch was ultimately cancelled, six days 
after it had been initiated. Ms T subsequently switched a different account to her RBS 
account and received the incentive bonus of £175.
Ms T was unhappy with how RBS had handled things, so she raised a complaint. RBS 
looked into what had happened and agreed that it had not provided the level of service she 
should have expected, it paid her £250 to recognise the impact if its poor service. 
Ms T did not feel this compensation was adequate, so she referred her complaint to our 
service. One of our Investigators looked into what had happened, but overall they felt that 
RBS had taken appropriate steps to put right what had gone wrong, so they didnt think it 
needed to do anything more. 
Ms T remained unhappy, so she asked for her case to be referred to an ombudsman for 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our Investigator and for largely the 
same reasons.
All parties seem to be in agreement here that Ms T was given unclear and conflicting 
information about her account switch, and theres no question that will have caused her a 
level of inconvenience and distress. So the main issue I must decide on is whether what 
RBS has done to put things right is a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint.
Ms T has explained her personal circumstances to us, and why she found this situation 
particular upsetting, and Im grateful that she took the time to provide us with that 
information. But even with what she has told us in mind, I consider that the £250 
compensation paid by RBS is appropriate in all the circumstances of this complaint.
I say this because while I dont doubt that there was a period where Ms T was unsure of 
what was happening with her account, and that this will have been distressing for her, RBS 
seems to have cancelled the switch within a reasonable period of time. And Ms T was aware 
that the switch had been cancelled as she was then able to initiate a switch from a different 
account shortly afterwards, ultimately obtaining the £175 switch bonus shed been hoping 
for.
So given the relatively short period that this issue impacted Ms T for, Im satisfied that the 
£250 RBS has paid to her as compensation is appropriate and in line with what I would have 
awarded.
I know this will be disappointing for Ms T, but I hope she will understand the reasons for my 
decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman