DRN-2926144
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with how State Bank of India (UK) Limited (SBI) have handled his ISA 
transfer request.
What happened
SBI received a request from another ISA provider, authorised by Mr C, to transfer Mr Cs ISA 
from SBI to the other provider. When SBI looked to process that request they noticed that Mr 
Cs national insurance (NI) number quoted by the other provider wasnt an exact match 
with the NI number that they held on file for Mr C. So, SBI felt that they were unable to 
process the ISA transfer request. 
Mr C corresponded with SBI about this issue, and SBI suggested that Mr C complete a form 
to update his NI number with them so as to allow the transfer to proceed. Mr C asked to be 
allowed to update his NI number online, but SBI advised that this wasnt possible. Mr C 
didnt have the facilities to print a copy of the form, so SBI sent Mr C a copy of the form in 
the post to return to them, and asked that Mr C also send an official document confirming his 
NI number as well as a copy of a form of photo ID. 
Mr C did return the competed form to SBI but didnt include a copy of his photo ID as 
requested. This meant SBI werent able to update Mr Cs NI number  as the criteria to do so 
hadnt been met  and the ISA transfer remained unable to be processed. Mr C wasnt 
happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
SBI looked at Mr Cs complaint, but they felt that had provided Mr C with a reasonable 
means of resolving the issue, but that Mr C hadnt complied with the requirements of those 
means. So, they didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with SBIs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that SBI hadnt acted 
unreasonably in how theyd managed this issue, and they noted that SBI had recently 
agreed to process the ISA transfer without the need for further action from Mr C, this 
resolving the impasse. So, they didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has made a number of detailed submissions to this service. Id like to thank Mr C for 
making these submissions, and I hope that he doesnt consider it a discourtesy that I wont 
be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key 
aspects of this complaint  in line with this services role as a quick and informal dispute 
resolution service. 
As such, if Mr C notes that I havent responded to a specific points that hes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken by Mr C that I havent read and considered that point  I can confirm that 
Ive read and considered all submissions provided by both Mr C and SBI  but rather that I 
dont feel it necessary to address that point to arrive at what I consider to be a fair outcome 
in this instance.
It must have been frustrating for Mr C to have discovered that his ISA transfer couldnt be 
processed by SBI because the NI number supplied by the ISA provider whom he wished to 
transfer to wasnt an exact match with the NI number held by SBI. And I can appreciate how 
Mr Cs frustration might have been compounded by the fact that the discrepancy between 
the two numbers was that one included the suffix, whereas the other did not.
Im aware that Mr C feels that the inclusion or non-inclusion of the NI number suffix shouldnt 
warrant SBI refusing to process the requested ISA transfer. But its up to a business to 
decide what processes they follow when seeking to confirm that a request to transfer funds 
is legitimate  which it must be noted a business is obliged to do in order to protect the 
financial interests of their customers  and so Im satisfied that it was reasonable for SBI to 
seek to confirm that the NI number supplied by the other ISA provider was accurate.
Mr C has also expressed his opinion that SBI should have recognised that they held an 
incomplete form of Mr Cs NI number from the point that it was supplied to them by Mr C. I 
can appreciate Mr Cs position here  to a degree  but given that SBI had no cause to use 
the NI number provided to them by Mr C for verification purposes until that time, I dont 
consider it unreasonable that SBI hadnt found reason to seek to update the NI number until 
the need to do so arose. It also must be noted that the number held by SBI didnt match the 
NI number quoted by the other ISA provider because Mr C himself hadnt provided SBI with 
the full NI number, including the suffix.
Im also aware that Mr C would have preferred to have been able to have updated his NI 
number with SBI electronically. However, this wasnt possible, given SBIs operational 
procedures.
This service wouldnt look to censure a business with regard to how that business structures 
its operational procedures - because ultimately, its for a business to decide upon such 
choices itself. However, this service would expect that, where a customer faces difficulty in 
complying with the processes required by a business, that the business in question makes 
reasonable adjustments to assist their customer in fulfilling the criteria necessary for the 
issue in question to be progressed.
Having reviewed all the information, I feel that SBI did that here. They provided Mr C with a 
means of updating his NI number so as to allow the transfer to progress, and they sent Mr C 
the relevant form in the post to be completed and returned to them, along with the other 
information SBI required. 
One piece of the other information required by SBI was a copy of Mr Cs photo ID. But Mr C 
didnt provide this. It is, of course, Mr Cs choice whether to provide a copy of his photo ID to 
SBI, and Ive noted the reasons provided by Mr C as to why he didnt want to provide such a 
copy. But I dont consider it unreasonable for SBI to have asked for a copy of Mr Cs photo 
ID in this instance, and it follows from this that I wouldnt consider SBI as being accountable 
for any delays in the transfer of the ISA following Mr C not complying with that request.
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that SBI have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably toward Mr C here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or asking SBI to take any further action at this time. I also note that SBI have agreed to process the ISA transfer without the need for any further action from Mr C, and so 
Im satisfied that the matter has been resolved and that a fair outcome has been reached.
I realise that this might not be the outcome that Mr C was wanting here, but I hope that Mr C 
will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman