DRN-4165249
The complaint
Mr A is a sole trader, trading as A. He complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) 
unreasonably refused his application for a business loan. 
What happened
Mr A opened a new business bank account with HSBC and around the same time, also 
applied for a business loan. Mr A says he wanted to borrow the money to expand his 
business in the local area. He was unhappy after HSBC rejected his loan application. Mr A 
doesnt think he had done anything to deserve the rejection and says hes well aware of his 
credit history.
HSBC told Mr A that it based its decision on the credit scoring that it carried out. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr As complaint be upheld. He said that Mr As loan 
application didnt meet HSBCs scoring criteria, so the investigator was satisfied that HSBC 
declined Mr As application in line with its lending policy. Our investigator told Mr A that 
HSBCs credit scoring may be different to the one provided by the main credit reference 
agencies as HSBC will use different criteria such as employment details, income and 
expenditure and account history. 
Our investigator went on to say that HSBC didnt have to give Mr A details about its lending 
criteria as this was commercially sensitive information which could affect how HSBC ran its 
business. However, our investigator was satisfied that Mr A didnt meet HSBCs affordability 
criteria. 
Mr A is unhappy with the investigation outcome. He thinks HSBC has given unreasonable 
excuses and that its decision to decline his application is unfair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr As frustration with HSBCs decision to decline his loan application. But this 
was a commercial decision that HSBC was entitled to make. This service wont usually 
interfere in a businesses commercial discretion. However, I can still consider whether HSBC 
made the decision fairly.
The Standards of Lending Practice says that HSBC should provide the primary reason why it 
decided not to lend. HSBC has done this when it told Mr A that his application didnt pass its 
internal credit scoring assessment. 
After Mr A appealed HSBCs decision to lend, it took the time to review the decision and 
explain why it rejected his application. HSBCs records indicate that it told Mr A that it 
declined the application based on the information he gave, information it already held about 
him and information provided by the credit reference agencies. 
The notes provided by HSBC indicate that in a telephone call with Mr A, it went further in its 
explanation for its decision. HSBC told Mr A that as he had only recently opened his 
business account with HSBC, it didnt have much information on which to base its 
assessment of his suitability for a loan. HSBC told Mr A that he hadnt provided a detailed 
breakdown of how he proposed to use the money. HSBC was also concerned about 
returned items on Mr As personal account. 
Im satisfied that HSBC gave Mr A a reasonable explanation of its decision making process. 
Ive seen nothing to indicate that HSBCs decision about Mr As loan application was unfair. I 
can also see that HSBC signposted Mr A to alternative ways of securing funding. I think this 
was a fair way to respond. 
Overall, I dont think HSBC has been unreasonable and Im not asking it to take any further 
action. Im sorry if this comes as a disappointment to Mr A. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman