DRN-2768329
The complaint
Miss C and Mr R complain about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as RSA and 
their decision to decline their pet insurance claim.
What happened
Miss C and Mr R adopted their dog, who Ill refer to as H, in January 2019. On 1 February, 
Miss C and Mr H took out a pet insurance policy for H, which was underwritten by RSA.
On 11 February, H was treated for Otis Externa in his right ear. He was seen again on 15 
March for the same condition, where his symptoms had eased. In October, H was then 
treated again, this time for issues with his anal glands. This issue continued and H was seen 
a number of times for further treatment. 
In March 2020, H was then seen again after hed began scratching his ears. And in August 
2020, H was diagnosed with Atopic Dermatitis (Atopy). In September 2020, Miss C and Mr R 
made a claim on their insurance policy for their vet costs theyd incurred treating this illness 
from October 2019 to August 2020.
But RSA declined Miss C and Mr Rs claim. They thought Hs Otitis Externa diagnosed in 
February 2019 was a symptom of the Atopy he was later diagnosed with. So, they thought 
the claim was excluded under the policy terms as H has shown signs of the illness being 
claimed for within the first 14 days of the policy.
Miss C and Mr R didnt agree with this. And their vet wrote to RSA detailing their opinion that 
the Otis Externa wasnt consistent with the usual symptoms of Atopy as it only affected one 
of Hs ears. So, they explained their belief this was a one-off incident that wasnt related to 
the later diagnosis. RSA passed this opinion to their in-house specialists, who disagreed. 
They maintained their belief that the symptoms present in February were symptoms of 
Atopy. So, RSA continued to decline the claim. Miss C and Mr R were still unhappy, so they 
raised a complaint.
They thought RSA had unfairly declined the claim as they felt their own vets opinion was 
correct. So, they thought RSA should upheld their claim and cover the costs they incurred. 
RSA didnt agree and maintained their view that the Otitis Externa was a symptom of Atopy. 
So, they thought theyd declined the claim fairly, in line with the terms of the policy. So, they 
didnt think they needed to do anything more. Miss C and Mr R remained unhappy, so they 
referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They recognised the point RSA had 
made and took this into consideration. But they didnt think the Otitis Externa was a long-
standing issue that continued until the Atopy was diagnosed. They thought it was most likely 
to be a one-off condition, which was been successfully treated in February 2019. So, they 
didnt think it was fair for RSA to conclude it to be a symptom of the Atopy and because of 
this, they didnt think RSA had fairly declined the claim. So, they recommended RSA re-
assess the claim on the basis the Otitis Externa wasnt a symptom of the Atopy. And refund 
Miss C and Mr R the costs theyd incurred, less any excess that was applicable, if the claim 
was upheld plus 8% statutory interest from the date they paid the fees to the date they 
received a refund. They also recommended RSA pay Miss C and Mr R £50 to acknowledge 
the trouble and upset theyd experienced.
Miss C and Mr R accepted this recommendation. But RSA didnt. They maintained their 
opinion that the Otitis Externa was linked to the Atopy and provided academic information to 
support this alongside their in-house specialists arguments. So, they didnt think theyd 
declined the claim unfairly and didnt think they needed to do anything more. As RSA didnt 
agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to explain my role, and how Ive considered this complaint. It isnt my role to re-
underwrite the complaint. Instead, Ive considered the actions RSA have taken, and whether 
I think they are fair and reasonable and in line with the terms of the policy. Having done so, I 
dont think they are. And Ill explain why.
RSA have declined Miss C and Mr Rs claim, referring to the exclusion which states We 
dont pay if you or your vet notice changes in your pets health, or behaviour within the first 
14 days of your cover start date, we wont pay claims for these changes or any illness that 
develops from these changes. 
When an insurer such as RSA decline a claim using an exclusion within the policy terms, the 
onus is on the insurer to prove that this exclusion applies. 
Ive seen the comments of RSAs in house vetinary specialist, which explains why they 
believe the issue with Hs ear diagnosed in February 2019 was a symptom of the Atopy later 
diagnosed in August 2020. But Ive also seen the comments provided by Miss C and Mr Rs 
own vet, who treated H at the time. And they say the Otitis Externa, an acute ear infection, 
was only found in one ear which isnt consistent with a symptom of Atopy. 
In a situation where one vets opinion differs with another, our set approach is usually to 
place more weight on the opinion of the vet that has treated the animal. In this situation, this 
would be the vet who treated H. And they have stated clearly that they dont believe the 
Otitis Externa is a symptom of the Atopy. So, Ive considered the evidence put forward by 
RSAs vetinary specialist, and their reasoning behind their exclusion, to decided whether 
their argument persuades me beyond reasonable doubt that the symptom was linked to the 
later diagnosis.
Theyve said We have skin and/or ear signs several times in 2019 and 2020.
Pinnal involvement in February 2019 points to Atopy. Ear cleaning advised for maintenance 
in February 2019, suggests risk of ongoing problems. But I dont agree. There was only one 
appointment after the initial diagnosis of Otitis Externa, in March 2019. And the notes from 
this appointment say, Checked ears, much better now advised regular cleaning with 
otodine. I dont think this suggests there was an ongoing problem with Hs ear. In fact, I 
think this suggests the treatment provided in February 2019 had rectified the problem. While 
I appreciate RSAs view that regular cleaning was suggested, I dont think this was continued treatment. I think this was a suggestion to prevent any re-occurrence, to keep H in good 
health. 
Had this been an ongoing problem, Id have expected to see further instances of the Otitis 
Externa returning. But looking at Hs medical notes, this isnt the case. Instead, H developed 
a problem with his anal glands in October 2019, which became an ongoing issue. Hs ears 
didnt become a problem again until March 2020, more than a year after the Otitis Externa 
was diagnosed and treated. 
So, when I consider Miss C and Mr Rs vets report regarding only the one ear being 
infected, and the length of time before Hs ears were reported to have began itching, against 
the argument put forward by RSAs vetinary specialist, I dont think there is enough to 
persuade me that the Otitis in February 2019 was definitely a symptom of the later Atopy 
diagnosis. And because of this, I dont think RSA have acted fairly when they declined the 
claim on this basis, due to the Otitis Externa being diagnosed within the first 14 days of the 
policy.
Putting things right
As I dont think RSA acted fairly, Ive then considered what I think they should do to put 
things right. Had RSA not relied upon this exclusion, they wouldve continued to assess the 
claim against the rest of the policy. So, I think this is what they should do.
And upon this re-assessment, if its found the claim should be upheld, I think they should 
refund Miss C and Mr R the vetinary costs they have paid towards the Atopy treatment, less 
any excess that is applicable on the policy. And RSA should also pay 8% statutory interest 
from the time Miss C and Mr R paid these fees, to the date the refund is provided.
I also think this process wouldve been both stressful and upsetting for Miss C and Mr R. 
They took out an insurance policy to protect them financially in situations such as this. And I 
think the time and effort it took for them to dispute RSAs initial decline, and then pursue this 
decision further, wouldve had a negative impact on them. So, I think RSA should pay Miss C 
and Mr R £50 to compensate them for this.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Miss C and Mr Rs complaint about Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Plc trading as RSA and direct them to take the following action:
Reassess Miss C and Mr Rs claim on the basis that the Otitis Externa diagnosed in 
February 2019 wasnt a symptom of the Atopy they are claiming for;
If this reassessment leads to the claim being upheld, refund Miss C and Mr Rs the 
fees theyve already paid, less any excess that is applicable and up to the policy limit;
Pay Miss C and Mr R 8% statutory interest from the date they paid the fees to the 
date any refund is provided; and
Pay Miss C and Mr R £50 to compensate them for the trouble and upset theyve 
experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 Josh Haskey
Ombudsman