DRN-3308541
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) handled a 
claim made against his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Another drivers insurer alleged that Mr M had clipped their cars wing mirror and it held Mr M 
fully at fault. Mr M recalled an incident when the two cars had clipped wing mirrors on a 
country lane. He said the other driver was speeding at the time. He said they stopped but 
didnt exchange details. So he had his car repaired but didnt report this to LV. LV said that it 
was one drivers word against the others. So it thought the best possible outcome was a 
50/50 split liability settlement. Mr M was unhappy as his No Claims Discount (NCD) was 
reduced and his premium increased by over £400 at renewal. 
Our Investigator recommended that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He thought LV 
hadnt investigated the claim fully. He thought it should have asked for more information from 
the other insurer that may have had an impact on liability. He thought LV should explain to 
Mr M why it wasnt taking the matter to court. And he thought it should pay Mr M £100 
compensation for the delays in settling the claim.
LV replied that it was unable to establish which version of events was correct. And so it 
thought it had acted correctly in seeking a split liability outcome. It thought further 
investigation wouldnt affect the outcome. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr M felt frustrated that he was held partly at fault for this claim. Hes 
explained that the financial outcome for him has been significant. Mr M said he saw the other 
car oncoming at speed in a narrow country lane. He said he stopped and moved as close to 
the side of the road as he could to let the other car pass. But their wing mirrors clipped. 
I can see there was some confusion about the location of the accident. But I think this was a 
mistake and I think Mr M agreed that he had been at the location and the cars did make 
contact. 
The other driver, however, said Mr M had veered towards him and so their wing mirrors had 
made contact. The other drivers insurer held Mr M completely at fault. And LV said the best 
possible outcome was a 50/50 split liability settlement. This meant that a fault claim was 
recorded against Mr M, his NCD was reduced and his premium increased significantly. 
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr M the same as someone else in his position. 
LV is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr M to take over, defend, or 
settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr M has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement of 
a claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor insurance 
policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial decision about 
whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
before making its decision on liability. This is because of the impact its decision will have for 
the consumer.  
LV said the evidence it relied was on the two versions of events. There was no dashcam 
footage or independent witnesses. But I can see that the allegation it relied on was a brief 
verbal report from the other insurer. LV said it confirmed its validity when it spoke to Mr M. 
But I cant see that it obtained the other drivers version of events or that it challenged the 
other insurer by providing Mr Ms account. Nor did it ask why the other driver had driven off 
before exchanging details, as Mr M said. It also made its decision before establishing that 
there was damage to the other car consistent with that caused to Mr Ms car. So Im not 
satisfied that LV conducted a reasonable investigation before making its decision. 
LV said it had warned Mr M from the start that a 50/50 outcome was the best possible one 
and so it had reasonably set his expectations. This may be so. But I think it offered this to 
the other insurer before it had concluded its investigation. And so I dont think this was fair or 
reasonable.  
I agree with the Investigators recommendation that LV should investigate the claim further. It 
is still waiting for the engineering report of the damage to the other car to check for 
consistency. I think it needs to obtain further evidence from the other insurer about the other 
drivers version of events and challenge it with Mr Ms account. This may not change the 
outcome for Mr M, but it should explain in clearer terms how and why it has reached its 
decision. 
If the outcome remains unchanged, and once LV has validated the claim costs, then I think 
LV should reasonably explain to Mr M the option of buying back the claim. This will give him 
the opportunity to restore his NCD if he so wishes. 
Our Investigator thought this further investigation would cause avoidable delay in the claim 
being settled. I agree, and I think LV should reasonably compensate Mr M for this and for its 
poor investigation. The Investigator recommended that LV should pay Mr M £100 
compensation for this. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our published 
guidance. 
Putting things right
I require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
1. Further investigate the claim against Mr M to obtain evidence to justify and explain its 
decision on liability. 
2. Pay Mr M £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
avoidable delay in settling the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman