DRN-2430346
Complaint
Mr W has complained about a loan Madison CF UK Limited (118 118 Money) provided to 
him. He says 118 118 Money irresponsibly lent him this loan.
Background
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr W and 118 118 Money had told us. And he 
thought that 118 118 Money hadnt lent irresponsibly. So he didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Mr W disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ws complaint.
118 118 Money needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr W could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
118 118 Money provided Mr W with a loan for £1,000.00 in October 2015. It had an APR of 
169.9% and was to due be repaid in 24 instalments of £98.47, which meant the total amount 
to be repaid was £2,363.28. 118 118 Money says it agreed to Mr Ws application after he 
provided details of his monthly income and expenditure. 
It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out on Mr W. 
The information Mr W provided about his income and expenditure showed hed be able to 
comfortably make the repayments he was committing to. 118 118 Money says, in these 
circumstances it was reasonable to lend. On the other hand, Mr W has said he shouldnt 
have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr W and 118 118 Money have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that this was Mr Ws only loan with 118 118 Money. So as the 
monthly payments were relatively low, in comparison to Mr Ws declared income, a relatively 
light touch check might well have been proportionate in the circumstances. 118 118 Money 
has provided a record of the credit search information it received and this doesnt show 
anything too alarming. Mr W may had existing debts but these dont appear excessive. And 
bearing in mind Mr Ws income and the low monthly payments for this loan, I dont think that 
it was unreasonable for 118 118 Money to have proceeded with this application. 
I accept that Mr Ws actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information 118 118 Money obtained. But the key here is that 
its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender 
did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious 
inconsistencies, I dont think that reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended 
into doing anything further here. 
As this is the case, I dont think that 118 118 Money did anything wrong when deciding to 
lend to Mr W - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out 
which suggested the repayments were affordable. So I dont think that 118 118 Money 
treated Mr W unfairly or unreasonably when providing him with his loan. 
Overall and having considered everything, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. I appreciate 
this will be very disappointing for Mr W. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman