DRN-4095564
The complaint
Mr R has complained that The Shepherds Friendly Society Limited (Shepherds Friendly) 
has unfairly declined his claim and cancelled his policy.
What happened
Mr R took out an income protection insurance policy with Shepherds Friendly in 2015. In 
2022, he made a claim when he became unwell and needed treatment.
Shepherds Friendly reviewed his medical history and said hed answered four questions 
incorrectly. And it considered this to be a deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation, 
which entitled it to cancel the policy, decline the claim and keep the premiums already paid. 
Mr R brought his complaint to us. Our investigator thought Mr Rs misrepresentation was 
careless. He said Shepherds Friendly was entitled to cancel the policy but it should return 
the premiums paid, with interest.
Shepherds Friendly disagreed and in summary, said Mr Rs misrepresentation could not be 
considered careless due to the timing of his application as he was seeing his GP about 
problems he failed to declare on his application. 
An agreement couldnt be reached, and so the case has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I appreciate this will be 
disappointing for Mr R but Ill explain why. 
I issued my provisional decision on 14 April 2023 which both sides have kindly responded to. 
Ive set out my findings again in full below:
Ive considered what good industry practice was at the time of the claim as set out in the 
Association of British Insurers (ABI) Code of Practice. The Code says reckless or deliberate 
misrepresentation is more likely to apply where the information concerns recent or ongoing 
treatment. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Shepherds Friendly thinks Mr R failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when he completed his application form and answered no to medical 
questions about his eye problems, blood tests, breathing problems and back pain. 
Ive looked at the questions Mr R was asked and I dont think Mr R took reasonable care 
when answering questions relating to the above problems. 
Shepherds Friendly has provided evidence from its underwriter which shows that it wouldnt 
have offered Mr R a policy as it only allows a maximum of two exclusions and Mr R would 
have had more than two had he answered the questions correctly. 
This means Im satisfied that Mr Rs misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
Shepherds Friendly has said Mr Rs misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless because 
he had ongoing symptoms of his eye problems at the time he made his application and had 
abnormal blood test results and respiratory issues a few months before his application.
Im satisfied Shepherds Friendly treated Mr R fairly when it reviewed his medical history as it 
gave him an opportunity to explain why he hadnt disclosed his eye problems, blood test 
results, respiratory and back problems. Mr R said he disclosed everything he remembered 
and had made amendments to the application he received in writing. 
Ive thought carefully about the level of information Mr R disclosed and that he did make a 
number of changes to the application once he received a copy in writing. But in light of the 
problems he didnt disclose, and how recent they were, I cant say Shepherds Friendly 
treated him unfairly. 
I agree that Mr Rs misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless based on the medical 
evidence which shows Mr R was seeing his doctor about his eye problems around the time 
of his application and had also had two other issues only months before his application. 
As Im satisfied that Mr Rs misrepresentation should be treated as deliberate or reckless Ive 
looked at the actions Shepherds Friendly can take in accordance with CIDRA. This says 
Shepherds Friendly can cancel the policy and keep any premiums already paid.
As the actions taken by Shepherds Friendly are in accordance with CIDRA  by cancelling 
the policy and retaining the premiums  I dont think it acted unfairly. 
Shepherds Friendly agreed with my provisional findings but Mr R didnt. In summary, he 
said:
Shepherds Friendly failed to validate his medical records with his GP although hed 
given consent to the underwriter to do this.
At the point of application, Shepherds Friendly isnt expected to validate medical history, 
even if it has consent to do so. 
Under section 10 entitled underwriting, the policy confirms Mr R must provide all the information it asks for. If any inaccurate information is provided, a payment may not be made 
when a claim is made. Shepherds Friendly uses tele-interviews to gather information and 
this doesnt extend to requesting and reviewing medical evidence at the point of application. 
Shepherds Friendly couldnt prove that he had suffered from the condition he was 
claiming for before July 2022. 
Whether or not Mr R suffered from the condition claimed for, isnt the test here. The test is 
whether Shepherds Friendly would have ever offered cover at the point of application had Mr 
R correctly disclosed his medical history. As he wouldnt have been offered a policy at all, he 
isnt able to make a claim.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R and to hear of his health problems. But I hope my decision 
explains why I cant fairly ask Shepherds Friendly to pay the claim or refund the premiums.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman