DRN-2315590
The complaint
Mr H complains that Vanquis Bank Limited increased its lending to him on his credit card
account, even though he had no job and a gambling addiction.
What happened
Mr H took out a credit card account with Vanquis in 2011. He said Vanquis repeatedly raised
his credit limit, although he wasnt employed and had a gambling addiction. He said this
lending was irresponsible and unaffordable. He said he had 10 payday loans, was
overdrawn on his bank account and had defaulted on multiple accounts. Mr H wanted a
refund of all interest and charges applied to the account.
Vanquis said it opened an account for Mr H in August 2011, with an initial limit of £250. It 
had increased his limit to £1,000 in February 2014, then to £1,750 in January 2015. It said all 
minimum payments requested before the two increases had been received in full and on 
time. And he was, on average, paying significantly more than the required minimum 
payment. So it thought it was reasonable for it to conclude Mr H could manage a higher
credit limit.
Vanquis said that before it opened this account for Mr H, it had been told he was employed
on a full-time basis. It didnt think hed told it about any change in his employment status. But
it wouldnt necessarily have made a different decision if it had known that. Vanquis said it
also hadnt previously been told about Mr Hs gambling addiction.
Vanquis said Mr H had asked it to block his card on 31 July 2015. He had then rung back
and asked for a new card to be issued. Vanquis said that Mr Hs account did fall into
difficulties after this, and it refunded all the interest and charges applied to the account since
August 2015. That added up to £619.66 of interest and £180 of default fees.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said the way that Mr H was
paying off his card meant that Vanquis didnt know he was having financial problems. And it
didnt know hed lost his job, or had a gambling addiction. Our investigator didnt think that
Vanquis had done anything wrong.
Our investigator said the amount Vanquis had paid would clear most of Mr Hs outstanding 
debt. He thought this was a very fair offer, and he said he had no further recommendations 
for Vanquis.
Mr H didnt agree with that. He said the debts werent paid off by him, but by a relative. And
he didnt have a job at any time when he had the card. He also said he had a number of
ongoing problems managing his Vanquis account. He wanted to know why other complaints
he had made to our service had succeeded, but this one didnt.
Our investigator said that Mr H had told Vanquis that he was working. It was up to him to tell 
Vanquis if things had changed.
Mr H still thought Vanquis had made a mistake by lending him all this money. He wanted an
ombudsman to look at what had happened. So the case came to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Mr H took his card out in 2011. At that time, Vanquis had decided to lend him a 
relatively modest £250. Mr H wanted to complain about the increases to his credit 
limit Vanquis made after this.
Mr H was offered an increase on his credit limit in February 2014, with the new limit 
showing on his April 2014 statement. The limit went up from only £250 to £1,000. 
Vanquis said it offered him this facility.
The OFT Irresponsible Lending Guidance applied to Mr Hs first credit limit increase. I 
think an increase from a credit limit of £250 to £1,000 was a significant increase, 
under that guidance. This guidance says that Vanquis shouldve taken account of 
whether Mr H was likely to be able to meet his repayments in a sustainable manner, 
in the light of the information it had. In this case, that clearly includes information on 
how he was managing his account.
I also note that Guidance from the UK Cards Association suggests Vanquis may 
consider a number of factors in making unsolicited credit limit increases.
Vanquis has pointed to repayments made in the months prior to the increase being 
offered. Those were above the minimum, on average. But in the twelve months 
before this limit increase was offered, Mr H had been over his limit for seven months, 
and his account had recently been suspended twice. I think that this shouldve 
suggested to Vanquis that Mr H was not managing his card well, and indeed, was at 
risk of financial difficulties. So a very sizeable increase in Mr Hs credit limit was 
unlikely to be affordable for him. I think this increase shouldnt have been offered.
Mr H was offered a further increase in January 2015, with the new limit showing on 
his March 2015 statement. Although by this point the rules set out in the CONC 
section of the Financial Services Authority handbook, applied, the principle remained 
the same, that Vanquis ought not to offer increased lending to Mr H if it considered 
he was at risk of financial difficulties.
Mr Hs credit limit went up from £1,000 to £1,750. Mr Hs card had been over its limit 
in six of the preceding twelve months before this increase was offered. Worryingly, 
that included the month when his limit was increased from £250 to £1,000. I think that 
this should again have suggested to Vanquis that Mr H was not managing his card 
well, and remained at risk of financial difficulties. So a further increase in Mr Hs 
credit limit was unlikely to be affordable for him. I think that this increase shouldnt 
have been offered.
I note Vanquis has refunded all of the interest and charges applied to Mr Hs account 
since August 2015. Because I dont think the limit increases Ive noted should have 
been offered to Mr H, I think that Vanquis should now repay Mr H any interest or 
charges hes paid in respect of a balance in excess of £250 since April 2014, when 
the first credit limit increase was implemented. Vanquis can use this refund to reduce 
any remaining debt that Mr H has to Vanquis in the first instance, if it wishes to.Ive listened carefully to the call Mr H made to pay off his card, reduce the limit, and 
block the card. And also when he rang back to have a card issued on the account.
On the first call, Mr Hs father made a sizeable payment onto the card. Then Mr H 
asked to reduce his credit limit to what he owed and to block his cards. He said this 
was because of the high interest rate on his account. He didnt mention any concerns 
about overspending or gambling. He did say he wanted a permanent block on his 
card, but he told Vanquis this was because hed lost his card. Vanquis explained it 
would issue a new card if he asked it to.
On the second call, Vanquis was very clear with Mr H that the credit limit had been 
reduced at his request, and that the card had been blocked. Mr H asked for a new 
card to be issued. He didnt give any indication of any reason that Vanquis should be 
concerned about this card issue. He didnt mention his gambling. I note that Mr H 
asked for his limit to be increased again on this call, and Vanquis refused.
I can see that Mr H started to miss payments on his account in August 2016. I 
understand his account was closed in early 2017.
For the reasons Ive set out above, I think that Vanquis should now make a further 
refund to Mr Hs card. When Vanquis first said it would refund some money to Mr H, 
it said it couldnt pay that money back onto Mr Hs card, because the debt had been 
sold. But I am asking Vanquis to make a refund, so I think its important that this 
money is used, in the first instance, to reduce the debt on this card which shouldnt 
have built up in this way. So Ill ask Vanquis to buy back this debt from the company 
it has sold it to.
Once Vanquis has this debt back, it should refund any interest or charges that Mr H 
paid in respect of a balance in excess of £250. I know Mr H has already received 
£799.66 from Vanquis, and Ill allow Vanquis to set off that amount against my award.
If the refund Im requiring above, minus the money Vanquis has already paid Mr H, is 
more than Mr H owes Vanquis, then Vanquis should pay Mr H the remaining money. 
Ive thought about whether Vanquis should pay Mr H compensation too. But I dont 
think whats gone wrong here is entirely Vanquiss fault. Mr H did apply for this credit, 
he accepted the increases, and in particular, asked for his card to be reissued in 
August 2015. So I wont ask Vanquis to pay compensation in this case.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr H sent a substantive reply, Vanquis said it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H contacted us to say that he didnt think the refund Vanquis had already paid him was 
the right amount. He said he thought it shouldve paid £1,557, so hed only had half of what 
he shouldve got. 
Vanquis told Mr H it was paying back all the interest and charges applied on his account 
since August 2015, and it said that was £799.66. Mr H thinks it should be about twice that. 
But I can see that on 22 November 2015, Mr H received a number of large refunds. Once we 
allow for that, I dont think Vanquis has only paid Mr H half of what it owes. And I dont think that Vanquis has to ignore the refunds it has already made, when it calculates how much it 
owes Mr H now. 
Mr H said that the debt had now been sold to a firm who had added £85 in charges, he 
wanted Vanquis to refund that too. 
Vanquis hasnt had a chance to consider a complaint about additional fees which have been 
added to Mr Hs account. So I cant consider a complaint about any such additional fees as 
part of this complaint. 
Mr H also thought he should be offered compensation. He said that Vanquis was hounding 
him with emails asking him to take out another card, even after a family member had paid off 
large chunks of his debt. Mr H said that this was still affecting him now, and he partly blamed 
Vanquis for that. 
I understand that this debt is likely to have a continuing effect on Mr H. I hope that the refund 
Ive asked Vanquis to make will go some way to helping with that. But I dont think Vanquis is 
solely responsible for the problems Mr H has experienced. As I noted in my provisional 
decision, Mr H did apply for this credit, he accepted the increases, and in particular, asked 
for his card to be reissued in August 2015. Mr H says that he was still receiving marketing 
emails from Vanquis after part of his card was paid off. But he hasnt told us that hed asked 
Vanquis to stop sending those. 
Ive considered this case carefully, and I still dont think it would be appropriate to ask 
Vanquis to pay compensation in this case.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that Vanquis Bank Limited must 
1) buy back Mr Hs debt
2) refund any interest or charges that Mr H has paid in respect of a balance in excess 
of £250 since April 2014, when Mr Hs first credit limit increase was implemented, 
minus the £799.66 that Vanquis has already paid.
3) if the above amount is more than Mr H owes Vanquis, then Vanquis must pay Mr 
H the remaining money.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman