DRN-3966489
The complaint
Miss G complains about the charges Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (t/a Novuna Vehicle 
Solutions) (NVS) applied when she returned a car before the end of her hire agreement.
What happened
Miss G entered into a hire agreement in January 2019 for a term of 48 months, but she 
ended the agreement early and handed the car back. Miss G says she paid a third party to 
fix any problems with the car prior to its inspection, and shes unhappy with the charges that 
NVS applied when she returned the car. Miss G told us:
she decided to end the agreement early and return the car, but before she did this, 
she engaged a registered body repair company to fix any issues that might arise 
during the subsequent inspection;
a third party collected the car in October 2022, inspected it and provided NVS with a 
report. NVS then wrote to her with details of the inspection and advised her she 
needed to pay £325 for vehicle damage that was outside fair wear and tear;
she initially accepted all three items that were listed in the inspection report, but now 
disputes one of them;
shes happy to pay for the two items shes accepted, but had already paid out £1,500 
to the third party to fix the car and, as a result, had only expected a couple of minor 
costs; 
NVS rejected Miss Gs complaint. It said under the terms of Miss Gs agreement, she 
needed to return the vehicle with no damage outside of fair wear and tear. And it explained 
that it had reviewed the photographs and the inspection report provided by its collection 
agent, and it was satisfied that the identified damage was clearly evidenced and was outside 
fair wear and tear.
It explained that the third-party collection agent had inspected the car against the industry 
standards set out in the British Vehicle Renting Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines and 
identified issues in three areas:
1. Front bumper  dirt in paint £175
2. Tailgate / Boot  rippled finish £140
3. Front number plate  cracked £10
And it suggested Miss G contact the body repair company shed engaged to seek 
compensation for the quality of its work.
NVS told this Service that Miss G had accepted the charges for the cracked front number 
plate and the rippled paintwork finish on the tailgate but continued to dispute the charge 
associated with the quality of the paint finish on the front bumper. It says the quality of the 
paintwork is substandard and the evidence from the inspection confirms this. 
Miss G disagreed and brought her complaint to this Service, and shed provided a copy of 
the invoice to show the work she had done on the car prior to handing it back.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she didnt think it should be upheld. She 
explained that the standard for what constitutes fair wear and tear is set out in the British 
Vehicle Renting Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines and her role was to decide whether 
the charges applied by NVS were fair and reasonable.
She explained shed reviewed the evidence from the inspection and was satisfied that the 
damage to the front bumper exceeded fair wear and tear, and that the charge applied by 
NVS was fair and was in accordance with its terms and conditions.
Miss G disagrees, so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Miss G must keep the vehicle in good 
condition and repair. It goes on to say, Youll be responsible to us for any damage caused 
to or deterioration of the Vehicle otherwise than through fair wear and tear as indicated in the 
guidelines issued from time to time by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA). So, Im satisfied that Miss G was responsible for returning the car in good 
condition, but the question is whether all the charges applied by NVS are fair and 
reasonable. 
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVLRA) and these are accepted as an industry standard in determining 
whether any damage goes beyond fair wear and tear. So, I have taken these into account 
when deciding what is fair and reasonable for NVS to charge Miss G. 
NVS claims three areas of damage that it deems to be outside fair wear and tear: 
1. Front bumper  dirt in paint £175
2. Tailgate / Boot  rippled finish £140
3. Front number plate  cracked £10
I dont need to make a finding in respect of items (2) and (3). This is because these 
damages arent in dispute and Miss G has accepted them and offered to pay the £150 in 
respect of them. My findings, therefore, relate to the one outstanding disputed charge  the 
charges for the front bumper (1).
The BVRLA guidance says that customers can arrange to repair areas of damage and 
replace missing equipment and accessories before the vehicle is returned, ensuring that any 
work carried out is done to a professional standard by a repairer who can provide a 
transferable warranty for the work.
In respect of bumpers, paintwork and bodywork, the standard goes on to say that evidence 
of poor repair, such as flaking paint, preparation marks, paint contamination, rippled finish or 
poorly matched paint, is not acceptable.
NVS says there is evidence of specs of dirt in the paintwork, and that the paintwork itself is 
pitted. It goes on to say that this can be seen in the photographic evidence not only of the bumper itself, but additionally in the reflections of the zebra board, the green jacket, and the 
line of light to the right of the image. In summary, the paintwork doesnt have a smooth 
finish.
Ive looked very carefully at the photographs that NVS provided, and Im satisfied that the 
damage highlighted by it is indeed present; put simply, the repair work carried out on the 
front bumper is of low quality such that I consider it to be damaged and in need of further 
repair. The photograph suggests that the car wasnt, perhaps, cleaned as thoroughly as it 
couldve been, with the result that the poor finish is possibly caused by trapped dirt under the 
paint. So, I think the charge in respect of the front bumper has been applied fairly. 
Ive considered what Miss G says about having paid a third party a significant sum of money 
to repair the damage prior to returning the car  but in the absence of a transferrable 
warranty for the work she had undertaken, its not unfair of NVS to charge her if the quality of 
the paintwork is deemed to be substandard, and therefore damaged. Its also worth noting 
that the inspection report concluded the paint finish on the tailgate was also substandard  a 
rippled finish  and Miss G seems to accept this. So, it doesnt surprise me that other 
aspects of the paint work undertaken by the third party are also of a questionable standard.
Given all of the above, Im satisfied that the charges NVS asked Miss G to pay were applied 
fairly and in line with relevant industry guidance and that NVS has acted fairly in respect of 
the charges it applied.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman