DRN-4185924
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited (Cabot) harassed her in 
relation to debts she disputes. 
What happened
In September 2022 Cabot purchased three credit card debts in Mrs Os name from a 
business Ill call M. Cabot sent Mrs O a Notice of Assignment for each account setting out 
the new arrangements and change in ownership. M also issued letters to confirm the new 
arrangements. 
During October 2022 Cabot made calls to the number it was given for Mrs O. When Cabot 
was able to speak with Mrs O it says the security questions werent answered. And Mrs O 
went on to raise a complaint with Cabot about the contact shed received. 
Cabot issued a final response on 7 November 2022 and said the accounts had been 
terminated by M and sold. Cabot didnt agree it had contacted Mrs O unfairly and placed the 
accounts on hold for 30 days. In response, Mrs O contacted Cabot and said shed raised a 
dispute about all three accounts with M. Mrs O also asked Cabot to amend its records and 
contact her by email and requested the figure it had paid to purchase her accounts from M. 
Cabot issued a follow up final response on 17 November 2022 the number of calls made 
reflected that it had purchased three accounts in her name. Cabot declined to give the 
purchase price it paid for the debts and said it had contacted M to obtain credit agreements 
and supporting documents. Cabot confirmed the accounts were placed on hold while it was 
waiting to receive copies of supporting documents from M. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mrs Os complaint. They thought Cabot had dealt 
with Mrs Os case fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mrs O asked to appeal and said 
Cabot had failed to carry out due diligence when purchasing the accounts which were in 
dispute at the time. As Mrs O asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
Mrs Os response to the investigator said Cabot had failed to carry out reasonable due 
diligence when it purchased the credit card debts in her name as they were under dispute at 
the time. Ive looked at the available information but there doesnt appear to have been 
anything that shows Cabot was notified there was an existing dispute between Mrs O and M 
when it purchased the accounts in her name. I appreciate Mrs O feels Cabot shouldve done 
more before taking steps to contact her, but I havent seen anything that wouldve notified it 
of Mrs Os concerns about the outstanding debts or ongoing disputes with M. 
I can see that Cabot attempted to call Mrs O on numerous occasions in October 2022. And 
Cabots explained that the number of calls made was higher as it had acquired three 
separate accounts in Mrs Os name. But I havent been persuaded the level or nature of the 
calls amounted to harassment. I can see that on various occasions Mrs O declined to 
complete the security questions which meant the calls couldnt continue. But when Mrs O 
asked to raise a complaint, Cabot placed the accounts on hold while it investigated her 
concerns. And Cabot went on to request supporting information, including the original credit 
agreements, from the original lender leaving collections activity on hold. Im satisfied that 
Cabot wasnt aware of the nature of Mrs Os dispute with M when it acquired the accounts in 
her name. But I think it took reasonable steps by agreeing to place collections activity on 
hold following Mrs Os complaint. I havent been persuaded that Cabot treated Mrs O 
unfairly. 
Id expect Cabot to abide by the results of any dispute Mrs O raises with M. But Im satisfied 
it has dealt with Mrs Os enquiries fairly, gone on to raise disputes with M which is 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Os complaint. Ive also considered the level and 
nature of Cabots contact with Mrs O but havent found evidence of harassment or that its 
treated her unfairly. Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs O but as Im satisfied Cabot dealt with 
her complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman