DRN-4186115
The complaint
Mr J complains Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund the money he lost as a result of a 
third part scam.
Mr J is represented by a third party.
What happened
The full details of this complaint are well known to the parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points, and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
In November 2021, someone contacted Mr J on a social media site about an investment 
opportunity. The individual - who I will refer to as V - was impersonating a friend of a friend. 
V told Mr J he could get returns of £5,000 in a week on a £500 investment. He was given 
access to a trading platform where he could see his investment in real time. When he asked 
to withdraw his funds, he was asked to pay £2,200 in tax and also a further £1,500 in fees. 
He then realised he had been the victim of a scam.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint, she felt the payments werent unusual and 
were relatively low in value, so she didnt think Lloyds needed to intervene or provide a 
warning. She also considered that Mr J did not have a reasonable basis for belief or that 
Mr J was vulnerable to the extent that he was unable to protect himself.
Mr J did not accept the investigators conclusions, so the case has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. So, although it wasnt his intention to pay money to the 
scammer, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms of his 
account, Mr J is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for a bank to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in 
order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Lloyds 
should have reimbursed Mr J in line with the provisions of the Lending Standards Board 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) it has signed up to. And whether it ought 
to have done more to protect Mr J from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr J was tricked into making the payments. He thought he was 
sending money to an investment and this wasnt the case. But this isnt enough, in itself, for 
Mr J to receive a full refund of the money under the CRM Code.
The CRM Code
Lloyds has signed up to the CRM Code. The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. 
One such circumstance might be when a customer has ignored an effective warning. 
A second circumstance in which a bank might decline a refund is, if it can be demonstrated 
that the customer made the payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
 the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; 
 the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or 
 the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case.
The CRM Code also outlines the standards a firm is expected to meet. And it says that when 
assessing whether the firm has met those standards, consideration must be given to 
whether compliance with those standards would have had a material effect on preventing the 
APP scam that took place.
I am also mindful that when Mr J made these payments, Lloyds should fairly and reasonably 
also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And in some 
circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional steps, or 
make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make a 
payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud.
Did Lloyds meet its obligations under the CRM Code and did Mr J ignore an effective 
warning?
The CRM Code says that effective warnings should be risk based and, where possible, 
tailored to the APP scam risk indicators and any specific APP scam types identified through 
the user interface with which the customer is initiating the payment instructions.
I accept that the first payment of £500 was to a new payee  but the payment was 
unremarkable and the transfers after that were to the same known payee.  The transfers 
were relatively small (between £500 and £2,200) and spread out, and Mr J had made larger 
transfers than these in the months prior to the scam. Banks cant reasonably be involved in 
every transaction. There is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could 
potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. Overall, I dont 
think the transactions Mr J made stood out as being unusual or that Lloyds ought reasonably 
to have identified a risk here. 
That said, it seems that Lloyds did provide a warning for something else which is what Mr J 
told Lloyds he selected at the time the payment was processed. I haven't repeated the 
warning that was shown during the online payment process because Mr Js choice made it 
very difficult for Lloyds to give a tailored and impactful warning. It's also the case that, had 
answering investment (as arguably he should have done) led to a warning that met the definition of 'effective' under the CRM Code (that's not a finding I need to make here), it 
would be irrelevant because Mr J didnt see that particular warning. So, I don't find that 
Lloyds has failed in its obligation to provide an effective warning, but I also cant say Mr J 
ignored an effective warning either. 
Did Mr J have a reasonable basis for belief, or could Mr J have done more to mitigate his 
losses?
I need to consider not just whether Mr J believed he was sending money for an investment 
but whether it was reasonable for him to do so. Ive thought about the steps Mr J took to 
reassure himself about the legitimacy of the transactions and whether it was reasonable for 
him to proceed with the payments. 
I dont agree with Mr Js representative that he had no reason to doubt the legitimacy of the 
investment and or his dealings with the advisor. I say this because:
Mr J was told he would receive £5,000 in a week from an investment of £500. The 
promised returns were unrealistic and too good to be true and the deal warranted 
closer scrutiny.
Mr J was asked to pay taxes upfront. I think this ought to have caused concern.
Mr J came across the opportunity on a social media platform and communication was 
mainly via a social media messaging platform. No contract or terms and conditions 
were provided, and he wasnt provided with any clear information on how the funds 
were invested. This is not how a genuine firm would operate.
Some messages were sent to Mr J via email and did have documents attached but 
these communications were not very professional looking. 
The payments were made to a third party in a personal name rather than a business 
and payee name was unrelated to whom Mr J was corresponding with. I think this 
was a sign that things were not quite right and should have led to a more cautious 
approach.
Overall, I dont think Mr J had a reasonable basis for believing these were genuine payments 
for a genuine investment opportunity or that he was dealing with a genuine person.
Vulnerability under the code
There are provisions under the code which might lead to a refund, even when a customer 
doesnt have a reasonable basis for belief. The relevant part of the Code, says: 
A Customer is vulnerable to APP scams if it would not be reasonable to expect that 
Customer to have protected themselves, at the time of becoming victim of an APP scam, 
against that particular APP scam, to the extent of the impact they suffered. This should be 
assessed on a case-by-case basis.
I understand that Mr J was going through a lot and the scam has clearly impacted him 
further. I note from what his representatives have said, he was dealing with difficult personal 
circumstances including the loss of a family member and his own fathers medical diagnosis. 
From whats been said, I understand this meant Mr J was under financial pressure as he 
wanted to ensure that he could cover any fees and/or bills associated with these unfortunate 
circumstances. Mr J says, if he wasnt under this immense pressure, it is unlikely that he 
would have fallen victim to this scam.Im sorry to hear of all Mr J has been through. Not just in terms of this scam, but also 
whats happened to him prior to or during the scam. Ive no doubt that he has been 
through a lot and I dont doubt that his mental health has suffered as a result. And no 
doubt the scam has impacted him further. 
But Ive considered whether there are vulnerabilities present to such an extent that Mr J 
was unable to take steps to identify the scam he fell victim to or to recognise steps he 
might take to test the legitimacy of what he was being told by the fraudster. To do so I 
must consider the details of the scam, Mr Js actions throughout, and the wider 
circumstances of what was happening in his life at the time. 
Having done so, I consider there is evidence within the circumstances that suggest Mr J 
was capable of taking steps to protect himself from fraud and financial harm. That is to say 
there was more he might reasonably have done that would have led to the scam being 
uncovered. 
Mr J was actively looking for investment opportunities and he was not under any threat or 
pressure to make the payments. The payments were spread out over a period of time and 
there would've been enough time and opportunity to make further enquiries before 
proceeding. I believe his actions after he made the payments when he challenged the next 
KYC (know your customer) fee show he was capable of considering complex issues and 
seeking answers.
Having thought very carefully about everything Mr Js representatives has told us, whilst 
Im not saying Mr Js circumstances had no impact on him at the time, Im not persuaded 
that it would be unreasonable to expect him to have protected himself against the 
particular scam he fell victim to. And so, I dont find that Lloyds need refund Mr Js entire 
loss under the vulnerability clause of the code.
Did Lloyds do enough to recover Mr Js funds?
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds took reasonable steps to recover Mr Js funds once it 
was made aware he was the victim of a scam. The first scam payment was made on 3 
November 2021 and the last one on 22 November 2021. Mr J reported the scam on 13 
December 2021. Lloyds contacted the beneficiary bank on the same day a few hours later 
but no funds remained.  Ive seen the evidence to show funds were removed shortly after 
(within minutes or hours of) being deposited on each occasion. So, even if Lloyds could have 
contacted the beneficiary bank immediately after Mr J reported it, I dont consider it would 
make a difference in this case as the funds were removed within hours of being transferred - 
well before Mr J reported the matter to Lloyds.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman