DRN-3217935
The complaint
Mr F complains that MBNA Limited didnt apply a promotional rate of interest to his credit 
card account.
What happened
Mr F had a credit card account with MBNA. He says that in July 2019 he asked MBNA to 
switch his account to another account with it which offered a promotional interest rate. The 
offer was 0% on balance transfers for 26 months. He says that after he switched the account 
he didnt carry out any transactions, so he didnt log into his account. He didnt think it was 
necessary to have to do so. When he did log in, in June 2020, he noticed that interest of 
over £580 had been applied to his account. He complained to MBNA.
MBNA investigated his complaint. It said hed applied for a product swap in July 2019. When 
a customer applied for a product swap, MBNA said any existing balance on the account 
moved to the standard interest rate for the new product. MBNA acknowledged that Mr F had 
different expectations when hed swapped the product. In its final response letter dated 29 
August 2020, MBNA said it had applied a waiver of interest for six months. So, it said Mr F 
wouldnt see any further interest on his account until 26 February 2021. Mr F didnt agree. 
He complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. She thought MBNA couldve made it clearer 
during the application process that balance transfers would be subject to the standard rate. 
She thought that MBNA should refund three months interest to Mr F.
In its response to what our investigator said, MBNA provided screen shots of the application 
process. It said these made clear that when a customer applied to swap their card, the 
standard rate would apply to any existing balance on the account. 
Our investigator thought about what MBNA had said. Having done so, she changed her view 
about how the complaint should be resolved. She said that having looked at the screenshots 
of the application process she was satisfied MBNA had made the position clear. She also 
said Mr F had been provided with statements which wouldve shown him the rate of interest 
that applied. She thought the offer to waive six months interest was fair and reasonable.
Mr F didnt agree. He asked to see the screenshots of the application process. These were 
provided to him. He said the screenshots contained contradictory information and didnt 
relate to his specific application. 
Because Mr F didnt agree, his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the screenshots provided by MBNA. I agree with Mr F that these are not 
specific to his personal application. But, I am satisfied that they do accurately portray the 
information that wouldve been presented to him when he applied to swap his card.
The screenshots refer to an application to swap your card. There is a shaded box after the 
preliminary information which has an exclamation mark and the heading Something to think 
about. The second bullet point in this shaded box says:
Well move your existing balances (including those on promotional rates) to your 
new credit cards standard interest rate.
This information is reiterated once the swap application has been made. The screen shot 
shows the following wording:
Your account will be swapped immediately
When you swap:
We will move your existing balances (including those on promotional rates) to your 
new credit cards standard APR.
So, I think the information made available during the swap process did set out the position 
clearly. The existing balance on the card would be charged at the standard interest rate for 
the new card. 
Mr F says he didnt log in to view his statements after the swap took place. But, if he had 
done so, he wouldve seen that the balance on his account was being charged at the 
standard rate of interest.
Mr F has referred to the letter he received from MBNA with his new card. He says it didnt tell 
him that the balance in the account would be charged at the standard rate. The wording hes 
referred to in that letter says:
Balance transfer
Promotional rate: You will pay 0% p.a. fixed interest for 26 months on balance 
transfers made in the first 60 days from the date of the transfer
Ive looked at the terms and conditions for the card. There is a definition for balance 
transfer. It says that a balance transfer is where a customer uses available credit to pay 
some or all of his credit balance with another provider. So, there couldnt be a balance 
transfer from one MBNA card to another MBNA card. The only option available to Mr F, if he 
wanted to keep his account with MBNA, was to swap to another MBNA card. And, as the 
application screenshots showed, this meant the existing balance would be charged at the 
standard rate. 
Having considered everything here, I dont think the information on the letter he received 
with the card was inconsistent with what hed been told during the application process. And, I 
dont think MBNA acted unfairly or unreasonably when it applied the standard rate of interest 
to his existing balance after the swap had been completed.
Ive noted that in its letter dated 29 August 2020 MBNA said it would apply a six-month 
waiver of interest on his account. Having considered everything here, I dont require it to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about MBNA Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman