DRN-3469783
The complaint
F, a limited company, complains about various aspects of Zurich Insurance PLCs response 
to a claim it made on its commercial legal expenses insurance policy.
F is represented in its dealings with our service. Where I refer to F within this decision, this 
includes its representatives.
What happened
F holds insurance with Zurich, which includes cover for legal and associated expenses 
incurred during the course of employment disputes. F was the subject of a claim for 
constructive dismissal by a former employee (T). 
F made a claim on the policy. After carrying out enquiries into the claim, Zurich said it would 
limit its settlement on the claim to £50,000 (less the policy excess). It also said the claim 
would be subject to a £10,000 excess.
F complained about the settlement being limited, and the excess amount being applied. It 
also complained about delays to the claim. 
When Zurich rejected Fs complaint, it was referred to our service. Our investigator thought 
Zurichs actions had been reasonable, and there hadnt been avoidable delays. F didnt 
agree, and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are three separate elements to Fs complaint, which Ill consider individually. These 
are the application of a £10,000 excess, the settlement being limited to £50,000 (less the 
relevant excess) and delays in Zurichs handling of the claim.
The excess
The policy schedule states the applicable excess is £2,500. This is the amount F says 
should apply here. Zurich says when the policy was renewed in 2019, F should have 
disclosed the ongoing dispute with T. It says if it had, it would have applied an excess of 
£10,000 to the policy.
As this is a commercial insurance policy, the relevant law is the Insurance Act 2015. This 
places an obligation on the insured party to make a fair presentation of the risk to the 
insurer.
What this means is that the insured party needs to disclose to an insurer either everything 
they know, or should know, that would influence an insurer in deciding whether to insure the 
risk, and on what terms; or enough information so that an insurer would recognise that it 
needs to make further enquiries about potentially material circumstances.
The information I have available to me indicates the policy the claim was made on was a 
renewal of an existing policy, which was made in October 2019, rather than a new policy. In 
practical terms however, this isnt relevant to my decision. Whether it was a new policy or a 
renewal, Fs duty is unchanged. A renewal is considered a new contract of insurance and so 
F had an obligation to make a fair presentation of the risk at the point of renewal.
A number of points which are relevant to my decision here arent in dispute. The first is that 
F was sent a letter in September 2019 by T in which she said she thought she had a case for 
constructive dismissal, as well as outlining her version of events leading to her leaving her 
employment. F responded to this letter.
It also isnt disputed F didnt notify Zurich about the letter from T, or that a claim for 
constructive dismissal had been suggested, either when the letter was received or when the 
policy was renewed in October 2019.
Finally, theres no dispute that constructive dismissal proceedings were started in November 
2019 through a conciliation process, after the policy cover started.
Ive considered whether the contents of the letter from T meant this was something which 
should have been disclosed to Zurich. Im satisfied it should have been. The letter clearly set 
out Ts dissatisfaction with her employment having come to an end. It said shed sought 
advice and based on the advice considered she had a good case for constructive dismissal. 
One of the elements of Fs policy cover with Zurich was cover for employment matters. I 
think its reasonable to say F knew, or should have known, there was a possible legal 
dispute with T, and that Zurich would need to know about it. 
Ive also looked at the policy terms and conditions, to consider whether the letter from T 
meant a claim (as defined in the policy) started. If that was the case, the relevant policy to 
respond to the claim would be the one in force in September 2019, meaning no obligation of 
disclosure arose when the policy was due for renewal in October 2019. The policy defines a 
claim as:
a) A written demand for compensation, monetary damages or non-monetary relief 
alleging any wrongful act.
b) A civil proceeding, suit or counter-claim for compensation, monetary damages or 
non-monetary relief commenced by the service of a claim form or similar pleading 
alleging any wrongful act
Provided always that a claim will not include any labour or grievance arbitration or other 
proceeding pursuant to an employment collective bargaining or union agreement. 
The policy also defines an employment claim as A claim in respect of an employment 
wrongful act which is brought and maintained by or on behalf of any past, present, future or 
prospective employee.
Im not persuaded the contents of Ts letter could reasonably be interpreted as meaning a 
claim started at that point. I say this because the letter, while referring to constructive 
dismissal, doesnt outline a requested resolution from T, whether that be financial 
compensation, her reinstatement to her role or some other resolution. In addition, its 
accepted that F considered this to be a grievance, and the policy specifically says that a 
grievance process wont amount to a claim.For these reasons, Im satisfied that F should have disclosed the dispute with T when the 
policy was renewed. It was relevant information which I think its fair to say F should have 
known would have an effect on Zurichs willingness to offer cover, and on what terms.
Zurichs said if it had been made aware of the dispute with T when the policy was renewed, it 
would have applied a £10,000 excess to the policy. So it says this will apply to the claim. The 
Insurance Act 2015 says that if an insurer would have provided the policy but on different 
terms, the policy should be treated as if it was provided on those terms. 
In support of Zurichs position, weve been provided with emails between its underwriting 
team which were sent after the non-disclosure of the dispute came to its attention. Theres 
an indication that the excess could range from between £10,000 to £15,000, with increased 
premiums and cover limits being reduced also being mentioned. Finally, when the 
circumstances at the point of renewal were established (those being that Ts initial letter had 
been received but no formal proceedings had started), a senior underwriter said that if theyd 
been given that information, they would have applied a £10,000 excess. 
Im satisfied that Zurichs demonstrated that the excess would have been £10,000 if the 
circumstances at the point of renewal had been disclosed as they should have been. Im 
satisfied Fs non-disclosure of the dispute with T amounts to a qualifying breach, and 
Zurichs actions are in line with the provisions of the Insurance Act 2015.
I conclude it was fair for Zurich to say a £10,000 excess would apply to an accepted claim in 
relation to the legal action taken by T.
The settlement limit
Zurich says the most it will pay in settlement of this claim is £50,000 (less the £10,000 
excess). This is because it says it received legal advice to the effect that an offer of £50,000 
to T would be commercially acceptable, and likely to be accepted by T. Zurich says  
conditions of the policy which required F to notify Zurich of the claim werent adhered to and 
if they had been, it would have settled the claim for this amount.
F says such a settlement wouldnt have been accepted by T. It also says its unfair for Zurich 
to refer to the claims conditions as it had been receiving advice through a human resources 
partner and solicitors and acted on that advice.
The policy terms and conditions say:
Upon learning of any circumstances or receiving vernal or written notice of any claim or 
employment claim you must tell us as soon as reasonably possible and in any event no later 
than 45 days after the expiry of the period of insurance of any claim or employment claim.
It isnt disputed by F that it didnt notify Zurich until October 2020 of the proceedings with T. It 
said that as it was receiving the advice from other, qualified professionals working in the 
relevant area, its unfair for Zurich to rely on these conditions.
Im satisfied a claim, as defined by the policy (Ive highlighted this definition above), 
commenced in November 2019 when notification of Ts intention to begin proceedings for 
constructive dismissal was received. 
I cant agree with F here. The relevant condition is clear in requiring F to notify Zurich of Ts 
claim within 45 days. The reasons for these conditions are to ensure that Zurichs liability is 
limited and that its informed of all matters for which it may be liable at the earliest 
opportunity, in order for it to make informed decisions about the extent of the policys cover. That isnt unfair or unusual.
I also think its fair to say that when F was involved in dispute resolution proceedings with T 
where possible settlements were being discussed, a claim, as defined by the policy, had 
been made. Its safe to assume that F would seek to recover any settlement from Zurich 
under the policy, as well as its legal costs. On that basis, its entirely reasonable to say 
Zurich should have been made aware of the claim and its linked proceedings. The policy 
requires this, and theres no dispute that Zurich wasnt notified within 45 days of this.
In making its decision that liability should be limited to £50,000, Zurich has relied on legal 
advice. Ive been provided copies of correspondence between Zurich and the relevant legal 
advisors. In effect, this says that T had indicated they would accept a settlement of just 
under £50,000 at an early stage of the proceedings and that if it had been made aware of 
this, it would have recommended accepting this on a commercial basis. Im satisfied theres 
no obvious errors in this. Im satisfied it was fair for Zurich to rely on this. No alternative legal 
advice has been provided by F to suggest that there were no reasonable prospects of such 
an offer being accepted by T.
F says that the offer of £50,000 wouldnt have been accepted by T. It says that shortly after 
making the offer, she increased the amount she was seeking significantly. Fs own evidence 
however is that the increased amount followed two significantly lower offers of £12,500 and 
£25,000 made by F in response to the £50,000 offer from T.
Im satisfied that Zurich could fairly conclude, based on the evidence available to it and the 
advice from solicitors, that a settlement of around £50,000 would have been accepted by T.
So on balance, I accept that if Zurich had been notified of the claim as it should have been in 
line with the policy terms and conditions, the total settlement it made on the claim would 
have been around £50,000. Its fair for it to limit its settlement on the actual claim presented 
to it to this amount.
Delays to the claim
F complains that, after it had notified Zurich, there were delays in the appointment of a 
solicitor to give advice and provide F with legal representation. It also considers that the 
decisions around the settlement limit could have been made sooner, which would have 
resulted in it seeking to settle the case and incur reduced costs.
Im not persuaded that this is the case. Our investigator gave a timeline of the contact 
between Zurich and F in her opinion, and this doesnt seem to have been disputed. I agree 
with the timeline, and on review of it, Im satisfied that where F was in contact with Zurich, or 
providing information, Zurich responded within a few days outlining its position and the 
information it required. There were periods of several week following these requests where F 
wasnt in contact with Zurich, and didnt provide the requested information. Zurich had 
outlined what it required. I dont think there was any obligation on Zurich to chase this up 
with F.
I understand there were competing pressures on F during these periods, including the 
impact of Covid-19 and its related lockdowns on its staffing and operations. That doesnt 
mean that Zurich could have assessed the claim any quicker, or, in my opinion, done 
anything differently.
The information requested by Zurich related to the proceedings and matters which had 
occurred before it had been notified of the claim. That wasnt information it would have 
access to from any other source, and given how long the matters had been ongoing, there was unsurprisingly a large volume of information to both be requested and reviewed.
I also think that the length of time which had elapsed before Zurich was notified of the claim 
is relevant here. As Ive outlined above, there were considerations Zurich needed to make 
about its position with regards to the excess and settlement limit. Its reasonable to say that 
in order to make such assessments, it needed all of the relevant information available to and 
held by F. 
Its been suggested that Zurich could have, or should have, appointed solicitors to assist F 
with providing the relevant information needed to confirm Zurichs position. Im not sure why 
this is. Zurich had made requests for information from F and theres nothing to suggest that 
F didnt understand these requests or express any doubt about what was being requested. 
There were periods where there was no contact from F, but that isnt enough for me to say 
that Zurich could have, or should have, believed its requests hadnt been understood.
Im satisfied on balance that Zurich couldnt have reached its conclusions regarding cover for 
the claim, the excess applicable or the relevant settlement limit any sooner than it did. It had 
made reasonable requests for information which took some time to be provided. There 
would be no benefit in appointing solicitors without this information, as the solicitors would 
need all of this to be able to provide properly reasoned advice. Without such advice, Zurich 
wasnt in a position to confirm its position. I cant conclude there were avoidable delays to 
the claim caused by Zurichs actions or inaction.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman