DRN-1557956
The complaint
Mr D complains that TSB Bank set up standing orders on his account in error. Hes also 
unhappy about the customer service he received when he queried this.
What happened
Mr D noticed that several standing orders had been set up on his bank account. He didnt 
believe hed set them up himself, so he went into his branch to ask for an explanation. He 
initially spoke to a cashier who referred him to a branch manager. The manager took Mr D 
into a private room to discuss it. He then arranged for Mr D to speak to someone from TSBs 
fraud team over the phone.
TSB concluded that the standing orders had been set up by Mr D. They were for payments 
into accounts in his own and his grandchildrens names. TSB arranged for the transferred 
money to be refunded to Mr Ds account and the standing orders were cancelled.
Mr D complained to TSB. He didnt believe hed set up the standing orders himself and felt 
he should have been given an explanation as to what had happened. He was unhappy with 
the service hed received when he went into the branch. He felt that the branch manager 
was reluctant to help him and was dismissive of his concerns. The branch manager hadnt 
considered any explanation other than Mr D authorising the transactions himself. 
TSB said the standing orders had been set up in branch the previous year for money to be 
transferred annually. There was no evidence to suggest that TSB had set them up in error. It 
also didnt believe it had misinformed Mr D or provided him with an inadequate service when 
hed visited its branch.  It said that the branch manager had spent 45  60 minutes with Mr D 
and had then offered to contact the fraud team to help him resolve the matter.   
Mr D brought his complaint to our service. He said that TSBs account of what had happened 
was inaccurate and dishonest. The majority of the time he spent in the branch was speaking 
to the fraud team, rather than the branch manager. He felt he hadnt been listened to and his 
concerns had been written off without a balanced view being sought. Hed lost faith in TSB, 
who hed banked with for many years. He wanted an apology and recognition hed been 
treated unfairly.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ds concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. 
She thought the standing orders were likely to have been set up when Mr D had gone into 
the branch. She wasnt able to confirm exactly what had been discussed or if theyd been set 
up in error. But TSB had refunded the payments and cancelled the standing orders to put  
Mr D back in the financial position he would have been if the standing orders hadnt been set 
up. 
The investigator said she appreciated that TSBs response didnt more accurately reflect that 
Mr D likely spent most of his time in the branch speaking to the fraud team. But she thought 
TSB has dealt with the disputed transactions appropriately. She didnt think it had acted 
unfairly or needed to do anything more.Mr D disagreed with our investigators view. He didnt think shed done enough to get to the 
truth of what had happened. He agreed that TSB had sorted out his standing orders, but his 
complaint was about misleading information and the treatment hed experienced from the 
branch manager. He thought that TSB was hiding something by failing to provide evidence 
of the time hed spent with the branch manager.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
TSB had a responsibility to act in Mr Ds best interests and treat him fairly.
Mr D was understandably concerned when he noticed that standing orders had been set up 
on his account because he was certain he hadnt authorised them.
TSBs records show that the standing orders were set up in a branch in June 2018. I dont 
have anything to show me what was discussed when the standing orders were set up. But 
from what Mr D has said, it seems likely that there was some sort of misunderstanding that 
led to this. I can see that the money that was transferred from Mr Ds account because of 
these standing orders in June 2019 was put back into his account the next day, after his visit 
to the branch. The standing orders have also been cancelled. So, Im satisfied that TSB took 
appropriate action once it was aware that Mr D hadnt intended the standing orders to be set 
up on his account. 
Mr D has acknowledged that TSB sorted the standing order situation out. He says his 
complaint is about the treatment and misleading information he was given by the branch 
manager in June 2019. 
Mr D says the branch manager was defensive and reluctant to help him. He says the 
manager told Mr D he must have set up the standing orders himself and wouldnt consider 
any alternative explanations.
I dont doubt that Mr D felt frustrated and distressed by his experience in the branch. But this 
was as face to face meeting, so Ive no way of knowing what was said or, perhaps more 
importantly, how it was said. The standing orders are showing on the account as being set 
up by Mr D, so I dont think the manager gave him the wrong information. I dont think he 
would have been able to explain the context of how these might have been added (the 
possible misunderstanding) from the information he had available to him.
I appreciate that Mr D felt the branch manager was defensive and unprofessional, but I 
havent got anything that clearly shows me he acted inappropriately. Mr D says the manager 
was reluctant to help, but he did arrange for Mr D to speak to a colleague in the fraud team. 
So, I cant say that he didnt try to help Mr D.
Mr D is particularly unhappy that TSB said the branch manager had spent 45  60 minutes 
with him before passing him on to speak to the fraud team. He says the branch manager 
only spent about five minutes speaking to him, before he passed him on to the fraud team. 
He feels that further information from TSB would support his version of events and would 
prove that the branch manager was lying about the time he spent with him. 
I acknowlege that TSB might have given incorrect information about the time Mr D spent with 
the branch manager in its response to his complaint. But I dont think this suggests that TSB was lying or trying to cover something up. So, evidence about the timings wouldnt make a 
difference to my decision.
I appreciate my answer will be disappointing to Mr D who has put a lot of time and effort into 
his complaint. He is in poor health and has told us the stress of this situation has made his 
symptoms worse. But having considered his points carefully, I havent concluded that TSB 
has treated him unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2020.
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman