DRN-4146791
The complaint
Mr B complains that eToro (UK) Ltd closed his account with very short notice and without 
providing him with an adequate explanation.
What happened
In January 2023, Mr B received a payment, split into four transactions, from a business 
acquaintance of his. He used the money to buy cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency 
exchange company. Subsequently he received an e-mail on 31 January from eToro asking 
him to confirm the account transactions, as well as the reason for the payments and his 
connection to the sender, as a precaution. It did not hear from him within seven days so it 
then wrote to advise him that it was suspending his account. Mr B provided the information.  
eToro then advised him that upon further review of his account, and in accordance with its 
Terms and Conditions, it was no longer able to offer him its services, and his eToro account 
had been closed. Mr B asked eToro for a further explanation. However it could only repeat 
that the account was closed in line with its Terms and Conditions and Acceptable use policy. 
It advised him that it would return the funds on the account once Mr B provided it with a bank 
statement showing the account that he wanted the money to be transferred to.
Mr B made a formal complaint to eToro explaining that he would lose a substantial amount 
of money by being forced to close his accounts. He asked for a detailed explanation and 
also asked that his cryptocurrency be transferred to a cryptocurrency wallet. 
eToro reiterated its position, but did not provide any further explanation. It said that Mr Bs 
cryptocurrency had been converted to dollars and added to his trading account. It also 
reiterated that his remaining funds would be transferred to an account of his choosing.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator said that she couldn't 
uphold Mr Bs complaint. She was satisfied that eToro had acted within regulatory 
requirements.
Mr B rejected our Investigators view and asked for an Ombudsman's decision. The matter 
has been passed to me for further consideration.
I requested that eToro provide an explanation for why it closed the account and why it gave 
such a short period of notice for doing so. An explanation has been provided to us, in 
confidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under UK legislation, regulated financial businesses are subject to extensive obligations. 
Financial institutions must establish the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well 
as the origin of funds and there may be penalties if they don't. These applications override 
all other obligations. I'm satisfied that eToro was complying with these obligations when it 
reviewed Mr B's account. I make this point specifically as Mr B feels that eToro has acted in 
breach of various regulations and FCA principles.
Under the Terms and Conditions of his account and in line with its Acceptable use policy, 
eToro was able to close Mr Bs account. It isn't obliged to provide an explanation, but 
nonetheless I have to be satisfied that eToro's decision was reasonable and that it treated 
Mr B fairly in closing the account and with short notice.
eToro has provided us with information in confidence which it is entitled to do. After review of 
that information and the details shared with Mr B, I think that eToro acted fairly in closing 
Mr B's account and in giving him 5 days notice. In fact due to its review of his complaint 
Mr B was effectively given a month for the process to conclude. 
I understand that Mr B feels he has lost money by his accounts being closed with such short 
notice and by having his cryptocurrency converted back into dollars. However, as I'm 
satisfied that eToro has acted appropriately here, I can't make a finding concerning financial 
losses.
In correspondence with the Financial Ombudsman Service, Mr B has said that not all of his 
money has been transferred to him. He hasn't provided us with an update on this so it may 
be that he has now received the full balance on his account. Mr Bs complaint to us 
concerned the closure of his account. If he hasn't received all the money on his account, I 
take the view that he should make a further complaint to eToro about it as there may be valid 
reasons why it has not provided him with that.
In summary, I am satisfied that eToro acted reasonably in closing Mr Bs account, so I won't 
be upholding his complaint.
My final decision
I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman