DRN-3455576
The complaint
Mr S complains that Equiniti Financial Services Limited are removing the facility for him to 
receive dividend payments by cheque.  
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont go over it in great 
detail, but the key facts are as follows:
Equiniti provide a Corporate Sponsored Nominee Service (CSNS) to Mr S in 
connection with CREST Depository Interests (CDIs) he has relating to shares in a 
business (B1)
In May 2021 Equiniti wrote to Mr S and said that with effect from 01 October 2021, 
dividends due to him in relation to the CSNS would be issued by direct payment into 
a nominated bank account and would no longer be paid by cheque. 
Mr S complained to Equiniti about the change and said, in summary, that he had 
reservations about providing his bank details due to the potential for fraud.
Equiniti didnt uphold his complaint and said that they accepted his reservations, but 
all dividend payments related to the CSNS for B1 would only be made by direct 
payment.
Mr S didnt accept their findings and brought his complaint to this service where it 
was considered by one of our investigators.
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld and said that he didnt 
think Mr S had been treated unfairly.
Mr S didnt agree and said, in summary, that Equiniti were trying to go against the 
governments decision to maintain the cheque system, there should be an opt-out for 
consumers who didnt want online payments and the majority of fraud was 
undertaken online and not through cheques.
The investigator still didnt think the complaint should be upheld. As theres been no 
agreement, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to firstly say that this service isnt the regulator, that is the role of the Financial 
Conduct Authority. Our service therefore doesnt have the power to make rules for financial 
businesses, or direct that they change their policy or procedures. 
Broadly speaking, we wont interfere with a commercial decision. Our role is to look at what 
happened in the circumstances of the individual complaint and check that, in this case 
Equiniti, followed their rules and procedures  as well as those set by the regulator and any 
relevant industry guidance and good practice - and applied them fairly. 
I can see from Mr S submissions that he is very unhappy about the change and Ive 
therefore looked carefully at what happened. I appreciate the decision to not pay dividends 
by cheque is disappointing for him, particularly given his concerns about the increased 
potential for fraud. Ive also noted his comments around the need to maintain the cheque 
system. However, there is no regulatory requirement to pay dividends by cheque, so I dont 
think that Equiniti have done anything wrong in making the change to only offering direct 
payments.
Ive then considered if Equiniti acted fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
CSNS when they made the change. From what Ive seen, they can change the terms and 
conditions of the CSNS provided they give appropriate notice. Ive looked at the letter that 
they sent to Mr S in May 2021 and note that they gave him five months notice of the 
change. 
So, while I understand Mr S feelings, in my view Equiniti were entitled to make changes to 
how dividends were paid if they wished and they didnt do anything wrong when they did so. 
Having taken everything into account, I dont think I can fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman