DRN-3944748
Complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Coventry Building Society (Coventry) asked him to explain where he 
obtained the funds he wanted to pay into his account from and then refused to accept it.
Background
In April 2022, Mr J visited a Coventry branch to pay in £3,000.00. He was asked where the 
funds had come from and he said they were from rental income.  Mr J was unhappy with this 
and complained, as a result he was told that he could pay in a proportion of the funds as 
they were from another account. However, when Mr J went back into branch Coventry once 
again refused to accept the funds as Mr J didnt have proof of the funds being withdrawn 
from another account. Mr J was eventually allowed to credit the portion of the funds he was 
told that he could. However, he decided against this and instead complained.
Coventry didnt think it had done anything wrong when questioning the source of Mr Js 
funds. However, it accepted that it provided Mr J with incorrect information and offered Mr J 
a £125 in compensation. Mr J was dissatisfied with Coventrys response and referred his 
complaint to our service. 
Mr Js complaint was then considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought what 
Coventry had already done to put things right for Mr J was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and so she didnt uphold his complaint. Mr J disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to consider his case.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Im satisfied that what Coventry has already done to 
put things right is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Ive started by looking at Coventrys actions in relation to Mr Js attempts to credit his 
savings account with funds.
At this point, it may help for me to explain that a financial institution is entitled to decide its 
own processes. Financial institutions are permitted to decide how they operate accounts, 
amongst other things to ensure that they are fulfilling any regulatory requirements, and how 
they communicate with their customers.
Such matters are for a financial institutions own commercial discretion and is not something 
that our service can generally interfere with. Coventry has explained (and has provided its 
terms and conditions which show) that it may ask a customer to provide proof of the source 
of any funds that they wish to deposit into an account. Furthermore the terms and conditions 
also confirm that Mr Js account was for personal use, not for business. 
Mr B says he feels discriminated by Coventry and treated unfairly. However, Im satisfied 
that it was Mr Js account not having been used for a period of time which led to the 
Coventry to query Mr Js deposit and asking for him for proof of funds. And while Mr J did 
have a valid reason for not using his account since 2018, I dont think that Coventry could 
have known that. And, in any event, as Ive explained requiring proof of funds is something 
that financial institutions routinely do in order to comply with their regulatory obligations. 
So while I understand Mr Js unhappiness and strength of feeling on the matter, Im satisfied 
that Coventry didnt act unfairly when refusing to allow him to credit his savings account with 
cash he wasnt able to provide proof of the source of.
Nonetheless, Coventry has accepted that it provided Mr J with incorrect information on more 
than one occasion. And it has already paid Mr J £125 in compensation as a result. I do 
accept that Mr J did experience an amount of frustration and annoyance as a result of 
Coventrys actions. I also understand how being told that he could credit funds to his account 
only to then be told he told that he couldnt without evidence of where they came from would 
have been upsetting. And the impact was more than just minimal. 
However, I do think that £125 adequately reflect the gravity of what has happened. And as 
far as I can see its the decision not to accept the funds, which Coventry was entitled to take, 
that is the real reason for Mr Js unhappiness here. Im therefore satisfied that Coventrys 
offer of compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
So overall and having considered everything and while I do sympathise with Mr Js position 
and understand his strength of feeling on the matter, I think that what Coventry has already 
done to put things right is fair and reasonable. As this is the case, Im not requiring it to do 
anything more or anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Coventry Building Society has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Mr J is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his 
case. So Im not requiring it to do anything more or anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman