DRN-4383936
The complaint
Mr E complains that Aviva Insurance Limited rejected a claim on his legal expenses 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Aviva, that includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its behalf
What happened
Mr E made a claim on his policy for costs relating to a dispute with his neighbours. He said 
they had trespassed on his property, caused damage, and had been harassing him. 
Aviva referred the claim to its panel solicitors to assess. They advised that the claim wasnt 
likely to be successful, which is a requirement under the policy terms for cover to be given. 
So Aviva said it wouldnt cover Mr Es claim.
Mr E complained but Aviva didnt change its decision, so he referred the complaint to this 
Service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said it was reasonable for 
Aviva to say it wouldnt cover the legal costs of Mr Es claim against his neighbours unless 
he was able to provide further evidence showing he had a valid claim.
Mr E disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides cover for the type of claim Mr E wished to make. But cover is only 
available if the claim has reasonable prospects of success and is proportionate to pursue. 
Almost all legal expenses policies include terms like this.
In the first instance its for the policyholder to show they have a valid claim. So Mr E had to 
show that he was more likely than not to win his case and that the costs would be 
proportionate to the value of the dispute. 
Id expect an insurer to obtain legal advice on the prospects of success and its entitled to 
rely on that advice unless its obviously wrong. Aviva did that, referring the claim to its panel 
solicitors to assess. The legal advice was that to establish there were prospects of success 
they needed an experts report. In particular, the solicitors said Mr E hadnt provided enough 
evidence of where the boundary of his property was or evidence of the damage caused to 
his property. 
The solicitors letter is very detailed. It reviews the various claims Mr E might bring and sets 
out the reasons for saying the claim didnt have prospects of success. 
If Mr E had provided enough information to show, on balance, he was likely to have a good 
claim and further evidence was simply needed to confirm that, then Aviva should have 
provided cover for this to be pursued further. Aviva asked the solicitors if they thought the 
case was likely to have prospects and expert evidence was needed to confirm this, but they 
said that wasnt the case  they advised that on the evidence available the claim wasnt 
likely to succeed. Aviva explained to Mr E that if he provided further information it would 
reconsider. That was fair.
Mr E is unhappy that the advice was given by paralegals rather than qualified solicitors but 
the correspondence from the solicitors shows they were supervised by a partner in the firm. 
He also says he should have been able to choose his own solicitors. The policy terms allow 
a customer to choose their own lawyer if court proceedings are issued, theres a conflict of 
interest, or the claim is complex and requires a specialist lawyer. Thats broadly in line with 
the relevant law that allows policyholders to choose their own lawyers in certain 
circumstances. 
At this point, the solicitors were not acting for Mr E and were only giving advice to Aviva to 
help it decide whether the claim should be covered. There was no conflict of interest and he 
hadnt shown the case was particularly complex or unusual. In these circumstances Mr E 
didnt have a right to choose his own solicitors. It was reasonable for Aviva to obtain advice 
from panel solicitors.
Mr E has referred to providing further information to this Service. Given the information Ive 
seen, including the policy terms and the panel solicitors legal advice, Im satisfied I have 
enough for me to determine the complaint. I know its disappointing for Mr E that Aviva 
hasnt provided cover for his claim, but in the circumstances set out above I think its decision 
was fair. The crux of the matter is that Aviva was given legal advice on whether the claim 
had prospects and it was reasonable for Aviva to rely on that advice. If hes able to provide 
further evidence Aviva may consider that and obtain further legal advice if necessary. If Mr E 
is still unhappy after that, hes free to make a further complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman