DRN-3147133
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
 In January 2015, Mrs S applied for a credit card from Lloyds on a balance transfer This was 
agreed with a limit of £1250. In July 2016, Lloyds increased the limit to £2250.
Mrs S complained. She said that Lloyds couldnt have completed enough checks. She had a 
lot of other debts  including a loan of £21000 from another bank. And  her only income 
was from benefits. She hadnt worked since 2006. During our investigation, Mrs S told us 
shed entered an IVA (Individual Voluntary Arrangement).
Lloyds said shed passed their credit checks when the card was first issued. Mrs S had 
signed the credit card agreement voluntarily and had therefore signed to the terms and 
conditions of the card. Shed freely borrowed the money from the bank and had the use of 
the money.
Mrs S brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said that Lloyds had told her they didnt 
have any information on file for the first card application, or for the limit increase  other than 
she had passed their checks. But she considered that the issue of the card in January 2015 
was OK, based on what she was told by Mrs S. Looking at the limit increase to £2250 in July 
2016, again Lloyds had argued that Mrs S passed their tests. But because Lloyds couldnt 
evidence the tests theyd done, she considered the increase was irresponsible and said that 
Lloyds should refund interest on borrowing over £1250.
Lloyds didnt agree  and provided the information on the credit checks they did at the time 
of the limit increase. So  Mrs S complaint was referred to an ombudsman to look at.
 I reached a provisional decision where I said:
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We must check whether Lloyds 
acted in line within the Financial Conducts (FCA) rules on creditworthiness assessment as 
set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must undertake a 
reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the customer 
not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to make 
repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender 
knew about the borrowers circumstances?
And a reasonable and proportionate check would usually need to be more thorough:
othe lower a customers income, and the higher amount to be repaid.
othe greater the number of loans and frequency of loans.
othe longer the term of the loans
Its important to note that the checks must be proportionate to the amount being lent  so the 
higher the amount, the greater the checks must be, and the lower the amount, then fewer 
checks can be made.
When Mrs S applied for the card in January 2015, Lloyds cant show us the checks they did 
at that time. So  its difficult to say what they were or how Mrs S application looked to them. 
But  it was a balance transfer arrangement on a zero-interest rate, and there was £1200 to 
be transferred from another banks credit card  which was done. So  it was safe to assume 
that Mrs S outgoings were going to be reduced. And  the limit asked for was a modest one 
 so I can accept that the checks that Lloyds were required to complete could be less that if 
the limit was higher. So  I can agree that the issue of the card in 2015 was OK.
Looking at the limit increase in July 2016. Lloyds originally told us they couldnt find their 
record of the checks they completed, but following our investigators view, located them. 
These showed that Mrs S passed their checks for affordability and creditworthiness, using a 
combination of credit reference agency data and their own internal scorecard. They looked 
at the conduct of Lloyds accounts, as well as the credit card account itself. At the time of the 
increase, the account was within the previous credit limit, and the minimum payments were 
being made. There werent any defaults, CCJs or missed payments showing on her credit 
file  for borrowing elsewhere. Lloyds said Mrs S had previously told them her monthly 
income was £2343, with other debt payments of £284 per month. After living costs, Lloyds 
credit system calculated a monthly disposable income of £1244, and so the increase was 
agreed. So, she passed Lloyds credit tests. Also  Mrs S couldve opted out of the offered 
increase  but she didnt. Ive seen the offer letter sent to Mrs S - and indeed thats the case.
But  against what Lloyds have told us, I can also see that from when Mrs S took the card in 
January 2015, the balance was hard core  that is, it hovered at the limit all the time. 
Minimum payments only were made  or close to that figure. Lloyds told us that one of their 
checks was to look at other accounts held with them. Ive looked at Mrs S Lloyds current 
account statements  which were available for Lloyds to see. These show that her only 
income was from benefits of around £300 a month. There wasnt an income of £2343 as 
Lloyds believed. Other regular payments to other lenders was approximately £330 a month  
more than Mrs S benefits. The average balance of the account was around £100. So  
whatever Lloyds checks showed, for me an increase to £2250 (another £1000) - didnt pass 
the make sense test. And at least, Lloyds shouldve realised this and asked Mrs S more 
questions about her circumstances, but they didnt.
So  I agree that Lloyds shouldve done more checks at the time of the increase in limit to 
£2250 in July 2016. Its clear that Mrs S has been struggling and during our investigation, 
Mrs S told us shed entered an IVA, given the extent of her overall debts. And clearly this 
situation has caused her considerable distress and upset. And so - Lloyds Bank PLC must:
Refund interest and fees on any borrowing over £1250 from July 2016 to the time of 
any final decision.
Remove any adverse entries from Mrs S credit file from July 2016.
Pay compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience.Mrs S has entered an IVA, and so Lloyds will need to consider this when dealing with the 
remedies I am proposing.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mrs S didnt respond. Lloyds accepted the findings and agreed to pay compensation and 
refund the interest and fees as proposed. Lloyds agreed to remove the adverse markers 
from Mrs S credit file up to the time of her IVA (in June 2020), but said that the default at the 
time of the IVA should still be recorded. This was an agreed process with the credit 
reference agencies.
So  I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The only comment on the provisional decision was from Lloyds  and I agree that Mrs S 
default at the time of the IVA should remain on her credit file. This is part of the IVA process, 
and seems fair. So  apart from that point, all other aspects of the final decision are the 
same as the provisional decision.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint and Lloyds Bank PLC must:
Refund interest and fees on any borrowing over £1250 from July 2016 to the time of 
this final decision.
Remove any adverse entries from Mrs S credit file from July 2016  other than the 
default as at the time of Mrs S IVA in June 2020.
Pay compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman