DRN-4341019
The complaint
Ms B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has failed to carry out  a balance transfer, but 
still debited her account.
What happened
In March 2023 Ms B requested that Barclays make a balance transfer from her credit card 
account with another bank, H. It was to do this by paying money from her account to her H 
credit card account. She made the request on 2 March, but she had input the wrong card 
number. She made a second request on 15 March advising Barclays that H hadnt received 
her funds. Barclays attempted to recall both payments and in the meantime applied two 
temporary credits to her account for the two payments of £2,500 each and the associated 
fees (£85 each) (effectively negating the transactions). H agreed to the recall of the first 
payment but rejected the recall for the second payment. So Barclays then re-debited that 
sum of £2,500 from Ms Bs account.
H then applied a payment to Ms Bs credit card account, described as a credit refund of 
£2,500 which means that she now has balances on both accounts of £2,500.
Ms B complained to Barclays but it asserted that it had done nothing wrong, but offered to 
review the statements from H. Ms B didnt accept this.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our Investigator said that overall he couldnt 
say that Barclays had acted unfairly. He recognised that Ms B had clearly been affected by 
what happened but that the problems were not caused by Barclays. We also passed on the 
statements from H to Barclays but it reiterated that its payments were shown on the 
statements.
Ms B didnt agree, pointing out that she still has balances of £2,500 on both accounts.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The situation is a little complicated to explain, but I shall set out below why I dont think 
Barclays is at fault here.
Ms B made a request for a balance transfer on 2 March 2023. The funds clearly went out 
from Ms Bs Barclays account. However shed keyed in the wrong card number, and asked 
Barclays to make a further balance transfer on 15 March, which it duly did so. She contacted 
Barclays to tell it that H hadnt received the funds. So Barclays attempted to recall both 
payments. At the same time it applied two temporary credits to Ms Bs account of £2,500 
plus £85 fee in respect of both balance transfers.
The recall was successful, Barclays tells us, in respect of the first balance transfer. We know 
this must have been received by Barclays as this meant the temporary credit it had applied 
for the transaction became permanent. It tells us also that the recall wasnt successful for the 
second balance transfer on 15 March. So on 27 April it re-debited the account with £2,500 
plus £85 fee. Thus the credit for this one was cancelled out.
We know that H must have received the first balance transfer   if Barclays hadnt received it 
back it would be looking to re-debit Ms Bs account with this. We also know that H received 
the second balance transfer because it appears on Mrs Bs statement the day after it was 
debited from her Barclays account.
So the sequence is (on Barclays account):
2 March 2023 debit £2,500 plus £85
15 March debit £2,500 plus £85
29 March credit 2 x  £2,500 and 2 x £85
27 April re-debit £2,500 plus £85 (cancelling out the second credit)
27 April confirmation that the recall of the first amount was successful, justifying applying 
the credit for this.
Weve sent Barclays the statements from H and it says they concur with its records. And 
they do appear to do so. That appears to account for the activity on Ms Bs Barclays account 
and I cant see that it made any error here.
There is a figure of £2,500 which appears on Hs statement dated 3 April 2023 described as 
a credit balance refund. Theres nothing which correlates to that on her Barclays 
statements. Our Investigator invited Ms B to raise a complaint with H about that but I havent 
seen that she has done so.
So, whilst I recognise that Ms B has ended up with two balances of £2,500 on different 
accounts, from the evidence Ive seen, Barclays is not at fault. I cant make any finding 
against H as it is not a part of this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman