DRN-2556062
The complaint
Mr A is complaining that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) hasnt dealt with his claim 
for an accidentally damaged TV fairly  and that they returned the TV with further damage.
What happened
Mr A damaged his TV in July 2020  he dropped it whilst trying to mount it a wall. A few days 
later he contacted D&G to make a claim under his appliance insurance. D&G said it would 
look at the claim and authorised a repair two weeks later. The repair took some time, as 
parts had to be ordered, and the TV was delivered back to Mr A on the 18 September.
Mr A then contacted D&G again, saying the TV hadnt been repaired. D&G said it would 
write the TV off and give Mr A a cash settlement instead.
A little while later D&G realised the TV had been repaired  so it withdrew the settlement 
offer whilst it looked into what had happened when the TV was returned. Eventually it 
concluded that there was damage to the TV  but that this hadnt been caused by its 
engineer. It said if Mr A wanted it to consider the new damage hed have to make a new 
claim.
Mr A is unhappy about this  he sent some photos in of the box the TV was in which show 
some damage, and said the TV itself was damaged when he and a family member unboxed 
it. 
D&G says its engineer didnt take the TV into the house  instead Mr A and other people 
collected it at the kerb and carried it away. And it says the damage to the box(es) isnt 
consistent with the current damage.
Unhappy with this response Mr A brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
didnt think she could fairly say the damage was caused by the engineer  so Mr A would 
need to make a second claim if he wanted D&G to look at this. She did think D&G should 
pay Mr A £100 to make up for the fact that D&G had wrongly told Mr A it would reimburse 
the cost of the TV and then withdrawn this offer, and also for the length of time the repairs 
took.
Mr A remains unhappy so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the timelines for this claim. In total it took about six weeks for the TV to be 
returned, which does seem a long time. However, that includes a short delay whilst D&G 
checked whether Mr A was eligible to complain as he hadnt actually bought the TV, his ex-
partner had. Thats not unreasonable as its fair for D&G to check Mr A had a valid claim. 
The repair itself took some time, too  but I understand spare parts had to be ordered. That 
can cause delays, so I cant say the time the repairs took were all D&Gs fault. 
After the TV was returned Mr A called D&G to say it hadnt been repaired and/or was 
damaged on its return. A representative from D&G seems to have thought this meant the TV 
hadnt been repaired at all and offered to write it off and reimburse Mr A with the cost of it. 
D&G realised soon after that the TV had been repaired and tested and it shouldnt have 
made the offer without carrying out some more checks.
It sent an engineer to look at the TV. The engineer said it looked like impact damage  but 
that it wasnt the sort of damage that might have occurred whilst it was being transported in a 
van. D&G said the engineer hadnt unboxed the TV when it was returned (something it would 
normally do) as Mr A was in a hurry and said he would set the TV up himself later. It thinks 
Mr A might have damaged it again whilst doing this  but that it would consider a new claim 
if he wanted to make one.
Mr A, however, says the engineer didnt offer to set the TV up, and he (Mr A) didnt damage 
it  it was damaged when he opened the box.
With two different versions of what happened on the day I have to look elsewhere for 
evidence that allows me to reach a fair decision. 
To do this Ive looked at photos of the TV  which has what looks like impact damage in the 
bottom corner. Ive also looked at the boxes it was packed in. There were two  one inside 
the other  and both show some damage. However the inner box appears more damaged 
than the outer  yet if it was the engineer that damaged it in transit, as Mr A asserts, Id 
expect the outer box to show more damage than the inner. Neither box seems damaged 
precisely where the TV is damaged, so that doesnt add any clarity. 
Im afraid I cant conclude the TV was damaged a second time before it was returned to Mr 
A, so I wont ask D&G to do any more about this. D&G has said Mr A can make a second 
claim  which is what Id expect it to do. Ill leave it with Mr A to do this if he so wishes.
I do however agree with our investigator that Mr A was led to believe hed be reimbursed the 
cost of the TV, so he has suffered a loss of expectation about this, even if only for a little 
while. 
Putting things right
D&G has agreed to pay £100 compensation for incorrectly telling Mr A it would give him a 
cash settlement for his TV, and for any delays it caused whilst the TV was being repaired. I 
think this is a fair resolution to this part of the complaint.
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I require Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc to pay Mr A £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman