DRN-3838018
The complaint
Mr O complains that Forex Capital Market Limited acted unfairly when closed his trading 
positions  causing him losses  having not allowed him to make a deposit.
What happened
Mr O has a trading account with Forex Capital Markets Limited (FXCM). He has a trading 
strategy that involves holding positions on a long-term basis. He deposits money with FXCM 
from time to time, or trades out of some of his positions, in order to keep his positions open. 
He says hes been able to keep positions open for long periods of time trading in this way. 
Mr O has a debit card issued by a bank who Ill refer to as B throughout the rest of this 
decision. He has a mobile phone and an email address and is able to get online without any 
difficulties. He used his card to pay deposits to FXCM, without any problems, up and until 
February 2022. Unfortunately, in February 2022, when trying to deposit money with FXCM in 
response to a margin call, his card kept on getting declined.
Mr O says FXCM sold his open positions because he wasnt able to deposit money with 
them and that he made losses as a result. He complained to both businesses about his 
losses as he didnt know who was to blame.
FXCM investigated Mr Os complaint but didnt uphold it saying that its margin call was valid 
and that B had declined his payments. Mr O complained to us about both businesses.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Os complaint about FXCM but didnt recommend it 
be upheld. They said that the deadline for FXCM implementing strong customer 
authentication hadnt passed at the time of the payment, so FXCM hadnt done anything 
wrong. And FXCM had suggested other ways he could make payment. Mr O disagreed and 
asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, Ive looked into his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O wanted to make a payment to FXCM using his debit card which involved putting his 
card details into a website. In other words, an online payment. Thats the type of transaction 
which is now caught by new rules that require Payment Services Providers (PSPs) to apply 
more rigorous checks than the ones theyve had to apply in the past. These more rigorous 
checks are more commonly known as strong customer authentication (SCA). 
The Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs) implemented the EU Directive that 
introduced SCA, amongst other things. And the section of the PSRs relating to SCA came 
into effect in September 2019. But that didnt mean that businesses had to have these new 
checks in place by then. The FCA gave PSPs until March 2020 to implement SCA for online 
banking and gave the e-commerce industry (including card issuers, payment firms and 
online retailers) until March 2022 to implement SCA for online payments. There was nothing 
to stop firms bringing in SCA sooner than that, if they wanted to do so.
In this case, Im satisfied that B had implemented SCA by February 2022 and that FXCM 
had methods of making deposits that involved SCA as well as methods of making deposits 
that didnt. Im also satisfied that B had taken a decision to decline payments to merchants 
who hadnt processed those payments in accordance with SCA. That means that when Mr O 
tried to use his card to pay a deposit to FXCM  using one of the options that FXCM offered 
 those payments were declined because that particular option involved using a third-party 
payment vendor who didnt support SCA at the time. Im satisfied that Mr O contacted FXCM 
and B to find out what was going on, and that when he did so FXCM suggested other ways 
that he could make the payment which should have gone through  either because they 
didnt involve SCA at its end or because the process was one that involved SCA. Mr O says 
that he tried to make the payment another way, but that this payment also failed. I can, 
however, see that he didnt go back to FXCM to let it know, and that FXCM also tried to 
contact him to discuss other options if needed but got no response. In the circumstances, I 
agree with our investigator, that FXCM didnt do anything wrong in this case as it had offered 
Mr O alternative ways of paying.
Mr O understands how trading on FXCM works, so Im not going to get into the detail of how 
margin calls work or why FXCM would normally close an open position if a margin call 
wasnt met. But I do think its worth adding that even if the payment had gone through, given 
the way the markets were moving, Mr O would have been asked to deposit another £3,200  
on top of the £1,000 payment he was trying to make  that day. And that his positions would 
have carried on making losses. Thats another reason why I dont think it would be fair to tell 
FXCM to refund Mr O  hes asking for, in effect, the value of his holdings at the time.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E and Mr O 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman