DRN-3047128
The complaint
Miss G complains about Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) who wouldnt consider her 
claim under her home emergency policy. 
What happened
In January 2021, Miss G contacted Fairmead to make a claim as she had a leaking toilet. 
Fairmead told Miss G that her policy wasnt active as she hadnt renewed it in July 2020. 
Miss G complained to Fairmead, as she said that she had been making payments and that 
she had cover until July 2021. Fairmead said that Miss Gs policy had lapsed as Miss G had 
opted out of automatically renewing the policy. And despite it sending renewal documents, 
as well as a chaser letter to Miss G, inviting her to renew, it didnt hear from her and the 
policy didnt renew. So, Fairmead said that it couldnt consider her claim.
Miss G was unhappy about this outcome and referred her complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered her complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Her 
view was that Fairmead hadnt acted unfairly. This was because the policy had lapsed, Miss 
G hadnt renewed the policy and hadnt paid any premiums for it. So, she couldnt ask 
Fairmead to reimburse Miss G for the repairs to the leaking toilet as there was no cover in 
place.
Miss G didnt accept our investigators view. She said that she hadnt received the renewal 
notices and that she didnt tell anyone that she didnt want the policy to automatically renew. 
Moreover, she had been paying the premiums by direct debit and she could prove this. So, 
she asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be holding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Miss G, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
Miss G first took out the policy in July 2019. The policy (in common with other insurance 
policies) lasted for 12 months. Fairmead provided evidence to show that when Miss G took 
out the policy, as part of the sales procedure, (which Fairmead were not involved in) there 
wouldve been an option to have the automatic renewal blocked. And Miss G opted out of 
having the policy automatically renewed. This meant that Miss G had to be proactive in 
contacting Fairmead to accept the new renewal quote. 
Fairmead said it sent a renewal notice in June 2020 for the following year of cover. It 
included the policy schedule and outlined that cover would run from 31 July 2020 for a 
further year. There was also a direct debit mandate included. 
I have reviewed these documents and on the second page of the documents, it gives 
information about what Miss G needed to do in order to accept the renewal. At step 3 it says:
Follow the 3 steps below to renew. You asked us not to automatically renew your 
policy. If you want to renew, please call us with your Direct Debit, credit or debit card 
details.
Fairmead said that it didnt hear from Miss G and sent a further chase letter, inviting Miss G 
to renew. I have considered this as well and it says:
What you need to do to renew
You currently pay by monthly Direct Debit but told us not to automatically renew your policy. 
If you want to renew, please call us with your Direct Debit, credit or debit card details.
Your cover will continue uninterrupted if you arrange payment before your renewal date.
Please ignore this reminder if youve recently paid us or set up a new Direct Debit for 
this policy. If you dont contact us, youll no longer be covered with us from your renewal 
date.
So, I think that Fairmead did confirm that Miss G needed to contact them to renew the policy, 
so that cover could continue. 
Miss G said that she didnt contact Fairmead as she didnt receive any of the renewal notices 
and that she hadnt opted out of automatically renewing the policy. 
I asked Fairmead to provide evidence that it sent the renewal letters to Miss G. It showed 
that the letters were correctly addressed to Miss Gs home address. Whilst I appreciate that 
not all post is received, I dont have any evidence that could suggest that Fairmead didnt 
send the notices. Nor do I have any evidence that Miss G didnt opt out of the automatic 
renewal of the policy. 
Miss G said that she had been paying the policy by direct debit. I asked Fairmead for 
evidence to show the payments it had received from Miss G. It provided a payment history 
which showed that the last direct debit taken from Miss Gs account, was in July 2020. And 
no further payments were taken. 
Miss G agreed that the last payment had been taken in July 2020. And has not provided any 
other evidence to suggest that any other payments were taken from her account by 
Fairmead, since that date. So, I dont think Fairmead wouldve been able to consider Miss 
Gs claim as no premiums were paid by Miss G, which meant that there was no policy in 
place. 
Taking everything into account, whilst I understand how disappointed Miss G will be, there 
was no cover in place to make a claim and I dont think that Fairmead were unreasonable 
not to have considered the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Ayisha SavageOmbudsman