DRN-3959913
The complaint
I, a limited company, complains about the handling of the renewal of its specialist 
commercial insurance policy by Jelf Insurance Brokers Limited, trading as Marsh 
Commercial (Marsh).
Is complaint is brought by Mr R but I shall refer Is submissions as being that of its own for 
ease of reading.
What happened
I held a specialist commercial and legal expenses insurance policy that was brokered by 
Marsh for it. The policy came up for renewal at the end of May 2022.
Is complaint is about what happened at renewal that caused it to source insurance 
elsewhere and at a higher cost to it. Essentially, I says that Marsh didnt put things into place 
to renew its existing policy in time which meant that it was left without insurance when the 
insurance expired. I feels Marshs conduct was unprofessional and discourteous. It wants 
Marsh to apologise for its conduct, pay the additional cost it incurred in sourcing insurance 
elsewhere for two years, provide compensation for the lack of communication and 
uncertainty as well as for the additional time and trouble taken to pursue this complaint. I 
says Marsh should pay it £7,000 to cover all of this.
Marsh says that its adviser was in regular contact with I about the renewal and that whilst 
arrangements were made to renew the policy on time, this happened later than it would have 
liked. Because of this it offered to pay I £100 to compensate for starting the process later 
than it should have. It didnt however accept it had done anything wrong beyond this. Marsh 
accepts that whilst its advisor didnt respond to I on the same day it received an email from it 
a couple of days before the policy expired, the advisor had already explained that I could 
utilise a 14 day grace period upon expiry of the policy to arrange new insurance. This 
essentially meant that cover would be backdated to the renewal date to ensure there was 
continuous insurance in place.
Our investigator considered Is complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. He said that 
Marsh had explained to I that it could utilise a 14 day grace period in which cover could be 
backdated to the renewal date when providing further information to the insurer, as had 
happened in this case. As such there was no reason for I to believe that it wasnt on cover 
and needed to source insurance elsewhere as a matter of urgency and at a considerably 
higher cost. He also thought Marshs apology for starting the renewal process later than it 
would have liked and offer of £100 was adequate in the circumstances. 
I doesnt agree with the investigators view. It feels that Marsh didnt make the position 
surrounding the 14 day grace period clear to it so it was left to protect itself when it thought it 
didnt have the benefit of insurance- which wouldve also meant it couldnt trade. I says that 
had it understood that it wasnt at risk, it wouldnt have gone to further cost and 
inconvenience of sourcing insurance elsewhere and instead left Marsh to complete the 
process of putting insurance into place. Because I doesnt agree with the investigators view, 
the matter has been passed to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Is complaint should be upheld for the same reasons set out by 
the investigator. Ill explain why below.
The crux of this complaint is essentially whether Marsh did something that made I think it 
had no insurance cover in place and had to stop trading. Ive looked at the correspondence 
and communications between I and Marsh leading up to the renewal and agree that the 
process to put a new policy into place was started late. But that in itself doesnt mean I 
should uphold this complaint. 
Is policy expired on 29 May. A renewal quotation was put to it by Marsh 5 days before that. 
Some correspondence ensued between the parties about whether changes would be 
required to the nature of cover from the previous year and further information requested from 
I about changes in its turnover from the previous year as well as the reasons for this. After I 
supplied the information requested, Marsh told it they would forward everything over to the 
insurer and if more information was needed, theyd get in touch. That was on 27 May- a 
Friday. Its insurance was due to expire on the Sunday. 
I says that it called the adviser at Marsh several times on Friday afternoon to find out 
whether cover was in place because the policy was due to expire on the weekend.  I also 
says that because it wasnt able to speak to the adviser it had no option but to source 
insurance elsewhere because it was concerned it would have to stop trading on the Monday 
if there was no policy in place. 
The next communication between the parties was on 30 May- the Monday. Marsh contacted 
I to say the insurer had come back with some questions. In response to this I raised a 
complaint by email. Marshs adviser then called I to discuss the complaint. It was during this 
call that I said it had taken out cover elsewhere because Marsh hadnt responded to it on the 
Friday to confirm cover was in place. 
Ive thought about everything and what was said by Marsh to I in the run up to putting 
insurance into place. In particular, I can see that Marsh said in an email to I on 27 May- two 
days before the insurance expired:
I know this is not ideal given that your renewal date is approaching but we can utilise your 
14-day grace period in order to have this form completed and reviewed in order for accurate 
terms/premiums to be provided.
I says it didnt understand what this meant and that Marsh didnt make clear it wouldnt be 
exposed to having no insurance in place. I accept that I might not have understood what 
Marsh meant about the grace period meaning that the insurance could be backdated to the 
renewal date of the policy where further clarification was being requested from insurers. But I 
dont think that ought to have led I to take the action it did- namely buy insurance elsewhere. 
I know that I said it tried to contact Marsh by telephone on the Friday to chase for 
confirmation of cover but I havent seen anything to suggest that any conversations were 
had with other members of staff expressing concerns about the possibility of not being 
insured. Had it done so, I imagine someone else at Marsh might have told I that it wouldnt 
be exposed to risk given the grace period would allow for backdating. And given I says it 
thought its policy would have expired on the weekend, I wouldve expected it to have 
enquired about the possibility of this well in advance of the weekend rather than waiting for 
confirmation of cover on the Friday afternoon when Marsh didnt suggest a response would be forthcoming then.
I appreciate that I thought Marsh would revert to it that afternoon, but I dont think that was a 
reasonable assumption. Marsh was waiting for Is insurer to come back to it. It might have 
been that the insurer did send a response that day, but that Marshs adviser wasnt available 
to deal with it. Whatever the case, there was no urgency on Marshs part because I wasnt at 
risk and Marsh had explained this to I a few days before. What Marsh did do was revert to I 
on the next business day- the Monday- by which point I had obtained a different policy.
Overall, I dont think Is reaction to Marshs lack of response that Friday afternoon -namely 
obtaining insurance elsewhere- was as a result of something Marsh did. Even if I didnt 
understand what Marsh had said about the grace period and the impact of that on it, I would 
have expected it to have asked more questions about the expiry of the insurance in advance 
or at least have asked to speak to someone else at Marsh on the Friday to clarify the 
position, if the adviser it was speaking with wasnt available. Ive seen no evidence it did this, 
so I dont think I can say that Marsh did something wrong.
In making this determination Ive taken into account that I is a commercial entity, so it would 
have been aware of the considerable impact on it of not having insurance in place. Even if it 
didnt have experience in financial products or an understanding of what Marsh meant by a 
14 day grace period, I wouldve expected it to have done more to protect its position by 
asking for clarity sooner about the whether it was at risk of not being insured and when this 
would likely start from. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Is complaint against Jelf Insurance Brokers 
Limited, trading as Marsh Commercial. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask I to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman