DRN-2534409
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained about their home insurer AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited (AA UIC) in respect of a settlement it offered them for resolving water 
damage which had occurred at their home.
What happened
In October 2019 there was a leak at Mr and Mrs Js home. AA UIC accepted a claim and 
agreed to cover their emergency plumbers costs, plus their cost for some initial drying work, 
which AA UIC later completed. AA UIC wanted to send a contractor to complete further work 
but having appointed two contractors both said they wouldnt do the job because 
Mr and Mrs J had made, what they felt to be, unreasonable demands to see references and 
check the standard of their previous work.
AA UIC told Mr and Mrs J that it would have to settle in cash. It had drawn up a schedule of 
work and told Mr and Mrs J the total cost it would pay was £6,767.83, less the excess but 
plus the other costs it had agreed. It said this was less VAT but that it would pay that later, 
once work had been done. Mr and Mrs J provided estimates for work totalling £20,757 and 
£17,050. AA UIC said all it would pay was what it had offered as it felt that was a reasonable 
sum. This negotiation mostly took place during February  May 2020.
Mr and Mrs J complained to this service. AA UIC told us that it was still negotiating with 
Mr and Mrs J. Mr and Mrs J said that was not true  AA UIC just kept reiterating its initial 
offer. They said that in June 2020 theyd told it theyd have to start doing the work. In early 
July 2020 AA UIC confirmed its offer again, to us and Mr and Mrs J. 
Mr and Mrs J told us theyd had no choice but to start the repairs. They had opted to work 
with the contractor which had provide the lowest quote. AA UIC then told us that it had 
wanted to re-attend the property as it believed the quotes provided by Mr and Mrs J included 
unnecessary work to resolve the insured damage. However, it said that it had been 
prevented from making these further reasonable enquires because Mr and Mrs J had 
already started work.  
Our investigator noted that AA UIC had tried to repair the property and felt that the 
contractors refusing to do work was a matter outside of AA UICs control. She felt it was fair 
for AA UIC to offer to settle based on what it had said it would cost it to have done the work, 
had it been able to.
Mr and Mrs J were disappointed. Not least as they noted the policy didnt state that AA UIC 
could pay only what it would cost it to do the work. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision to be made. I felt AA UIC should pay 
Mr and Mrs J based on their costs for competing the work. I also felt it should pay them 
some previously agreed costs and £250 compensation. 
Mr and Mrs J accepted my findings. AA UIC said it did not agree with them.
AA UIC said it felt Mr and Mrs Js requests were excessive, especially given their policy 
warrants the quality of the repairs its contractors undertake. AA UIC said that even though 
Mr and Mrs J rejected its offer of settlement they never told it they were planning on 
commencing works. If they had, AA UIC said, it would have discussed with them the 
concerns it had, rather it thought they were still considering its settlement offer. AA UIC said 
my decision should be amended so that it is only required to pay the portion of 
Mr and Mrs Js costs that relate to insured works. It suggested that if that needs assessing it 
could appoint a surveyor to determine what has been done against the scope it agreed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were:
Mr and Mr J are correct. The policy they have does not allow AA UIC to settle a claim in 
cash based on its cost to repair. Even where policies do allow that, this service would only 
let an insurer settle in that way where it wants to complete work at the property but the 
unreasonable acts of its policyholder prevent it from doing so. 
I see that Mr and Mrs J were concerned about work being done at their home and wanted to 
vet the contractors AA UIC was planning to use. To me that seems like prudent action from a 
consumer. But it wasnt actually necessary in these particular circumstances and I can 
understand why the enquiries frustrated and concerned the contractors. Thats because the 
contractors were answerable to AA UIC, it was responsible for them and their work. And the 
policy requires AA UIC to reinstate the home on a like basis. But I dont see that AA UIC 
ever explained that to Mr and Mrs J or tried to offer them any reassurances. Rather it just let 
them keep making enquiries. I dont think they acted unreasonably in the circumstances.
Returning to the policy. It says that AA UIC will either complete work to reinstate the 
property, or it will pay for that work. Mr and Mrs J have shown what it will cost them to do 
that. Latterly AA UIC has argued that their quotes are over-scoped. But it never said that to 
Mr and Mrs J during the several months that followed their provision of the quotes before 
they started work. And nor do I see that AA UIC tried to arrange to go out and discuss the 
work detailed in the quotes. What I do see is that, on more than one occasion, AA UIC 
simply reiterated the original offer it had made in January before sight of the quotes. AA UIC 
had ample opportunity to raise this as an issue with Mr and Mrs J, and from what Ive seen 
Im satisfied that theyd have been open to discussions about this had any concerns been 
drawn to their attention (if AA UIC truly had any). If AA UICs position was prejudiced on 
account of work being carried out, that is its own fault for not dealing with matters in a better, 
clearer and more timely manner. 
I can see that this situation has been frustrating for Mr and Mrs J. Im satisfied that 
compensation is warranted.
Ive considered AA UICs comments made in reply to my provisional decision. They dont 
persuade me to change any part of my provisional findings or award. 
As I said provisionally; Mr and Mrs Js enquiries with AA UICs contractor were, strictly 
speaking, unnecessary. But AA UIC knew that and let them continue making them without 
stopping to advise them that it was liable for the repairs.
I noted provisionally that it was January 2020 when AA UIC made its cash offer. And that 
Mr and Mrs J told it in short order that they were unhappy with that; they subsequently provided a further quote, and in April AA UIC re-affirmed its offer. I remain of the view that, 
April 2020, at the latest, would have been the time for AA UIC to have drawn any concerns it 
had with Mr and Mrs J quotes, and therefore the price they were looking to be paid for repair, 
to their attention. But it didnt.
I dont accept AA UICs comment that Mr and Mrs J did not tell it they were going to 
commence the work. They say they did and I believe them. At any rate, even if they had not, 
I would not criticise them for that in these circumstances. AA UIC had plenty of opportunity to 
tell them if it had concerns over the work they were planning to do but it did not. Instead it set 
out its settlement offer in January 2020 and, regardless of the correspondence and evidence 
sent to it by Mr and Mrs J in reply, it merely kept reaffirming that offer. I remain of the view 
that AA UIC acted unfairly.
My provisional findings have not changed. My provisional findings now form part of the 
findings of this, my final decision. 
Putting things right
I require AA UIC to pay Mr and Mrs J:
£17,050, being £11,008 (including VAT) for the main works plus £6,042 (VAT not stated) 
for decorating, plus interest* on the sums Mr and Mrs J have paid that make up this total, 
from the date each was paid until settlement is made. 
£1,047 being the total of the two plumbing invoices previously agreed to be paid, plus 
interest* from the date Mr and Mrs J paid each invoice until settlement is made. 
£369.07 being the cost of electricity used to dry the property as previously agreed, plus 
interest* from the date in January 2020 when Mr and Mrs J paid this sum until settlement 
is made.
£250 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused. 
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to the dates 
stated. If AA UIC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
any interest due to Mr and Mrs J, it should tell them how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr and Mrs J a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to provide the 
redress set out at putting things right above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman