DRN-4176294
The complaint
Mr W complains that Medicash Health Benefits Limited hasnt fully settled a claim he made 
on a healthcare cash plan.
What happened
Mr W holds a healthcare cash plan. The plan provides cover for up to half of a policyholders 
dental plan fees each policy year under the routine treatment section. For the 2021-22 
policy year, Mr Ws plan included a total routine treatment limit of £125, meaning that each 
year, he could potentially claim cash benefit of up to £62.50 for his dental plan fees.
In May 2022, Mr W made a claim for the plan fees hed paid between July 2021 and May 
2022. Medicash accepted Mr Ws claim in part  settling £43.02. It didnt agree to pay up to 
the £62.50 limit because it said claims had to be made within 26 weeks of treatment (in this 
case, the payment of each monthly dental plan premium). So Medicash declined to include 
the premiums Mr W had paid between July and November 2021 when it calculated the 
settlement.
Mr W was unhappy with Medicashs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Ultimately, our investigator recommended that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. She 
didnt think the policy terms included a 26-week limit which would apply to the circumstances 
of Mr Ws claim. So she felt that Medicash should settle the remainder of Mr Ws claim in line 
with the policy limits, together with 8% interest.
Medicash disagreed and Ive summarised its response. It said that Mr W had previously 
been aware of the 26-week limit, which was evidenced by earlier claims hed made. It 
maintained that it hadnt included earlier premium payments because they were caught by 
the 26-week limit. And Medicash also felt that it was unfair to apply interest to any 
settlement, given the complaint had been with us for some time.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Medicash has settled Mr Ws claim fairly and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. So 
Ive considered, amongst other things, the terms of Mr Ws policy and the circumstances of 
his claim, to decide whether I think Medicash treated him fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr Ws policy, as these form the basis of his 
contract with Medicash. Section 10.1 sets out the cover for Routine Treatment. This says 
that Medicash will pay premiums under a dental care contract paid for by you (where stated 
on your benefit table as being included in your plan) up to the maximum amount shown in 
the benefit table.
Mr W held Level 4 cover. His benefit table shows that he held cover for routine dental 
treatment up to an annual limit of £125. The benefit table says: 
Half of the annual limit can be claimed towards annual dental care plan fees.
As such, its clear that Mr W was entitled to claim up to £62.50 in dental care plan fees 
during each policy year. 
Medicash has applied the following term to limit Mr Ws settlement:
We will not pay your claim unless it is received within 26 weeks of the following:
You have fully paid for your treatment; this includes payment for optical treatments, 
spectacles, contact lenses and optical payment plans or dental care contracts.
Medicash says that it effectively treats each monthly payment as a treatment. Accordingly, 
Medicash considers that for each monthly payment to fall within the scope of cover, a claim 
must be made within 26 weeks of each individual payment. 
But I dont agree with Medicashs interpretation of the policy terms. It seems to me that this 
clause indicates that claims must be made within 26-weeks of a dental care contract being 
fully paid. Mr W held an annual contract, which he paid monthly. I dont think an annual 
dental care contract can be considered to be fully paid until the last monthly premium for that 
particular policy year has been paid. Ive thought about applying such a reading of the policy 
to the circumstances of Mr Ws claim. In his case, the last monthly premium was due in June 
2022  which means that he effectively had until December 2022 to make a claim for the 
2021-22 policy year. 
And if Medicash did intend to only pay claims which were made within 26-weeks of each 
individual premium being paid, it was open to it to make this very clear in the policy terms. In 
my view, the policy terms are unclear and ambiguous. In such cases, its a legal principle 
that an unclear policy term should be interpreted in favour of the party which didnt draft it. In 
this case, thats Mr W.
I appreciate that it doesnt appear that Mr W had paid the June 2022 premium and therefore, 
at the point of claim, his contract hadnt been fully paid. But I havent seen any evidence that 
Mr W didnt pay his premium in June 2022 and, as such, I think the contract should be 
treated as fully paid. Medicash has referred to Mr W apparently previously understanding the 
way the 26-week period worked when hed made claims in other policy years. But given the 
way the policy is worded; I think Mr W was reasonably entitled to conclude that his 2021-22 
claim would be covered up to the policy limit. So I dont think the way Mr W previously chose 
to make claims should override the lack of clarity in the policy wording.
On this basis, I dont think it was fair for Medicash to limit settlement to the premiums Mr W 
paid between November 2021 and May 2022. I find Medicash should now recalculate the 
settlement, taking into account all the premiums Mr W paid for the contract during the plan 
year and settle the remainder of the claim in line with the applicable limit (I understand the 
difference is £19.48), together with interest at an annual rate of 8% simple. 
Its clear that Medicash believes that an interest award is excessive, given the complaint was 
with us for some time. However, it was open to Medicash to settle Mr Ws claim, in line with 
the contract, in June 2022. It didnt do so and Im satisfied it ought to have done. Instead, Mr 
W had to ask our service to look into his concerns. Following Medicashs original settlement, Mr W was without use of the remainder of the settlement I think he was reasonably entitled 
to. So I think that its fair, reasonable and proportionate to award interest on the settlement 
amount.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Medicash Health Benefits Limited to settle Mr Ws full claim in line with the applicable 
policy limit, less the settlement amount its already paid. Medicash must pay interest on the 
settlement at an annual rate of 8% simple, from the date of claim until the date of settlement. 
If Medicash considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman