DRN-2180338
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that no explanation of fees and commission was provided by HSBC 
UK Bank Plc at the point of sale for their life policies sold in 2002.
What happened
In 2002 Mr and Mrs E remortgaged and reviewed their insurance cover. As a result, several 
new policies were started, including a joint level term assurance with £146,000 cover over a 
10-year term and a policy in Mr Es sole name providing level term life and critical illness 
cover of £200,000 for a term of 14 years. 
In 2019 Mr and Mrs E complained to HSBC that they hadnt been made aware of the fees 
and commissions. HSBC didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr and Mrs E referred the matter to 
this service. 
Our investigator said that having looked into the rules that businesses had to follow she 
could see that there was no requirement in 2002 for a business to disclose its commission or 
renumeration unless requested by the consumer to do so. So, she didnt feel that HSBC had 
acted incorrectly if the information had not been not disclosed at the point of sale. 
The investigator further explained that HSBC had confirmed that there wouldnt have been a 
separate fee or charge payable by Mr and Mrs R for the advice given and the adviser 
wouldnt have received commission directly. It would instead have been paid between HSBC 
and its partner company.
The investigator also went on to confirm that she felt both policies had been generally 
suitable for Mr and Mrs Es needs and circumstances  the joint policy providing useful 
mortgage cover and the sole name policy providing cover for some business borrowing, as 
confirmed by Mr E. Ultimately, the investigator felt that as the policies were of benefit, they 
wouldve been taken out irrespective of whether or not the commission mechanism had been 
communicated to Mr and Mrs E.
Mr and Mrs E didnt accept the investigators view. They said that Mrs E hadnt been party to 
the business borrowing and that the full facts of the commission hadnt been discussed.
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Firstly, Im satisfied with HSBCs explanation in respect of what information it had to provide 
about of any fees or commission. In 2002, it wouldve been common for the mechanism as it 
has described to have been the way in which the various parties were remunerated and, as 
such, there wouldve been limited information provided in this respect. In any event, I dont 
think, on balance, that having a potential better understanding of this at the time wouldve led 
Mr and Mrs E to have done anything differently. 
I say this particularly as they wouldve encountered this mechanism, or similar, for the 
payment of commission wherever they purchased their cover. And, further, Im satisfied they 
would still have purchased the cover as it seems it was something they wanted and needed, 
given the detailed notes made by the adviser about their existing cover and the reasons for 
taking the new cover. 
It appears there was reasonable consideration given by the adviser to Mr and Mrs Es 
circumstances and objectives. They had a complex set-up of existing policies, but these 
appear to have been taken into account and the new cover appears to have matched with 
the new borrowing  for instance, the additional interest-only mortgage of £146,000 over 10 
years.
In summary, Im not persuaded that HSBC has been shown to have acted incorrectly or 
unfairly in respect of either the fees/commission situation, or more widely in its 
recommendation of the cover.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman