DRN-2042206
The complaint
Mr D complains that he used The Royal Bank of Scotland Plcs (RBS) credit card eligibility 
checker, and got a perfect score. But when he applied for the card, he was turned down. 
Mr D wants RBS to take the hard search it made as part of the application off his credit file.
What happened
Mr D applied for an RBS credit card after checking his eligibility with RBSs own tool. He told 
us it gave him 10/10, so he went ahead with the application. He was declined. Mr D said that 
if hed got lower than 10/10 he wouldnt have complained. But he said hed chosen to apply 
for RBSs card because he got such a high score. He said the hard search on his credit file 
that RBS made when he applied was affecting his credit score. He wanted RBS to remove it.
RBS said its eligibility checker was only ever a guide, and that was made clear on the 
website. RBS does a full credit search, and checks further information, once the actual 
application is made. It had reviewed the decision made in this case, and said it wouldnt 
change. Mr Ds unsecured debt was greater than his annual income, so RBS said it wouldnt 
lend to him. 
RBS looked again at this case when it came to us. It said that it couldnt see now the results 
of the eligibility check Mr D made before his application. But it could see checks hed done 
since, and none of those said he was eligible for a card with RBS. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She noted what RBS had said 
about results on its eligibility checker and other enquiries Mr D had made about his eligibility. 
But she thought the key issue was that Mr D was never guaranteed this card. The 
screenshot Mr D sent us clearly states that approval isnt guaranteed and it would be subject 
to a full credit check. She didnt think RBS had made a mistake by declining the application 
Mr D then made. And she said she wasnt satisfied, because of the results of more recent 
checks and Mr Ds level of unsecured debt, that hed got a result of 10/10. Our investigator 
didnt think RBS had to remove the hard search from Mr Ds credit file. 
Mr D said the response was biased and highly offensive. He said wed failed to investigate 
properly. Hed given the only evidence he could to support what happened. He said that if 
RBS said differently, that was an admission of a fault in RBSs IT system, and that proved 
unfairness to the consumer. He said that the IT department should investigate, but he 
thought wed left lines of investigation open in order to conclude the case in favour of the 
bank. And he said wed ignored that RBSs website encouraged use of the eligibility website 
by saying Why chance it?
Our investigator said she couldnt look at the outcome of the eligibility checker for March, 
because RBS didnt have those results any more. It just doesnt keep them for that long. She 
explained that when our service has conflicting information, we have to assess the evidence 
and decide on the balance of probabilities. She said that whilst the home screen did say 
why chance it? later web pages explained that the outcome wasnt guaranteed. Our 
investigator didnt change her mind. 
Mr D said it wasnt about data, it was about a bank saying that it never gave 10/10 for 
eligibility. That proved there had been an IT error. And he said he didnt have a large 
unsecured debt. He had no loans, a marginal amount on credit cards, and a hire purchase 
agreement. The hire purchase agreement was secured debt. 
Our investigator said shed ask RBS again about the score of 10/10, but even if Mr D had 
been given this score, her decision would be the same. And on whether Mr Ds debt was 
secured or unsecured, she could only base findings on what shed seen. 
RBS replied to say that the way the eligibility tool was configured meant that it would only go 
up to 9.5. And if the majority of Mr Ds debt was secured, he might need to check his credit 
file, because that didnt match with what RBSs checks had found.
Mr D had already said he wanted his case to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was 
passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Mr D told us he ran his application details through RBSs eligibility checker, and got 10/10. 
RBS initially said that was quite unlikely, and now says it isnt possible, but Mr D has sent us 
a screenshot that says this. Mr D says that shows theres an IT problem, which proved 
unfairness to the consumer. 
I dont agree. Given that RBS has said that a score of 10/10 is both very unlikely, and not 
possible, it seems to me that such a score probably is possible, although not likely. 
Its more difficult for me to tell whether Mr D really did get 10/10 from the eligibility checker 
before he made his application. RBS cant show that result. But it can show that hes used 
the eligibility checker again a number of times since, and not been approved. Mr D hasnt 
commented on this.
Ultimately, I dont think I have to decide if Mr D did get 10/10 on the eligibility checker before 
he made his application or not. Thats because even if he did, my decision wouldnt be any 
different. 
And that, in turn, is because I dont think Mr D was ever guaranteed to get a card. RBSs 
website is very clear on that. Above the results Mr D has sent us, the page reads you have 
a high chance of being accepted for a Royal Bank credit card. But it goes on to say If you 
apply for one of our credit cards, we need to ask you a few more questions. Please note that 
acceptance is not guaranteed and all applications are subject to status and a full credit 
check. Results reflect your circumstances at this moment in time and may vary in the future.
So I think that RBS had always sought to manage Mr Ds expectations around whether his 
credit card application would be successful. I dont think it would be fair for Mr D to say that 
he expected he would just be given the card. RBS had been clear that, whatever the 
outcome of the eligibility checker, there would always be a risk that Mr D would be turned 
down. Mr D ran that risk when he applied. For that reason, I dont think that RBS does have 
to remove the hard search from its credit file now. So, although I know Mr D will be 
disappointed, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.RBS has said that the data it holds from Mr Ds application suggests that Mr D has a very 
large amount of unsecured debt. I can see that this is supported by what it has sent us. It 
has also suggested that if Mr D disagrees, he should check his credit file. If Mr D hasnt 
already done so, he might like to do that now. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman