DRN-3465992
The complaint
Mr As complaint is about charges hes been asked to pay by Mercedes-Benz Financial
Services UK Limited (MBFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I know it will disappoint Mr A, I agree with the investigators findings. 
Ill explain why.
Mr A acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr A responsible for keeping the car in good 
condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct 
condition.
The damage charges that remain
MBFS have their own vehicle return standards (VRS) but the industry guidelines for what is
considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned at the end of their lease, is
provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). I understand that
MBFS arent members of the BVRLA but I think its only fair to consider that standard in
tandem with the VRS when considering if the damage in the inspection reports can fairly be
considered to be beyond normal wear and tear and chargeable.
Chargeable
Boot lid dented
The VRS says the dent is acceptable if less than 13mm and the BVRLA is a little more
lenient. It suggests dents up to 15mm are reasonable as long as the paint surface isnt 
broken. I think the dent shown in the photograph is in excess of both of those standards and 
is reasonably chargeable.
Door left hand front dented
I think the paint surface is broken and the damage is therefore beyond what could be 
considered fair wear and tear, as Ive explained above.
Door left hand rear dented
The dent is more than 15mm and is beyond what could fairly be considered wear and tear.
Door right hand front scratched
The BVRLA guidelines state, surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare
metal is now showing are acceptable provided they can be polish out. A maximum of four
surface scratches on one panel is acceptable. 
And the VRS says, Any chipping and scratching of paintwork that has penetrated the base 
coat and/or has caused corrosion of any kind which cannot be polished out is not 
acceptable.
There are several scratches here and as one is longer than 25mm I think the charge is 
reasonable, I dont think its likely that sort of damage could be polished out acceptable 
either.
Quarter panel left hand rear scratched
Theres an extensive scratch on this panel that is beyond what would be considered fair 
wear and tear, as explained above.
Quarter panel right hand rear scratched
Theres an extensive scratch on this panel that is beyond what would be considered fair 
wear and tear, as explained above.
Tyre left hand front gouge and tyre right hand front gouge
The BVRLA guidelines state, there must be no damage to sidewalls or tread and similarly 
the VRS says, Any gouge, crack, cut, torn or plugged tyre side wall is not acceptable.
Theres damage to the sidewalls evident in the photographs so the charges are reasonable.
Wheel right hand rear spoke damaged
The BVRLA guidelines state, any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia, or hub of the 
alloy wheel is not acceptable and scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the 
wheel rim and on alloy wheels are acceptable.
The VRS says, Dents on the wheel rims and wheel trims are not acceptable. Chips, 
scratches or scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel are acceptable, 
providing they can be repaired to a professional standard. Any damage to the wheel spokes, 
fascia or hub of the alloy wheel is not acceptable. There should be no rust or corrosion on 
the alloy wheels.
Theres damage to the spokes on the right hand rear wheel so I think a charge is 
reasonable.
Not chargeable
Left hand rear, left hand front, and right hand front wheel damageI dont think the photographs demonstrate the damage is in excess of the guidance Ive 
already set out above. I think these charges have been unfairly applied and should be 
removed.
The investigator has explained that MBFS said it would only charge Mr A for damages 
identified in both reports (completed on collection and at the auction site). But its levied 
charges for the left hand front and rear doors and for the left hand rear quarter panel. Whilst 
these charges are evidenced in the photographs I dont think it would be fair to charge the 
full fee where MBFSs comments have been misleading. In the circumstances, Id agree with 
the investigator that MBFS should charge 50% of the amount due for those issues. 
Putting things right
MBFS should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited to:
Waive charges they applied for damage to the left hand rear, left hand front, and right 
hand front wheels.
Reduce charges for the left hand front and rear doors and for the left hand rear 
quarter panel by 50%.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman