DRN-2640765
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the online banking service provided by Metro Bank PLC.
What happened
Mr A works overseas and had previously complained to Metro Bank about the functionality of 
their secure messaging system for overseas customers.
Mr A attempted to contact Metro Bank using the secure messaging service when he wasnt 
able to send a payment of £500 via bank transfer. The response that Mr A received was a 
standard response directing him to call Metro Bank or to go into one of their stores. Mr A 
was overseas so couldnt go into branch, and international call rates meant that calling Metro 
Bank wasnt a suitable option for him either. So, Mr A raised a complaint.
Metro Bank looked at Mr As complaint. They noted that the secure messaging system 
doesnt allow for account specific communication and that it was a failure in service that Mr A 
had received generic responses. Metro Bank also acknowledged that, given that Mr A works 
overseas, the restrictions of the secure messaging system mean that they couldnt provide 
Mr A with the service that he requires. So, Metro Bank upheld Mr As complaint and made an 
offer of £50 by way of compensation for the inconvenience he had incurred.
Mr A didnt feel that Metro Banks response went far enough, so he referred his complaint to 
this service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that Metro Banks 
response to Mr As complaint, including the £50 offer of compensation, did represent a fair 
and reasonable outcome to this complaint, so they didnt uphold the complaint either. 
Mr A remained dissatisfied, and he felt that Metro Bank should reimburse him all of the 
charges he had incurred for transferring his employment earnings back to the UK during the 
time he had been banking with them. So, the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin by confirming the scope of my investigation into Mr As complaint. In his 
complaint to this service, Mr A references his working overseas and his needing the use of 
internet banking. However, from my review, its apparent that Mr As complaint focuses on 
the secure messaging system and his ability to communicate with Metro Bank while 
overseas using this system. Indeed, Metro Bank have confirmed that the full functionality of 
their internet banking platform has been available to Mr A during the time that Mr A has been 
a customer of theirs, and Mr As complaint relates only to instances where he has needed to 
contact Metro Bank via their secure messaging system.
Its also notable that Mr A raised a complaint with Metro Bank about the secure messaging 
system previously. Metro Bank responded to Mr A in February 2020 and upheld this earlier 
complaint. Metro Bank acknowledged at that time that there were features of the secure 
messaging system that meant that Mr A hadnt received the standard of service that they 
aspired to and that feedback and coaching had been provided accordingly. Metro Bank also 
made a compensation payment of £550 to Mr A for the inconvenience the events that led to 
this earlier complaint had caused him.
Considering this, the scope of my investigation will be restricted to the events that led to Mr 
A making his later complaint  specifically, the service that Mr A received from Metro Bank 
when he attempted to contact them via the secure messaging system about the failure of the 
attempted transfer of £500.
In their response to Mr As complaint about this matter, Metro Bank acknowledged that the 
restrictions of the secure messaging system couldnt provide Mr A with the service he was 
seeking. However, they noted that Mr A had been able to contact a member of their staff by 
email who had responded to him the same day and advised that the payment didnt go 
through because the sort code and account number provided werent recognised as being 
valid, and its notable that Mr A was able to complete the transaction shortly after this using 
alternative beneficiary account details. Metro Bank apologised to Mr A for the inconvenience 
and made an offer of £50 compensation.
Mr A doesnt feel that this offer of compensation goes far enough and instead would like 
Metro Bank to reimburse him all the charges he has incurred for transferring money 
internationally during the time he has been a customer of the bank. Mr A estimates this 
amount as being approximately £5,000.
Im not convinced that its fair or reasonable to ask Metro Bank to reimburse Mr A in the 
manner that Mr A wants here, because I cant see that Mr A has incurred any material 
financial loss as a result of these international transfers. And I say this because Mr A would 
have needed to make such transfers regardless of which UK bank he was using and also 
because Mr A was able to complete the international transfers that he wants reimbursing for 
without incident.
However, it isnt disputed that Mr A was inconvenienced by his not being able to 
communicate effectively with Metro Bank via the secure messaging system, and so I think it 
is appropriate that Metro Bank should offer Mr A some compensation for this.
Matters of compensation are often subjective, with an offer that is considered as fair by one 
person not being considered as such by another. But, the £50 that Metro Bank have offered 
Mr A does feel fair here, and it is commensurate with what this service would expect, given 
all the circumstances of this complaint. 
So, it follows from this that I feel that the complaint response that Metro Bank have already 
issued here, including their offer of £50 compensation to Mr A, does represent a fair and 
reasonable resolution to this complaint. This means that I wont be upholding this complaint 
or asking Metro Bank to take any further action at this time, beyond that to which they have 
already agreed.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr A was wanting here, but I hope he can 
understand, given everything I have explained above, why I have made the final decision 
that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman