DRN-4431816
The complaint
This complaint is about mortgage advice Miss F received from a broker firm that is part of 
Connells Limited. Shes unhappy that the broker told her the mortgage she wanted was 
unaffordable. This was despite her already being in possession of a decision-in-principle 
(DIP) for the mortgage she wanted. The DIP had been issued by a different broker firm 
whose advice and service she was happy with. Miss F says she was effectively coerced into 
speaking to Connells broker by the estate agent that was selling the house she was 
interested in buying.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Miss F and Connells. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been shared with 
all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. Instead, Ill provide a brief 
summary of the key points, and then focus on the reasons for my decision.
Miss F viewed a property through one of Connells estate agency businesses, and made an 
offer. She already had a DIP for a mortgage of a certain amount from a lender Ill call N, 
arranged by a mortgage advisor from a broker firm Ill call C. Although owned by Connells, C 
is a separate and discrete legal entity in its own right.
Miss F says she was pressurised by the estate agent to speak to a Connells mortgage 
advisor. She did so, albeit she says reluctantly, and the Connells mortgage advisor carried 
out a fact-find and affordability assessment which concluded that the mortgage wasnt 
affordable. The seller of the property wouldnt stop taking viewings and eventually Miss F 
lost the property to another buyer.
The complaint to us initially focussed as much on the alleged behaviour of Connells estate 
agent as the conduct of the mortgage advisor. However, this service has no remit to look at 
the actions of the estate agent; that was eventually addressed separately in a complaint 
Miss F made to the Property Ombudsman. Our investigation was confined to the actions of 
the Connells mortgage advisor, and the investigators view was that Connells hadnt done 
anything wrong. 
Quite late in the investigation, evidence had been extracted about the fact-find conducted by 
Connells mortgage advisor, which Miss F said was inaccurate. At that stage, the investigator 
said this was a new complaint and would need to be looked at by Connells first and then 
referred to us after a final response had been issued. The first complaint came to me for 
review. 
Normally, Id have agreed with the second complaint about the accuracy or otherwise of the 
fact-find being treated as a separate complaint, but here, I didnt think that approach worked. 
The essence of the problem here is that Miss F was looking at what the Connells mortgage 
advisor had said about affordability of the mortgage she aspired to, comparing it with what 
Cs advisor had already said, and complaining about the disparity between the two. In simple 
terms, her starting point there was, in effect: Cs advisor was right so Connells mortgage 
advisor must be wrong.
The problem with that is that we couldnt start from the assumption that Cs advisor was 
right, nor could we even consider whether Cs advisor was right or not. All we could do was 
consider whether and to what extent Connells mortgage advisor was right (or wrong) and in 
doing so couldnt use Cs advisor as a reference point. It was therefore necessary that we 
explore the information-gathering exercise conducted by Connells mortgage advisor; in 
other words, the fact-find. That was the only way we could judge the actions of Connells 
mortgage advisor on their own merits.
Accordingly, then, we arranged for Connells to investigate Miss Fs second complaint, to 
allow us to incorporate the outcome of that into the existing complaint. When we did that, the 
investigator now dealing with the case agreed with Connells that there was nothing 
fundamentally wrong with the fact-find exercise. However, she identified some 
communication failings on Connells part and recommended an award of £200 compensation 
for Miss Fs time, trouble and upset. Connells accepted this, Miss F did not, so the case is 
back with me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I will take the opportunity to reinforce the demarcation line between the mortgage 
advice and estate agency side of things, as it seems to me that Miss F still feels aggrieved 
over the pressure she felt under to consult with Connells mortgage advisor in the first place. 
Thats been dealt with by the separate complaint Miss F made to the Property Ombudsman; 
its not something that falls within my remit.
Confining my consideration to the actions of Connells advisor, Im afraid I have to disappoint 
Miss F. I cant start from the assumption that the DIP Miss F received from N required 
Connells to source her a mortgage for the same amount, or that the failure to do so means 
the assessment of affordability by Connells mortgage advisor was necessarily flawed. 
That assessment can only be judged on its own merits, and when I do that, chiefly by 
reference to the fact-find exercise, Im not persuaded there were substantive errors on the 
part of the advisor. Ive looked at the areas where Miss F says the fact-find was incorrect, 
and like the investigator, I dont find them to have been materially wrong. The wording used 
may have been slightly different from what Miss F has said, but not to the extent that that 
any differences would create a misleading impression or in any skew the outcome of the 
affordability assessment.
What that means is that on the main thrust of Miss Fs complaint, Im not able to find in her 
favour. She is, however, due fair compensation for the worry and stress she experienced 
due to Connells not communicating with her properly when she supplied it with the DIP from 
N. Even in the best-ordered situation, some things can or will go wrong in such a complex 
transaction as a house purchase, and some degree of stress and inconvenience is to be 
expected. No two cases are the same, and the consumers circumstances are different in 
every case. Taking into account what Miss F has told us about her health situation at the 
time of these events, I agree with our investigator that £200 is fair.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from her submissions how important this is to Miss F. Thats a 
natural reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation as she is 
here. 
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means 
stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic in all the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not 
required to provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing 
so will affect the overall outcome. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement, I direct 
Connells Limited to pay Miss F £200. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman