The complaint
Miss S is unhappy Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Yorkshire Bank blocked her account 
when she tried to make a withdrawal and the blocked it again when she attempted to switch 
her account to another bank. Shed like an explanation for why it did this and compensation 
for the trouble and upset caused. 
What happened
Miss S attended branch on 15 July 2019 to withdraw £6,500. However, she was told her 
account was restricted whilst a review was carried out and the withdrawal couldnt be 
completed. Miss S says she was asked numerous questions about her account and the 
withdrawal in front of the rest of the banking hall and this made her feel uncomfortable. And 
she wasn't given any further explanation around why this was happening. 
The restriction was lifted on 23 July 2019 and Miss S was able to make her withdrawal the 
following day on 24 July 2019. 
Because of what happened with the withdrawal, Miss S wanted to switch her account to a 
different bank. This request was received by Yorkshire Bank on 13 August 2019. However, 
the money in Miss Ss account wasnt transferred over to her new bank until 12 September 
2019. During this time Miss S had no access to her money. 
Miss S has explained the impact Yorkshire Banks actions have had on her both financially 
and emotionally. Shes said not having access to her money meant she was late for a 
payment on the lease for her shop, which cost her an extra £2,000. Her phone was cut off 
temporarily. Her credit score went down which stopped her getting a mortgage, and she lost 
the house. And all of this had a big impact on her mental health, for which she was already 
on medication. 
Yorkshire Bank has said that whilst it sympathises with the impact the restrictions and 
reviews had on Miss S, it has a duty to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. 
However, it did apologise that the service Miss S received in branch, and subsequently when 
she reported the complaint, fell below expected standards.  
Miss S referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ss 
complaint. He concluded that Yorkshire Bank was entitled to review Miss Ss account and 
withhold the funds in the meantime. He didnt think Yorkshire Bank had caused any delays 
throughout and as a result, whilst he appreciated the impact the matter had on Miss S, he 
wasnt in the position to recommend Yorkshire Bank pay her any compensation. 
Miss S disagreed. She said that banks can get away with what they like by saying its doing 
so under its procedure and feels this service is set up in their favour. She re-emphasised the 
DRN-1983984impact the matter had on her and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. It has 
therefore been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions 
as the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Miss S. My conclusions are in no way 
meant to belittle what she went through. I understand it was an extremely difficult time for 
her and being without access to her money had a serious impact on her financially and 
emotionally. However, I dont believe Yorkshire Bank made any errors here, so it follows that 
I wont be asking it to compensate Miss S for what happened. Ill now explain why. 
Yorkshire Bank has a wide range of legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when 
providing account services to its customers. These are ongoing so dont just apply at 
account opening stage. To comply with these obligations, it may need to review accounts 
and the activity taking place on them. And part of this might require it to restrict a customers 
access to an account where appropriate. If Yorkshire Bank didnt do this, it could risk serious 
sanction.
With this in mind, Im satisfied Yorkshire Bank was within its rights to restrict Miss Ss 
account and ask her questions  both when she attempted the £6,500 withdrawal and the 
account switch. So, whilst I appreciate Miss S may have felt uncomfortable when she was 
asked questions by the branch staff when she attempted the £6,500 withdrawal, I think this 
was necessary. And, having considered all the information available to me, I can understand 
why Yorkshire Bank wanted to review the account on both occasions.  
I understand Miss S may think its unfair for Yorkshire Bank to restrict the account again 
when she requested the switch, but it comes back to the banks need to ensure it meets its 
legal and regulatory obligations, and so I dont think it did anything wrong here.  
Yorkshire Bank wasnt obliged to tell Miss S why it had restricted the account. And it wouldnt 
be appropriate for me to require it to do so.
Miss S has explained how she was impacted by the restriction, so Ive looked at whether 
Yorkshire Bank couldve acted any quicker than it did or done anything differently. But from 
everything Ive seen Im satisfied the time and actions taken were necessary and 
reasonable for Yorkshire Bank to conduct its reviews and meet its legal and regulatory 
obligations.
So, whilst I appreciate the restrictions and reviews caused Miss S a significant degree of 
trouble and upset, I cant say Yorkshire Bank made any mistakes that mean it should 
compensate her for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint against Clydesdale Bank Plc 
trading as Yorkshire Bank. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 August 2020.Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman