DRN-2892530
The complaint
Mr M has complained that the information Standard Life Assurance Limited (Standard Life) 
gave him when he enquired about transferring his pension fund was not accurate and that 
this cost him a financial loss.
What happened
On 9 March 2020 Mr M contacted Standard Life about his pension provisions. Over several 
calls he discussed the options he was considering and asked for details of suitable index 
linked funds.
Mr M has told us that from the information that was provided to him he reasonably thought 
that any request to move his funds would take place at 5pm two working days after the 
request. 
Mr M made his request to move funds at 4.48pm on 9 March 2020. The transfer then took 
place at 9am on 11 March 2020. This is not the time Mr M expected the transfer to take 
place. Mr M has explained that had the transfer taken place when he expected it to, he 
would be financially better off.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ms complaint but didnt think the information provided to Mr 
M suggested the transfer would take place as he has told us he expected it to. As the 
transfer did take place two working days after it had been requested our Investigator didnt 
think Standard Life had done anything wrong and so didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.
As Mr M did not agree this complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have listened to recordings of all the calls available from the time Mr M looked to transfer 
his pension fund into a different fund. It is clear from the outset that Mr M was concerned 
about his fund losing value and wanted to look at moving his funds to an index linked fund of 
some sort. At the time Mr M called Standard Life he had not chosen a fund.
Over several calls Standard Life explained to Mr M that it was unable to advise him of what 
fund would be in his best interest as it could not give advice, but explained Mr M could look 
through the different funds himself online.
Standard Life explained it could make the transfer over the phone for him but 
understandably Mr M wanted to look through the available funds himself before deciding. Mr 
M confirmed he was able to carry out the transaction himself online.
Having listened to the calls that took place on 9 March 2020 I am unable to find that 
Standard Life led Mr M to believe his transfer would take place at any specific time after it 
had been requested.
Mr M made his request to transfer funds on 9 March 2020 at 16.48pm. The terms and 
conditions presented to Mr M at the time stated:
if Standard Life receives the request before the cut-off on a working day (currently 5pm), the 
switch will be processed using fund prices that apply two working days later. If the request is 
received after the cut-off time on a working day (or if the request is received on a non-
working day), the switch will be processed using the fund prices that apply three working 
days later. If Standard Life is at fault for a fund switch request which does not proceed within 
the specified time period, then we would backdate the transaction to the original time and 
date of receipt.
I have considered the wording above. As Mr M made his request within the working day of 
the 9 March 2020, I think its fair that Standard Life carried out the transfer within the working 
day of 11 March 2020, which was two working days after his request. As a specific time was 
not agreed I also dont think it was unreasonable that the transfer took place at 9am on the 
11 March 2020 using the fund value at the time.
I understand Mr M feels Standard Life could have been clearer in its explanation to him. But I 
dont think the information provided by Standard Life was misleading. 
As I dont think Standard Life has done anything wrong, I wont be asking it to take any 
action to resolve Mr Ms complaint.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman