DRN-4214679
The complaint
Miss J complains Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as very failed to give her 
access to the information she needed to know when her buy now, pay later period was 
ending. This resulted in her being charged interest for the items she purchased.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive reached the same conclusions as our Investigator for 
these reasons:
The buy now, pay later period Miss J has complained about ended in early 
March 2023. So, I would have expected Shop Direct to have provided Miss J with 
information that clearly explained this this. Shop Direct has explained the relevant 
information was detailed in Miss Js statements, and she had opted to receive paper 
statements.
 
Shop Direct sent us copies of Miss Js statements for December 2022, January, and 
February 2023. Having reviewed them, Ive seen that all three of these statements 
explained she had an outstanding buy now, pay later balance. And under the section 
headed YOUR BUY NOW PAY LATER (BNPL) SUMMARY, all of the statements 
detailed she had a buy now, pay later period that was due to end in early 
March 2023. They also explained the amount of interest that would be charged if the 
purchases werent paid for by early March 2023. Im satisfied the statements clearly 
explained what Miss J owed, and when. As such, I consider she had access to the 
information she needed to be able to make the necessary payments if she wanted to 
avoid being charged interest.
Miss J has said her buy now, pay later balance wasnt showing on the app. Given the 
time thats passed, there isnt enough information for me to make a finding on what 
Mis J could or couldnt see on her app. However, given she was receiving paper 
statements she still had information that showed when her buy now, pay later period 
was coming to an end. So, if she didnt review those statements, I cant fairly hold 
Shop Direct responsible if that resulted in her not paying of her purchases in time. 
And as its not disputed that Miss J didnt pay for the items in time, I cant agree that 
Shop Direct have treated her unfairly by charging interest in line with the terms and 
conditions of her account. So, I dont think Shop Direct needs to do anything to put 
things right.
I know this isnt the outcome Miss J hoped for. However, given the above, Im not upholding 
her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Js complaint about Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited trading as very.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman