DRN-3615805
The complaint
Ms L complains that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to refund transactions she didnt authorise.
What happened
Ms L became aware of several transactions leaving her account that she didnt recognise 
after her card was declined whilst out shopping. Ms L contacted Lloyds about the situation 
and told them that she wasnt responsible for making them.
Three transactions were carried out during the same session using Lloyds banking app that 
was registered to Ms Ls account. Lloyds notes of the fraud report by Ms L reveal that a 
payment of £50 to a regular payee (Ill refer to them as V) was genuine i.e. not fraudulent. 
This was later changed by Ms L to say that the payment wasnt made by her and she 
believes it was part of the fraud against her.
Ms L told Lloyds that shed had various messages indicating her computer systems were 
compromised and produced screenshots showing that passwords needed to be changed. 
One screenshot showed that an attempt to log in to her computer account had been made, 
but this required Ms L to authorise the login before it was successful.
Ms L asked Lloyds for a refund and after looking into the payments they decided that Ms L 
had made the payments herself and declined to make any refund. Ms L complained about 
the way that Lloyds had dealt with her and the outcome of their investigation. Ms L continued 
to tell Lloyds that she wasnt responsible and believed shed been the victim of a hack on 
her systems that had allowed someone to gain access to her online banking.
Lloyds investigated the complaint but didnt change their position, believing that the three 
payments were made by the same person at the same time with a device that had been 
enrolled with Ms Ls Lloyds banking app earlier the day of the disputed transactions. Lloyds 
believed that the first payment was genuine, which Ms L explained was incorrect. 
Ms L explained to Lloyds that shed visited V a few days before the disputed transactions 
and received services from them which shed paid £50 cash. Ms L told Lloyds that V 
confirmed that the £50 sent on the day of the disputed transactions wasnt for any services 
and gave the £50 back in cash to Ms L.
In their response to Ms L s complaint, Lloyds accepted theyd delayed sending out a new 
card for Ms L and made a payment of £50 to recognise this error. An additional sum for the 
cost of calls was also made but hadnt been paid at the time.
Ms L was left unhappy with how shed been treated and believed her own circumstances at 
the time had influenced Lloyds decision to hold her responsible for the disputed transactions. 
Ms L then brough her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent 
review. It was looked into by one of our investigators who sought information from both 
parties. 
Ms L presented information about the security issues shed experienced and explained what 
had happened on the day of the disputed transactions. Ms L recalled receiving a message 
on her phone that she deleted and missed another one from Lloyds because she couldnt 
hear her phone at the time. Ms L said that she later received messages from Lloyds about 
the setting up of new payees on her account, but by the time she received them, theyd 
already gone from her account. Ms L was also unhappy with how Lloyds treated her during 
their investigation.
Ms L confirmed she lived alone and no one else had access to her phone. She also said that 
her banking details were kept on her phone but disguised.
Lloyds produced information about the use of Ms Ls account including data related to the 
enrolment of a new phone on the day of the disputed transactions about four hours before 
they took place. Lloyds information showed that three transactions, including the one to V 
had been made in one session and that the new payees were set up and confirmed using 
the Lloyds banking app registered to Ms Ls account. Lloyds believed that because location 
data (IP address) had been common to the disputed transactions, it supported their case 
that Ms L was responsible for them.
Ms L was asked about the first payment made to V and wrote to the investigator confirming it 
was genuine. Several weeks later Ms L changed this to say it wasnt genuine. After 
considering the information received from both parties, Ms Ls complaint wasnt upheld. Our 
investigator couldnt find any point of compromise for Ms Ls banking passwords.
Ms L disagreed with the investigators outcome and argued that shed been the victim of 
someone elses activity on her account. Ms L believed that Lloyds thought the transactions 
were suspicious because they sent messages to her. Ms L was critical of the security of her 
account and thought that Lloyds should have done more at the time to protect her funds.
Ms L asked for a further review of her complaint which has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than it may merit. 
Im also not going to cover all the points raised. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, 
Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This 
simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. I will, however, refer to those crucial aspects which impact the decision Im 
making.
Ms Ls principal complaint is that she was the victim of a hack which allowed unidentified 
persons to take control of her account and virtually empty it. Lloyds on the other hand 
believe the evidence supports the position that Ms L was responsible for making the 
payments. Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of 
it is here I have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Lloyds can hold Ms L liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made them or authorised them. Lloyds can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Ms L authorised the 
transactions, but Lloyds cannot say that the use of the internet banking app conclusively 
proves that the payments were authorised. 
Unless Lloyds can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Ms Ls account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Ms L. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to 
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Ms L responsible for the disputed 
transactions or not.
What the evidence shows is that a new iPhone was registered on Ms Ls account around 
lunchtime on the day of the disputed transactions. In order to do that, the user needed 
specific security details known only to Ms L. Lloyds records show that automated security 
messages were successfully sent and received from Ms Ls registered phone number 
allowing the process of enrolling the device to proceed. 
That device was then used about four hours later to make the three disputed transactions, 
using biometric features set up earlier on the phone. The first payment is important here 
because it was made in the same session as the two other payments which went to new 
payees. This first payment to V was for £50 and Ms Ls statements show other similar 
payments to V, both before and after this one, all made using the faster payment process 
(electronic bank transfer). 
Ms Ls responses to whether this payment was made by herself have been inconsistent 
throughout the complaint. Shes alternatively said it was her and it wasnt her. So, its difficult 
to assess what actually happened. Ms L told Lloyds that shed visited V a few days earlier 
and paid £50 cash for the treatment  the same amount as the electronic payment a few 
days later. The statements show other payments to V were done electronically rather than 
with cash. 
It's also unclear, if the transactions were carried out by a fraudster, why they would firstly 
send £50 to a random payee rather than keep it for themselves. Once the three transactions 
left the account, there were some funds remaining. This isnt a typical approach from 
fraudsters who generally carry out these thefts because they want to maximise the money 
stolen, but that wasnt the case here.
Ive looked at the information sent in by Ms L about her account security. This does show 
that some of her passwords were weak and should be changed and certain accounts  but 
crucially not Lloyds  were compromised through broader data leaks. Theres no real 
evidence that shows her own account was compromised and in order for someone to access 
her banking app they would need to be able to get access to her phone and find the 
disguised banking details.
References throughout the complaint were made to various IP addresses and Lloyds relied 
on this to support their case. These addresses can relate to certain locations linked to the 
user of the internet account or the actual supplier of the internet facilitates. Different 
locations can be given depending on various factors of how it was recorded by the internet 
provider. In this case, there are several different addresses linked to the activity on the 
iPhone registered that day, but what is consistent is that the three transactions that Ms L has 
disputed were all made from the same address during the same session. So, if the first 
payment was linked to Ms L, then it would also be reasonable that the others were as well.
I dont think it likely that the disguised banking codes were found by a fraudster whod compromised Ms Ls phone, who then made a random payment to a stranger and left funds 
in the account. Based on an objective review of the available evidence, I think its more likely 
than not that Ms L was responsible for these transactions and it was reasonable for Lloyds to 
hold her liable for them.
I appreciate Ms L will disagree with me about this, but the evidence doesnt support the 
involvement of an unauthorised third-party in these transactions. Ive also taken into account 
the inconsistencies of Ms Ls version of events regarding the first payment to V.
Ms L didnt comment about the payment made to her for the delayed card, so Ive not looked 
into this any further, but Lloyds have said that theyll make sure the additional payment for 
call costs is paid to Ms L, which I think is a reasonable approach to cover additional costs 
during the complaint process.  Regarding Ms Ls issues with Lloyds approach to her initial 
reporting of the problem, Ive not seen any evidence that Lloyds took any decisions based on 
Ms Ls personal work arrangements at the time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman