DRN-3744224
The complaint
Ms J has complained about Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA). She isnt happy about the 
way it dealt with a claim under her home emergency policy.
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Ms J made a claim under her home emergency policy as she had water pouring through her 
ceiling into her kitchen from the bathroom above late at night. IPA said that it would have 
one of its emergency plumbers out within a few hours. But when they didnt arrive Ms J had 
to chase IPA, but no one attended until the next morning. And by the time they attended the 
ceiling had collapsed in the kitchen.
Ms J went onto make a claim under her home insurance for the damage caused but 
complained to IPA about the delay in attending. And because she had a further two leaks 
from around the same place  the waste of the bath. IPA acknowledged that it shouldve 
turned out earlier and offered Ms J £250 by way of compensation. But it didnt think its delay 
caused the ceiling to collapse. Ms J maintained that the ceiling would not have collapsed 
had IPA attended within a reasonable time frame and so she complained to this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for Ms J but didnt uphold her complaint. She thought 
IPAs offer of £250 compensation was fair in acknowledgment of the delay and poor service 
provided. But she didnt think that IPA could be held responsible for the ceiling collapsing. 
As Ms J didnt agree, maintaining that the compensation should be significantly higher 
especially as she thought the ceiling could have been saved had IPA attended in a 
reasonable period of time, the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the complaint should be partly upheld. Ill explain why. 
Although I can understand Ms Js frustration and disappointment that IPA didnt attend in a 
reasonable period of time I cant hold it responsible for all the problems she subsequently 
faced. However, although I cant be sure Ms Js ceiling wouldnt have collapsed had IPAs 
plumber attended on the night in question, as opposed to the next morning, I think the 
damage would have been limited.
For example, the ceiling could have been pulled down in an organised manner and then Ms 
J wouldnt have faced the stress and inconvenience of her ceiling falling down all over her 
kitchen. Ive seen the pictures of the collapsed ceiling and the damage strewn across the 
kitchen. And it is clear that this would have been a very worrying and stressful time for Ms J, 
which would have been made worse by IPAs non-attendance.
IPA has also accepted that its repairer didnt deal with the repair properly initially which 
meant that there were further leaks at her property. Again, this must have caused Ms J 
further stress and worry. So, I think it would be fair to increase the level of compensation to 
£500, as opposed to £250, given the further problems Ms J had and the fact that the 
traumatic nature of her ceiling collapsing could have been mitigated with a prompt response.
Replies and developments
Both sides responded to my provisional decision. IPA said it accepted the position outlined. 
While Ms J reiterated that she didnt feel it was fair that the additional damage caused wasnt 
covered either by IPA or under her home insurance policy. She explained again her 
frustration that IPA didnt turn out quicker and that her insurer hadnt replaced a number of 
items she feels was damaged by the leak.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I maintain that the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular 
circumstances of this case, is to uphold this complaint and increase the level of 
compensation. 
As IPA have accepted the position outlined and Ms J, in the main, has raised points about 
her home insurance policy provider I dont propose to go over the finer detail of this 
complaint about IPA again here. 
I will look into Ms Js complaint about her home insurance provider separately, so I wont 
consider these issues here. Ultimately, although I understand Ms Js frustration that IPA 
didnt attend in a reasonable time, it isnt responsible for all the damage caused. 
However, as outlined above, I do think the damage and distress would have been limited 
had IPA have attended on the night in question as opposed to the next day. 
So, I maintain that the fair thing to do is for IPA to increase its compensation level from £250 
to £500.  
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I partly uphold this complaint. I require Inter 
Partner Assistance SA to pay Ms J £500 in compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman