DRN-3034597
The complaint
Mr G has complained about Southern Rock Insurance Companys decision to record a claim 
under his car insurance policy as a fault claim. 
All reference to the insurer Southern Rock in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
In 2017 Mr G damaged his car against a metal bicycle rack while leaving a supermarket car 
park. As a result, his car was damaged and he reported it to his insurer, Southern Rock. 
Southern Rock told Mr G in the notification call that the claim would be recorded as a fault 
claim. Mr G agreed. He asked if the claim would have an impact on his premium at renewal. 
The agent explained that Mr Gs No Claims Bonus (NCB) was protected  so the impact 
would be less but it may still have an impact as he would need to declare the fault claim. She 
explained that she wouldnt be able to tell Mr G how it would affect the premium at renewal. 
In December 2020 Mr G complained to Southern Rock. He said since the incident, the 
supermarket had changed the bicycle rack. He said when he reported the incident, Southern 
Rock should have advised him to make a claim against the supermarket as the third party at 
fault for the damage  and should have helped him to recover his losses. He believes 
Southern Rocks failure to advise him of his options led to his claim being incorrectly 
recorded as a fault claim. He wanted Southern Rock to refund the excess he paid and pay 
the difference in premium hes had to pay since it recorded the claim as a fault claim.
Southern Rock didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. It said the onus was on Mr G to be aware of 
his surroundings when carrying out his manoeuvre. Mr G doesnt agree. He asked for a 
recording of the notification call. Southern Rock said it couldnt trace it. 
Since bringing his complaint to this service, the call has been traced and this service and Mr 
G has been provided with a copy of it.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. She explained that 
we dont make decisions about liability  but we look at whether the insurers actions when 
deciding were fair. Having listened to the notification call, she thought Southern Rock had 
acted reasonably. She said that the purpose of motor legal protection is to help recover 
uninsured losses from the at fault party. So in this case, the motor legal protection section 
of the policy wasnt relevant. 
Mr G didnt agree. Having listened to the call, he says its obvious he couldnt have been at 
fault for the incident. He says at no point did he say the incident was his fault. He remains 
unhappy that the agent didnt advise him to take legal action against the supermarket  or 
explain that he had motor legal protection under his policy. 
So as Mr G doesnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide liability. This is the role of the courts. We can look at whether an insurer 
reached its decision about liability in a reasonable way and in line with the policy. 
Mr Gs policy with Southern Rock has a very common term which Ive seen in most  if not 
all car insurance policies. This term says Southern Rock can take over the conduct of a 
claim in Mr Gs name and have full discretion in the conduct of any proceedings or 
settlement of any claim. This means Southern Rock can make a decision Mr G doesnt 
agree with, but its entitled to do so. We dont disagree with this term in principle provided an 
insurer can show it treated a customer fairly when applying it. 
Mr G told Southern Rock when he complained in December 2020 that there was a loose 
piece of rusty metal sticking out of the bicycle rack and this is what caused the damage to 
his car. He said he couldnt have been expected to see it as it was in his blind spot. 
When Mr G reported the incident to Southern Rock, he didnt mention any concern about the 
condition of the rack. He was clearly upset that the incident happened and that his car had 
been damaged. He said that the car park was mayhem as it was very busy. He explained 
that his car is large and he didnt see the pole. 
At 12 minutes 30 seconds the agent explained that due to the circumstances of the incident 
it would be recorded as a fault claim. Mr G replied; yes, I think so. 
The agent went on to explain the claims process in arranging repairs. Mr G asked if the 
incident would affect his premium at renewal. The agent provided a clear explanation of how 
it might be  but confirmed that she couldnt tell him by how much  and that the impact 
would be less due to having protected his NCB. 
So  based on the information Mr G provided in his notification call  I dont think Southern 
Rocks decision to record the claim as a fault claim was unreasonable. It therefore follows 
that I dont think Southern Rock are at fault for failing to advise Mr G to take legal action 
against the supermarket. If Mr G had motor legal protection under his policy with Southern 
Rock, this benefit is for claims where another party is at fault: the insurer will instruct a 
solicitor to look to recover uninsured losses from the at fault party. Given the circumstances 
of the incident in this case, I wouldnt expect the agent to discuss this benefit with Mr G as it 
didnt apply. As Mr Gs claim wasnt recorded as a non-fault claim  and he provided nothing 
to suggest it was when he notified Southern Rock of the incident  I dont think Southern 
Rock has done anything wrong.
I understand Mr G will be upset with my decision. But I think Southern Rocks decision to 
record the claim as a fault claim was reached in a reasonable way and in line with the policy. 
So this means Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman