DRN-3375741
The complaint
Miss S complains that, in 1997 and 2011, Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a packaged bank 
accounts (PBAs).
What happened
Miss S had had a bank account with Lloyds since 1993. This had no regular fee. In April 
1997, Miss S had a meeting in her bank branch and agreed to change to a Select Added 
Value account  this was a PBA which included payment card protection, accidental death 
benefit, 90 day purchase protection, extended warranty, and commission-free travellers 
cheques. Lloyds says that the first £50 of an overdraft would have been interest free with this 
account.
The cost was £3 a month. If a customer used an agreed overdraft and kept within the limit, 
they didnt pay the standard monthly £5 overdraft fee. So, in some situations they would 
have saved £2 a month overall. (This benefit stopped in 2001.) 
In January 2007 Miss S upgraded the account online, so that it included the Plus feature. 
This didnt cost anything extra, but it gave higher interest on positive balances held in the 
account.
In September 2011, Miss S had a meeting in her bank branch and agreed to change to a 
Silver Added Value account  this was a different PBA which was going to cost £9.95 per 
month. This was £1 more than the Select account that Miss S was changing from  by 2011 
the Select account cost £8.95 and had had mobile phone and breakdown insurance added 
as benefits. The Silver account had these benefits too, but also had European travel 
insurance. 
Miss S says that her original fee-free account was all shed needed to receive wages and 
pay her bills. She says she was made to feel she needed to change to a Select account to 
receive offers such a loan or overdraft. She wasnt interested in the benefits the account 
offered. 
Miss S says she was coerced into taking the Silver account as she was told it was better for 
her when this wasnt actually true. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Miss S didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive kept 
that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the specific points Miss S has made, and also generally looked at whether 
the PBAs were mis-sold to her. 
A significant problem is that this all happened roughly 25 years ago, and again 11 years ago; 
and it wouldnt be surprising if someone didnt remember the detail of everything that 
happened so long ago. So it may not be fair for me to rely just on what they now remember 
as happening. And so I cant be sure of what the bank adviser said to Miss S and whether 
that was unfair or unreasonable.  
If the bank made Miss S feel she had to take the new account, that would have been wrong. 
But I would need reasonable evidence to show that it probably did do something wrong like 
that. And I cant say that there is that kind of evidence. 
When Lloyds advised Miss S to take the account, it had to make sure it was a good fit for her 
circumstances, including whether she could potentially have made use of the benefits. But I 
think she could have, given what evidence there is of her life at the time. And so the banks 
recommendations of the accounts seem to have been appropriate. 
I say this because in 1997 the Select account was offering the type of low-level insurance 
and banking benefits that probably most people could have used. And in 2011, when the 
Silver account was sold, it seems likely Miss S could have made use of the phone, travel 
and breakdown insurance  or at least most of these. 
I agree with Miss S that the bank staff were probably encouraged to sell these accounts. But 
that in itself doesnt mean the recommendation was wrong. 
Once the bank made its recommendations, it would then have been up to Miss S to decide if 
these benefits, and the convenience of having them arranged for her in one package, were 
worth the monthly cost.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman