DRN-2940013
The complaint
 Mr K and Ms S complain that UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (Direct Line) have 
declined their claim for treatment provided to their dog T.        
 
What happened
Mr K and Miss S adopted T as a puppy when they were living abroad in October 2018. As 
part of Ts health checks at the vets there, she had X rays on her hips because her breed is 
known to be at high risk of hip dysplasia. No issues were identified. However, as hip 
dysplasia is a risk with this breed, the vet in Istanbul recommended T underwent a 
preventative surgical procedure to help prevent any future problems with hip dysplasia. This 
operation can only be carried out before the dog is 6 months old. 
Mr K and Ms S agreed to the operation and neutering at the same time. The operation took 
place in November 2018. 
They returned to the UK in November 2019 and registered T at the vets. Initial checks 
showed no issues and in December 2019 Mr K and Ms S took out a pet insurance policy 
with Direct Line. 
In February 2020 T started to show intermittent signs of hind limb lameness. The vet took x-
rays and referred T to a specialist. In April 2020 the specialist confirmed the hip dysplasia 
and referred T for hydrotherapy and physiotherapy. An incidental finding of thickening 
around the knees was noted.  
In July 2020 T seemed to deteriorate and the vet identified that T had bilateral pelvis 
thickening on both stifles and stifle instability. X rays showed bilateral cruciate disease and 
the vet recommended cruciate surgery. In August 2020 T had surgery for:
Cranial cruciate ligament rupture complete left
Cranial cruciate ligament rupture, partial, right. 
Direct Line processed and paid all the claims made for T from 21 February 2020 under the 
condition of hind limb lameness, to the value of £5,989.28. The terms of the policy allowed 
for claims to be paid up to £8,000 per condition. 
Mr K was unhappy with this, as he thought that Ts cruciate problems and the hip dysplasia 
should be treated as separate conditions, with an £8,000 cap for each complaint, not all 
combined under the heading of hind limb lameness.
  
Direct Line investigated further. They noted that T had previously undergone surgery 
overseas and so they asked Mr K about this. He denied that T had ever been diagnosed with 
hip dysplasia but confirmed that T had undergone an operation abroad as a preventative 
measure to try and prevent T developing hip dysplasia later in life.  
In September 2020 information was received from the vets abroad which showed that X rays 
had been taken which showed no signs of hip dysplasia and the operation had been 
preventative. There was also nothing in the medical history to suggest hip dysplasia had 
ever been present prior to February 2020. 
As Mr K wanted the claims to be split, Direct Lines vet nurse spoke to the practice that 
performed the surgery. They confirmed that there were two separate medical conditions. 
However, the vet nurses opinion was that the procedure carried out on T is done when there 
is an abnormality to the hips and she disagreed with the overseas vets that it was 
preventative. 
Direct Line therefore concluded that if the claim was split into the two conditions, any part of 
the claim for hip dysplasia would have to be disallowed as a pre-existing condition. This 
would mean most of the claim that already had been paid shouldnt have been. They 
decided that as the original presenting condition was lameness without a cause determined, 
it would be better to treat it all as one claim and leave it as it was, so that Mr K and Miss S 
would not have to repay the cost of the hip dysplasia treatment. 
The final response was sent on 8 October 2020 in which Direct Line confirmed that they 
would continue to process the claim as one medical condition. 
Mr K and Miss S were unhappy with this outcome and brought their complaint to us.
One of our investigators has looked into Mr K and Miss Ss complaint. She thought that 
Direct Line had not acted fairly in deciding that the surgery carried out on T indicated a pre-
existing condition of hip dysplasia and she recommended that the claim was split into two 
medical conditions, of hip dysplasia and bilateral cruciate disease each with an £8000 limit, 
and the hip dysplasia should not be treated as a pre-existing medical condition. She 
recommended that Mr K and Miss S were reimbursed for anything additional they had paid 
so far and awarded 8% interest on the payment. She also awarded £50 for distress and 
inconvenience.  
Direct Line disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two questions to answer in this complaint and I have detailed my findings on both 
below, and as a result of these findings, I have upheld the complaint. 
In coming to my conclusion, I have considered whether Direct Line have acted in line with 
the policy terms and conditions, and also whether they have acted fairly and reasonably in refusing the claim. To do this, I have considered the policy, the medical history for T, the 
opinions from professionals, and testimony from Mr K and Miss S. 
Is the hip dysplasia a pre-existing condition?
Direct Line consider that for the purposes of the policy, the hip dysplasia is a pre-existing 
condition. They say that although there is no formal recording of signs of hip dysplasia prior 
to the surgery abroad, there must have been some signs of early problems for the surgery to 
have taken place. They say that whilst certain breeds are predisposed to hip dysplasia, JPS 
is not routinely carried out and they would not have expected the vet to go ahead with the 
surgery unless there were some indications. In particular, they say that all of the available 
literature confirms that hip laxity is a pre requisite for the type of surgery T had, and so this 
must have been present even though it isnt documented and that hip laxity is an early sign 
that the pet may go on to develop hip dysplasia. They consider that the presence of hip laxity 
brings this within the definition of a pre-existing condition.   
The exclusions for pre-existing conditions in the policy is at page 13 where it says 
We wont cover: any claims in connection with or arising from any pre-existing condition. 
Page 9 defines a pre-existing condition as 
Pre-existing condition: Any condition or symptoms, or signs of injury or illness, that happen 
or exist in any form before the pet was covered by this insurance.
I have read the literature referred to by Direct Line, and whilst I accept that hip laxity can be 
a reason or a vet to recommend this type of surgery in the UK, and it can be an early 
indicator of hip dysplasia, it is clear from the article that it can also be recommended 
because of the puppies parents history of hip dysplasia or at some institutions, simply on the 
basis of the breed being a potential high risk for it. I dont therefore think it is fair to conclude, 
in the absence of notes to the contrary, that there must have been some signs of hip laxity.  
I also dont consider that the opinions expressed in articles can override the direct evidence 
from the treating vets about Ts condition at the time the surgery was recommended. The 
letter clearly says T was brought our clinic on 10/11/18 because (the breed of dog) are at 
risk of hip dysplasia, we took x rays. Although these showed no signs of hip dysplasia (the 
surgery) was carried out in order to try to prevent it happening in the future. There is no 
evidence that hip laxity was noted on examination, and the evidence from the overseas vet 
is clear that there were no signs of hip dysplasia. It is also the case that nothing was noted 
by the new UK vets when T was registered with them. 
In the absence of evidence, I am therefore unable to accept Direct Lines view that there 
must have been signs of hip dysplasia prior to the surgery which satisfies the definition of a 
pre-existing condition.     
In October 2018 Mr K and Miss S agreed to what they were advised was a preventative 
procedure to avoid hip dysplasia becoming an issue for their dog. They were not advised of 
any symptoms at the time of that recommendation, and therefore there was no reason for 
them to disclose it at the time of the policy commencement as a pre-existing condition.   
Should the claim be split?
Direct Line have accepted that the conditions are two separate and distinct conditions. 
However, they have suggested the best way forward is to treat it as one claim because the 
hip dysplasia is a pre-existing condition and they do not want to disadvantage their 
customer. However, as I have detailed above, I dont consider that the hip dysplasia is a pre-existing condition, and as such, treating both conditions under one claim has the effect of 
halving Mr K and Miss Ss potential entitlement under the policy. I consider that the effect of 
doing so is unfair when Direct Line have clearly accepted that there are two separate 
conditions present. I therefore find that the claim should be split into two separate claims.    
My final decision
 My decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct the following: 
UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line should treat Ts hip dysplasia and bilateral 
cruciate disease as two separate conditions for the purposes of the policy, each with a claim 
limit of £8,000. In addition, as the hip dysplasia should not be treated as a pre-existing 
condition, the claim should now be processed and paid, subject to any further policy limits 
and less any applicable excess.  
UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line should also pay 8% simple interest on any 
payments made by Mr K and Miss S in respect of the bills which are the subject of the 
claims, from the date that payments have been made until the date that the claims are 
settled. 
They should also pay Mr K and Ms S £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused.   
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman