DRN-1462468
The complaint
Mr A complaint relates to a hire agreement he has with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited (Audi). He says its requiring him to refund the payment of a fine it made on his 
behalf and without his knowledge. He wants it to provide evidence of the offence and 
compensation for the stress hes been caused.
What happened
Mr A tells us that Audi is chasing him for a payment of a fine it made on his behalf. He 
explains that the fine relates to the vehicle he has leased under a hire agreement. He says 
that he was unaware the fine had been issued until he was notified by Audi. And he thinks it 
shouldnt have paid the fine without contacting him. Hes concerned his credit file might be 
adversely affected if hes recorded as having made a late payment.
Audi told us that as the registered owner of the vehicle it had been issued with the notice of 
fine. And it was liable to pay this. It said that it hadnt notified Mr A before doing so as any 
delay mightve resulted in additional costs which would then have been passed on to him. It 
said it had acted within the terms of the hire agreement. And that it had also offered to send 
a letter to Mr A to enable him to challenge the fine with the issuing authority.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
Audi had acted fairly and in accordance with the terms of the hire agreement.
Mr A didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr A would be concerned and disappointed to learn that a fine of which he 
says he had no previous knowledge was paid by Audi. And that it now seeks to recover the 
fine and its administration charge from him. This amounts to £152 in total.
 
In June 2019 Audi received notice of an unpaid fine which had been issued in respect of a 
vehicle it owned and for which it was the registered keeper. This was in respect of an 
offence of parking without displaying a valid ticket, allegedly committed in May 2019. The 
vehicle to which this fine referred was that hired by Mr A.
I note that the location of the alleged offence was at a railway station in the area in which Mr 
A resides. And the fine was issued under the authority of the Railway Byelaws. Ive looked at 
the relevant byelaw and it makes the owner of a vehicle (in this case, Audi) potentially liable 
for the payment of the fine even if they werent the driver. The notice also points out that if 
the fine (£100 plus £27 administration fee) isnt paid the matter might be referred to a court. 
And the fine could be increased to up to £1,000.
Mr A has told us he was working from home on the day the fine was issued. And that he 
hadnt been aware of any ticket attached to the vehicle. Nor had he parked at the location at 
which the vehicle incurred the ticket on the day of the alleged offence. 
Whilst Ive no reason not to accept what Mr A has said about his working arrangements, its 
not my role to determine if the fine was validly issued. As Im not aware of who may have 
access to the vehicle, I cant say if anyone other than Mr A might have used the vehicle that 
day. And Ive seen no information which is sufficient for me to conclude that the fine 
wouldve probably been cancelled if it had been challenged.
I have to determine if Audi acted fairly in seeking to recover the amount of the fine it had 
paid from him. And not notifying him before it had paid the fine.
Our investigator set out the full text of the relevant parts of the hire agreement in her view. I 
wont repeat them here, but in summary they require Mr A to pay any fines incurred in 
relation to the vehicle during the period of hire. And they also permit Audi to impose a £25 
administration charge if its required to send a notice or make a demand of him. As Mr A 
accepted the terms of the hire agreement, I see no reason why Audi shouldnt enforce them.
I dont think its fair and reasonable to expect a business  which is likely to have to deal with 
many similar issues  to notify every customer affected when this situation arises. As it had 
been told the notice of fine had been attached to the vehicle and photographic evidence was 
available on a website, I dont think it was unreasonable of Audi to pay the fine and notify Mr 
A thereafter. Given the risk of a significantly increased fine and costs, I understand that Audi 
would be anxious not to risk any delay.
As the byelaw makes the owner of the vehicle liable, Im not aware of any means by which 
Audi couldve transferred its liability to Mr A if the fine had remained unpaid. And it wouldnt 
have been obliged to defend the case even if it had been notified that Mr A denied being 
responsible for the alleged offence. It offered to send Mr A a letter which wouldve enabled 
him to challenge the fine with the issuing authority. Im unaware if hes done so.
I find that it was reasonable of Audi to have paid the fine to avoid costs escalating. If it hadnt 
done so it would most probably have led to an increased penalty and costs also being 
passed on to Mr A. And it seems it offered to provide him with the means by which the fine 
could be later challenged with the issuer.
I understand that out of courtesy Audi may have suspended collection activity over the 
payment whilst this complaint was investigated. But if payment of a contractual sum due 
under an agreement isnt made then a business is entitled to report such information, 
provided its done fairly and accurately, to any credit reference agency it uses.
In summary, I find that both Audi and Mr A found themselves in a difficult situation. Audi 
wished to avoid the risk of the fine and costs escalating. Mr A is aggrieved at being held 
responsible for a matter he denies. 
I find that Audi acted fairly and reasonably in taking steps to minimise the financial impact 
resulting from the issue of the fine. And that in the circumstances it wasnt required to notify 
Mr A of its intentions to do so in advance. Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman