DRN-2082161
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the damage that has been caused to their kitchen during their 
home insurance claim with Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have a home insurance policy underwritten by Lloyds. In February 2019 there 
was a fire in their kitchen. This caused smoke damage to some of their rooms. When Mr and 
Mrs M spoke to Lloyds, it said it would send in contractors to do a deep clean, and then 
repair anything that was damaged.
The first set of contractors came to clean the kitchen. They didnt complete the clean in a 
day and had to return a few days later. Mrs M said she expected it to happen over 
consecutive days. Mr and Mrs M also complained that the clean wasnt thorough enough. 
They said the cleaners didnt clean behind the cooker which is where the fire started and 
Mrs M said she had to do a lot of re-cleaning following the visit.
After the clean, different contractors came in to repair some damage. However, Mr and 
Mrs M complained that they caused more damage than was there originally. She explained 
that the finish on the windows was dangerous due to sharp metal corners. They also showed 
damage to their tiles and some of their cupboards. Lloyds visited the property and agreed 
that there was damage. The contractors visited further and did some further work but Mr and 
Mrs M werent happy with it. They have said that their window now has ugly white plastic 
around it and many of the finishes are below standard. Their kitchen is still without 
kickboards, a working extractor fan and has damaged tiles and units.
Lloyds upheld Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and offered £500 for the trouble and upset the 
errors had caused them. It also said the contractors would put things right. Mr and Mrs M 
didnt want the contractors to do any further work due to the errors they had made. So, 
Lloyds said they could obtain their own quote for the work. The quotes were for around 
£3,000, but Lloyds said its contractors could do the work for under £900 so it would either 
pay Mr and Mrs M a cash settlement equivalent to this or could get its contractors to do the 
work. Mr and Mrs M said that they feel the only resolution is to have a new kitchen fitted.
Our investigator felt the offer Lloyds had made was fair. He said that Mr and Mrs Ms policy 
doesnt provide for a new kitchen when this isnt necessary. He also explained that the 
quotes Mr and Mrs M provided were for work that appeared to be unnecessary. He said 
Lloyds has offered to put things right by having the contractors rectify the work and this was 
fair. He also felt that £500 compensation was reasonable. He noted that Mr and Mrs M had 
suffered avoidable delays and further work because of poor workmanship. However, the 
kitchen was still functional and he felt the compensation was fair for the issues they 
experienced.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. They have said the kitchen hasnt been functional due to the lack 
of kickboards. They also say none of the distress was caused by the original fire, but all 
because of the contractors Lloyds used as they caused further damage and delays. They 
still havent got kickboards and the fire was 17 months ago. They asked for an ombudsman 
to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear there have been errors during Mr and Mrs Ms claim here. My role is to determine 
whether Lloyds has done enough to put this right and I think it has. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs M have experienced months of delays in getting their kitchen back to normal 
after the fire. And I can see a lot of this was caused by the contractors that Lloyds used to 
complete the repair work. I also agree that some of the work that was carried out wasnt to 
an acceptable standard. Its clear that Mr and Mrs M use their kitchen a lot and like to host 
family meals so I can understand why theyve found this experience very upsetting. But Ive 
looked closer at what has happened and what Lloyds has offered.
Repairing the damage
Lloyds has accepted the work completed by its contractors wasnt up to standard, and that 
there were unnecessary delays caused. Ive seen the photos that Mr and Mrs M sent in 
which show damage to cupboard doors and marks on tiles. I can also see that some sealant 
wasnt finished off well. But I can see that the contractors have provided Lloyds with a 
detailed list of what needs doing and how much it would cost to resolve this. And this 
includes replacing the broken cupboard doors and kickboards as well as some touch ups 
and the repair/replacement of the extractor fan. It also includes putting right the issues with 
the tiles. But Mr and Mrs M would prefer a kitchen replacement. I can understand this, but 
Ive not seen anything to suggest a full kitchen needs replacing, or that the damage has 
made the kitchen beyond repair. I understand the lack of kick boards would be very 
frustrating, but this doesnt prevent Mr and Mrs M from using their kitchen. So, I dont think it 
would be fair to ask Lloyds to pay for a replacement kitchen.
I can see that Mr and Mrs M spent time getting some quotes from other contractors for work 
that needed to be completed. Ive looked at these and they are significantly more than the 
amount quoted by Lloyds contractors. And I think this is because these quotes include 
significantly more work including new plaster board as well as entirely redecorating two 
rooms. But I cant see that this is needed. And I think Lloyds is being reasonable when it 
says it will only pay the amount its contractors have quoted.
Mr and Mrs Ms policy is there to put right the damage caused by the fire. And in this case, 
its right Lloyds puts right the damage caused by its contractors. It has offered to do this. I 
can understand why Mr and Mrs M dont have faith in the same contractors, but I do think 
they should give it the opportunity to try to put these things right. So, I think Lloyds offer to 
have its contractors complete the repair work, or to pay Mr and Mrs M the amount it would 
pay these contractors is fair.
Trouble and upset
Lloyds has offered Mr and Mrs M £500 compensation for the trouble and upset the errors 
have caused them. I know they feel this is too low. But I think this is fair and reasonable and 
Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs M have experienced delays which havent been their fault. And some of these 
delays were avoidable. In addition they have experienced more damage to their kitchen. This isnt acceptable, and I can see Lloyds agreed. But when considering compensation for 
trouble and upset, I have to look at the impact the errors have had.
Mr and Mrs Ms kitchen was originally damaged because of a fire. So, claiming for the fire 
damage wouldve always caused some level of inconvenience and upset. But the way the 
claim was handled and the faulty work of the contractors has added to this upset and I can 
see Mrs M particularly had to organise a lot of things herself to try and get the issue 
resolved. So, I do think the errors have caused substantial trouble and upset to Mr and Mrs 
M. But I think £500 compensation is fair to reflect this. Throughout the time I can see that Mr 
and Mrs M were able to use their kitchen and their home. So, whilst the damage and delays 
have been stressful, Mr and Mrs M didnt have to go elsewhere or make arrangements for 
food.
I know that it has taken months for these issues to be resolved, but I can see that Mr and 
Mrs M said they didnt want to continue with anything until this service had finished its 
investigation. And Ive seen there were times that Mr and Mrs M said they didnt want the 
contractors to visit to put things right. I can understand why they had their doubts, but I do 
think that has contributed to the overall time that it has taken for these issues to be resolved.
I understand Mrs M said she did some of the cleaning herself as she wanted to minimise the 
cost of the claim. However, this is something she had chosen to do, knowing she was 
making an insurance claim and I cant see it was something that wouldnt have been 
covered. I understand she had to re-clean some of the items after a deep clean. But I think 
that Lloyds has compensated them with enough to take this into account.
I know that Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed by this decision but I dont think that it would 
be fair to ask Lloyds to pay for a new kitchen to be installed when this isnt necessary. I 
appreciate there is still some repair work to complete, but I think the contractors need to be 
given the chance to put this right. And Lloyds has said it would pay for this to happen which I 
think is fair.
My final decision
The offer Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has made is fair, so I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman