DRN-2716886
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) more than doubled his contents 
insurance premium when he moved home and left him uninsured, briefly, because of an 
admin error. 
What happened
Mr T had a range of insurance products with Aviva, including home insurance. When he 
moved from a studio apartment to a two-bedroom apartment across the street, Aviva quoted 
a premium for his new home at more than double his old home. Mr T complained to Aviva 
because he thought his circumstances were identical so he couldnt understand the premium 
increase.
Aviva explained that its premiums were generated by searching databases and taking into 
consideration many risk factors. While Mr T didnt think his circumstances had changed, 
Aviva said it couldnt reduce the premium. 
Mr T remained unhappy and provided evidence that a member of his family obtained much 
lower quotes for the same type of policy at his address. He thought Avivas refusal to reduce 
the contents premium was unreasonable. Aviva said the risk factors of his family member 
wouldnt be the same as his, but it offered to waive the cancellation fee should Mr T decide 
to move to another insurer.
Mr T went ahead with Avivas cover, but it didnt change the premium amount in time for his 
next direct debit payment. However, Aviva reassured him that the payment would be brought 
up to date the following month. Mr T complained that Aviva left him without insurance for that 
month. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought Aviva had responded fairly to Mr Ts 
requests for an explanation about how it calculated the premium, and he agreed that the 
quote comparison Mr T provided wasnt done on a like for like basis. Our investigator didnt 
think Mr T had suffered a loss because of the delay updating his premium payment, as Aviva 
said it wouldve covered any incidents.
Mr T didnt agree. He wanted more details of how Aviva calculated the premium, including 
risk data specific to him, and he didnt think it wouldve covered a loss during the uninsured 
period. Mr T thought that Avivas quote for his family members cover at his new home 
demonstrated that Aviva hadnt treated him fairly. Further, he didnt think his complaint about 
Aviva refusing cover for his building had been addressed.
 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr T will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint for broadly 
the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain.
Mr T doesnt think Aviva offered him a policy based on his individual risk factors, or treated 
him fairly when setting the premium higher than it was for his previous home. I understand 
that Mr T is aware hed need to raise any concerns about his individual data with the 
Information Commissioners Office, and I cant decide that issue. But evidence in relation to 
his complaint about whether Aviva treated him fairly when setting the premium goes some 
way to show that it has looked at individual circumstances. 
Mr T thinks Aviva used only system generated information and, because there was little on 
the database about his new address, it failed to look at the similarities with his previous 
address and that his personal circumstances were no different. However, when he 
compared his quote with that of a family member for the same address, the premium was 
different and he thought that was unfair. 
Ive thought carefully about these points, but I find them somewhat contradictory. Logically, if 
Aviva didnt take into account personal circumstances when calculating the premium, then 
its likely there wouldnt be any difference between Mr Ts quote and that of his family 
member. Aviva explained to Mr T that it used data obtained from analysis of claims statistics, 
for example, flood mapping and crime rates, and it provided a link to information explaining 
how it rated policies. Aviva provided me with confidential business sensitive information to 
explain how the price was calculated. While I cant share that information, I havent seen 
anything to suggest the price was incorrectly calculated. 
Moving on to the issue of the quote comparison, Mr T is unhappy that Aviva wouldve 
charged much less for his family member living at his new home than it charged him. I can 
understand that its frustrating to learn that other people may be charged less, but Aviva 
offers cover based on its assessment of individual risk  as Mr T has said he would expect it 
to - so its not unusual that theres a difference in the two quotes he compared. My remit 
here is to look at whether Aviva charged Mr T in line with its usual approach for calculating 
an individuals level of risk, not to see whether it offered the cheapest price. So, its not 
appropriate to compare his premium with that quoted for anyone else or with his previous 
address which was smaller than his new home. If he was unhappy with the price Mr T 
couldve looked for cover elsewhere, but it seems he chose not to. I cant see that Aviva has 
done anything wrong here.
Briefly, I note Mr T questioned Avivas decision not to offer him buildings cover. Aviva does 
not have to offer cover, and when it does its based on risk factors. Aviva said the property is 
in a flood risk area and it would only consider cover on production of a hydrologists report. I 
can understand that Mr T was frustrated by that because his old home is in the same area, 
but Aviva hasnt done anything wrong by refusing cover for a property it has deemed as too 
high risk. Since bringing his complaint, Mr T took out buildings cover through the housing 
development, so Im satisfied that theres nothing to put right here.  
The final point is that Mr T says he wasnt insured because of Avivas error and he doubts it 
wouldve indemnified him had he suffered a loss during that time. Aviva told Mr T that it 
hadnt made the change in time to take his first increased premium for contents cover at his 
new home. However, I dont think this means he wasnt covered. Mr T had taken out the new 
contents policy with Aviva, and its delay taking payment wouldnt have left him without cover. 
Im satisfied that it was an administration issue affecting only the payment date, and Aviva let 
Mr T know beforehand that it wasnt a problem for his cover. While it made a mistake, Aviva apologised and the matter didnt cause Mr T any loss. I dont think Aviva needs to do any 
more here.
In summary, Aviva increased the premium for Mr Ts contents cover when he moved home. 
While he didnt think it had calculated his premium fairly, the evidence suggests that Aviva 
provided a quote in line with its usual approach, and no differently to how it assesses risk for 
other customers. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman