DRN-3670561
The complaint
Mr R complains about the advice given by Quilter Financial Services Ltd (Quilter) to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has 
caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Rs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure
its business, including decoupling the employers DB scheme (the BSPS) from the 
company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined benefit scheme (the BSPS2). Alternatively, members were 
informed they could transfer their benefits to a personal pension arrangement.
Mr R was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He wasnt sure what to do so he got in touch with an 
independent financial adviser, who was an appointed representative of Quilter. Mr R met 
with Quilter on 31 August 2017 and it gathered information about his circumstances and 
objectives. It noted Mr R was aged 57 and was married with non-dependent children; that 
Mr R and his wife owned their own home which was mortgaged. Quilter recorded that Mr R 
had a loan with an outstanding balance of £6,000 and a credit card balance of £8,700. And 
that Mr R had savings of £3,500. An expenditure analysis showed Mr and Mrs Rs combined 
salaries covered their outgoings.
It was recorded that Mr R had a balanced attitude to risk and an acceptable capacity for 
loss. And that he wanted to retire at 60 with an income of £26,400 between him and Mrs R. 
Quilter noted Mr R would ideally like to pay off his debts, including the mortgage, before this, 
which would free up annual income of around £10,000. So, it noted Mr R wanted to take his 
tax-free cash (TFC) immediately to pay off his debts, make some home improvements and 
leave the remainder as an emergency fund. It was further noted Mr R had joined his 
employers new defined-contribution (DC) pension scheme, though it didnt record what 
amount Mr R or his employer were contributing towards it. 
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them three options  they could stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF; join the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
In November 2017 Quilter advised Mr R to transfer his BSPS benefits to a SIPP and invest 
the proceeds in a balanced fund. It said this would allow Mr R to take TFC immediately to 
clear his debts but leave his remaining funds invested until he retired at age 60. It said 
transferring would achieve his objectives of control and flexibility of income (which hed need 
to reduce when his state pension became payable) and better death benefits for his wife. 
Mr R accepted this advice and £348,027.63 was transferred from the BSPS to his new SIPP.
In 2021 Mr R complained to Quilter, via the Financial Ombudsman Service, about the 
advice. He said he was unhappy hed been advised to transfer his pension because hed lost 
guaranteed and safeguarded benefits. He now believed the advice to be unsuitable. 
In its response to Mr Rs complaint, Quilter said the transfer was suitable as the benefits 
immediately available to Mr R through the BSPS wouldnt have provided sufficient TFC to 
clear his debts. It also wouldnt have provided enough income to meet his needs from age 
60. Mr R had also expressed concerns about the PPF and the scheme trustees so he didnt 
want to move to the BSPS2. Overall, it said the transfer was suitable as it allowed Mr R to 
access his pension flexibly and pass on the remaining pension to his wife and children in the 
event of his death.
Unhappy with Quilters response, Mr R referred his complaint to our Service to investigate. 
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint and said it should be upheld. He thought 
the advice was unsuitable as Mr R was likely to receive benefits of a significantly lower 
overall value at retirement. He said Quilter didnt do any analysis of the benefits Mr R could 
take from the DB scheme at age 60 and it didnt do any meaningful analysis of how his 
income needs would be met from that age. He didnt think Mr R could likely afford to retire at 
60 given his desired income need, which was supported by the fact that he was now almost 
62 and hadnt retired. On balance, he thought Mr R wouldve likely joined the BSPS2 had 
suitable advice been given, so he should be compensated based on him having joined this 
scheme.
Quilter didnt agree. It said the Investigators starting point in considering the complaint was 
flawed  it said the presumption of unsuitability was guidance, not a rule, and that the 
overarching consideration was whether the adviser had taken reasonable steps to ensure 
the advice was suitable. It added that a third party had reviewed the advice given, using the 
Defined Benefit Advice Assessment Tool (DBAAT) developed by the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), and found the advice to be suitable. 
Quilter also said the Investigators assessment focused too narrowly on whether Mr R could 
improve on or match his BSPS benefits  it said this was contrary to the guidance the FCA 
had issued in 2017 (Consultation Paper 17/16 CP17/16) that firms should not be overly 
reliant on the critical yield when giving advice as this was leading to poor outcomes for 
customers. Quilter said the Investigator needed to take the DBAAT into account to determine 
whether the advice was suitable overall. And it maintained the advice was suitable as the 
transfer met Mr Rs objectives. 
The Investigator didnt change his opinion so the complaint was referred for a final decision.
Mr Rs representative later made some comments about the retirement age that the redress 
calculation recommended by the Investigator should be based on. It said although Mr R had 
taken his TFC and cleared some debts, he didn't repay his mortgage. And Mr R didn't need 
to take his TFC when he transferred his pension, he only did it because he could. It also told 
us that although Mr R said he wanted to retire at age 60, he said that wasn't a fixed plan, it 
was something he said the adviser told him was achievable. But he didn't retire at age 60 
because he didn't think he had a large enough pension pot.
Ahead of providing my final decision to Quilter, I explained that if Mr R had been advised to 
join the BSPS2, as I thought he should have, I didn't think he would've retired at age 60. 
I explained this was because he couldn't afford to do so  the income he could take from the 
BSPS2 wouldnt have met his income needs. On balance, I explained I thought Mr R 
would've remained in the scheme and only sought to take his benefits at age 65. So, I said 
when Quilter carried out the calculation, it is the benefits available to Mr R through the 
BSPS2 at age 65 which should be used for comparison purposes, as per the usual assumptions in the regulator's guidance. I said I wasnt persuaded Mr R would have 
accessed his benefits before his normal retirement age. Quilter acknowledged this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for largely the same reasons as the 
Investigator.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Quilters actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Quilter says that its adviser was only required to take reasonable steps to ensure the advice 
was suitable for Mr R. It says that COBS 19.1.6G is simply guidance, not a regulation that 
firms are required to follow and that the Investigator erred by only considering this. I agree 
that under COBS, Quilter was required to take reasonable steps to ensure that its personal 
recommendation to Mr R was suitable for him (COBS 9.2.1R). However, additional 
regulations and guidance applies to advising on transferring out of DB schemes. And COBS 
19.1.6G says the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. 
And that a business should only have considered a transfer out of the scheme if it could 
clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Rs best interests.
Whilst I accept this is guidance, I dont think the importance of it can be overlooked. It is 
intended to reflect the FCAs view (which it has maintained ever since) that retaining 
safeguarded benefits is in the best interests of most customers  so it is an important guiding 
principle for any firm giving advice. And in any event, the FCA still requires that an adviser 
acts in accordance with the best interests of its client under COBS 2.1.1R. And I think that 
this reinforces that advice to transfer out of a DB scheme should only be given if it is in the 
customers best interest to do so.So, Ive considered all of the applicable regulations and guidance here. And having looked at 
all the evidence available, Im not satisfied Quilter took reasonable steps to ensure the 
advice to transfer was suitable for Mr R or that it was in his best interests. Ill explain why.
Financial viability 
Quilter carried out a transfer value analysis report (TVAS), as required by the regulator, 
showing how much Mr Rs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide 
the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). However, this was based on his 
existing scheme benefits and Mr R didnt have the option of remaining in the BSPS  he 
either needed to opt into the BSPS2 or move with the scheme to the PPF. Mr R had 
received his time to choose pack by the time the advice was given in November 2017. And 
details of the scheme had been provided; the BSPS2 wouldve offered the same income 
benefits but the annual revaluation pre-retirement and escalations post-retirement wouldve 
been lower.
Although the suitability report seems to suggest Mr R wasnt interested in joining the BSPS2 
because he didnt trust the scheme trustees, I think the benefits available to Mr R through 
the BSPS2 shouldve been factored in with Quilters advice so that he was able to make an 
informed decision and understood exactly what he was giving up. 
According to the fact-find and suitability report, Mr R wanted to be able to retire at age 60, 
although I note Mr R says this wasnt a fixed plan. However, the TVAS only provided the 
critical yields at age 65. It was 12.58% if he took a full pension or 8.92% if he took TFC and 
a reduced pension. The critical yield required to match the benefits provided through the 
PPF was 5.45% if Mr R took a full pension or 4.91% if he took TFC and a reduced pension. 
But as Ive said above, Mr R remaining in his existing DB scheme wasnt an option. So, the 
critical yields applicable to the BSPS2 benefits shouldve been provided. The lower annual 
increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical yields somewhat. But I still 
think they wouldve likely been higher than those reflecting the PPF benefits.
As Ive said above, Mr R was interested in retiring at age 60. So, Quilter shouldve provided 
the critical yields at this age so that Mr R was in a fully informed position. Based on my 
experience, I think the critical yields at age 60 were likely to be higher than those at age 65. 
Thats because the transferred funds would have a shorter investment horizon and would be 
required to pay for benefits for longer.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG 17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't 
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a 
useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable 
for a typical investor.
The closest discount rate to the time of this transfer which I'm able to refer to was published 
for the period before 1 October 2017, and was 3.4% per year for 7 years to retirement. For 
further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Rs 
balanced attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. The lowest critical yield was 4.91%, 
which was based on Mr R taking TFC and a reduced pension through the PPF at age 65. 
The critical yield if Mr R took the same benefits through his existing scheme at age 65 was 
8.92% So, if Mr R were to opt into the BSPS2 and take the same benefits at age 65 the critical yield wouldve been somewhere between those figures, and likely closer to 8.92%. 
And at age 60, this was likely to be higher than 8.92%.
Given the discount rate of 3.4% and the regulators middle projection rate of 5%, I think Mr R 
was most likely to receive benefits of a significantly lower overall value than those provided 
by the BSPS2 as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk, particularly if he retired 
at age 60. I recognise its possible Mr R couldve matched the PPF benefits at age 65 
particularly if he took TFC. But I think there would be little point in Mr R giving up the 
guarantees available to him through a DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same 
benefits he couldve achieved through the PPF. Thats particularly the case given the BSPS2 
was likely to be confirmed as going ahead, so Mr R would most likely have avoided moving 
to the PPF in any event.
Quilter says that it is unreasonable to base any findings on the discount rate because taking 
this into account was not required by the regulator when giving advice. While I havent based 
my findings on the discount rate on its own, I think it is a reasonable additional consideration 
when seeking to determine what level of growth was reasonably achievable at the time of 
the advice. Under COBS 19.1.2 the regulator required businesses to compare the benefits 
likely to be paid under a DB scheme with those payable under a personal pension by using 
reasonable assumptions. So, businesses were free to use the discount rate as this wouldve 
been considered a reasonable assumption of the likely returns. And in any event, this has 
been considered in tandem with the regulators published projection rates, which providers 
were required to refer to. And it is this combination, along with Mr Rs attitude to risk, which 
leads me to be believe hed likely be worse off in retirement if he transferred out of the DB 
scheme. 
Im also mindful that in the suitability report Quilter said it didnt think the BSPS critical yields 
were likely achievable. So, I think it understood Mr R wouldnt be able to match, let alone 
improve on his BSPS benefits. But Quilter argues that the critical yield is of limited relevance 
because it is based on the growth required to produce a fund large enough to purchase an 
annuity on the same basis as the benefits provided by the DB scheme. And Quilter says 
Mr R didnt want an annuity, it said he wanted to take his benefits flexibly. But the regulator 
required Quilter to consider the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to 
replicate the benefits being given up. So, I think the critical yield was a relevant measure as 
it demonstrated the growth needed to provide a fund big enough to secure a guaranteed 
income for Mr R and his spouse.
It doesnt appear that Quilter carried out a cash flow forecast that would otherwise 
demonstrate the financial viability of the transfer. However, I can see in the suitability report 
that Quilter stated:
You have indicated you may require an income of £26,400 a year from age 60, falling to 
£18,200 from age 66 when your State Pension starts. Your current fund value (after your tax 
free cash and my fee is taken) is £250,579.90. To keep the comparison simple, I will assume 
there will be no further growth or losses on your fund between now and when you are
60. I have also assumed there will be no further growth or losses after the income has 
started. On this simplistic basis the income would last for 9 years, and so the fund would be 
eroded completely at age 69.
This appears to be the only analysis Quilter carried out that reflected the plans on which the 
advice was based. However, I wouldve expected Quilter to have carried out other analysis 
in line with the regulators projected growth rates so that Mr R understood the effect of 
growth on his pension fund. There are examples of this in the TVAS, but they arent useful 
comparisons here as they dont reflect what Quilter was advising Mr R to do  they are 
based solely on Mr R taking benefits at age 65.But based on this analysis alone, its difficult to see how this supported the advice to 
transfer. In my view, it demonstrated that Mr Rs hope to retire at age 60 on his target annual 
income of £26,400 wasnt likely achievable, even if he transferred out of the scheme. And in 
the worst case scenario of no growth whatsoever, his funds would run out very quickly and a 
long time before he reached his life expectancy. 
 
Given Mr R was likely to receive lower overall retirement benefits by transferring to a 
personal pension, for this reason alone I dont think a transfer out of the DB scheme was in 
his best interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving 
transfer advice. And Quilter has argued that the FCA made clear in CP17/16 that relying on 
the critical yield alone produces poor outcomes for customers. While Im mindful that this 
was a consultation paper and not new rules, Ive taken into account that there might be other 
considerations which mean a transfer is suitable and in Mr Rs best interests, despite 
providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
It seems one of the main reasons why Quilter recommended this transfer was for the 
flexibility and control it offered Mr R. While Mr R could retire early through the DB scheme,  
and take TFC and a reduced annual pension, Mr R had to take those benefits at the same 
time. 
I note Mr R had personal loan and credit card debt amounting to around £14,700 that he was 
keen to pay off immediately to free up some extra income. The suitability report also refers to 
Mr R having a mortgage balance of £48,665 that he also wanted to repay, though in the fact-
find the balance is also given as being £38,665. Quilter says that the only way to clear these 
debts was for Mr R to transfer his pension to a SIPP and take the maximum TFC 
immediately, equating to around £87,006.90. It had looked into Mr R instead accessing his 
DB scheme benefits, but he wouldve only been entitled to TFC of £42,461.
I accept that Mr R was likely interested in repaying these debts. But Quilters role wasnt 
simply to facilitate what Mr R wanted; it had to act in his best interests and provide suitable 
advice. And I dont think advising Mr R to access his pension early in order to repay debts 
that were otherwise affordable, was suitable advice. Not least because withdrawing such a 
significant sum from Mr Rs pension meant that he had far less to live on in retirement  and 
Quilter didnt provide any analysis (other than the worst case scenario above) of how Mr Rs 
remaining pension funds might last him throughout retirement.
If Quilter had been acting in Mr Rs best interests, I think it would have explored what 
benefits wouldve been available to Mr R through the BSPS2 at age 60, including the level of 
TFC he could take. This may have been sufficient to repay his debts at that point. However, 
its possible some of those debts wouldve already been repaid  I dont know because 
Quilter didnt record any details of the loan end dates. Had it also done this analysis it 
couldve given Mr R a realistic view of whether retiring at age 60 was achievable. Its evident 
that Mr R hasnt retired at age 60 and continues to work for his employer because he doesnt 
feel his pension pot is large enough to support this. And I think that demonstrates that he 
wasnt committed to retiring at age 60 come what may, it was always based on whether he 
could afford to do so.
Quilter recorded that Mr R wanted an income of £26,400 from age 60, although I note there 
was no detailed financial analysis, so I dont know whether this was accurate. And once 
Mr R and his wife were in receipt of their state pensions at age 66, amounting to around 
£16,000 per year, Quilter said he would reduce this to £10,400 per year.Under the BSPS, at 65 Mr R could take an annual pension of £17,339 or TFC of £76,611 
and a reduced annual pension of £11,491. Under the PPF Mr R could take an annual 
pension of £15,031.40 or TFC of £77,409.90 and a reduced annual pension of £11,597.10. 
So the BSPS2 figures wouldve been somewhere in between. I dont know what benefits 
Mr R couldve taken from the BSPS2 at age 60 but I think they wouldve been higher than 
the benefits Mr R couldve taken from the BSPS immediately, which Quilter said was a full 
pension of £9,091 or TFC of £42,461 and a reduced pension of £4,546.
Its clear that Mr R wouldnt have been able to meet his desired annual income need of 
£26,400 from age 60 through the BSPS, BSPS2 or the PPF. So Quilter may argue that Mr R 
couldve only met this objective by transferring out of the BSPS to a SIPP. But as Ive said 
above, although Mr R couldve likely met this income need until his state pension became 
payable, I dont think Quilter has demonstrated that the remaining funds would sustain him 
until he reached his life expectancy, particularly when factoring in the effects of inflation, 
investment fees and periods of poor growth. So, I think a fair analysis of Mr Rs needs and 
objectives wouldve led Quilter to explain to Mr R that his desire to retire at age 60 was likely 
unachievable.
Mr R had joined his employers DC scheme and his employer was contributing to it  this 
was likely to be at a rate of 6% or 10% of Mr Rs salary based on what Ive seen in other 
cases. Mr R may have also been contributing to it. However, Quilter didnt record any details 
of this so its difficult to know what level of funds he may have had to draw on at retirement 
from the DC scheme. Based on Mr Rs salary, and assuming total contributions of 10%, the 
contribution would be in the region of £3,000 per year. If Mr R retired at age 65 this could be 
worth up to £30,000 if he achieved net growth of 2%. So, even if Mr R deferred his 
retirement to age 65 its clear that his DC scheme wouldnt form a significant part of his 
overall retirement provision and that Mr R would be heavily reliant on his DB scheme. 
Overall, I think Mr R could likely best achieve his retirement income needs by remaining in 
the DB scheme and taking his benefits at his normal retirement age. This provided him with 
a risk-free, escalating income for life. Mr R couldve used the funds in his DC scheme to 
bridge the gap between age 65 and 66, and once his and Mrs Rs state pension became 
payable theyd have sufficient guaranteed income to meet their needs. So, I dont think it 
was clearly Mr Rs best interests to transfer out of the DB scheme in order to have flexibility, 
when this couldve put him in the position of having insufficient retirement funds to meet his 
needs later in life.
Death benefits
Quilter says that one of Mr Rs key objectives was to be able to pass on the value of his 
pension on his death. Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, 
most people would like their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum 
death benefits on offer through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr R. 
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr R might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, 
the priority here was to advise Mr R about what was best for his retirement provisions. A 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement  not a lump sum to family 
after death. And I dont think Quilter explored to what extent Mr R was prepared to accept a 
lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr R 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by either the BSPS2 or the PPF wouldve 
been useful to his spouse if Mr R predeceased her. The spouses pension was guaranteed 
and it escalated  and under the BSPS2 the spouses pension would be calculated as if no 
TFC had been taken. Furthermore, this benefit was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. And as Ive 
said above, the fund may have been exhausted much sooner than Mr R expected. So, there 
may have been little or nothing at all to pass on when he died in any event.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr R.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
Its clear that Mr R, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he 
was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. Hed heard negative things about the PPF 
and he said he preferred to have control over his pension fund. It seems Mr R also had 
concerns about the BSPS2 because of the way his employer had changed the benefits in 
the past. So its quite possible that Mr R was leaning towards the decision to transfer 
because of the concerns he had about his employer and his negative perception of the PPF.
Its well documented that this was a period of uncertainty for people like Mr R. But this only 
serves to emphasise the need at that time for a balanced assessment of the options 
available and ultimately the need for suitable advice. So it was Quilters obligation to give 
Mr R an objective picture and recommend what was in his best interests.
As Ive explained, by the time the advice was given details of BSPS2 were known and it 
seemed likely it was going ahead. So, the advice shouldve properly taken the benefits 
available to Mr R through the BSPS2 into account and I think this shouldve alleviated Mr Rs 
concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF. And if Mr Rs concerns about his employers 
influence on his pension remained, I think it shouldve been explained that his employer and 
the pension scheme trustees were not entirely one and the same. So Mr Rs employer didnt 
have the control over the pension Mr R thought it did.
In the suitability report, I can see that Quilter noted:
You are concerned that staying in any scheme will affect your benefits because you have 
simply lost all trust in the trustees. Whilst this is your view, it is the view of my network, 
[Quilter] that the move to the new scheme would not be too detrimental for you as the 
increases are simply a change from RPI to CPI. They do not feel that you should have 
anything to worry about by moving into the new scheme, but of course, your view is 
different.
But I dont think it was reasonable for Quilter to simply accept Mr Rs view and use it to 
support the advice to transfer. I think it ought to have made it clear to Mr R that it considered 
he should join the BSPS2, as it didnt materially change his position, rather than noting it as 
a difference in opinion. Overall, I dont think Quilter challenged Mr Rs negative perceptions 
of the scheme trustees enough  they were ultimately in place to act in the interests of the 
scheme members. Instead, I think Quilter allowed Mr R to believe that his position was 
reasonable and that it was the right thing to transfer out of the scheme.
Furthermore, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that Quilter 
shouldve reassured Mr R that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The starting benefits available to Mr R through the PPF were actually higher 
through the PPF at age 65 if he took TFC. And he wasnt likely to be able to improve on 
these by transferring out. Although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the 
income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that 
these concerns shouldve led to Quilter recommending Mr R transfer out of the DB scheme 
altogether.I also think Mr Rs desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr R was not 
an experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be 
able to manage his pension funds on their own. So, I dont think that having control was a 
genuine objective for Mr R  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB 
scheme.
DBAAT Tool
Quilter says that the advice needs to be looked at as a whole and that the output of the 
DBAAT tool should be an important consideration here. While I am satisfied I have already 
considered the suitability of the advice as a whole, taking account of Mr Rs objectives, Ive 
also considered this.
The assessor who completed the DBAAT tool concluded that the advice was compliant. 
Quilter maintains this was completed correctly and in line with the regulators guidelines. 
However, I note that the assessor answered Yes to the following example of unsuitability:
1) The client is, or will be reliant on income from this scheme.
9) The firm's transfer analysis does not support a recommendation to transfer.
As a consequence, the DBAAT flagged the transfer as being potentially unsuitable, but 
ultimately the transfer was deemed suitable overall. However, the assessor erroneously 
stated that Mr and Mrs R each had other DB pensions they could rely on in retirement. But 
that wasnt the case; they each had DC schemes  Mr Rs was his employers new DC 
scheme, valued at less than £5,000 and Mrs Rs had a value of less than £2,000 at the time 
of the advice. So, they were even more reliant on Mr Rs BSPS pension than the assessor 
believed.
Furthermore, the assessor considered that because Mr R needed immediate access to TFC, 
the transfer was suitable overall. However, Ive explained at length above why I dont 
consider that transferring in order to pay down affordable debts was in Mr Rs best interests, 
particularly when this would have a significant impact on his remaining funds. And I note the 
assessor also flagged that Quilter failed to do any cash flow analysis showing whether or not 
Mr R would be able to sustain his lifestyle in retirement if he retired at 60. 
Overall, for the reasons given, Im not persuaded that using the DBAAT tool demonstrates 
that the advice was suitable for Mr R.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr R. But Quilter 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr R might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr R needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr R was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2 (or the PPF). By transferring 
to a SIPP Mr R was, in my view, likely to obtain lower overall retirement benefits. And if he 
retired at age 60 as per his plan, I think he was likely to run out of funds well before his life 
expectancy. I also dont think Mr R shouldve been encouraged to pay off debts that were 
affordable, given this would leave him significantly less funds to live on as he got older. So, I 
dont think it was in Mr Rs best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a personal 
pension when he had the opportunity of joining the BSPS2.I appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been fully confirmed when the advice was given, but 
I think it was clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead. I don't think that it 
would've been in Mr Rs interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the 
scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very 
early retirement. Also, Mr R was married, and under the BSPS2 his wifes pension would be 
set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump 
sum was taken at retirement (if Mr R chose to do so). The annual indexation of his pension 
when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think Quilter 
shouldve advised Mr R to opt into the BSPS2.
Quilter may say that regardless of the advice given, Mr R made an informed choice to 
proceed with the transfer and Mr R wouldve transferred in any event. I accept that Quilter 
disclosed the risks of transferring to Mr R, and provided him with a significant amount of 
information in the suitability report. But ultimately it advised Mr R to transfer out, and I think 
Mr R relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr R wouldve insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, against 
Quilters advice. I say this because Mr R was an inexperienced investor and this pension 
accounted for all of his retirement provision at the time. I think Quilter should have made it 
clear that if Mr R transferred his pension, retired at 60 and commenced drawdown taking 
£26,400 per year he would likely run out of funds, particularly if he lived a long life. And 
I think that wouldve convinced Mr R that joining the BSPS2 was in his best interests. So, if 
Quilter had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, I think 
he wouldve accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think Quilter should compensate Mr R for the unsuitable advice, by 
undertaking a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr R, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr R would most 
likely have opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given. 
Quilter must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Quilter should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr R and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation.
Compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. Thats because I don't think Mr R would've retired 
at age 60 because he couldn't afford to do so.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Rs 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Quilter should:calculate and offer Mr R redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr R before starting the redress calculation that:
the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr R receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr R accepts Quilters offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr R for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Rs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr R as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Quilter may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that Mr R 
would otherwise pay on income from his pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Rs likely income 
tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Quilter Financial 
Services Ltd to pay Mr R the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I will also recommend 
that Quilter Financial Services Ltd pays Mr R the balance. 
If Mr R accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Quilter Financial 
Services Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr R can accept my
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may want to consider getting
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Quilter Financial Services Ltd should provide details of its calculations to 
Mr R in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman