DRN-1793623
 
The complaint
Mr K complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) a purchaser is entitled to reject a car within the first 
30 days of purchase if it is unfit for purpose, of unsatisfactory quality or not as described.
In this case, Im satisfied that Mr K has rejected the car within the first 30 days as Ive seen an 
email sent within 30 days that explained thats what he wanted to do.
Im persuaded the car had faults at that point as I can see the dealership subsequently attempted 
to repair the car. 
Mr K wasnt obligated to accept the repairs, but Im persuaded he thought he had no other option 
because:
He left the car at the dealership within 30 days and Im not persuaded he did so in order for 
the dealership to repair the car. Im persuaded by Mr Ks testimony and his email (above) 
and the fact hed contacted MotoNovo, that he didnt want to keep it.
I think the fact he contacted MotoNovo so soon, after asking to reject the car through the 
dealership, suggests Mr K wanted to reject the car rather than to have it repaired. He told 
MotoNovo so, and I think they should therefore have allowed him to reject the car and 
completed negotiations with the dealership on his behalf.
Mr K referred to the negative reception hed received from the dealership in the email he 
sent to them. I think this supports his version of events: that he received a hostile reception 
from the dealership when he asked to reject the car. 
In those circumstances I can understand that Mr K allowed repairs to be completed as he would 
have thought he had no other option.
But I dont think that was fair and I think he should have been allowed to reject the car as he had a 
right to do within the first 30 days.
And, even if Im wrong about that, and Mr K did accept the repairs willingly. The relevant legislation 
allows the business one opportunity to put right faults that are present when the vehicle is supplied 
to the consumer. Im persuaded that the business had that opportunity when Mr K took the car 
back to them on 27 September 2019. I dont think those repairs were successful as I can see that 
the MOT performed on 9 October 2019, only a couple of weeks after supply, identified that the car 
could not be driven because the brakes were dangerously worn. 
Whilst I understand that brakes are wear and tear items, I dont think a reasonable person would 
expect to be provided with a car that had dangerously worn brakes and, according to the MOT, 
could not be driven. And, given the very short period Mr K had been in receipt of the car, I think its 
very likely that was the case.
So, for those reasons as well, I think Mr K should be allowed to reject the vehicle.
Putting things right
MotoNovo should therefore allow Mr K to terminate his finance agreement with them and 
they should take the car back.
They should refund Mr Ks deposit and they should add 8% simple interest to that refund as 
Mr K has been deprived of that money and will need it to finance an alternative vehicle.
Its clear that Mr K has been inconvenienced by matters. Hes had to return the car to the 
dealership and pursue his complaint to this service when I think it could have been resolved 
earlier. In those circumstances, I think MotoNovo should pay him £250 in compensation.
I would agree with the investigators suggestion that MotoNovo refund one monthly 
instalment that Mr K has paid as he had limited use of the car in September 2019 when he 
was disputing this issue with the dealership. For clarity I think MotoNovo should refund the 
September 2019 instalment Mr K paid and they should add 8% simple interest to that refund 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement as, again, Mr K has been deprived of that 
money.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell MotoNovo Finance Limited 
to:
terminate the finance agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr K,
refund Mr Ks deposit and add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr K £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;
refund the September 2019 finance instalment and add 8% simple interest per 
annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ks credit file in relation to 
this issue.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman