DRN-3987364
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy a claim he tried to make under his building warranty has been declined by
National House-Building Council (NHBC).
What happened
Mr H has a ten-year building warranty for his home with NHBC. In March 2021 he reported
issues with his render to NHBC.
An inspection of the render was carried out by a contractor on behalf of NHBC. When NHBC
were unable obtain further information from the contractor, a further inspection was carried
out by an NHBC claim investigator. The claim was subsequently declined by NHBC.
NHBC said thermal shrinkage had caused the render cracking, and discolouration was
staining, and they arent covered under the policy. NHBC accepted render had de-bonded in
a small area, but the cost to repair was less than the minimum claim value (MCV) under the
policy, so NHBC declined the claim.
Mr H arranged for his own inspection of the render, and he obtained a quote for replacing
the render which was significantly higher than NHBC said repairs would cost  and above
the policy MCV.
However, NHBC didnt accept the works quoted for were covered by the policy, so the claim
decision was maintained. But, NHBC accepted there had been delays and offered £100
compensation.
Mr H remained unhappy with NHBCs position and approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things but she didnt uphold the complaint. She said some of the
cracking to the render was thermal shrinkage, and there was staining, which is excluded
under the policy. She also said some render damage which wouldve been covered fell
below the policy MCV, so she said it wasnt unfair for NHBC to decline that part of the claim
on that basis either.
The investigator recognised Mr H had provided his own report and quote for repairs, but she
found NHBCs more persuasive. She noted that Mr Hs quote was for full render
replacement, whereas the policy only covered the damaged area, so she didnt think NHBC
was unfair in saying the repair costs didnt reach the applicable MCV. Therefore, the
investigator didnt recommend NHBC do anything further.
Mr H didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision. Whilst I reached the same overall outcome as our 
investigator, there were some additional reasons. So, I issued a provisional decision to give 
both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I reached my final 
decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing a provisional decision. Whilst Ive reached the same overall outcome as 
our investigator, there are some additional reasons for this. So, Im issuing a 
provisional decision, to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial 
findings, before I reach my final decision.
The complaint timescales
NHBC issued a final response on 8 September 2021. In this they said the repair 
costs for damage fell below the MCV, and the remaining render cracking was 
excluded under the policy. NHBC said if Mr H obtained his own report then he should 
submit it to them for consideration. NHBC accepted there had been delays early in 
the claim and offered £100 compensation.
NHBC gave six months from the date of that final response for Mr H to approach this
service. And NHBC said that if Mr H didnt approach us within this timescale, they 
wouldnt give this service permission to consider the complaint. Mr H didnt approach 
us until 22 April 2022, so outside of the six months of that final response letter.
NHBC issued a second final response on 24 November 2021. In this they said they 
had previously declined the claim and noted Mr H had provided his own report since 
then. And having considered that, there wasnt anything to demonstrate the quote 
provided was reasonable to cover the works which would be covered under the 
policy terms. Again, this gave six months for Mr H to bring the complaint to this 
service. Mr H approached us within six months of the date of this final response 
letter.
Our investigator said theyd be considering both complaint final responses as part of 
this complaint. She said this is because the second response was sent prior to the 
first expiring, and there wasnt anything withdrawing it and it had new referral rights. 
She said shed be considering everything as part of this complaint.
NHBC didnt object to this, so it appears that NHBC has agreed with the investigator 
and to our consideration of the full complaint. Therefore, as it appears NHBC no 
longer objects, Im also considering both final responses here in my provisional 
decision.The policy cover
Mr H has a ten-year building warranty with NHBC. The policy is spilt into separate 
parts and which section applies depends on when the claim is made within the ten-
year period. The policy started in June 2013 and Mr H made a claim in March 2021. 
So, the relevant section of the policy which applies here is Section 3. This says that:
What NHBC will do
1) We will pay you the full Cost, if it is more than £1,200 Indexed, of putting 
right any physical damage to your Home which is caused by a Defect in 
respect of any of the following parts of your house, bungalow, maisonette 
or flat, or its garage or other permanent outbuildings:
..
e) external cladding, curtain walling, external render and external vertical tile
hanging;
Damage is defined as:
Physical damage to a Home caused by a Defect.
And Defect is defined as:
The breach of any mandatory NHBC Requirement by the Builder or anyone
employed by or acting for the Builder. Failure to follow guidance supporting 
an NHBC Requirement does not amount to a Defect if the performance 
required by the NHBC Requirement is achieved by other means.
This means that for a claim to be valid, there needs to be Damage, caused by a 
Defect (as defined), to a specific covered area, and that the repairs cost more than 
£1,200 Indexed. All these criteria need to be met in order for a claim to be covered. A 
Defect or Damage in isolation isnt covered. And the policy provides cover for 
repairing the Damage caused by the Defect.
The claim
Mr H reported cracking and discolouration to the render on his home in March 2021. 
NHBC arranged for a contractor to inspect the render. They completed an inspection 
in July 2021 and reported the findings back to NHBC.
As NHBC were unable to obtain additional information they needed from the 
contractor that carried out the inspection, they arranged for a further inspection to be 
carried out by their claim investigator in August 2021.
NHBC subsequently declined the claim. They said that there were only small areas of
de-bonded render and the cost to repair the Damage fell below the MCV. They said 
the remaining cracking was shrinkage related, and there was staining, both of which 
are excluded under the policy:What NHBC will not do or be liable for

3) Anything relating to:
a) Shrinkage, thermal movement or movement of different 
types of material;
b) Cosmetic damage such as mortar erosion to brickwork, 
which does not impair the structural stability or weather 
tightness of your Home or which only affects decorations
.
g) any change in the colour or texture of, or any staining to, 
any external finish
Ive seen the report completed by NHBCs claim investigator. They carried out a
comprehensive inspection of the render. They concluded that the majority of the 
cracks were caused by thermal shrinkage, some of which had been filled previously. 
And the discolouration was staining. I find their report comprehensive and 
persuasive. Therefore, I dont think NHBC acted unfairly by declining these parts of 
the render claim based on their claim investigator findings.
The claim investigator did identify one area where the render had de-bonded. And 
that was considered to be Damage, caused by a Defect (as defined) - and not caught 
by the policy exclusion outlined.
However, the MCV at the time of the claim was £1,629. But to repair the Damage 
caused by the Defect (as defined) in this specific area was only £830.36, so well 
below the MCV applicable. On this basis, NHBC declined that part of the claim too.
Im persuaded, based on the report, that the conclusions reached were reasonable, 
and the report only highlighted one area where there was de-bonded render. As this 
is the only Damage that would be covered, but for repairs not reaching the MCV, and 
the shrinkage cracking and discolouration were excluded, I dont think the position 
NHBC reached at that time was unreasonable.
Mr Hs report
Mr H subsequently arranged for his own inspection of the render to be carried out by 
a builder. In summary, they said:
There was excessive bleed through the render
There was movement not related to thermal movement
De-bonding was identified in one area
A rub test resulted in discolouration
Pitting appeared when a jet wash was applied to the render
Cracks at some areas was likely due to no meshing in the render
There will likely be de-bonding over the next three years which will cause the
complete render failure due to freeze thaw
The only solution is stripping all the render and re-applying
Mr Hs contractor quoted £24,024.70 to carry out repair works  so significantly 
higher than the cost of repairs determined by NHBC (£830.36).NHBC didnt accept the findings of the report. They said the methodology of testing 
wasnt accepted (jet washing the render). They also said the property is eight years 
old and would have suffered from some natural deterioration and discolouration, and 
would require routine maintenance. They maintained the cracks were due to thermal 
shrinkage and added:
The cracking noted to the property is related to thermal shrinkage. There is 
no thermal movement as this would have caused a step in the render finish, 
the render was perfectly flat.
They went on to say:
Shrinkage can cause both vertical and horizontal cracking; thermal 
movement is also not limited to vertical cracking. Please note NHBC cracking 
in the home guidance: Shrinkage cracks in masonry walls are usually vertical 
or horizontal, often running along the wall near the ceiling or near the floor.
Having considered Mr Hs report and NHBCs, I find NHBCs more persuasive. I say 
this because Mr Hs builder has concluded movement wasnt related to thermal 
movement, but not what has actually caused it  beyond saying not what NHBC has 
concluded.
I also dont think Mr Hs report supports the render is de-bonding beyond the areas 
NHBC has identified either, instead its a broader assessment without the specifics of 
NHBCs report.
Mr Hs report also said there was no meshing in particular areas of the render, but 
NHBC has explained that isnt a mandatory requirement which needed to be carried 
out. And a Defect is defined as a breach of mandatory NHBC requirements, so if it 
wasnt a mandatory requirement it follows that the absence of it wasnt a breach or 
consequently a Defect.
In addition, NHBC calculated the cost of repairing the area of render damage under 
the policy at a cost of £830.36  and this was below the £1,629 MCV. Mr Hs quote is 
significantly more (over £24,000). But Mr Hs includes 200sq/m of render 
replacement i.e. a complete replacement of all render. Whereas NHBCs only 
calculated for 0.5sq/m, which is the de-bonded area identified  so significantly 
different.
As I outlined above, the policy covers Damage caused by a Defect (as defined). So, 
it only covers repairing the Damage actually present  in this case one small area of 
de-bonded render. Whilst all the render could be defective, in the absence of 
Damage, the policy doesnt provide cover for resolving Defects alone where this is no 
Damage. So, I cant conclude that Mr Hs quote is more persuasive in the cost of 
repairing the Damage caused by a Defect  which is what the policy covers.
Therefore, with this in mind, I dont think NHBC acted unfairly by not accepting Mr Hs 
report or quote or by declining Mr Hs claim on the basis it has.
The original report from NHBCs appointed contractor
Since the complaint was progressed to the ombudsman final decision stage by our
investigator, NHBC has again reviewed matters. This review took into account the 
original report that was completed in July 2021 by NHBCs appointed contractor.Having done so, NHBC recognised that the original report identified a further area of
de-bonded render which hadnt been included by their claim investigator during the 
second inspection in August 2021.
Due to this not being included by the claim investigator, but noted in the original 
report, NHBC has included this additional area of de-bonded render in the scope of 
works  along with the area already included by the claim investigator. However, 
having increased the scope of works to include repairing the additional de-bonded 
area, NHBC has provided evidence (in confidence) that the cost of repairs would still 
only total £1,022.87.
Therefore, even with this included in the scope of repairs, the repairs still dont reach 
the MCV of £1,629, and therefore there still isnt a valid claim under Section 3 of Mr 
Hs policy. 
Ive seen the report and beyond the additional area of de-bonded render which has 
now been included, Im unable to conclude NHBCs first contractor reached an 
entirely different position to NHBCs claim investigator.
With the above in mind, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my
provisional decision, Im minded to conclude that NHBC hasnt acted unfairly by 
declining Mr Hs claim.
The service
NHBC accepted there were some delays in the early parts of Mr Hs claim and thats 
why they paid £100 compensation.
Having taken everything into account, even including the missed additional area of
de-bonded render, this doesnt change the overall claim decision or position. So as 
nothing overall has changed, Im not minded to direct NHBC to increase the level of 
compensation as I think the amount already paid for the delays is reasonable.
Therefore, I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint or to direct NHBC to do anything further.
The responses to my provisional decision
NHBC responded to the provisional decision and said they had no further comments to add.
Mr H responded but he didnt agree with the provisional decision. He said he is a senior 
engineer in the construction industry. He said regardless of the area of damage, all of the 
render needs to be removed and replaced as a patch repair cant be carried out. He says 
this is supported by his significantly more expensive quote for repairs. He says I have less of 
a technical understanding and have based my decision solely on one size quoted for repair 
against the other.
Mr H also said some areas of cracks may be due to poor detailing and thermal expansion, 
but NHBC should rectify them. He says that it is not possible for horizontal cracking and 
debonding to occur due to thermal expansion. Therefore, Mr H says this must be structural 
movement caused by defective workmanship, which hasnt been acknowledged.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision and the 
responses to it. Having done so, my final decision remains the same as my provisional 
decision.
Firstly, I should explain that the role of this service is to give an impartial independent view 
on what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. We arent technical experts 
in property construction or building methods. Instead we rely on the evidence provided by 
both parties. Where there is conflicting information or expert evidence, we consider which 
evidence is more persuasive, on balance, to reach an outcome which is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstance. Thats what Ive done here. 
I note Mr H says render cant be patch repaired, but NHBC says it can be and this is what 
theyve based repair costs on. Ive carried out my own research, and this hasnt led me to 
conclude patch repairs cant be completed. Therefore, I cant agree with Mr Hs view that the 
damaged render in isolation cant be patch repaired, or re-rendering the entire property is 
what is required. Consequently, I dont think NHBC has acted unreasonably in only taking 
into account repairing the damage when establishing repair costs. 
As I outlined in my provisional decision, Mr Hs policy covers Damage caused by a Defect as 
defined. Therefore, it covers the specific limited areas of render Damage only. The policy 
doesnt cover areas which arent damaged, or preventative works to stop something which 
may, or may not, happen in the future. And Im satisfied that NHBC has considered the claim 
in line with the policy terms, and repairing the damage doesnt reach the MCV, therefore the 
claim isnt covered as outlined in my provisional decision.
I also note Mr H says that some areas of cracking may be due to poor detailing and thermal 
expansion, but he says NHBC should be rectifying them anyway. I outlined the policy terms 
in my provisional decision, and why Im satisfied this wouldnt be covered. And my view of 
that remains the same, and for the same reasons.
I also note what Mr H has said about the cracks not being due to thermal expansion, but I 
also discussed this point in my provisional decision, and outlined why I was persuaded by 
what NHBC said here, whilst also taking into account Mr Hs own report. And my view of this 
remains the same, and for the same reasons. 
Whilst I appreciate itll come as a disappointment to Mr H, my final decision remains the 
same as my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman