DRN-1501222
 
The complaint
Mr H says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
Mr H bought the policy in at the same time as he applied for a credit card in 2002. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
I think Barclaycard made Mr H aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to 
take it. I say this because he did tick the box on his credit card application form to 
show that he wanted the cover. There was another form of insurance directly 
underneath the PPI, but it seems Mr H decide not to take that cover. So from what 
Ive seen, I think Mr H wouldve realised he had a choice about buying the PPI.
Barclaycard recommended the PPI to Mr H, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable 
for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr H isn't sure 
whether he was entitled to sick pay, and he says he could've relied on family and 
friends to help if he wasn't working because of sickness or accident. But having the 
policy in place would've meant Mr H didn't have to rely on other people. So I think the 
PPI wouldve been useful to Mr H if he couldnt work. 
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But its unlikely Mr H would have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped him buying 
it. 
 
 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman