DRN-3777367
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) have failed to refund over £2,300 
they lost to an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will provide a brief summary and focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
Mr and Mrs C say they fell victim to an investment scam with a fraudulent investment broker 
called Tradobit. They made a payment of £2,342 to Conwell Global Trading on 
21 September 2021 but later realised they had been scammed. 
HSBC refused to refund the money Mr and Mrs C had lost as it said they had authorised the 
payments. HSBC said it also called Mr C and warned him about the risk of fraud and scams 
when he was making the payment, but said he was confident the opportunity was genuine 
and wanted to proceed with the payment. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think HSBC went far enough in its 
questioning of Mr C when it spoke to him about the payment. But he didnt think any further 
probing would have ultimately unravelled the scam or prevented the loss, as Mr C said he 
had been investing with Tradobit for quite a while and was convinced of its legitimacy. So, he 
didnt think HSBC were liable to refund the payment. Mr and Mrs C disagreed, so the matter 
has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points, I have 
read and considered everything thats been provided Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it for the reasons set out below:
It isnt in dispute that Mr and Mrs C authorised the disputed payment they made via 
online transfer to the scammer. The payment was requested by them using their 
legitimate security credentials provided by HSBC, and the starting position is that banks 
ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments 
to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether HSBC should have done more to prevent Mr and 
Mrs C from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank 
should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular 
transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character. It isnt in dispute that the 
payment of £2,342 Mr and Mrs C made on 21 September 2021 was unusual given that it 
did trigger the banks fraud prevention systems and was automatically blocked pending 
further enquiry. Accordingly, its just a question of whether the bank went far enough in 
all the circumstances with that intervention.
Having considered the extent of HSBCs intervention, Im not persuaded they asked 
enough relevant and probing questions to determine whether or not Mr C was at risk of 
falling victim to a scam when it spoke to him. However, even if HSBC had asked further 
questions, Im not persuaded it would have likely stopped him from proceeding or have 
ultimately prevented the loss.
I say this because there were no FCA warnings about Tradobit. And while I appreciate 
there were some other negative reviews and warnings online at the time, Mr C said he 
had already been investing with the company for six months at that point, and so had no 
reason to suspect the merchant wasnt genuine. He was asked whether anyone was 
asking him to make these payments, but he said it was completely voluntary. HSBC also 
asked him about checking the FCA website. Mr C said he hadnt checked it, but still 
asked the bank to release the money as soon possible. 
So, on balance, I dont think any further probing or questioning would have likely led to 
Mr C undertaking any further research or would have led him to suspect he was being 
scammed. He was confident on the call and assured the HSBC agent that the 
investment was legitimate as he had been dealing with the investment company for quite 
some time. Mr C seemed determined to make the payment, and I think thats what he 
would have done irrespective of any further warnings or questioning. Therefore, I dont 
think HSBCs failure to adequately question Mr C can reasonably be considered as the 
proximate cause of his loss in these circumstances.
Ive also thought about whether HSBC could have done more to recover the funds after 
Mr C reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the stolen funds can be recovered via 
the bank contacting the beneficiary bank. HSBC said it doesnt appear that any attempt 
was made to recover the funds from the beneficiary bank. However, I note that Mr and 
Mrs C did not report the fraud to HSBC until their professional representative made a 
complaint in January 2022. This was around four months after they had made the 
payment from their HSBC account, so the chance of any funds remaining at this point 
would have been very remote, as they are typically quickly removed by the scammer to 
prevent the funds from being frozen and/or recalled. So, while HSBC did indeed fail in its 
obligations to attempt any recovery of the funds, I dont think this would have ultimately 
made any difference on Mr and Mrs Cs prospects of recovering the money from the 
scammer.
HSBC are also under no obligation to refund the money to Mr and Mrs C under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code either, as the Code only applies to 
transfers made between GBP-denominated UK-domiciled accounts. In this instance, the 
payment was made to an overseas account in Dubai, so the CRM Code would not apply 
to this transaction. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs C, and Im sorry to hear 
they have fallen victim to a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that HSBC can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for their loss in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman