DRN-2951052
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the way that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited dealt
with their claim for accidental damage and emergency repairs to their toilet/drain.
What happened
On 30 March 2020 Mr and Mrs W had a blocked toilet. Mrs W says she rang the emergency
helpline number but couldnt get through. She tried to ring the claim line and there was a
message advising that telephone calls werent being taken and either to send an email or fill
in a claim form online. The online claim form wasnt working so she sent an email, though
unfortunately misspelt the email address so it wasnt received. When she did get through to
the emergency helpline the plumber she was referred to didnt come out until the next day.
Mr W broke his iPad whilst trying to fix the toilet but she was upset at being told she would
have to make a separate claim.
Mr and Mrs W were upset that they were left with a blocked toilet for 48 hours. They are both
disabled and have limited mobility and were shielding. Mr W used his iPad to remind him
about taking medication. Mrs W was eventually able to get through to make a claim when
she emailed Lloyds CEO. Lloyds arranged for a drain contractor to come out to check the 
drains. With regard to the iPad, Lloyds agreed to pay cash for a replacement within seven 
days of the claim being made.
When Mr and Mrs W received their policy renewal, they found that their contents excess had
been increased to £500. When Mrs W contacted Lloyds it offered a discount on the premium
and to limit the £500 excess to accidental damage claims. Mrs W felt she had to accept this
but that they were being discriminated against because of their disability. They have since
taken out bespoke insurance for their iPads but Lloyds wont review the policy cover further.
Lloyds apologised for the difficulties Mrs W had had in getting through, explaining that all its
claims staff had moved to working from home because of the lockdown. Its claims line was
closed for two days whilst the arrangements were being sorted out, but it was still answering
emails. Because of Mrs Ws difficulties in getting through, it paid compensation of £75.
Lloyds explained that Mr and Mrs W didnt have home emergency insurance. The helpline
set out in the policy documents was run by a different insurer, it wasnt responsible for any
failure by a tradesman to attend on time. It has checked and has been told that the helpline
was in full operation over this time.
Our investigator said that although the operation of the emergency helpline isnt within the
control of Lloyds, it would have been reasonable for it to make sure where the service wasnt
available it made this clear to its customers. Because of the very distressing circumstances
of Mr and Mrs W having to use a blocked toilet she thought that Lloyd should pay them
compensation of £300. With regard to the policy, she thought that Lloyds could review the
position further and perhaps reduce the excess and remove the iPads from cover.
Lloyds reiterated that it didnt run the helpline and as it was in full operation it would have
had no reason to tell its customers, nor did it have any liability to do so. It couldnt offer a
bespoke policy, the reason for the excess increasing was because of the number of
accidental damage claims made within two years, not because of Mr and Mrs Ws disability.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that Mr and Mrs W did not have emergency cover, 
but there was a 24 hour helpline (run by another insurer). I said that Lloyds wasnt 
responsible for the running of the helpline or of the failure of trades to attend. I also said I 
thought it dealt with the claim for accidental damage reasonably.
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with my decision. In summary Mrs W made the following 
points:
Lloyds claim line did not mention emailing or filling in a claim form online. She took it 
upon herself to email so why should she be blamed for getting the email address wrong. 
And the toilet had not been unblocked at the time she emailed Lloyds CEO.
They do have emergency cover on their policy and have made a claim before under it.
If Lloyds employed a company to run its phone line its up to it to take it up with the 
company.
The Covid situation did not give Lloyds a right not to keep phone lines open.
Lloyds failed to make reasonable adjustments for their disability in dealing with the policy 
renewal.
Lloyds has no further comments to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following were my provisional findings:
First of all I recognise how distressing it must have been for Mr and Mrs W to have to use a
blocked toilet without the means of unblocking it. And I understand how upsetting it must
have been to them for the plumber not to come out until the next day.
However Mr and Mrs W dont have home emergency cover under their policy. I understand
Mrs W had previously been told this when she enquired about a possible claim in 2017.
What is provided in the policy is an emergency helpline, whereby the consumer will be
referred to local tradesmen. Lloyds doesnt run the helpline  its set out in the policy that its
run by another insurer. However as our investigator has explained, it isnt insurance and the
provision of a helpline isnt a regulated activity we can look at.
I believe it was an unfortunate set of circumstances that led Mr and Mrs W into the position
they were in. They couldnt get through at first on the helpline, though I understand it was
running at the time. Then, because of the extraordinary circumstances of the pandemic
Lloyds claim line wasnt in operation over those two days, although its likely that Mrs W
would have been told to contact the helpline for emergency repairs. Unfortunately when
Mrs W emailed the claims team at Lloyds she misspelt the address as a result of which it
didnt get through, although when it did receive the email through the CEOs address it was
acted on immediately. Then the tradesman couldnt attend on the first day, again presumably
because of the pandemic. But I dont think that Lloyds was responsible for that.
Lloyds set up two claims for accidental damage, one for the iPad and the other for thedrains. I think that was reasonable, as they involved different accidents i.e. damage that
wasnt deliberate. And though the drain inspection revealed nothing further to be done I think
it was nonetheless a sensible precaution. With regard to the iPad, a cash settlement was
agreed within seven days. The compensation of £75 was paid for the difficulties in Mrs W
getting through. Though I agree that Lloyds could have made this clearer in its final response
letter.
With regard to the renewal of the policy Lloyds is entitled to assess whether Mr and Mrs W
were a greater insurance risk. It cant say that it will impose across the board higher
premiums or excesses on people with a disability, and can only justify treating disabled
people differently when providing them with insurance if:
a) it is done by reference to information which is both relevant to the assessment of the risk 
to be insured and from a source on which it is reasonable to rely, and
b) it is reasonable to do. (Equality Act 2010 Sch 3 para 21)
Here Lloyds has based its decision on the claims history of Mr and Mrs W, as it does for all
policyholders. In Mr and Mrs Ws case it says they have a claims history of several
accidental damage claims within the previous two years, which has triggered the rise in
excess. And while it may not be fair to impose a higher excess for all claims, I think it is fair
to impose that for accidental damage claims. I note the suggestion that it remove the iPads
from cover so as to lessen the risk, but Lloyds doesnt offer bespoke policies to that level. In
any event as the decision was based on claims history I doubt that removing items from
cover is either practical or fair to the consumer. So whilst Mrs W argues that they are more
likely to have such claims because of their disabilities, I think Lloyds has shown it has been
fair in the way it has dealt with the excess.
Ive considered the points raised in reply. My decision hasnt changed, my views on the 
relevant points are set out below. 
I understand from Lloyds that its claimline did advise emailing or filing in a claim online. 
Indeed in Mrs Ws email to Lloyds CEO she said.
There is NO point in having a telephone number to ring then when you ring it you are then 
told theres no one there to take your call and to email THIS EMAIL which this is the 2nd as 
well as explaining this to the emergency line which CLEARLY took 48 hours to get anyone 
here to unblock a drain with faeces going everywhere leaving two vulnerable people 
disabled to live whilst being told to self-isolate for 12 Wks!
Im sorry if I misunderstood from the content of this email that the toilet had been unblocked 
at the time of this email. I read it that she had spoken to someone on the helpline and that it 
had taken 48 hours to get the contractor out. Thats certainly the way Lloyds read it. I 
appreciate that they didnt get the replacement iPad dealt with immediately. I would have 
expected Lloyds to deal with the matter as sympathetically and as urgently as possible, and I 
think it did that.
 
I dont think Mrs W was to blame for addressing the first email wrongly. I was making the 
point that Lloyds wouldnt have received it.
As to the cover on their policy Ive checked all the insurance documents. Weve also clarified 
the position with Lloyds. Theres is no home emergency cover, and as I noted in my 
provisional findings, this was explained to her in 2017 when she enquired about a previous 
claim. There is cover for emergency access mentioned in the policy schedule, but thats 
something quite different, covering damage by forced entry by the fire, police or ambulance 
services to deal with a medical emergency or when preventing damage to property. Mr and Mrs W should bear the lack of emergency cover in mind, if they want to be protected in the 
event of needing to take out this type of cover.
Lloyds doesnt employ a company to run the helpline. Its a service offered in conjunction 
with the policy, but it is operated by a different insurer.
With regard to Lloyds claim line, it was closed for two days during an unprecedented 
emergency situation. The claim line isnt intended to be an emergency line, its open 
normally Mondays to Fridays 8am to 6pm and Saturdays 9am to 1pm. The emergency 
helpline was in operation. And Lloyds did acknowledge Mrs Ws difficulty in making a claim 
and paid her £75 compensation for that.
With regard to their policy renewal, the Equality Act whilst imposing a duty to make 
reasonable adjustments for disability, also sets out situations, like the one I quoted where an 
insurer is able to justify treating disabled persons differently. I think the renewal of the policy 
here is one of those situations.
So overall, Im afraid Im unable to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. To be clear this means 
that I wont be asking Lloyds to take any further steps or pay any compensation.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman