DRN-2882678
The complaint
In summary, E has complained that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI), didnt pay two direct 
debits (DD) from its business bank account. As a result, it says two unpaid direct debit fees 
were applied to the account. It also says it took several months and significant 
correspondence for the fees to be refunded.
What happened
Miss A runs a business as a sole trader under the name of E. This complaint is brought by E. 
Miss A and E are represented by Mr K. Ill therefore refer to Mr K throughout this decision for 
ease of reference.
In October 2019 two DD payments werent paid from Es bank account. BOI explained that 
this was because there would have been insufficient funds in the account to meet the direct 
debits. This was a result of the account overdraft limit having been exceeded. 
Mr K said that £200 had been paid into the account to cover the direct debits, so they 
shouldnt have been stopped. He raised his concerns with BOI.
BOI didnt accept that it had done anything wrong. It told Mr K that if he thought the DDs had 
been taken on the wrong date, he would need to speak to the merchants. But as a gesture of 
goodwill it agreed to refund one of the charges.
BOI later realised that Mr K had spoken to a customer service agent. It acknowledged that 
he had been given assurances that both of the charges would be refunded.
Mr K then complained to BOI about the refunds not having been paid into Es bank account. 
In its response, BOI apologised that the refunds hadnt been credited to the bank account. It 
confirmed both refunds had now been made. 
E referred its concerns to our service. Initially one of our investigators thought that the 
complaint was one we couldnt consider, as it hadnt been made in time. It was then 
discovered that the complaint had been brought to our service in time, under a different 
complaint reference. BOI then agreed that we could look into the complaint. 
Our investigator then wrote to Mr K explaining why she didnt think BOI had done anything 
wrong, as she thought the charges had been applied correctly. And the refunds were a 
gesture of goodwill. 
Mr K then wrote to the investigator explaining why he didnt agree with what she had said. 
The case has now been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I set out my findings in relation to this complaint, I want to make it clear that I am 
aware that E has raised other points of complaint about actions BOI has taken in respect of 
its bank account. Those concerns have been looked into in a separate complaint. So, my 
decision only addresses the complaint that Ive summarised above. 
Ive looked carefully at the circumstances surrounding the two failed DD payments in 
October 2019. In terms of when the DDs are taken by the merchants, that is something the 
merchant requests. So, Im satisfied that BOI isnt responsible for the timing of when the 
payments were requested.
In respect of the payments having failed, I can see that when the first payment was 
requested on 7 October 2019, the account was overdrawn by more than the agreed 
overdraft limit. And that was still the case when the second payment was requested on 8 
October 2019. I accept that the account was overdrawn by a very small amount over the 
agreed overdraft limit. But it was still over the overdraft limit that had been agreed on the 
account. And the DD payments would have increased the amount in excess of the agreed 
overdraft limit. So, I cant say that BOI has done anything wrong about the DD payments not 
being made.
Mr K has said that the DDs should have been paid, as additional funds had been paid into 
the account. There was a payment of £200 paid into the account on 9 October 2019, but that 
was after the DD payments had been requested, and not paid due to insufficient funds to 
make the payments at those times. 
Mr K is also dissatisfied that having agreed to refund the charges, he thinks that there were 
delays in those charges being reimbursed. And he says he was inconvenienced in having to 
chase for those charges to be reimbursed. 
BOI has explained that it agreed to refund the charges as a gesture of goodwill. And from 
what Ive seen that does appear to be the case. It has accepted though that the refunds 
werent made when they should have been. And I can see from Es bank statements that the 
charges refunds were made in November and December 2019.
But BOI didnt have to make the payments as a result of anything it had done wrong. It made 
the payments a s a gesture of goodwill. But it agreed they hadnt been refunded when they 
should have been. I accept that Mr K on behalf of E had to chase the refunds. But given the 
circumstances in which the refunds were made that Ive set out above, I dont think BOI 
needs to do anything more than its already done. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is not to uphold Es complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman