DRN-2364974
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Bank of Scotland plc has refused to agree to extend the term of 
their interest only mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out an interest only mortgage with BOS in 2002, over a term of 14 years. 
The mortgage expired in 2016, and BOS agreed to extend the term for a further three year 
period. 
When the extended term ended in 2019 Mr and Mrs M requested a further term extension. 
But BOS did not agree to the extension. In its final response letter it said that an income and 
expenditure review had been carried out and had found that it wasnt affordable for them to 
convert to a repayment basis on a new term. But it understood that Mr and Mrs M had 
sufficient investments in place to repay the debt although that they didnt want to cash those 
in yet. It said that unless they repaid the mortgage, either by cashing in the investments or 
refinancing elsewhere, the only option it could offer was for them to place the property on 
sale with a six month grace period for marketing followed by a further six months to sell the 
property.  
BOS also explained that its policy and processes regarding interest only lending had 
tightened over recent months. And it said it couldnt place an indefinite interest only 
extension on the account until such time as the property was ready to be sold as this could 
be several years away, and it would have no control over other events that could happen in 
that timeframe which could affect further the ability to repay the debt.
Mr M spoke to BOS again to ask it to reconsider its decision. He felt that he had extenuating 
circumstances which BOS may not have been aware of. In particular, he said that he and   
Mrs M had lost a court case which had had financial implications. And he said that they had 
an elderly relative living with them in the property, and so it was inappropriate to sell at this 
time.
BOS responded to Mr M. But it said that it had had full oversight of Mr and Mrs Ms situation 
before providing them with the options available. So it wasnt persuaded to change its 
decision. 
Mr and Mrs M referred their complaint to this service.
Our investigator felt that BOS had dealt with Mr and Mrs Ms complaint fairly. She said, in 
summary, that she understood that Mr and Mrs M had investments, savings and a pension 
that they could cash in to cover the mortgage, but that they didnt want to do so at this time. 
But as the mortgage contract had come to an end, BOS had the right to ask for its money 
back. And she didnt think it had acted unfairly by doing so.
Mr and Mrs M do not agree with our investigators view. Mr M says in particular that BOS 
has previously agreed a term extension, and so can do so again. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments Ive reached the same 
conclusions as our investigator, and for much the same reasons. I appreciate that this will 
come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs M, so Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
When Mr and Mrs M took out the mortgage in 2002, it was for a period of 14 years. Under 
the terms of the mortgage BOS was entitled to receive its money back at the end of that 
time. And, although BOS agreed to extend the term for a further three years, this doesnt 
mean that it is required to extend the term again. BOS says, and I accept, that its policy has 
changed since it originally agreed the term extension. 
However, BOS has a duty to treat Mr and Mrs M fairly and to follow relevant rules and 
guidance  not just its own policy. The rules that apply to the extension of an interest only 
mortgage would allow BOS to agree to extend the term of the mortgage without regard to the 
usual rules on affordability if it felt it was in Mr and Mrs Ms best interests to do so. That is 
what I would expect BOS to have considered. And I appreciate that Mr and Mr M feel that it 
would be in their best interest to extend the term for the reasons they have given. 
But Mr and Mrs M would pay more interest by extending the term, whereas they have the 
means to pay back the mortgage now and save that additional interest. And I cant be certain 
how their circumstances might change in the future and affect their ability to repay at a later 
date. Equally, they could well find themselves in a similar position in a few years time and 
not want to sell  and I dont think it would be fair in this case to require BOS to extend their 
mortgage term indefinitely. So, in the circumstances, Im not persuaded that BOS has made 
an error or treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly by not agreeing the term extension. 
In its response to Mr and Mrs M BOS said it will allow time for them to market and sell the 
property themselves. Its clear that Mr and Mrs M arent ready to sell, but that is avoidable in 
this case as they have the means to repay the mortgage.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman