DRN-3028876
complaint
This complaint is about the commission element paid on a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy taken out with a credit card, back in 2005. It seems Mr H complained some 
years ago about the PPI being mis-sold. We looked at the circumstances and told Mr H we 
didnt think wed uphold the complaint  we didnt think it had been mis-sold and the 
complaint was closed. 
This was all as far back as 2013, but I see several years later Mr H later engaged the 
services of a claims company who brought an associated complaint, specifically in relation to 
the commission element (only). It said Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, should pay 
him back all the commission it had received for the entire length of the policy.
To keep things consistent, Ill refer mainly to Halifax.
background
One of our adjudicators more recently looked into the commission only issue and they noted 
that although Halifax doesnt accept it did anything wrong in relation to the commission it 
obtained, it has since made an offer to Mr H as if it had. The adjudicator thought this offer to 
pay back some of the cost of the commission was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Hs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Hs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Hs complaint.
non-disclosure of commission
Ive only considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether this 
resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act, and if so, 
what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness. Weve made this very clear to 
his representatives.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax did not need to disclose the commission it received 
under the rules that apply  but in any event I note its offered to pay back some of the cost 
of PPI, so theres nothing more it needs to do in my opinion. 
was there an unfair relationship?
Mr Hs representative made a number of points about this part of the complaint including the 
impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act on 
his complaint. In summary they said Mr H should get back all the money he paid for the 
policy because Halifax failed to tell him about the high commission and profit-share rates 
paid, the low claims ratio, and the typical restrictions / exclusions on cover. They say these 
things meant the policy was poor value. 
However, in this case, Halifax has shown us that the commission for Mr Hs PPI was less 
than half of what he paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Halifax has worked this out 
and based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mr Hs case was less 
than half the cost of the PPI, and therefore below the threshold mentioned in the rules about 
compensating consumers.
As thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which require a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think Halifax needed to tell Mr H about the commission levels in this particular case. It 
follows that I dont think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship and I dont 
therefore think Halifax treated Mr H unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mr H back 
any of the commission he paid for the PPI. 
However, in any event, Halifax has since offered to give back to Mr H some of the cost of the 
PPI to compensate Mr H as if it had treated him unfairly. I therefore dont think it needs to do 
anything more.
my decision
Weve already told Mr H some years ago that the mis-sale element of his complaint wasnt 
upheld.
And I too have more recently noted that Bank of Scotland plc didnt need to disclose the 
commission it received. But as it has already offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI 
to Mr H, I think it should therefore now make arrangements to pay him, if it hasnt done so 
already.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman