DRN-3803078
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complain that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund the money that they didnt 
receive from a cash machine.
What happened
Mr S explains that he wanted to withdraw £40 on 22 July 2021. He says he received this 
amount in cash from a machine. But he later noticed that £400 had been debited from their 
account and that this was what his receipt showed too.
Lloyds said it wouldnt be refunding the money. It had made a temporary refund of £360 but 
removed this when the cash machine owner had provided evidence to show that the money 
was dispensed. It recognised that Mr S was distressed at what happened and paid him £100 
as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr S had explained that he 
normally only withdrew about £40 and was sure that this is what he had done that day too. 
But the information Lloyds had provided showed the money had been correctly dispensed. 
And that there were no issues with the machine that could account for this dispute. So, he 
wasnt going to ask Lloyds to do anything more and noted that it had paid a gesture of 
goodwill.
Mr S didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said he wasnt a thief and 
didnt have this money. He hadnt used a cash machine like this since. Mr S didnt think 
Lloyds would have believed him even if he had gone to a branch about this straightaway. He 
was concerned that if he didnt pursue this further it would make him look like he had taken 
the money. This was also a significant amount of money to lose. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely.
Lloyds has provided the information Id expect to see about the disputed payment to support 
that it was correctly dispensed. Ive seen a journal from the cash machine showing the 
entries before and after this one too. It shows the amount debited and the remaining balance 
in the account which ties up to their bank statement. Ive also seen a report from the 
machine operator about the balancing of the machine. There was no discrepancy that could 
have accounted for this dispute at that time. There were no other issues with the machine at 
the time of the withdrawal.
Ive considered Mr S testimony and can see as he says that this isnt a typical withdrawal for 
him. I note hed taken out £40 the day before at a different machine. And came back to the 
machine in question here on 30 July 2021 to take out he says £40. A transfer into this 
account had been made by Mr S and Mrs S on 7 August 2021 of £400 to avoid it going 
overdrawn. And Mr S explains that hed also seen the entry when he received his statement.
The notes from Lloyds state that when he first raised this is August 2021 hed said that hed 
given this money to a family member. And so, the dispute was closed on 11 August 2021. 
But Mr S says he realised that this wasnt correct the next month and made a complaint. The 
money was refunded on a temporary basis on 8 September 2021 and re-debited on 27 
September 2021. Mr S was paid £100 as a gesture of goodwill.
I need to balance all the factors here. Having done so I dont have a reasonable basis to find 
that Lloyds made a mistake based on the information its supplied and so should refund this 
money. In making that finding I want to say that I dont think other than Mr S has brought the 
complaint in good faith. And I think Lloyds recognised that in paying him compensation for 
his distress. Even so I can appreciate how disappointed he will be by my assessment.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman