DRN-2892397
The complaint
Mr F has complained about Shop Direct Finance Company Limited. He feels that Shop 
Direct didnt update his credit file when it should have done.
What happened
In May 2021 I issued my provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I 
thought about that. This forms part of my final decision which Ive summarised below.
Mr F held an account with Shop Direct which defaulted in 2017 and it reported this on his 
credit file. And when Shop Direct sold the debt to a third party it failed to remove the default 
from Mr Fs credit file when it should have done.
Mr F became aware that incorrect information was recorded about him when he started 
looking for a mortgage in the early part of 2020. He complained to Shop Direct as he felt that 
it failed to remove the default when it should have done. When Mr F raised his concerns 
Shop Direct amended his credit file, apologised for its error and awarded £50 compensation.
But as Mr F still wasnt happy about this and the way it dealt with his concerns when he 
raised them with Shop Direct he complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. Although she 
accepted that Shop Direct got things wrong she thought its apology and offer of £50 
compensation was a fair way for Shop Direct to put things right.
Mr F didnt agree. He maintained that the months of stress and inconvenience caused by the 
incorrect information being recorded against him meant that the £50 offer of compensation 
wasnt sufficient. So, the matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As it isnt disputed that Shop Direct made a mistake and failed to remove the default from 
Mr Fs credit file when it shouldve done for a number of years I dont propose to go over the 
detail of this. The only thing left for me to consider is whether Shop Directs offer of £50 
compensation, alongside an apology, goes far enough. And I dont think it does, Ill explain 
why.
I dont have sufficient information before me to say that the impact of Shop Directs failure to 
remove the default from Mr Fs file caused any failure to gain a mortgage. And I think Mr F 
would have told us about this and provided more detail if this was the case. But I do have 
enough to say that it caused Mr F a great deal of embarrassment as he has outlined. And 
when he asked Shop Direct about this, at an already difficult time for him, it failed to get a 
manager to call him back when it had agreed to and gave him poor service generally. I know 
Shop Direct has explained why all of this happened, but I still think it made things worse for 
Mr F at a difficult time.
Given all of this Im currently minded to increase the level of compensation by a further £150. 
I say this as I dont think Shop Directs offer sufficiently compensates Mr F for the stress, 
inconvenience and embarrassment of realising he had an incorrect credit mark against his 
name, especially as he was looking to get a new mortgage. And I think the level of service 
provided to Mr F when he made Shop Direct aware of its error compounded things.
So, subject to any further representations I get from both sides, Im currently minded to 
uphold this complaint and award £200 (total) in compensation.
Replies
Both sides responded to my provisional decision and accepted the proposed settlement. Mr 
F accepted the position outlined and said that the original cheque for £50 had been returned. 
While Shop Direct just confirmed that they accepted the provisional decision and the 
increase in compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont propose to go over the details again as I havent been provided with 
any further information to consider. And as both sides have accepted my provisional 
decision I remain of the view that the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular 
circumstances of this case, is to increase the compensation level as outlined above. And 
Shop Direct should incorporate the original £50 in its £200 payment now. 
 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. And I require Shop Direct 
Finance Company Limited trading as Littlewoods to pay Mr F £200 (total) in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman