DRN-2373300
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the service Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 money 
(118 188) provided when he was trying to access his credit card account via the online 
application.
What happened
On 19 July 2020 Mr W tried to view his credit card statements via his online application but 
was unable to do so. Mr W was very worried as he had been locked out of his account 
before due to concerns regarding his account being hacked. So, Mr W contacted 118 118 to 
discuss the issue.
The adviser explained they were upgrading the system, but they couldnt confirm how long it 
would take. As a result, they couldnt explain when the online services would be available 
again. The adviser told Mr W to try the application in a couple of hours, and if it wasnt 
working, he would need to check it again the next day.
Mr W was unhappy with this as he feels 118 118 should have been able to give a clear 
timescale for when the online application would be working again. So, Mr W complained to 
118 118.
118 118 looked into Mr Ws complaint. It said that on 19 July, it identified a technical issue 
which meant that its credit card customers were unable to view their account details in the 
mobile application. However, it didnt stop customers ability to use their card and customers 
were also able to use telephone banking. 118 118 apologised for the error and the 
inconvenience it may have caused.
Mr W remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into his complaint, but she felt 118 118 had done enough by apologising to Mr W. Mr W 
didnt agree, so the case was passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why.
I appreciate that Mr W would have been inconvenienced by the fact he was unable to check 
his credit card statements in his online application. However, when I go on to consider the 
impact this would have had on him, Im satisfied it doesnt warrant financial compensation. I 
say this because Mr W was still able to use his credit card. He also could have used 
telephone banking to check his statements if he wished to do so. Therefore, while Mr W was 
inconvenienced, he still had alternative options to achieve what he set out to do. In addition 
to this, the issue was resolved the following day and mobile banking resumed.
I have also considered the service Mr W received when he called 118 118 on the same day 
to discuss the issue.
I understand that Mr W wanted an exact timeframe as to when the mobile banking 
application would be up and running, but this information wasnt available. 118 118s credit 
cards are run by a third-party provider, and an issue with their systems meant customer 
information wasnt showing accurately on 118 118s mobile banking application. This 
technical issue is the reason 118 118s systems needed to be upgraded, and it was unaware 
when Mr W called up when the issue would be resolved. On occasions technical 
maintenance is required to ensure banking systems provide accurate and up to date 
information and a better service overall for its customers. So, I dont consider 118 118 
treated Mr W unfairly when it tried to resolve the issue with its system.
Having listened to the call, I am satisfied the adviser acted professionally. They were unable 
to advise a timescale as 118 118 wasnt aware how long it would take to complete the 
update. If theyd proceeded to give Mr W a timeframe, they would have been providing 
inaccurate information which in turn could have caused further inconvenience to Mr W.
So overall, I am satisfied that 118 118 has explained why its mobile banking application 
wasnt working on 19 July 2020, and why it was unable to give Mr W a specific timeframe of 
when it would be up and running again. It has apologised for the inconvenience caused, and 
I think that is satisfactory for the reasons I have explained above. So, I wont be asking it 
to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman