DRN-3032191
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited didnt respond to his claim against it 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mr G bought solar panels for his home in 2013. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Shawbrook, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr G into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
After the complaint was referred to us, Shawbrook made an offer of settlement. It effectively 
accepted there had been a misrepresentation and offered to make the outstanding balance 
of the loan interest free until it was paid off. 
Mr G was not happy with this as he felt he was due some compensation. Our adjudicator 
thought that the offer of settlement was reasonable. Because Mr G was still unhappy the 
complaint has been passed to an ombudsman. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook is familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
dont consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Shawbrook has effectively accepted that there was a misrepresentation and it needs to put 
things right. I asked Shawbrook to provide the details of how it worked out its offer of 
settlement to check this was fair. But Shawbrook has not responded within a reasonable 
time. So, Im issuing this decision to set out exactly what Shawbrook must do to put things 
right in a fair and reasonable way. 
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Gs complaint for Shawbrook to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr G from the solar 
panels over the term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel 
system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr G is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Shawbrook needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mr G by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Shawbrook 
to restructure Mr Gs loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr G in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the original term of the loan.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr G have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr G and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr G and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr G accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr G has settled the loan, Shawbrook should pay him the difference between what he paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr G has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Shawbrook and Shawbrook should: 
1. Refund the extra Mr G paid each month with the Shawbrook loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr G receives his refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr G paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr G receives his refund.
5. Pay Mr G the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he wouldve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr G first 
contacted Shawbrook that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that 
Shawbrook should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman