DRN-1317684
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy with the charges Santander UK Plc has applied on her current account 
over the past six years.  
What happened
In October 2019, Miss R complained to Santander that it was charging her too much on her 
current account as she was in financial difficulty. She asked it to refund all charges applied 
over the past six years and stop any future charges. Santander said the charges were 
applied in line with the terms of the account so it wouldn't stop or refund them. It gave 
Miss R details of an internal team which could help if she was in financial difficulty and 
signposted her to some debt advice charities.
Unhappy with Santander's response, Miss R referred her complaint to our service. She told 
us Santander hadn't met its regulatory obligations. But our investigator didn't uphold her 
complaint. He found Santander had applied the fees in line with the terms of the 
account. And he thought it had done enough to support Miss R in light of her financial 
situation. For example, he pointed out that Santander had refunded some of Miss R's fees in 
the past. He didn't recommend that Santander should stop or refund any charges. 
Miss R didn't accept our investigator's view. She said she was a long-time customer of 
Santander and it could afford to return her charges  which would be the only way for her to 
get out of her overdraft. Her case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've come to the same 
outcome as our investigator  and for largely the same reasons. 
Miss R says Santander hasn't met its obligations under section 5.1.14 of the Financial 
Conduct Authority's Banking Conduct of Business Sourcebook (BCOBS). This says that, if a 
consumer claims that a payment hasn't been correctly executed, it's down to the firm "to 
prove that the payment was authenticated, accurately recorded, entered in the firm's 
accounts and not affected by a technical breakdown or some other deficiency". I'm not 
convinced this has any bearing on Miss R's case, however, as she's disputing 
charges rather than payments. She also hasn't indicated that any specific charges have 
been executed incorrectly. Ultimately, from the evidence I've seen, I'm satisfied her charges 
have been applied correctly and in line with the terms and conditions of the contract she 
entered into with the bank. Nevertheless, Ive gone on to consider whether they were fairly 
applied in the circumstances.
 
Miss R alleges that Santander has breached its regulatory duty under Section 9 of the 
Lending Code (later replaced by The Standards of Lending Practice). Broadly speaking, in 
line with longstanding good industry practice and Santander's regulatory duties 
(including section 7.3 of the Consumer Credit Sourcebook [CONC]), I'd expect it to treat Miss R with forbearance and due consideration in periods when the bank wasor should 
reasonably have beenaware that she was experiencing financial difficulty.
During the period I'm considering, Miss R appears to have been managing her account well. 
All but one of the charges shes disputing were for using her arranged overdraft. I dont think 
it would or should have been concerning for Santander that Miss R was, on occasion, 
making use of a lending facility that it had approved.
There was only one occasion when Miss R exceeded her overdraft limit. She was charged 
for this  but a Supreme Court ruling in November 2009 (Office of Fair Trading v Abbey 
National plc & Others [2009] UKSC 6) makes it clear that charges of this type generally cant 
be challenged on the basis theyre too high/unfair. I do have an obligation to take account of 
the law; and whilst were not strictly bound by it because of our fair and reasonable 
jurisdiction, we wouldn't lightly ignore such weighty an authority as the Supreme Court, the 
highest in the UK.
The occasion when Miss R breached her overdraft limit occurred back in November 2017. 
She only exceeded her limit by around £15, and the balance was brought back within her 
limit the next day. I wouldn't have expected Santander to realise she was in financial 
difficulty based on her account management. I therefore dont consider it unfair to have 
applied the charges it did. 
Additionally, in instances when Miss R did contact Santander about her financial situation or 
the impact of charges, it offered some refunds. It refunded and waived charges following 
a complaint she raised back in 2013. Its records show it offered a further refund in April 
2014. Im satisfied this demonstrates that Santander has treated Miss R with forbearance 
when appropriate. But these non-contractual gestures don't set precedents that the bank is 
bound to follow thereafter. It will assess each case individually based on the facts and 
circumstances as then exist. 
Miss R has let us know about the difficult circumstances she's currently facing, including a 
recent reduction in her income. I'm very sorry to hear about Miss R's circumstances, and I 
want to reassure her I've taken these into account when considering Santander's 
response. When she contacted it about her situation, it gave her details of an internal team 
which she can speak to if she needs further support. It also directed her to some 
organisations providing free debt advice. Firms aren't obliged to refund charges in response 
to allegations of financial difficulty  there are a range of things they can do to help. 
Santander's response gives Miss R the option of seeking further support if she needs it. 
Overall, I'm satisfied Santander has applied her charges fairly, reasonably and in line with 
the terms and conditions of the contract. It has also provided a reasonable level of support to 
Miss R in relation to her financial situation  in line with principles of good industry practice 
and regulatory guidance. So I'm not persuaded Santander should be compelled by the 
Financial Ombudsman Service to refund any more charges or waive them going forward. If it 
wishes to make further gestures due to Miss R's situationwith which I empathisethen I'm 
afraid that must be a matter for the bank's discretion and goodwill at this point in time. Our 
role isn't to make political decisions such as redistributing wealth because a customer is in 
financial hardship whereas a bank 'can afford it'; it's to remedy wrongdoing impartially.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 February 2020.
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman