DRN-2642322
The complaint
Mr T complains about the decision Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G)
made to terminate his income protection claim.
What happened
Mr T is covered by his employers group income protection scheme. The scheme provides
benefit in the event the insured is incapacitated from performing the duties of their own
occupation. This would mean the insured would be unable to perform their occupation for
any employer, not just the employer they were with, at the time they became incapacitated.
Mr T first became absent from work in February 2016 due to work related stress. He was
signed off work by his GP and anti-depressant medication was prescribed.
An independent medical examination (IME) took place in May 2017 that described the
symptoms of acute stress which led to depression. Barriers to return to work were noted as
workplace related. In June 2017, a diagnosis of Generalised Anxiety Disorder (GAD) was
made and Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) was recommended along with a
consultation with a psychiatrist.
In July 2017, L&G accepted the claim, and Mr T was referred for CBT. From May 2017 to
August 2018, Mr T had consultations and received treatment. He was seen by various
specialists who confirmed at the time that he wasnt capable of returning to his insured role.
Mr T had also shown signs of Agitated Disorder (AD) and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder
(PTSD) but not enough to confirm diagnosis of these. He completed his CBT sessions and a
rehabilitation specialist reported in August 2018 that hed shown improvements and was no
longer receiving therapy. The report said Mr T had transferrable skills and had the capability
to undertake a suitable alternative role with support.
L&G undertook a review in January 2019. It obtained relevant medical information from the
practitioners who were involved in Mr Ts care and referred him for an IME with a Chief
Medical Officer (CMO). The IME report didnt support Mr Ts diagnosis of GAD, AD or PTSD.
It concluded that Mr T was capable of returning to the role he was insured for.
L&G said the report confirmed Mr T was now functioning well and there was no evidence of 
cognitive or physical impairment that would prevent him from returning to work in his
occupation with another employer. On that basis, L&G decided the claim was no longer valid
and the benefit payments ceased. The claim was terminated following the final benefit
payment in May 2019.
Mr T appealed the decision but following a further review, which included getting information
from Mr Ts GP, and referral to the CMO, L&G stood by its decision to end the claim.
Unhappy with L&G, Mr T brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it
and upheld the complaint. He thought L&G hadnt shown sufficiently that Mr T was capable
of returning to work without experiencing the debilitating symptoms the previous medical
professionals said hed suffered from. He therefore didnt think it was reasonable for L&G to
terminate the claim. He recommended L&G reinstate the claim and backdate this to the date
it was terminated.
L&G didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for the complaint to be referred to
an ombudsman. So, it was passed to me to review afresh.
I issued a provisional decision to both parties on 15 February 2021. I said the following:
The main issue on this complaint is that L&G has terminated the benefit payable to Mr T. To
clarify, my role is to look at whether this was carried out in line with the terms and conditions
of the policy and, in doing so, whether L&G treated Mr T fairly. The relevant rules and
industry guidelines say that L&G has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly,
and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
In order to terminate Mr Ts claim, it was for L&G to show that he no longer met the definition
of incapacity (that he couldnt perform the material and substantial duties of his occupation
because of illness). To put this in context, the key issue I need to decide is whether L&G has
shown Mr T was no longer incapacitated from being able to work anywhere at all, in his
insured role, or similar.
The relevant policy terms and conditions
The policy terms say that Mr T is entitled to benefits if he is a disabled member. To be a
disabled member he must meet the definition of incapacity which is defined in the policy
documents.
Mr T was insured for his own occupation. So, for Mr T to demonstrate he had a claim, he
needed to meet the following definition of incapacity:
the insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury that prevents him from
performing the essential duties of his occupation immediately before the start of the
deferred period. The insured members capacity to perform the essential duties of his
own occupation will be determined whether or not that occupation remains available
to him.
The policy says L&G is entitled to end the benefit if the insured member ceases to be a
disabled member.
Has L&G terminated the benefit unfairly?
Theres no dispute Mr T met the definition Ive referred to above when the claim was
accepted. And, as L&G ended the benefit, its for them to demonstrate this was fair and
reasonable in the circumstances.
My understanding is that the CBT sessions had been completed by February 2018 at which
point he was recommended a relapse plan to refer to if there were signs of symptoms
returning.
A few months later, in August 2018, a rehabilitation report was done to understand Mr Ts
health and medical situation. It indicated a turning point which showed an improvement
compared to the other consultations and assessments hed had before. Mr T said he felt
much better. He was no longer seeing a therapist but continued to refer to the relapse
prevention plan provided and was doing things that calmed him mentally. He continued
taking the anti-depressant medication, but my understanding is the dosage was reduced. In
terms of perceived barriers that prevented him from returning to work, Mr T perceived that hecouldnt return to the current role or anything of a cerebral nature or anything that was office
based or would expose him to any stressors.
The rehabilitation specialist said Mr Ts symptoms appeared to have improved as he was no
longer receiving therapy and he reported moderate low mood and mild anxiety. The report
further said Mr Ts absence was entirely related to work issues which impacted on his mental
health and said now the stressor had been removed, he had the potential to consider an
alternative role, along with discussing the case further. No rehabilitation potential was
recognised, and no further interviews were arranged. The opinion was that Mr Ts case
wasnt primarily medical and he continued to report stress type symptoms directly related to
his workplace issues.
In answer to the question on whether Mr T was medically fit to undertake an alternative role,
the specialist said Mr T was likely to have transferrable skills and the capability to undertake
a suitable alternative role with support.
Looking at the report and the questions asked of Mr T, I dont think it was unfair at this point
for L&G to seek an IME to further scope out whether to continue paying the benefit or to
terminate. This was a reasonable action to take based on the comments made in the
rehabilitation report, so the IME was requested to provide a fair assessment of Mr Ts
medical situation at the time.
I refer now to the IME requested by L&G and carried out in January 2019. The aim of the
report was to determine Mr Ts situation at that point in time, to comment on the potential for
return to work, to determine the medical diagnosis, and if so, whether Mr T still suffered
symptoms of the conditions evidenced previously and to assess his motivation to work. The
conclusion of the report was there was no reason related to illness showing Mr T was not
capable of going back to the role hes insured for via a phased return. It was reported there
were no symptoms identified of GAD, AD or PTSD. It further stated the barrier to return to
work was a reaction to the work environment and stress reaction associated with his
employer, that Mr T was functioning well, he showed no cognitive evidence of physical
impairment preventing him from returning to work. As such, based on the available evidence,
I dont think it was unfair for L&G to terminate the claim at this point. I say this because
theres evidence which shows reasonable improvement in Mr Ts health from February 2018
 when the rehabilitation report showed Mr T was capable of undertaking a suitable
alternative role with support. And in January 2019 - the date of the IME - it shows progress in
Mr Ts health to the extent that by that time, the CMOs opinion was that he was capable of
returning to the role he was insured for supported by a phased return.
I refer to the letter Mr Ts GP sent to L&G in May 2019. He sent this in support of Mr Ts
appeal for L&G to review its decision to terminate the claim. Ive reviewed the GP letter and
the consultants review. I cant see any additional supporting information about Mr Ts health
and the GPs comments about Mr Ts health didnt provide any new information to what has
been sent when the CMO did the assessment. While I understand the GP expressed
concerns in Mr Ts capability to return to work, I cant see that he questioned the medical
evidence reported in the IME or provided any reasoning as to why he thought otherwise.
The medical evidence shows Mr Ts health improved and from the reports provided, I cant
see there was any medical reason preventing him from returning to his insured role.
I appreciate there is historic evidence of illness, which Ive considered carefully. And I do
understand Mr T was too ill to carry out the role hes insured for at the time, but the recent
medical evidence shows he is now capable of doing this. I havent seen anything to suggest
otherwise and as L&G is entitled to review the situation of the claim, on balance, Im not
persuaded that the decision it made to terminate the benefit was not in line with the termsand conditions of the policy. Im also not persuaded that L&G acted unfairly in doing so. It
follows that I dont intend to uphold the complaint and I dont intend to ask L&G to do
anything further.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. 
L&G agreed with it and said it had nothing further to add. 
Mr T responded and didnt agree. He said in summary:
The findings fail to consider his continuing condition at all. The IME says he doesnt 
have a diagnosis when previous reports said he did. He says his actual condition has 
been ignored;
The terms of the policy mean returning to work to a similar previous role which is 
stressful and involves high level of contact with people. He says he cant do this;
The final report doesnt consider his condition when subjected to trigger situations. 
The ombudsman hasnt considered this or his GPs confirmation of his ongoing need 
for medication, which should be central to the decision.
So, I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As confirmed in my provisional decision, I thought L&G terminated Mr Ts claim in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy. And I didnt think it treated Mr T unfairly in doing so. 
Ive taken account of Mr Ts further comments. They havent changed my thoughts and 
outcome of this complaint. Ill explain why. 
My response to his comments are as follows:
The findings fail to consider his continuing condition at all. The IME says Mr T doesnt 
have a diagnosis when previous reports said he did. Mr T says his actual condition 
has been ignored.
My understanding is that the report was carried out to assess Mr Ts health in January 2019. 
And one of its aims was to see whether he still suffered symptoms of the conditions 
evidenced previously. From what I can see, the CMO didnt see that he suffered the same 
symptoms as those experienced before and his medical condition was assessed. I dont 
agree therefore that his actual condition was ignored.
The terms of the policy mean that return to work means returning to a similar 
previous role which is stressful and involves a high level of contact with people. Mr T 
says he cant do this.
I appreciate Mr T says he cant return to work and I can understand why. Its important to 
note however the terms of the policy say L&G is entitled to review the situation of the claim. 
L&G has paid Mr T the benefit as, at the time of the initial claim, it recognised that he met the 
definition of a disabled member. Over time, Mr T has shown his health improved to the 
extent that a phased return was considered possible. L&G has only assessed as far as 
whether Mr T meets the definition of a disabled member and that was fair. I note from the information available Mr T had no intention of returning to work but that is different to 
whether he is entitled to claim the benefit under the terms of the policy. From what I can see, 
I dont think its unfair that L&G has terminated the claim.
The final report doesnt consider Mr Ts condition when subjected to trigger 
situations. The Ombudsman hasnt considered this or his GPs confirmation of his 
ongoing need for medication, which should be central to the decision
I confirm all of the information available on file has been considered, including Mr Ts 
ongoing need for medication. While I appreciate Mr T is continuing to take his medication, 
that doesnt necessarily mean he isnt capable of returning to his own occupation on a 
phased return.
Overall, in all the circumstances of this complaint, I see no reason from the further 
comments provided by Mr T, to depart from my provisional decision. Im satisfied L&G 
terminated Mr Ts in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and in doing sL&Go, it 
didnt treat Mr T unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint against Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman