DRN-1862177
The complaint
Mr M complains about a credit card he has with MBNA Limited.
What happened
Mr M has two credit card accounts with MBNA. But based on what Ive seen, Mr M is only 
complaining about one of these cards, card ending 7274. So in this decision, Ill be referring 
to that credit card account.
In January 2017, Mr M transferred a number of balances to his MBNA credit card  these 
balances were on a promotional rate of 0% until August 2020. In July 2018 Mr M made his 
monthly repayment late and so MBNA removed the promotional offer from his account. Mr M 
complained to MBNA about this. And MBNA reinstated the promotional offer. 
MBNA say that the reinstated promotional rate would apply to the balances he transferred 
for another 12 months. But Mr M says he was told that the promotional rate would apply for 
24 months. 
In July and August 2019, the promotional rates on the balances ended, and the balance on 
Mr Ms account was being charged at the standard rate of interest.
Mr M complains that he thought the balances would be on 0% until August 2020. He also 
says that MBNA have reported negative information about him to the credit reference 
agencies. Mr M says that late payment markers have been applied but he hasnt missed any 
payments. He says the negative information on his credit file could affect his career. He says 
he wants the negative information removed from his credit file and he wants compensation. 
MBNA responded to Mr M to say that when it reinstated the promotional offer, Mr M was told 
that this would be for 12 months. So it says it hasnt done anything wrong in ending the offer 
and charging him the standard variable rate on his balance. MBNA says that Mr M had made 
a number of late payments to the account. And so it has reported this information to the 
credit reference agencies. However, I have seen that MBNA refunded the interest on Mr Ms 
September 2019 statement as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M. Based on what hed seen, he agreed that the 
promotional rate was due to end in August 2019, and he was satisfied that MBNA had let Mr 
M know about this. Our investigator also found that Mr M has made some late payments to 
the account and so MBNA hadnt done anything wrong in reporting this to the credit 
reference agencies. 
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators opinion. He feels that MBNA has lied to him about 
the rate of interest it is charging him. And that MBNA has refused to help him pay off the 
balance on the account. Because Mr M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me 
to make a decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked into everything given to me by both parties, Im not upholding Mr Ms 
complaint. And Ill explain why below. 
MBNA has given me a copy of the call from when it agreed to reinstate the 0% promotional 
rate to Mr Ms account. Ive listened to the call in full, and I can hear that the representative 
explained that the rate would be applied for 12 months, and not 24 months like Mr M 
believes he was told. 
Ive also seen copies of Mr Ms monthly statements. These also confirmed that the 
promotional rates would end in 2019. In July 2019, Ive seen information from MBNAs 
internal systems that show a text message that was sent to Mr M to remind him that the 
promotional rate was due to end the following month. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I think MBNA let Mr M know that the 0% rate would end 
in 2019. And I don't think it was unfair of MBNA to do this. And so I won't be asking MBNA to 
extend the promotional rate on the balances and I won't be asking MBNA to refund the 
interest he has been charged on these balances.
In relation to the late payment information on Mr Ms credit file. The terms and conditions of 
Mr Ms account say:
You must pay at least the minimum payment each month and this must reach your account 
by the payment due date .... If the minimum payment is not made in accordance with these 
conditions .... We will let credit reference agencies know you have not paid and this may 
make it more difficult for you to get credit
These terms and conditions are similar to those found in most agreements and I dont find 
these to be unusual or unfair. 
Mr M has sent me part of his credit file to show that MBNA has reported late payments. So I 
now need to decide if MBNA were fair to do this. 
Looking at the payments Mr M made to his account, I can see that he has made late 
payments. I have listed these below:
A minimum payment of £184.92 was due to be paid on 7 October 2019. A payment 
wasnt made on this date and a payment of £200 was made on 23 October 2019  so 
this payment was late. 
A minimum payment of £251.92 was due on 7 November 2019. No payment was 
made to the account in November 2019  so this payment was missed. 
A minimum payment of £227.57 was due on 6 December 2019. This wasnt paid until 
19 December 2019 when Mr M paid £500, so the payment was made late.
 
Based on the above, Im satisfied that Mr M made some payments late to the account. I 
appreciate that Mr M sometimes made payments that were over the minimum that was due. 
But ultimately the payments were still made late.
MBNA has a duty to report information to the credit reference agencies that is accurate. This 
is because other lenders use this information to decide whether or not they want to lend to a 
borrower  so its important that any information that is recorded is a true reflection of the 
account. As Ive said, Im satisfied that Mr M made some late payments to the account and 
so Im not going to tell MBNA to remove this information with the credit reference agencies.Mr M has also made reference to the fact that MBNA hasnt helped him. From what Ive 
seen, I cant see that Mr M has made this complaint to MBNA. Or that he has asked it for 
help if hes struggling financially. For this reason, I think MBNA needs the opportunity to help 
Mr M. And so if Mr M needs assistance with repaying the balance on the account, hell need 
to speak to MBNA about this first.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I'm not upholding Mr M's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman