DRN-2400934
The complaint
Ms F complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wrongly allowed her to transfer 
£50,000 to a third party which it knew was in financial difficulties (and later became 
insolvent), and in disregard of a daily transaction limit of £25,000.
What happened
In 2018 Ms F visited a branch of Halifax to transfer £50,000 to a builder as a deposit for 
building a house. She knew that the daily transaction limit was £25,000 and so she expected 
this to take two days, but the staff member transferred the whole amount at once. He then 
told her that she should beware of builders whose wives have left them. Six months later, 
the builder entered into insolvency without completing the work.
Ms F complained to Halifax, saying that the transfer should not have been allowed, because 
it had exceeded the daily limit and also because the bank had known that the builder was in 
financial difficulty. This was based not only on the staff members comment to her, but also 
because the builder was also a customer of Halifax.
Halifax denied that it had had any reason to know that the builder had been in financial 
difficulty, let alone that he would become insolvent months later. It said the builders financial 
details and relationship would not have been readily accessible to branch staff. It accepted 
that the daily transaction limit had been exceeded and that this had been an error, but it 
suggested that if the limit had been observed then Ms F would just have returned the next 
day to complete the transfer of funds. It said the transfer had been made to a legitimate 
business that had still been trading at the time, and so there had been no reason to stop the 
transfer.
Halifax apologised and paid £200 compensation for its staff members comment, which it 
accepted had been distasteful, and also for a mistake in its original final response letter, in 
which it had wrongly said that the building work had been completed. But it did not agree to 
refund the £50,000.
Ms F brought this complaint to our service, but our investigator did not uphold it. He did not 
think that the staff members comment meant that he had known something about the 
builder. He said the daily transaction limit was not a legal limit but only a Halifax policy, and 
the bank had been entitled to override it. He thought £200 was fair compensation for the 
matters for which it had been awarded. Ms F asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Although Halifaxs daily transaction limit was the banks own policy and not a legal or 
regulatory requirement, I still think that to allow Ms F to exceed it was an error. That is 
because I would expect bank staff to follow the banks policy, and it does not appear that the 
branch staff had the authority to override it. Halifax accepts that it should not have 
happened. But I agree with the bank and the investigator that if Ms F had only been allowed 
to transfer £25,000 that day, she would certainly have returned the next day to transfer the 
rest. She has told us that she had been intending to do that, and she did not find out about 
the builders problems until much later.
I do not think that the warning about builders whose wives have left them had the sinister 
meaning which Ms F has inferred it to have. I think this mainly because I accept that the 
branch staff did not have access to any information Halifax held about the state of the 
builders finances, or about his relationship status. (Indeed, there is no evidence that the 
builder was divorced.) But I also note that Ms F has told us that the comment was made at 
the same time as the staff member handed her a leaflet warning her about scams. I think the 
timing of the remark indicates that it was meant as a joke, rather than indicating that the 
person who said it really knew something.
So I accept that Halifax did not have some inside knowledge which it kept from Ms F. But 
even if I had taken a different view about that, it does not follow that the bank would have 
had a duty to stop the transfer. The bank also owed a duty of confidentiality to its other 
customer, the builder, and it cannot take sides between its customers. If it did, then the 
builder would have been able to bring his own complaint against the bank.
It is unfortunate that the banks first final response letter suggested that the building work 
had been completed, when this was not the case. Ms F must surely have felt that this added 
insult to injury. But I think that £200 is fair compensation for that.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman