DRN-2562679
Complaint
Mrs P has complained about a logbook loan Greenlight Credit Ltd (trading as Varooma) 
provided to her. She says she was already in a financial mess and shouldnt have been lent 
to.
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mrs P and Varooma had told us. And he thought that 
Varooma hadnt done anything wrong or treated her unfairly. So he didnt uphold Mrs Ps 
complaint. Mrs P disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Ps complaint.
Varooma needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is Varooma needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Mrs P could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we typically 
think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we 
think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Varooma provided Mrs P with a logbook loan for £800 in August 2018. The loan had an APR 
of 197.16% and was to due be repaid in 18 instalments of £94.14, which meant the total 
amount to be repaid was £1,700.00. Varooma says it agreed to Mrs Ps application after she 
provided details of her monthly income and expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a soft credit search it carried out on Mrs P. 
The information Mrs P provided about her income and expenditure showed shed be able to 
make the repayments she was committing to. Varooma says, in these circumstances it was 
reasonable to lend to Mrs P. 
On the other hand, Mrs P has said she was in financial difficulty. Ive carefully thought about 
what Mrs P and Varooma have said. The first thing for me to say is that this was Mrs Ps first 
loan with Varooma. The information provided suggests Mrs P was asked to provide details of 
her income and expenditure. Its also important to note I cant see anything in the information 
obtained at the time which suggests Mrs P told Varooma about the payments shes now 
saying it should have known about. 
Varooma did carry out external checks and didnt simply rely on what it was told. It carried 
out a soft credit search which didnt show any defaults within the previous 12 months. And it 
crucially it looks like it asked Mrs P to provide bank statements too, which she provided 
screenshots of. Bearing in mind the amount of the repayments, and Mrs Ps lack of any 
previous lending with Varooma, I dont think it was unreasonable for Varooma to have 
proceeded on the basis of the information it obtained  especially as there wasnt anything 
immediately obvious in the bank statements to suggest that Mrs P wouldnt be able to make 
the payments she was committing to. 
I accept Mrs Ps actual circumstances at the time might have been worse than she let on. I 
know that she says she took out other lending in the period leading up to this application and 
I can see that she went on to default on other commitments. But the key here is that its only 
fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did 
something wrong. 
In this case, I dont think that Varooma did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mrs P - it 
obtained enough information to be able to make an informed decision on whether to provide 
this loan and the information it was provided with might not have told the whole story. 
Nonetheless Varooma reasonably relied on this information and given the amount of the 
repayments involved and its lack of history with Mrs P, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Varooma to provide this loan.
So overall I cant say that Varooma has acted unfairly towards Mrs P given all the 
circumstances and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mrs P. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman