DRN-1811683
The complaint
Mr G complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Close Brothers 
Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance (Close Brothers) was misrepresented to 
him and was not of satisfactory quality when supplied.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators opinion. I know that will come as a 
disappointment to Mr G so please let me explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr G acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Close Brothers, who are also the supplier of the car, 
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr G. The car here 
was around eleven years old and had already completed about 98,000 miles. I think a 
reasonable person would expect quite a bit of wear and tear on a car of that age and 
mileage and I think a reasonable person would also accept that there may have been a need 
to respray part, or all, of the car during that term, without the respray rendering the car 
unsatisfactory.
So, I dont think the damage Mr G has identified suggests the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality when provided and I can see that he has been able to drive the car a reasonable 
distance without complaint. So, I dont think the damage has unreasonably affected the 
functionality of the vehicle.
And, even if Im wrong about that, the relevant legislation says that goods cannot be of 
unsatisfactory quality if the fault would have been apparent on a reasonable examination of 
the car. I think here that it was reasonable to have expected Mr G to notice the fault when he 
was inspecting the car before he took receipt of it. I say that because Mr G has told us hes 
had difficulty selling the car because when anyone comes to view they immediately saw the 
fault. So, I dont think theres sufficient evidence this car was of unsatisfactory quality when 
supplied.
The relevant legislation also says that the car shouldnt have been misrepresented to Mr G. 
If it had been in a crash or if it had previously been stolen I think he should have been told 
about it. But the business has explained and provided evidence that the car has never been 
registered as stolen or in involved in a crash. In those circumstances it wouldnt be fair to say 
it had been misrepresented to Mr G and I dont think Close Brothers need to take any further 
action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman