DRN-3089551
Complaint
The complainant N (a limited company) is unhappy that PrePay Technologies Limited has 
recorded a Cifas marker against one of its directors. 
Background
N is a limited company which had an account with PrePay. In bringing this complaint, its 
represented by Mr C, a director of that company. In August 2020, it lost access to its 
account. PrePay sent a series of questions about its business activities to which Mr C 
responded. Shortly afterwards, PrePay decided to close the account and record a Cifas 
marker against Mr C. It hasnt told him or the company what its reasons for doing so were.
This decision came to light when Mr C attempted to open a personal account with a different 
business. He complained to PrePay. It responded but still declined to tell Mr C why it had 
decided to record a Cifas marker against his name. Its final response said:
Having reviewed our records, Im satisfied that the Team handling the review of your 
account have acted appropriately and in line with all relevant procedures. 
Unfortunately we cant provide you with any further information regarding the closure 
of the account. In respect of the CIFAS marker, we maintain that this has been 
correctly recorded and therefore, we recommend that you contact CIFAS directly 
regarding this issue.
Mr C was unhappy with this response and so he referred a complaint to this service which 
was allocated to an Investigator. Unfortunately, PrePay shared only limited information with 
the Investigator despite repeated requests. In August 2021, the Investigator issued her 
assessment and upheld the complaint.
She said that, in order to justify the loading of a Cifas marker, the firm had to comply with the 
requirements set out in its handbook. In particular, she made reference to Principle 4 which 
describes the evidential requirements that must be met if a firm is to take such a course of 
action. It says (amongst other things) that a Cifas marker should only be recorded against an 
individual consumer if there are reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime 
has been committed or attempted. It also says that the evidence must be clear, relevant and 
rigorous such that the member could confidently report the conduct of the Subject (in this 
case, Mr C) to the police.
While PrePay may have had suspicions about the way the account was being used, these 
requirements make it clear that mere suspicion is insufficient to justify loading a marker 
against a customer. 
The Investigator issued her assessment on 19 August 2021. On 6 September, PrePay 
contacted us to say it needed more time to respond substantively  but no response has 
been sent. On 29 September, the Investigator gave PrePay one last opportunity to make 
submissions with a deadline of 6 October. It did not respond to this either and so the 
complaint has been passed to me to consider.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines and 
that we may:
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information requested;
 And that:
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed 
with consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress 
or material inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he decides to 
make.
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of a response from PrePay, it is fair and 
reasonable to proceed on the basis of the evidence we already have and to take account of 
PrePays failure to reply to the investigators opinion. Ive considered whether the evidence 
considered by PrePay met the necessary standard of proof to justify loading a Cifas marker. 
From the evidence that it has shared with us, it has fallen some way short of that 
requirement and its decision to load the marker wasnt justified.
The investigator also recommended that PrePay pay £150 to N in recognition of the 
inconvenience it has endured in trying to have its concerns addressed. I find that to be a fair 
and reasonable sum in the circumstances. 
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. 
I direct PrePay Technologies Limited to:
Remove the CIFAS marker without delay.
Pay £150 to N without delay to take account of the inconvenience in resolving   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman