DRN-3031737
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about the advice she was given in 2015 to transfer the benefits from 
her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension plan (PPP). 
She says the advice was unsuitable for her and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In 2015 Mrs Ms former employer offered her an enhanced transfer value (ETV) if she 
agreed to transfer her pension benefits elsewhere. Mrs Ms employer put her in touch with 
an advisor called LEBC Group Limited who are an appointed representative of 
TenetConnect Limited (TenetConnect) to discuss her pension options. Mrs M then agreed to 
transfer her pension to a PPP. For ease of reading I will refer to TenetConnect throughout 
this decision.
TenetConnect completed a fact-find to gather information about Mrs Ms circumstances at 
the time of the advice. In summary it found:
She was aged 50, married and had no dependent children. 
She was in excellent health.
She was employed part time earning £6,000 per annum. 
Her target retirement age was 55.
She and her husband had a mortgage of £12,000 outstanding, there were four years 
left on the mortgage.
She had a defined contribution pension (DC) with an estimated value of around 
£5,000. 
Her husband also had a DB scheme with an estimated value of £300,000
Her husband had a stocks and shares ISA estimated to be worth £10,000  and he 
was making annual contributions of £1,200 into it. 
Mrs M also answered some questions to assess her attitude to risk (ATR) which was 
assessed to be high.
Mrs Ms objectives were identified as to live comfortably at retirement
TenetConnect recommended to Mrs M that she should move her pension benefits from the 
DB scheme to a PPP. The benefits of the transfer were documented as:
There will be greater flexibility in an individual plan to enable you to control the way 
benefits are paid to you at retirement;
There is a better chance of increasing your pension fund within an individual plan 
subject to prevailing annuity rates;
You will have greater investment control and have access to a range of funds or 
lifestyle investment options to suit your needs;
The Tax Free Cash (TFC) lump sum is likely to be better in an individual plan, at both 
your normal retirement age of 65 as well as age 55.  This would give you greater 
freedom to choose how best to draw income;
The lump sum death benefits are considerably better within an individual 
arrangement. Additionally, the overall death benefits are considerably better within 
an individual arrangement from outset
The annual charges for the PPP totalled 0.45% of the fund value. Mrs M accepted 
TenetConnects advice and the transfer was completed.
Mrs M complained in 2020 to TenetConnect about the suitability of the transfer advice. She 
did this having taken advice from a separate advisor about her pension. The new advisor 
assessed Mrs Ms ATR as medium which contradicted the assessment provided by 
TenetConnect.
TenetConnect accepted Mrs Ms ATR had been incorrectly assessed when it gave her 
advice in 2015 and said that the new advisors assessment of a medium ATR was more 
accurate. TenetConnect offered to pay Mrs M £1,000 compensation for its error but still 
thought the recommended pension was suitable for someone with a medium ATR.
Mrs M didnt agree with the outcome reached by TenetConnect so complained to our 
service.
An Investigator upheld the complaint and required TenetConnect to pay compensation. The 
Investigator found that although the critical yield figures supported Mrs M transferring her DB 
Pension into a PPP the benefits this offered were not enough to outweigh the security 
offered by the DB scheme.
TenetConnect disagreed and provided further information as to why the advice it gave Mrs M 
to transfer out of the DB pension was suitable, most of the information it provided had 
previously been considered but it also stated that at the time of the transfer Mrs Ms 
employer was preparing for a buy-out that may have affected her options to transfer her 
pension fund later, and potentially left her in a worse financial position.  
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the Investigator. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, TenetConnect should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mrs Ms best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having 
looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in her best interests.
Financial viability The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mrs M was 50 years old at the time the advice was given. The documents from the time of 
the advice in 2015 show that Mrs M was looking to retire at age 55 if possible.
The critical yield required to match Mrs Ms benefits at age 55 was 4.6% if she took a full 
pension and 1.9% if she took TFC and a reduced pension. 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 3.4% per year for 4 years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection 
rate 2% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mrs 
Ms medium attitude to risk and the term to retirement at age 55. Based on the critical yields 
and that Mrs M was looking to retire at age 55, I dont think the recommendation to transfer 
out of the DB scheme was unsuitable for Mrs M based on the critical yields alone. 
However, plans can, and often do change. It is important to remember that these figures 
were based on Mrs M retiring at age 55. If Mrs M did need or choose to work until the age of 
65 the critical yield of the PPP would have been substantially lower, and the potential benefit 
would have been reduced.
I appreciate the PPP offered the possibility of potentially higher benefits at Mrs Ms target 
retirement age. However, it also came with risks meaning capital could have been lost, 
compared to the guarantees her DB scheme offered. Considering the DB pension 
represented the majority of Mrs Ms pension provisions I cant see that she had the required 
capacity for loss to give up the guarantees in her DB scheme.
Flexibility and income needs
I havent seen any persuasive evidence that Mrs M had a strong need for flexibility in 
retirement. She also had no significant investment experience and I dont think she had a 
need to control her investments. Mrs M was 50 years old when the advice was given and 
could not take TFC until she reached 55. Early retirement-which was important to Mrs M- 
was possible through the DB scheme. At age 55 Mrs M also had the option to take TFC from 
her DB scheme albeit a lower amount (£15,570)
Mrs Ms representative has confirmed Mrs M did go on to take TFC that was spent on a car, 
gifts for family members, and to pay a small balance on a credit card. While Im sure it would 
be nice to have a higher amount of TFC at her target retirement age Im not persuaded Mrs 
M had a strong need for a higher amount of TFC.
Increased death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a PPP was likely an attractive feature to Mrs M. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mrs M might have thought it was a good idea to 
transfer her DB scheme to a PPP because of this, the priority here was to advise Mrs M 
about what was best for her retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide 
income in retirement. And I dont think TenetConnet explored to what extent Mrs M was 
prepared to risk the guarantees offered by her DB in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mrs M 
was married and so the 60 % spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been 
useful to her spouse if Mrs M predeceased him. I dont think TenetConnect made the value 
of this benefit clear enough to Mrs M. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not 
dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a PPP was. 
Furthermore, at the time of the advice TenetConnect looked at the options for Mrs M to take 
out a standalone life insurance policy. As Mrs M was in excellent health the premiums 
attached to these policies were relatively low (below £20 per month). So, if Mrs M genuinely 
wanted to leave a legacy for family members, I think this option would have been more 
suitable considering the risk of losing capital on her investment by transferring out of the DB 
scheme.
I appreciate what TenetConnect has said about Mrs Ms former employer planning to 
proceed with a buy-out of the DB scheme but at the time of the advice this was not certain 
and I havent seen anything from the time of the transfer to show that a buyout was 
imminent. The documents also show that the DB scheme had a surplus and Mrs M said in 
her fact find that she had no reason to question the security and financial stability of the 
scheme. So, I dont think it would be reasonable to advise Mrs M to transfer out of her DB 
scheme for this reason.
Suitability of investments
TenetConnect recommended that Mrs M invest in a lifestyle fund. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mrs M, it 
follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is 
because Mrs M should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the 
investments in the lifestyle fund wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mrs M. But 
TenetConnect wasnt there to just transact what Mrs M might have thought she wanted. The 
advisers role was to really understand what Mrs M needed and recommend what was in her 
best interests.
Ive also listened to the phone call between the adviser and Mrs M when they went through 
the fact find and discussed the priority of her objectives and I didnt get the impression Mrs M 
had clear objectives in mind or fully understood the differences between the PPP and the DB 
scheme. For example, she had chosen the retention of guarantees as her third most 
important priority (after early retirement and the provision of a partners pension). These 
were all objectives which could be met through the DB scheme. However, the adviser led 
her to change the priorities around by asking her whether she thought the guarantees were 
really as high a priority as number 3. 
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mrs M was suitable. She was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mrs M possibly couldve 
obtained higher retirement benefits however I dont think she had the required capacity to loss to take a risk with her pension and there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this.  
So, I think TenetConnect shouldve advised Mrs M to remain in the DB scheme.
Fair compensation
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs M, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider she would 
have remained in the occupational scheme. TenetConnect must therefore undertake a 
redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to 
calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Ms acceptance of the decision.
TenetConnect may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mrs Ms contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or 
S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
TenetConnect has already offered to pay Mrs M £1,000 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused. I think this is fair in the circumstances and I dont require it to 
pay anything further in relation to this. 
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mrs M within 90 days of the date 
TenetConnect receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest 
must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date 
of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
TenetConnect to pay Mrs M.Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require TenetConnect to pay Mrs M the compensation 
amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require 
TenetConnect to pay Mrs M any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Tenet Connect to 
pay Mrs M any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
TenentConnect pays Mrs M the balance. I additionally recommend any interest calculated as 
set out above on this balance to be paid to Mrs M.
If Mrs M accepts my decision, the money award is binding on TenetConnect. My 
recommendation is not binding on TenetConnect. Further, its unlikely that Mrs M can accept 
my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that TenetConnect Limited should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
TenetConnect Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mrs M in a clear, simple 
format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman