DRN-2003298
The complaint
Mr H complains through a claims management company (CMC) about the investment that 
was sold to him by HSBC UK Bank Plc. On his behalf, theyve said the investment was too 
risky for someone in his circumstances at the time.
 
What happened
Mr H took advice from HSBC in 2007 to invest £4000 in an ISA in the HSBC Open Global 
Return fund. At the time he was aged 31 and had no dependents. He didnt have a mortgage 
or any liabilities.
He was self employed and in his first year trading as a limited company. He earned around 
£12,000 annually, with net monthly earnings of £870. It was recorded that he expected to 
increase the salary he drew from the business after completing the first full year of trading. 
After rent, bills and general living expenses, Mr Hs net disposable monthly income was 
£415. He had around £45,000 in cash savings but no other investments. He didnt have any 
previous investment experience and was looking to invest for capital growth. He was willing 
to take a medium level of risk with £4000 of his available capital.
The CMC complained to HSBC who didnt uphold the complaint. They said, in brief, that they 
were satisfied that the investment was suitable for Mr H and matched his requirements and 
risk profile at the time.
The CMC then referred the complaint to this service, but our investigator also didnt think it 
should be upheld. He thought the fund did expose Mr H to some risk, but this was balanced 
by the fact hed only invested a small percentage of his available funds. So, on balance, he 
thought the recommendation was suitable. 
The CMC didnt agree, they thought that the risk level of the fund was inappropriate for Mr H 
despite the low percentage of his funds invested into it. As theres been no agreement the 
case has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold this complaint. I will now explain why.
The Fact Find from 2007 records that Mr H had previously taken out a deposit bond which 
had matured. He didnt plan to use the matured funds in the near future and he was happy to 
invest for capital growth over a medium to long term. It was also recorded that he had a 
discussion with the adviser around a wide range of investments including National Savings, 
Bonds and Collective Investments. Following this discussion Mr H said he was happy to take 
a medium level of risk with £4000 of his capital.
The Open Global Return Fund was recorded as a fund of funds that invested in several 
specialist fixed income asset classes using a variety of investment managers. The fund 
included investments in lower grade corporate bonds but this was balanced by investments 
in safer asset classes such as cash and government bonds. 
I appreciate the CMC thinks the fund wasnt appropriate for Mr H as it was too risky. I note 
that he only invested around 10% of his available capital. He appears to have been 
managing his finances well and had no liabilities or other financial constraints. After he made 
the investment, he was left with around £41,000 cash on deposit.
He also had a healthy disposable income and was looking to increase his salary in the near 
future. The investment was a fairly small percentage of his available cash funds, so if he had 
incurred any losses, I think he would have been able to tolerate it.
So, taking everything into account, I dont see anything wrong with someone in his position - 
mainly because of his circumstances and also the amount he held in savings - taking this 
level of risk with a small percentage of their money. So I dont think Mr H was disadvantaged 
by HSBCs advice and I dont think the advice to invest into the ISA was unsuitable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision 
before 21 September 2020.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman