DRN-3603165
The complaint
Mr P complains that Nationwide Building Society wont let him withdraw funds from an 
account in his name.
What happened
In 2018 Mr P opened a junior individual savings account (JISA) with Nationwide to save for 
his daughter.
In 2022 Mr P wanted to withdraw some funds from the account but was told this wasnt 
possible. Nationwide said only Mr Ps daughter could do that, and they could only do so 
once they turned 18.
Mr P wasnt happy with this and complained to Nationwide. He said this wasnt made clear to 
him when he opened the account. Mr P also said he never should have been allowed to 
open the account in the first place because he needed to be accompanied by an appropriate 
adult.
Nationwide didnt think it had acted unfairly by not allowing Mr P to withdraw the funds.
Unhappy, Mr P brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators didnt recommend it be 
upheld. They thought Nationwide was acting in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account.
Mr P disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I understand it wont be the answer Mr P 
was hoping for. Ill explain my reasoning.
I cant see that Mr P made Nationwide aware of his need for assistance in opening 
this account. Nor have I seen anything to indicate that Nationwide should have been 
aware Mr P needed assistance.
The terms and conditions of the account are clear in that the money cant be 
accessed until the beneficiary (in this case Mr Ps daughter) turns 18.
I wasnt present when the account was opened so cant say for certain what was 
discussed. But on balance, I think its likely Mr P was informed the funds wouldnt be 
accessible until his daughter turned 18. This is a key feature of a JISA account, and it 
is in both the terms and conditions and the Key Product Information document. The 
application form points to both these documents too.
Im satisfied Nationwide are acting in line with the terms of the account, and acting 
fairly, when not allowing Mr P to withdraw funds from this account.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman