DRN-1099326
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that American Express Services Europe Limited ("Amex") wont honour the 
welcome bonus offered with his credit card.
What happened
In January 2019, Mr M applied for an Amex card, after being referred by his wife. The card 
had a welcome offer where 25,000 reward points would be awarded subject to a minimum 
amount of £3,000 spent in the first three months. 
Mr M met this spending requirement but contacted Amex when he found that he hadnt 
received the points he expected. 
But Amex said that Mr M wasnt eligible for the offer because hed previously had another 
Amex card in the last 24 months.
Mr M complained that he and his wife hadnt been told this. He felt hed been mis-led. And 
when hed spoken to Amexs customer care team about not receiving the points, hed been 
told he would get them. He felt that he should receive the full amount of points in the 
welcome offer.
Amex said that the eligibility criteria for the welcome offer was detailed on its website pages 
preceding an application for the card. It apologised that Mr M had been misinformed over the 
phone when he was told he should receive the points. Amex credited 5,000 points to his 
account as a gesture of goodwill, as well as providing relevant feedback to the team 
involved.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said Mr M had completed his application for the card online and the eligibility requirements 
for the offer were highlighted before the actual application. The investigator said he 
appreciated that the details of the promotion had been discussed with Mr Ms wife, but Mr M 
still had to go through the process of completing his online application and had an 
opportunity to go through the available information relating to the cards benefits.
The investigator said that Amex had acknowledged the mistake made by its customer 
care team in telling Mr M he should receive the points as hed been referred for the card by 
his wife, and it had offered him 5,000 points for this. The investigator thought this was 
reasonable. He said that Mr Ms account history showed that hed held a previous Amex 
card which hed cancelled in October 2018, so he didnt think Amex had acted unreasonably.
Mr M didnt accept the investigators findings and said that Amex had admitted it mis-led him. 
He asked for his complaint to be reviewed. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate why Mr M considers he should receive the welcome offer of these bonus 
points on his Amex card. His application for it came about after it was discussed with his wife 
when she was cancelling her own card. 
However, Mr M then completed his application online where the key benefits of the card are 
set out on the website before the application is completed. And this included the details of 
the welcome offer. The specific information about this says:
Introductory offers are not available if you currently hold or have held any 
personal..American Express Card product in the past 24 months.
Mr Ms account details showed that hed previously had such a product which hed cancelled 
three months before applying for this particular card, and I understand that his previous card 
had included this same offer. 
So, even though the details of the offer may have been explained to Mr Ms wife before she 
referred him for his own card, I think the information about whether he would be eligible for 
this specific offer was available to him as part of that online application process, when he 
also wouldve been aware that hed recently cancelled a card of the same type. 
Amex has accepted that Mr M was initially given the wrong information when he called it 
about not receiving his points. But I dont think this means it should honour the full points 
award from the welcome offer, when this wasnt something he was eligible for at the time he 
completed his application for the card. Amex has credited 5,000 points to his card account 
by way of an apology and to recognise this mistake, and I think that represents a fair 
resolution to this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman