DRN-3352605
The complaint
Mr F complains that Metro Bank PLC loaded a negative marker against him on the National
Fraud Database, and hed like it removed.
What happened
Mr F opened two accounts with Metro in October 2017  Ill call these account A and B. In
November 2017 two further savings accounts were opened in his name.
On the 9 November 2017 payments of £34,000 and £15,111 were attempted to account A.
On the 10 November 2017 a payment of £9,899.01 was successfully transferred into
account B. On the same day the money was removed via an ATM withdrawal, a large chip
and PIN transaction and a small account to account transfer.
On the 11 November 2017 Metro received notification from a third party bank advising that
the attempted payments and the successful payment were fraudulent. Metro contacted Mr F
via text message to ask him whether he was aware of the payments but Mr F didnt reply.
As Mr F didnt respond Metro decided on the 13 November 2017 to close all of his accounts
and record a fraud marker on his record for misuse of facility.
In 2020 Mr F applied for a mortgage, however this was rejected. On contacting one of the
fraud prevention agencies he was informed a fraud marker was loaded against his name. So
he complained to Metro.
Metro looked into Mr Fs complaint but didnt uphold it. They said theyd acted fairly in
closing his accounts and recording a fraud marker against his name.
Mr F complained to our service. He explained that hed only opened two of the four accounts
with Metro, accounts A and B  the two savings accounts opened at a later stage hadnt
been opened by him. Mr F explained that he remembered receiving a text message from
Metro but he was unable to reply. He advised at the time of the fraudulent transaction
entering his account he lived with his Parents, and they had guests staying on a regular 
basis. He didnt have a lock on his door, and kept his debit card in a wallet provided by Metro
along with his PIN which was written down on a post it note.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Fs complaint. Overall, they thought that Metro didnt
have sufficient evidence to show Mr F had committed a criminal offence and therefore the
marker had been loaded unfairly.
Mr F responded to say that the situation had a negative impact on his mortgage application 
including him having to pay stamp duty because of the delay.
Metro didnt accept our investigators view. In response they said:
The bank would have expected Mr F to contact them when his account was closed.
They think that its more likely than not Mr F carried out the transactions himself or 
authorized someone to do them.
As Metro didnt accept our investigators conclusion it was passed to me for a decision.
On reviewing Mr Fs case I came to a different conclusion to our investigator. I wrote to Mr F 
and Metro on 12 December 2021 giving both parties until 27 December 2021 to either 
accept or reject my decision. Neither party responded or accepted my decision, so Ive 
reconsidered my conclusions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
The marker that Metro have filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility
 relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker,
theyre not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr F is guilty of a fraud of
financial crime, but they must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or
concern. The relevant guidance says:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds
have entered Mr Fs account, whether they are retained or pass through the account.
Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that Mr F was deliberately
dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate
payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in order to receive an
illegitimate payment. But a marker should not be registered against someone who was
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand
their level of knowledge and intention.
I need to conclude whether I think Metro have enough evidence to show fraudulent funds
entered Mr Fs account and he was complicit. And Im satisfied they have. I say this
because:
Ive seen evidence from Metro that they received a report from a third party bank 
saying that the funds which were attempted and successfully entered Mr Fs 
accounts on the 9 and 10 of November 2017 were fraudulent. Mr F doesnt dispute 
this  but advises he had no knowledge of the funds.
Once the funds entered Mr Fs account, three transactions were quickly carried out  
two of which required Mr Fs debit card and his PIN. Mr Fs explained that he lived 
with his Parents at the time, and they regularly had lodgers. He also advises that hed 
written down his PIN next to his card. I accept its possible that someone in Mr Fs 
household obtained his card and PIN  however I think its unlikely, if they did do so, that theyd attempt to transfer in fraudulent payments. If at any point Mr F reported 
his card as stolen then a fraudster wouldnt be able to access the payments.
Mr F accepts he received text messages from Metro on the 11 October 2017 asking 
him about the payments. He explained hed tried to reply and indicate he didnt know 
anything about the payments. I find it surprising, considering Mr F also says he 
couldnt find his card at the time, that he didnt make more effort to contact Metro by 
different means if he knew nothing about the credit of almost £10,000. And he also 
made no contact once the accounts were closed.
Mr Fs explained that he didnt open the two savings accounts  however both the 
attempted payments and the successful credit were paid into the accounts he 
accepts opening.
For the reasons Ive outlined above I think Metro followed the relevant guidance when
loading a fraud marker against Mr F. And Im not currently thinking of asking them to do
anything further here.
As neither party replied to my provisional decision I see no reason to change the conclusion 
I reached previously. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman