DRN-2580342
The complaint
Mrs M complains that ReAssure Limited delayed the transfer of her two pension policies to 
another provider which has caused her an ongoing financial loss.
Mrs M is represented in this complaint by her husband Mr M. 
What happened
 In 2019 Mr and Mrs M were considering taking their retirement benefits so they consulted a 
financial advisor from firm L. Mrs M had two pension plans with ReAssure, one policy 
ending 6K, and a larger section 32 buy-out plan of a previous occupational scheme, ending 
T2. Mr M also had policies with ReAssure but this decision only relates to Mrs M. 
Mrs M had a retirement options pack from ReAssure (showing a current policy value in 
September 2019 of around £33,611). But L recommended Mrs M exercise the open-market 
option and amalgamate both policies, take a tax- free lump sum and use the remainder to 
purchase an annuity with provider A. ReAssure received transfer instructions for both 
policies on 17 October 2019 and sent the funds for policy 6K to A the following day (about 
£4,659). 
ReAssure said it couldnt act on the transfer request for policy T2 as it contained some 
wrong information. So it asked A to resubmit the instructions which it did on 29 October 
2019. But then ReAssure said that because policy T2 related to an occupational scheme 
they needed consent from the trustees before the transfer could proceed. ReAssure 
received signed consent from the trustees on 19 November 2019, and sent the funds, (just 
over £33,558) to A on 28 November 2019, within its ten-day service standard. Unfortunately 
As annuity quote had expired on 30 October 2019 and the new quote was lower. So Mrs M 
complained, claiming her loss to be £3 per month for the rest of her life. 
ReAssure didnt think it was responsible for any consequences of the transfer being delayed 
as it couldnt have acted on incorrect instructions. But in recognition that it could have 
advised A about needing the trustees consent sooner, it offered Mrs M £100, which Mrs M 
didnt feel adequately reflected her loss.
Provisional findings 
I issued a provisional decision on this case in January. I said in summary:
ReAssure said the transfer of policy T2 couldnt proceed on 17 October 2019 as the 
electronic instructions received from A contained errors. I couldnt hold ReAssure 
responsible if it had received incorrect instructions, but I hadnt seen a copy of the 
incorrect instructions;
The target completion date on the form was given as 29 October 2019 which was 
inside ReAssures ten-day processing timescale and the day before I understood As 
quote expired;
The copy instruction Id seen didnt mention a deadline, or Mrs Ms intention to 
amalgamate the policies together to purchase an annuity. So I didnt think ReAssure 
was made aware time was of the essence as Mrs M believed;
It didnt look as though ReAssure proactively contacted A about the instructions for 
policy T2 being incorrect prior to As call on 29 October for a progress update;
A sent corrected instructions straight away, so I thought it likely they would have 
done the same if theyd been alerted to the problem sooner;
And I thought ReAssure could have let A know earlier that policy T2 relating to an 
occupational scheme required the consent of the trustees before the transfer could 
proceed;
I noticed Ls letter of authority to ReAssure stated that policy 6K was the S32 buy-out 
policy rather than policy T2, but I didnt think this error caused the delay;
ReAssure says it updated the electronic transfer system on 29 October 2019 to 
explain the consent of the trustees was required, but this was the day before the 
annuity quote expired, and I accepted ReAssure couldnt seek the trustees consent 
until it had received valid instructions;
So even if ReAssure had asked A to resubmit their instructions sooner, or if the 
original request from A had been correct in the first place, I think its unlikely the 
transfer could have completed before As quote expired on 30 October, as this 
wouldnt overcome the need to obtain the trustees consent.;
This should have been straightforward as the trustees were Mr and Mrs M 
themselves. The occupational scheme related to a business they used to run based 
in southern England. The business address was where ReAssure had sent Mrs Ms 
2018 pension statement and retirement options pack, without mail being returned. 
But Mr and Mrs M now live in Wales, and Mr M says ReAssure shouldnt have written 
to Mrs Ms old address as hed provided ReAssure with their new one. But as Mr M 
didnt have authority over Mrs Ms policies, ReAssure needed instructions from Mrs 
M herself to update her address. And updating a personal residential address 
wouldnt automatically update the pension scheme or business address. 
It took almost three weeks for the trustee correspondence to reach Mr and Mrs M at 
their Wales address and for them to return it to ReAssure. They signed the consent 
form on 16 November 2019, ReAssure received this back on 19 November 2019, 
and sent the funds to A on 28 November 2019, seven working days later, which I 
thought was a reasonable timescale. 
The amount transferred was about £1,580 more than the value quoted on the original 
instruction, suggesting despite the less favourable annuity rate, her policy increased 
in value in the time period, mitigating her loss;
The role of this service where the business has made an error is to put the consumer 
as far as possible in the position theyd be in had the error not happened. In this case 
that means ReAssure should have advised A of the problem with its original request 
sooner than it did, and at the time same let them know that consent of the scheme 
trustees was required. 
But even if they had done that I didnt think Mrs M would be in a different position. 
If ReAssure had received an acceptable or corrected transfer request from A on 17 
October 2019 and wrote to the trustees the same day, which is the earliest the 
process to seek the consent of the trustees could possibly have happened, it 
wouldnt have avoided As annuity quote expiring. As it would still have taken the 
same amount of time (almost three weeks) for the trustees form to reach Mr and Mrs 
M and be sent back to ReAssure. 
Which meant the earliest ReAssure would have been in a position to send the funds 
to A was 8 November, which doesnt allow for its ten working day processing 
timescale. 
So I was satisfied that as As annuity quote expired on 30 October it would always 
have needed to be recalculated no matter how quickly ReAssure had acted. 
So while I was satisfied ReAssure wasnt responsible for Mrs M receiving a lower 
annuity payment, I felt it could have provided a better service and so I recommended 
it paid Mrs M an additional £150, (so a total of £250) for this.  Responses to my provisional decision
Both parties responded to the provisional decision.
Mrs M said in summary:
She thought Mr M had authority over her policies, but even if he didnt it made sense 
for ReAssure to have updated her residential address at the same time as it updated 
Mr Ms records as they are married and live together in the property;
She thought ReAssure had written to their Wales address previously;
Whether the policy value increased during the delay period is irrelevant, it might have 
fallen;
She didnt recall receiving the £100 ReAssure had offered;
She felt it was important to stand up to businesses when their behaviour falls short 
otherwise nothing changes for the better;
Mr M is still unhappy about the way ReAssure dealt with the complaint, in particular 
calling from an unrecognised phone number and then expecting him to complete 
security questions.

ReAssure accepted the provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about Mrs Ms further comments, but they dont change my mind about 
the fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint. This service offers an informal way to 
deal with individual disputes between consumers and businesses. We dont regulate the 
financial services industry and we cant tell businesses to change their processes or look at 
whether the same issue may have affected other customers who havent complained. So 
while I understand Mrs Ms wider motivation for pursuing her complaint, I can only look at 
whether ReAssure did something wrong which led to a financial loss in her particular case.
We have already explained to Mr M that we cannot look into complaint handling as it isnt a 
regulated activity as set out in the DISP rules. And while I appreciate his understandable 
reluctance to divulge personal data to an unknown caller, businesses, including this service, 
have a duty under Data Protection legislation to ensure the person they are speaking to has 
authority to discuss the matter they are calling about. And this usually involves some kind of 
security procedure. This didnt form part of the original complaint which is why this decision 
wont address this point.
I understand Mrs M believed Mr M had authority over her policies and so ReAssure should 
have updated her residential address at the same time it did so for Mr M. But the 
correspondence relating to her Retirement Options pack, dated 14 September 2019, the 
letter requesting the consent of the pension scheme trustees dated 29 October 2019 and the 
chaser dated 8 November 2019 were all sent addressed to the Company Secretary at the 
business address, not to Mrs Ms personal address. So even if Mr M had updated both their 
personal addresses at the same time this wouldnt have automatically updated the address 
for the pension scheme as this wasnt their residential address. Unless ReAssure had 
specifically been told to change the pension scheme address to their new personal address 
in Wales, which I dont think they were, I cant hold them responsible for the additional time it 
took to obtain the trustees consent. And it would always have been a tight timescale to get the form signed and back to ReAssure before As quote expired, even if ReAssure took less 
than their usual ten days processing time.
I take Mrs Ms point that the value of her policy may have fallen in that period, but I can only 
consider what actually happened not what might have happened. And even if the value had 
fallen, for the reasons Ive explained I wouldnt hold ReAssure responsible for that.
Putting things right
Having considered everything again, I still think its fair for ReAssure to pay Mrs M a total of 
£250 for the trouble and upset she experienced. Its not clear from the records Ive seen 
whether the £100 compensation offered to Mrs M was actually paid to her. So my direction is 
to pay Mrs M a total of £250, deducting the £100 already offered, if it has been paid.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint.  ReAssure Limited should pay Mrs M a total of £250. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman