DRN-4417317
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) hasnt agreed to cover
repairs for damage he says was caused during the breakdown recovery of his vehicle.
Any reference to RSA includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive 
summarised whats happened.
Mr K has a vehicle breakdown policy which is underwritten by RSA. Whilst driving on
the motorway his car tyre suffered a puncture. Having manoeuvred the vehicle to the
hard shoulder, Mr K called RSA for recovery assistance.
Mr K says that when the recovery operator transferred his car to the recovery
vehicle, the side and roof of it was damaged by bushes positioned next to the hard
shoulder. Conversely, RSA said the damage was caused when Mr K pulled his car
on to the hard shoulder and positioned it next to overhanging bushes.
Mr K has said the operator acknowledged the damage at the time saying hed tried to
hold back the branches to prevent it happening. He also said the operator admitted
he was meant to take photographs of the vehicle on arrival but hadnt.
In response to Mr Ks complaint, RSA said: the recovery operator wasnt required to
take photographs; the operator had offered to move Mr Ks car further along the hard
shoulder to avoid the brambles, but Mr K had declined the offer. RSA also said Mr K
signed the agreement that damage hadnt been caused during the initial recovery or
whilst in transit to the destination garage.
RSA didnt consider the operator to be responsible for the damage and so, has said it
wont cover the cost to repair Mr Ks car. Unhappy, Mr K brought a complaint to this
Service.
An Investigator considered it and upheld it. He said RSA had given a conflicting
account of what happened  namely that it had said due to the hazardous location of
Mr Ks car its operator couldnt move the vehicle further along the hard shoulder, but
also, that the operator had offered to move Mr Ks car - but he declined.
So, the Investigator wasnt persuaded RSA had taken reasonable care during the
recovery of Mr Ks car and said it should cover the cost of repairing it. RSA disagreed 
and so, the complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision.
 
I considered it and issued a provisional decision, in which I explained why I didnt 
intend to uphold the complaint. Ive included an extract of this below. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im currently not 
minded to uphold this complaint, and Ill explain why.
Mr K says RSA is responsible for causing avoidable damage to his car during the
recovery of it. So, I must consider what I know to decide whether its reasonable to
hold RSA responsible for this.
Mr K pulled his vehicle on to the hard shoulder having suffered a blow out to the front
tyre. Mr K has said himself that he was in a state of shock following the incident and
needed time to recuperate  and so, its not implausible that all or some of the
damage to his car occurred when he did so. Though I appreciate Mr K has said this
wasnt the case.
RSA has indicated there may have been a discussion with Mr K about moving his
vehicle, but that Mr K didnt want to. However, Mr K disputes this conversation took
place. So, I cant be certain about what was said.
Taking into account risks of the road, I consider the priority here would have been to
recover the vehicle and get it and Mr K off the hard shoulder. And whilst I understand
Mr K has said the vehicle could have been easily moved to avoid it being damaged, I
must consider that RSAs objective here was to move the vehicle to a safe location
as soon as possible.
Mr K has said he wasnt happy with the recovery of the vehicle, but I dont have
evidence to support that he objected to this at the time. And its not in dispute that
Mr K signed paperwork to say the vehicle hadnt been damaged during the recovery.
I appreciate Mr K has said he didnt know what he was signing and assumed it was
simply to say his vehicle had been recovered, but I dont think its unreasonable to
have expected him to report an issue at the time of signing - given his strength of
feeling - if he considered RSA to have caused damage to his car as he has reported.
Mr K has provided a very detailed account of what he says happened but when I
consider the available evidence, Im not persuaded theres enough to conclude RSA
failed to take reasonable care during the recovery of his car and in turn caused
avoidable damage.
Even if there was a degree of damage that could've been avoided, I must consider
that the recovery operator had to weigh up the potential damage to the vehicle and
the risk to human life while on the hard shoulder. So, in the circumstances, Im not
persuaded based on the available evidence that the actions they took were
unreasonable given the environment they were in.
Following my decision, Mr K provided a lengthy response detailing why he disagrees with 
the outcome Ive reached. I wont repeat it in full, but to summarise he:
challenged whether RSA was the correct respondent party as the recovery of the 
vehicle was carried out by another company. 
disputed the version events  saying there werent any bushes at ground level next to 
the hard shoulder rather these were 6-8 feet off the ground, and its these that 
damaged his car when it was moved on to the recovery vehicle. He said hes an experienced driver - owing to his profession - and was able to safely bring his car to a 
stop without causing damage to it. 
reiterated that the recovery operator never offered to move his vehicle along the hard 
shoulder, and so, he didnt decline the offer. And that he didnt know what he was 
signing  saying it hadnt been explained to him properly, and that hed only been told 
he was signing to say his vehicle had been removed from the road. 
raised concerns about the vehicle recovery operators attire  suggesting the lack of 
protection was indicative of the situation not being considered a hazardous one and 
so, he doesnt consider it reasonable to say the recovery of his vehicle was more 
urgent than any other recovery. 
concluded that RSA caused avoidable damage to his car because it cut corners, and 
not as a necessary step to protect life. 
Photographs provided by RSA depicting the location were also shared with Mr K. Having 
reviewed these, Mr K said:
the photographs werent taken in the correct location. 
the photographs dont prove his car was parked against the bushes. 
the vehicles used in the photographs are a different make and model to his car and 
so have different measurements. And so, its not reasonable to infer that the 
branches touching these vehicles at a lower height, means they would have reached 
his car too.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has provided a detailed reply to my provisional findings. I wont be responding 
in the same manner - my intention isnt to be curt but is rather to reflect the informal 
nature of this service. So, whilst I want to assure Mr K I have read his submission in 
full, Im only addressing those points which I consider relevant to deciding this 
complaint. 
Before addressing the merit related arguments, Ill explain why RSA is the correct 
respondent business in this complaint. Whilst the vehicle was recovered by a 
separate company (company A), and Mr K liaised with another company (company 
B) to arrange the recovery, both are acting as agents of RSA, and so, RSA is 
responsible for their actions. And any reference Ive made to RSA includes these or 
any other agents or representatives that it has.
Mr K strongly refutes the recovery operator offered to move his car to avoid it being 
damaged. Ive acknowledged this within my provisional decision and given the nature 
of the two opposing versions of events, Ive had to look at the surrounding evidence. 
So, this point has not been material to the decision Ive made.
Mr K has said the recovery operators lack of suitable protective attire is indicative of 
the recovery not being considered more urgent or hazardous than any other 
recovery. To clarify, my point is not that Mr Ks breakdown was more hazardous than another motorway recovery, but rather that breaking down by the side of the 
motorway is by its very nature, inherently dangerous. And that the recovery operator 
would have to weigh up these risks as part of the recovery. 
Mr K has said he didnt know what he was signing when his signature was asked for 
at the time of recovering his vehicle. Hes also said he was told by the recovery 
operator that he was signing to simply say his car had been recovered. 
RSA says Mr K was asked to sign to confirm that no damage had been recorded. Mr 
K says he was in shock when he signed and so, its unfair for RSA to be absolved of 
responsibility on this basis. I accept its possible Mr K was not walked through the 
agreement he was signing, but I must look at what is most likely in the 
circumstances. And I remain of the view that it wouldve been reasonable for Mr K to 
have enquired further as to the nature of the document or objected to signing it given 
the extent of the concerns hes described witnessing shortly before. But Mr K did sign 
it. 
Mr K has said the bushes werent low lying and that his vehicle was damaged as it 
was raised on to the recovery vehicle. But beyond his testimony, hes not given me 
any further evidence to support this version of events. And whilst Mr K says the 
photographs provided by RSA are of the incorrect location, and that the bushes were 
not low lying - he hasnt provided any contemporaneous evidence of the scene to 
show otherwise. 
Ive also noted that the scratches on Mr Ks car are not consistent  noting that the 
markings differ in direction and regularity. For example, the wing mirror is heavily 
scratched whereas the side of the vehicle is less so. If branches were protruding at a 
height and could extend beyond the width of the recovery vehicle, I would reasonably 
expect to see the same number of scratches to the side of the car as the wing mirror 
 but thats not the case here. Which suggests the damage was less likely to have 
occurred whilst being raised on to the recovery vehicle.  
Mr Ks strength of feeling about this complaint is very clear, and I dont doubt this has 
been a stressful event for him. Whilst hes provided testimony detailing his version of 
events, he hasnt provided contemporaneous evidence which persuades me the 
damage most likely occurred in the way hes put forward. Ultimately, as the policy 
holder its for Mr K to demonstrate on the balance of probabilities that the damage 
occurred because of the negligence of the recovery operator but Im not persuaded 
he's done that. Its not a decision Ive taken lightly, but having considered the 
evidence I do have, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman