DRN-4264222
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the service he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc surrounding his 
current account switch.
What happened
Mr C requested a current account switch to HSBC. But the switch happened earlier than he 
requested. And because Mr C didnt receive a debit card from HSBC, he couldnt access the 
money in his new HSBC account. Mr C wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
HSBC responded to Mr C and confirmed theyd completed the switch on the day hed 
requested on the current account switch form. HSBC also noted that theyd sent a debit card 
to Mr C, but it appeared it may have gotten lost in the post. 
However, HSBC felt that they didnt provide a reasonable standard of service to Mr C when 
hed contacted them about not having a debit card, including that they should have told Mr C 
of alternative ways he could access his money, and they apologised to Mr C for this and 
offered to pay £80 compensation to him for any trouble or upset he may have incurred. Mr C 
wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint. But they felt the response HSBC issued to 
Mr Cs complaint already represented a fair outcome to what had happened. Mr C remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that HSBC have or havent acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
Mr C is feels that HSBC completed the account switch before they should have done. 
However, HSBC have provided a copy of the current account switch form submitted by Mr C 
which shows that Mr C requested that the switch take place on 2 December 2022  which 
was the date that HSBC completed it. As such, Im satisfied that HSBC completed the 
current account switch on the date requested by Mr C, and so didnt complete the switch 
earlier than they should have.
Mr C is unhappy that he didnt receive a debit card from HSBC which meant he couldnt 
easily access the money in his HSBC account following the switch. HSBC have been able to 
confirm to my satisfaction that they did send a debit card to Mr C. Unfortunately, the letter 
containing the new debit card was never received by Mr C, and so may have been lost in the 
post. But this service wouldnt hold a business such as HSBC accountable for the non-
delivery of sent letters, because the delivery of letters is undertaken by a postal service, over 
which HSBC has no control. 
This isnt to say that Mr C wasnt inconvenienced by not receiving a debit card for his HSBC 
account. But it is to say that I dont feel that HSBC should fairly be considered accountable 
for the inconvenience that Mr C experienced because of the non-delivery of the debit card.
Mr C also feels that HSBC should have recognised that he hadnt activated his debit card 
and should have proactively contacted him about it. But I wouldnt expect HSBC to monitor 
the activation of newly sent debit cards in the manner that Mr C suggests here, and instead I 
feel it was for Mr C, having not received a debit card, to have contacted HSBC about it.
Notably, when Mr C did tell HSBC that he hadnt received a debit card, HSBC ordered him a 
replacement card in a timely manner. And this appears to have been received by Mr C 
approximately a week later, which was in line with the five to seven working day timeframe 
given by HSBC and which I dont feel was unfair or unreasonable.
Mr C has explained that because he didnt have a debit card, and because his local HSBC 
branch had closed for refurbishment, he had to withdraw money from his credit card, which 
incurred a charge. However, given that HSBC completed the switch on the day requested by 
Mr C, I feel that Mr C should have been aware that the switch would most likely take place 
on the day that it did, and so, having not received a debit card, could and should reasonably 
have taken steps to mitigate against his not being able to access his money. 
This could have included withdrawing money from his old account or requesting a 
replacement debit card from HSBC before the switch took place. And I also feel that Mr C 
could have visited another HSBC branch to withdraw money, albeit at an inconvenience to 
himself, rather than withdrawing money from a credit card account for which he incurred a 
charge. As such, I dont feel that HSBC should fairly be asked to reimburse or compensate 
Mr C regarding this point as he would like. 
In their response to Mr Cs complaint, HSBC acknowledged that when Mr C informed them 
that he hadnt received a debit card, it should have been explained to him at that time by 
what alternative means he could have accessed his money while a replacement card was 
being sent to him. And HSBC apologised to Mr C for this and offered to make a payment of 
£80 to him as compensation for any upset or inconvenience he incurred as a result.
Matters of compensation can be subjective. But HSBCs £80 offer feels fair to me here, 
given what happened. And I can confirm that its commensurate with what I might have 
instructed HSBC to pay to Mr C, had they not already offered to do so. 
In taking this position Ive considered the worry and inconvenience that Mr C experienced, 
as hes described it, but also that I feel that Mr C should reasonably have taken action to 
mitigate against what happened, as Ive described above. And Ive also considered the 
general framework which this service uses when considering compensation amounts for 
upset and inconvenience  further details of which can be found on this services website. 
And, having taken these factors into account, I feel that £80 is a fair compensation amount.
All of which means that, while I will be upholding this complaint in Mr Cs favour, Ill only be 
doing so on a limited basis to compel HSBC to pay the £80 compensation to Mr C that 
theyve already offered to pay. And I wont be instructing HSBC to take any further action 
beyond this point.I realise this wont be the outcome Mr C was hoping for here, but I hope hell understand, 
given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.   
Putting things right
HSBC must make a payment of £80 to Mr C.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman