DRN-2488989
The complaint
A company, which I'll refer to as U, complains about the fees it was charged by GPUK 
LLP (Global Payments). Mr H, who is a director of U, brings the complaint on U's behalf. 
Global Payments says the fees were charged because U did not comply with the Payment 
Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS). Mr H says Global Payments did not tell 
him about the PCI DSS non-compliance fees, and in any event the fees are unfair. 
What happened
Everyone agrees that U set up two merchant accounts with Global Payments in April 
2018. But they disagree about what U and Mr H were told about the fees associated with 
those accounts. 
 
Global Payments told us: 
PCI DSS compliance is a mandatory requirement introduced by the Card Schemes 
(including Visa and MasterCard). 
  
Global Payments is required by the Card Schemes to ensure both that its merchants 
are compliant with the PCI DSS, and that they evidence that compliance. 
 
It made clear to Mr H that it expected U to comply with the PCI DSS within two 
months of Us first transaction. Its terms of service explained that there would be a 
fee if U did not comply. It is satisfied that Mr H understood those terms. Mr H also 
signed a merchant declaration which explained the importance of the PCI DSS 
requirements. 
 
U did not achieve PCI DSS compliance within two months. Global Payments wrote to 
U on 23 May 2018 to warn that the deadline to achieve compliance was approaching, 
and that if U did not comply the fees would be £0.15 per transaction, subject to a 
minimum monthly charge of £50. It wrote to U several more times to explain that U 
was not in compliance and that it was charging fees as a result.   
 
U eventually achieved compliance with the PCI DSS at the end of September 
2019. Global Payments has written off the September and October 2019 non-
compliance fees as a gesture of goodwill, but it is not prepared to offer a further 
refund. 
 
Mr H told us: 
 
He did not receive the correspondence Global Payments says it sent to warn him 
about the PCI DSS non-compliance fees.  
 
He discovered the PCI DSS non-compliance fees by chance, after calling Global 
Payments to ask why Us August 2019 fees were so high. Once the issue was 
brought to his attention, achieving compliance was straightforward and took minutes 
to fix. 
 
He considers that Global Payments PCI DSS non-compliance fees are hidden, 
grotesquely disproportionate to any loss suffered by Global Payments, and 
completely unjustifiable. Over 13 months, those hidden fees amounted to 43% of the 
total charged by Global Payments. 
The effect is that Global Payments has been allowed to exploit U, which is much 
smaller than Global Payments. Global Payments could have simply picked up the 
phone and asked whether he realised he was being charged non-compliance fees. 
Instead, it sent a series of unseen, unanswered emails full of vague and unhelpful 
technical information. 
He acknowledges that U did not comply with PCI DSS, and so he is willing to pay a 
penalty fee in line with the industry standard  which he initially considered to 
be £20 per month. He says that means Global Payments should pay U £4,539.78, 
calculated as £5,079.75 total hidden fees applied across 2 merchant IDs less £540 
industry standard fee.  
U has since terminated its contract with Global Payments and has a new provider for 
its merchant accounts, which charges non-compliance fees of £25 a month. He sent 
us a copy of the new providers invoice, noting that the new provider shows the non-
compliance fee very clearly on statements. 
He would like the ombudsman service to enforce stringent limits on the level of fees 
that can be charged for non-compliance issues, and to insist on changes to the way 
those fees are shown on monthly invoices. 
 
One of our investigators explained that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not free to 
consider all the complaints referred to us. Our jurisdiction is set out in our rules, available 
online at https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/. 
 
U is a small business under the definitions set out in our rules. Our investigator said that 
means we can only consider complaints from U about acts or omission that took place on or 
after 1 April 2019. 
 
Looking only at the period from 1 April 2019, our investigator didnt think Global Payments 
had done anything wrong. He said Global Payments had made the PCI DSS fees clear, and 
that the fees were applied in line with the terms and conditions of Us account. 
 
Mr H did not accept our investigators view, so the matter was referred to me. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in November 2020. I said:
I know Mr H would like me to consider whether Global Payments made the PCI DSS 
fees clear enough when U first entered into the merchant contracts, but I cant make 
any findings on that point. The contracts were set up in April 2018, one year before 1 
April 2019. Our investigator was right to say that the Financial Ombudsman Service 
has no power to investigate that part of Us complaint. 
I am also unable to act as a regulator; that role falls to the Financial Conduct 
Authority, not the Financial Ombudsman Service. I cannot consider Mr Hs wider concerns about PCI DSS non-compliance fees, or about how small businesses other 
than U have been treated. 
I can only look at the way Global Payments treated U from 1 April 2019 onwards. 
Having done so, I broadly agree with our investigators findings  but my reasons for 
those findings are slightly different. I am therefore issuing a provisional rather than a 
final decision, to ensure both parties have a fair opportunity to comment on my 
reasons. I might change my mind about any aspect of this complaint in the light of the 
parties further evidence or arguments.
Based on the evidence I have seen so far, I am provisionally satisfied that: 
 
The terms of Us contract with Global Payments did allow Global Payments to 
apply PCI DSS non-compliance fees from 1 April 2019. 
 
Overall, Global Payments treated U fairly from 1 April 2019. 
 
I give more details about my findings below. 
 
My starting point here is that both U and Global Payments are entitled to expect that 
the other will comply with the terms of the contract between them. That is true 
regardless of the difference in size between U and Global Payments. 
Although I cant investigate the way Us contract with Global Payments was set up, I 
do need to look at that contract to see what U and Global Payments both agreed to 
do. In other words, I can look at what the contract said, but not at how U and Global 
Payments came to agree to enter into that contract. Having done so, I am satisfied 
that:
Global Payments Terms of Service said, at 13.2:
You must achieve and maintain your PCI DSS compliance, and where you 
do not we may apply a non-compliance charge. We will advise you when this 
applies to you.
U accepted Global Payments Terms of Service. U therefore agreed that it 
would comply with the PCI DSS, and acknowledged Global Payments may 
apply a charge if it did not.
I have gone on to look at the way Global Payments applied PCI DSS charges from 1 
April 2019 onwards.
Mr H says Global Payments could have done more to bring the issue of PCI DSS 
compliance to his attention. I agree; it is always possible for a business to do more to 
bring an issue to its customers attention. But that is not the same as saying that the 
business should have done more. 
Here, I accept that Global Payments followed its own internal process in respect of 
Us non-compliance. It could have made additional attempts to telephone U after it 
did not receive a response to its letters and emails (which I note were correctly 
addressed). Global Payments could have included more information about fees with 
each of its invoices. It could even have warned U that it would cease providing its 
services to U if U did not comply. If it had done so, that would have increased the 
likelihood that U would have achieved compliance earlier  and that, in turn, would 
have reduced the risks that Us customers would be victims of fraud.I have also considered Us actions. I note that U would have been required to comply 
with the PCI DSS regardless of whether it set up its merchant accounts through 
Global Payments or another provider. And as Ive said, Im satisfied that U did agree 
to comply with the standards. 
Mr H accepts that the non-compliance fees were included in the invoices Global 
Payments sent to U, but he says they were in a line buried at the foot of the 
statement simply saying NONPCI GF, which meant nothing to him. I consider that 
Global Payments could have done more to explain its statements, but it is also true 
that Us directors could have checked the statements and queried anything they 
didnt understand. In a commercial context like this, I consider that both parties were 
responsible for ensuring they understood what they had agreed to. Based on the 
evidence Ive seen so far, it appears Mr H could have asked questions about the 
invoices much earlier  especially as he says the fees were much higher than he was 
expecting. Bearing in mind that Global Payments did explain the fee when Mr H 
asked questions about it, Im confident that Global Payments would have explained 
the fee earlier if Mr H had asked questions earlier. 
Mr H also accepts that U did not achieve PCI DSS compliance until September 2019. 
I acknowledge that he says U would have achieved compliance if Global Payments 
had done more to draw his attention to the issue, but the fact remains that between 
April and September 2019 U was not complying with its contractual obligations. Since 
the purpose of the PCI DSS scheme is to reduce card fraud and to protect sensitive 
cardholder data, Us non-compliance therefore put its own customers at more risk 
than would otherwise have been the case.
In principle, I see nothing wrong in Global Payments taking some action as a result of 
Us failure to comply with the terms of the contract. But I need to consider whether 
the action it took is fair.
Mr H has been clear and consistent in his view that Global Payments action was not 
fair. I understand he does accept that Global Payments was entitled to charge 
something in respect of Us PCI DSS non-compliance, but he is concerned by the 
amount of the charge.
Mr H has suggested there is an industry standard fee for PCI DSS non-compliance, 
but I do not believe that such a standard exists. I know that some providers charge 
some merchants less, and sometimes much less, than the fees Global Payments 
charged to U. But that does not in itself mean there was anything unfair about Global 
Payments actions. 
I also acknowledge that, once Mr H started to address the compliance issue, he was 
able to bring U into compliance very quickly  and the costs of compliance were very 
low in comparison to the non-compliance fees. But again, that does not mean the fee 
itself was unfair. Global Payments says the point of the fee is to encourage 
compliance. So I do not find it at all surprising that the cost of complying with the 
standards was cheaper than paying the fee. If it had been the other way around, 
merchants like U might have been tempted to simply pay the fee rather than ensure 
compliance.
Having carefully considered all the evidence, I am provisionally satisfied that:
Global Payments does have a legitimate interest in ensuring that all its 
merchants comply with the PCI DSS scheme. Non-compliance could ultimately result in the Card Schemes refusing to deal with Global Payments, 
and that would have a very significant impact on its business.
The purpose of the non-compliance fee is to encourage compliance. 
The amount of the fee is not disproportionate to Global Payments legitimate 
interest in the enforcement of Us obligation to comply with the PCI DSS. 
There is clearly a level of fee that would be disproportionate, but I dont think 
the fees here  of £0.15 per transaction, subject to a minimum of £50 a month 
 are disproportionate. 
I appreciate that U and Mr H are now in a very difficult situation, largely as a result of 
the pandemic. But in light of my provisional findings above, I am currently not minded 
to think it would be fair for me to order Global Payments to take any action in respect 
of U. Subject to any further evidence or arguments I receive by the date shown at the 
top of this provisional decision, I do not intend to order Global Payments to refund 
any money to U.
I am also aware that Global Payments position is that U still owes it money in 
respect of the merchant accounts. Mr H has explained that the pandemic means U 
has had no income since March 2020, and that it is unable to pay the full amounts 
demanded by Global Payments. Global Payments has indicated that it is willing to 
negotiate, in light of Us financial situation. That is a commercial matter between 
Global Payments and U and not something on which it is for me to comment.
Mr H responded to my provisional decision on Us behalf. He explained that he does not 
accept my findings, and that he intends to pursue the issue of fees through the Financial 
Conduct Authority. He also asked me to consider asking or ordering Global Payments to 
suspend its debt recovery activities.
Global Payments did not provide any further evidence or arguments in response to my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusions as I did in my provisional decision, for 
the same reasons as before. I know Mr H is very unhappy with my findings, but there is 
nothing I can add to them. I have carefully considered his further comments, but I remain 
satisfied that Global Payments treated U fairly from 1 April 2019 onwards. 
I know that Global Payments still considers that U owes money to it. I also know that U is 
unwilling  and possibly unable  to pay the amount Global Payments believes is 
outstanding. Whilst I would encourage both parties to discuss that matter with each other, I 
will not comment on it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against GPUK LLP trading as Global 
Payments.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask U to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman