DRN-2284247
The complaint
Ms C and Ms C complain about the settlement AXA Insurance UK Plc has paid them for a
cancellation claim they made on their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms C and Ms C hold travel insurance as a benefit of their bank account. The insurance was
sold to them by their bank in 2011.
In November 2018, Ms C and Ms C called AXA to go through medical screening and to add
a trip extension to their travel insurance, as they were planning a fly-cruise holiday. They
were due to depart in January 2019. Unfortunately, Ms C suffered a heart attack the day
before they were due to travel and they had to cancel their trip. They made a claim to AXA
for their cancellation costs of around £21,000.
AXA accepted and settled the claim in line with the cancellation limit of £5000 per person.
Ms C and Ms C were unhappy with the settlement and they complained as they were left
around £11,000 out of pocket. AXA said the limit was set out in the policy terms. So it
maintained its offer of settlement.
Ms C and Ms C remained unhappy with AXAs decision, as they said they didnt know about
the policy limit. And they said AXAs call handlers hadnt explained the cancellation limit to
them when they went through medical screening or asked if they wanted to upgrade it. So
they asked us to look into these issues.
Two investigators have considered Ms C and Ms Cs complaints about AXA. The first
investigator didnt think AXA was responsible for highlighting the cancellation limit when the
policy was sold, as it hadnt sold it. The second investigator didnt think Ms C and Ms Cs
complaint should be upheld. Hed listened to the calls between AXAs screening line, Ms C
and Ms C. He didnt think Ms C and Ms C had asked about the cancellation limit or told AXA
what their trip had cost. And as AXA didnt offer an option to upgrade their cancellation
cover, he didnt think the call handlers couldve done so. So he didnt think AXA had done
anything wrong during the screening calls.
Ms C and Ms C disagreed. They said theyd never received the policy terms and conditions.
They felt the information they had been sent wasnt clear about what the cancellation limit
applied to. They also didnt think the claim shouldve covered under the cancellation section
as the reason they couldnt travel was medical. They felt AXA shouldve asked questions
about the trip cost and told them about the cancellation limit on the phone.
I issued my provisional decision on 1 September 2020. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I felt the settlement AXA had paid Ms C and Ms C was fair. I 
said:
First, while Ive summarised Ms C and Ms Cs complaint points, Id like to reassure them 
that Ive carefully considered everything theyve said and sent us, as well as listening to all of 
the available call recordings. Im sorry to hear about the circumstances that led to the claim 
and I hope Ms C is now feeling better.
Its also important that I explain were not the industry regulator. I have no power to tell a
financial business to change its processes, procedures or how it should do things. I cant
direct AXA to change the way it carries out medical screenings or tell it the questions it must
ask. My role is to look at the individual circumstances of Ms C and Ms Cs complaint and
assess whether AXA has done anything wrong which has caused them to lose out. I can see
our investigator has provided Ms C and Ms C details of the industry regulator and its open to
them to get in touch with it. I should point out that the industry regulator doesnt look into
individual complaints  it looks at wider industry issues.
In deciding Ms C and Ms Cs complaint, Ive considered the terms of their policy and the
information AXAs provided about it. The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must
consider claims promptly and fairly. And they need to provide clear, fair and not misleading
information about their policies and what they cover. So Ive thought about whether AXA
provided Ms C and Ms C with clear information about their policy and whether it applied the
policy terms fairly.
The policy terms and conditions
AXA didnt sell Ms C and Ms C their travel insurance policy. It was sold to them by their
bank. So AXA wasnt responsible for providing them with a copy of the terms and conditions
when the policy was sold.
It was responsible for the clarity of the policy terms though and the content of any product
information it sent out about them. So Ive looked carefully at this information.
Page 64 of the account terms and conditions sets out a table of benefits. This clearly states
that the cancellation limit is up to £5000. Section 2 Cancelling or cutting short your trip
covers pre-booked and pre-paid unused travel, accommodation or excursion expenses if a
policyholder cant travel as planned or they need to return home early. This section says:
We will pay You up to £5000 for your share of the cost of your trip as a result of:
- The death, injury or illness.of you (and)your relative.
I think the policy is clear that the cancellation limit per person is £5000 per trip. I appreciate
Ms C and Ms C dont feel this is the appropriate section to cover their claim under. I disagree
though. Thats because while Ms C did become ill, this was in the UK. This illness meant
they had to cancel their pre-booked trip. The medical emergency section of the policy does
have a higher policy limit, but it only applies to medical emergencies that happen once a
policyholder is already abroad and is intended to cover the medical expenses they incur. So
Im satisfied AXA was entitled to settle the claim under the cancellation section of the policy.
Ms C and Ms C say they dont have a copy of the policy terms and the information they do
have is confusing. Ive thought about this. I can see from the records that theyve made a
few claims on the policy under a number of sections, so it seems likely theyve had the terms
at some point. But even if they havent, I dont think this affects the outcome of this
complaint.
Thats because Ive seen copies of the information AXA sent to Ms C and Ms C after they
called medical screening. This included an upgrade schedule. The schedule included a table
of benefits. One of the listed benefits was cancellation and the policy limit of up to £5000 is
clearly set out. Ive also seen a copy of the Insurance Product Information Document AXA
sent out. This sets out the key terms and exclusions which apply to the policy. The What isinsured section explains a summary of cancellation cover and clearly sets out the policy
limit.
I do think this information is very clear and Im not persuaded its confusing. So Im currently
satisfied AXA did enough to make the cancellation limit and the extent of cover clear in its
policy literature.
Should AXA have done more during the medical screening calls?
Ms C and Ms C discussed medical screening during four calls with different call handlers.
Ive listened to each call to establish whether I think AXA ought reasonably to have been
prompted to know that the cancellation limit wasnt enough.
Ms C and Ms C did tell the call handlers that they were going on a cruise. They listed their
destination points. And they asked one of the call handlers if the policy was sufficient to
cover a cruise holiday. The call handler reassured them that the policy did cover cruises. But
Ms C and Ms C didnt ask AXA what the cancellation limit was. And they also didnt tell AXA
how much their trip cost. If theyd asked, Id have expected AXA to point out the cancellation
limit. And if theyd told AXA how much the trip cost, Id have reasonably expected AXA to
explain how the limit could impact a potential claim.
As they didnt ask this question or volunteer the cost of their trip though, I dont think AXA
ought to have been aware that their cancellation costs were more than double the policy
limit.
Ive also borne in mind what I think Ms C and Ms C wouldve done differently if they had
known the cancellation limit didnt cover their full cancellation costs. They didnt immediately
take up the quotes they were offered for covering their medical conditions because they
wanted to shop around for a more competitive price. It seems they did so but were ultimately
happy to accept AXAs quotes.
It isnt clear what cancellation limits applied to the policies they got quotes for when they
looked elsewhere  but it does seem the policy price was important to them. So its possible
theyd have remained with AXAs policy even with this knowledge especially as they didnt
foresee the need to cancel at that point. And £5000 isnt an unusually low level of 
cancellation cover  many retail market policies offer between £1000-5000. This means Ms 
C and Ms C mightve had to take out a specialist policy to get the cover they needed at a 
higher cost.
Based on all Ive seen, I currently think AXA treated Ms C and Ms C fairly. I think its policy
literature is clear and I think AXA has settled the claim in line with the policy terms. So Im
not planning to tell it to do anything more.
I asked both parties to send me any additional information they wanted me to consider.
AXA had nothing more to add.
Ms C and Ms C didnt accept my provisional findings. They said they understood why Id 
reached my decision. But they felt the outcome had become confused by whether the 
complaint should be considered against the bank that sold the account or AXA. And that itd 
been confused by the way the complaint had been worded.
Our investigator asked Ms C and Ms C to confirm how theyd word their complaint, so that I 
could be satisfied Id properly addressed their concerns.  He also explained that we couldnt 
look at the complaint against both the bank and AXA together.Ms C and Ms C said they werent happy with things. They dont think the decision answers 
the right question and our limits dictate what questions are asked.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still think AXA has settled Ms C and Ms Cs claim fairly and Ill explain 
why.
Im sorry Ms C and Ms C are unhappy with my provisional findings and that they dont feel 
Ive addressed their complaint. As our investigator explained, we can only consider individual 
complaints about one legal entity. The bank and AXA are separate, legal entities, with 
different responsibilities. Their bank was responsible for selling the bank account which the 
policy was a benefit of. And AXA is responsible for dealing with claims made on the policy 
and whether the policy documentation was sufficiently clear.
Another investigator has already considered Ms C and Ms Cs complaint about their bank. 
But this complaint centres on whether AXA ought to have highlighted the cancellation limit 
during its screening calls with Ms C and Ms C and whether it, as the insurer, settled their 
claim fairly. I appreciate Ms C and Ms C dont feel this captures their complaint. But our 
investigator did give them the chance to clarify which issues they didnt feel were addressed 
by my provisional decision. They said they were unhappy with things and that our limits 
dictated how the complaint had been progressed. 
Having thought about everything again, Im still satisfied that the policy documentation is 
sufficiently clear and sets out the policy cancellation limits clearly. And I still dont think AXA 
ought to have been put on notice, during the screening calls, that the cancellation cover 
available under the policy wasnt enough to cover the full costs of Ms C and Ms Cs holiday. 
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Ms C and Ms Cs position, this means I still 
consider that AXA settled the claim fairly and in line with the policy limits. So Im not telling it 
to pay anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold Ms C and Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman