DRN-2231717
The complaint
Mr B complained about Capital One (Europe) plc. There was a credit card in Mr Bs name, 
which he said he hadnt taken out. Capital One refused to write off the debt, saying it 
believed it was Mr B who took out the card.
Mr B wants the debt written off, and adverse information removed from his credit file
What happened
In January 2014, Capital One received a signed credit card application form and after 
checks, opened a credit card in Mr Bs name. 
In March, the customer rang to ask for a username and password to use the account online, 
and a couple of weeks later, the address on the account was changed using the online 
service.
The account was used regularly for groceries and general spending, and about £1,000 was 
spent up to November 2014. Payments totalling around £300 were credited to the account, 
until January 2015 when payments stopped. In March 2015 the account was passed to 
Capital Ones collections team. The customer told the collections team that the reason he 
hadnt been able to pay was because he was off work. Capital One sent a self-help pack, 
including an income and expenditure form. 
In April a notice of default letter was sent, asking the account holder to pay £71.94 to prevent 
the account defaulting. This wasnt paid, so in May a statement of default was registered, 
confirmed to the account holder by letter. Capital One then tried to collect payments using 
debt collection agencies but was unsuccessful. It sold the debt to another organisation in 
September 2016. 
Mr B said that in In October 2019 he became aware of multiple cases of identity theft. He 
complained to several lenders and debt collectors, and some debts were written off and 
removed from his credit file. In November, Mr B complained to the firm to which Capital One 
had sold the debt. He said he hadnt opened the account and had never lived at the address 
on record.
On 29 January 2020, Mr B rang Capital One to report application fraud, which he said hed 
discovered by looking at his credit file. Capital One took details and investigated. On 11 
February, Capital One told Mr B that it didnt accept his claim of fraud. It said that was based 
on information provided by Mr B, credit reference agencies and fraud databases. And it had 
also reviewed any incoming payments, phone calls and written correspondence received.
Mr B didnt agree. Capital One sent Mr B its final response on 20 February. It said it  was 
holding Mr B liable for the outstanding balance. It also told hm that he could report to the 
police, and if he did, Capital One would co-operate with the police investigation.
Mr B wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. He said that either Mr B had opened the 
account himself, or someone else had opened it with his permission, or someone opened 
the account without Mr Bs knowledge or permission.  
The investigator explained that when an application is submitted, lenders check the name 
and address for credit history as well as fraud prevention. Lenders arent required to tell 
applicants exactly what information they gather, as this is sensitive. In this case, Capital One 
had identified links between Mr B and the address on the signed application form, going 
back to 2011. The investigator said it was highly unlikely a fraudster would have made 
repayments, especially after the last spend on the card. And the calls had shown that Mr B 
hadnt been willing to provide Capital One with any further information such as information 
from other lenders, or the police. 
So the investigator considered Mr B had opened the account himself.
Mr B didnt agree. He sent a copy of his credit file from 2020, and a letter from a debt 
collection agency accepting it had been contacting Mr B about accounts that werent his. Mr 
B said it wasnt fair that he had to prove the Capital One account didnt belong to him and it 
should be up to Capital One to prove that it did. He said the disputed account could belong 
to someone with the same name and date of birth. And he also said that hed had an 
account with Capital One in 2011, which had been registered in a different city and was now 
closed. He said Capital One couldnt link something to his name when it was registered to a 
different address. And Mr B also sent in evidence showing he was on the electoral roll 
elsewhere in 2017. 
But the investigator didnt change his view, and Mr B asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lenders conduct a range of checks before opening an account, as Capital One did here. Mr 
B believes the debt couldnt be linked to his name when he had a different address. But the 
evidence he supplied about being on the electoral roll elsewhere was dated 2017. It doesnt 
prove anything about where Mr B was living when the account was opened in January 2014. 
Im satisfied that Capital Ones multiple checks in January 2014 confirmed Mr Bs personal 
details at that time, including his address at that time from the electoral roll. 
To be on the electoral roll, someone would be asked for their National Insurance number, 
which is a unique number for an individual. This makes it very unlikely indeed that, as Mr B 
suggests, the Capital One account had been taken out by someone else who had the same 
name and date of birth as he did.
Mr B supplied a letter from a debt collection agency which accepted it was contacting him 
about accounts which didnt belong to him. But the letter wasnt about the Capital One 
account so it isnt relevant to whether or not the Capital One account was genuinely opened 
by Mr B. 
Capital One also told Mr B it would co-operate with any police investigation, but theres no 
evidence that Mr B reported either the Capital One account, or any others, to the police. I 
find it very surprising he didnt do so, if he believed that a number of accounts had been 
fraudulently opened in his name.Ive looked at the history of the account, to see whether this indicates it was likely to have 
been taken out by someone fraudulently using Mr Bs personal details. But the pattern of 
usage of the account doesnt indicate a fraudulent account. The account holder spent money 
on groceries and other general spending, sometimes in relatively small amount. And 
payments of around £300 were made to the account over time. Those payments continued 
after the last time money was spent on the card in November 2014, with the last payment in 
January 2015. None of that indicates a typical pattern of fraud. Fraudsters would maximise 
the amount spent, very early on, to maximise their gain, and fraudsters would be most 
unlikely to make payments towards the debt.
Ive also borne in mind that the collections team spoke to the account holder in March 2015, 
and was told that the reason he couldnt pay was because he wasnt working but expected to 
do so soon. This too isnt a typical pattern for an account which has been opened by a 
fraudster.
Taking all these factors into account, I consider its most likely that the account was opened 
by Mr B in January 2014 and wasnt a fraudulent application by someone else. So I find that 
it was fair and reasonable for Capital One to hold Mr B liable for the outstanding balance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman