DRN-3565122
The complaint
Ms M has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold her a fee-
paying Reward Account in February 2016. 
Ms M says that it was presented to her as being the best account for her and the only option 
available to her, other than having a basic account.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and he didnt think that the account had 
been mis-sold.
Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything that has been provided by Ms M and NatWest, Im unable to 
uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Ms M says that the Reward account was presented to her as being the best account for her 
at the time. Looking at the transactions on the account when it was first sold to her, I can see 
that she was regularly being charged £3 per month for the account, but she was regularly 
earning £8 (or more) per month in cash back. Therefore, given that Ms M was regularly 
earning more in cash back each month than the account cost to have, the account looks to 
have been beneficial to Ms M. So if NatWest said to Ms M that it wouldve been a good 
account for her at the time, I cant say that what NatWest said was wrong or unreasonable.
I note that the reward offering was changed in 2020. And over time the account may not 
have been as beneficial to Ms M as it initially was. But just because a product, due to 
changes that were later made, provided less value for money than it did when it was first 
sold, doesnt mean that NatWest was wrong to have sold it to Ms M when it did.
Ms M says that the Reward account was presented to her as being her only option, other 
than having a basic account. I note however that at the time, Ms M already had a standard 
fee-free current account with NatWest and had done so for around two years. So I think its 
likely that Ms M was aware that standard fee-free current accounts were available to her. 
And given that she was able to benefit from the account from the outset, I think its much 
more likely that Ms M agreed to it simply because she was attracted to the cash back that 
she could earn from having the account.
However, even if I were to conclude that Ms M was incorrectly led to believe that it was her 
only option, and therefore that the account was mis-sold (although I dont think it was), I cant 
see that she has lost out because of this anyway. 
I say this because Ms M earned more in cash back (£329.91) as a result of having the 
account, than she paid to have the account (£153.86). Therefore, if I were to ask NatWest to 
put Ms M back into the position she wouldve been in had she not been sold the account and 
continued with the fee-free Select account instead, she would theoretically owe NatWest 
£176.05 in cash back that she wouldnt have earned had she continued with a Select 
account instead. So, even if I concluded that the account was mis-sold, there is nothing to 
refund to Ms M. 
Because of this, I dont think the Reward account was mis-sold. And even if I did, Ms M has 
not suffered a financial loss as a result of being sold the Reward account.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman