DRN-3187612
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly declined his request for an extension to 
the term of his interest only mortgage.
What happened 
In 2007 Mr H and his now late wife took out an interest only mortgage with another lender. 
The mortgage was later transferred to Barclays. The term was extended in 2016 to end in 
2020, with the repayment vehicle stated as the sale of another property.
Mrs H sadly passed away in 2017.
The mortgage term ended in April 2020 with a balance of around £270,000. Mr H wants 
Barclays to extend the term of the mortgage for a further three years. He said that he had 
experienced very tough personal circumstances over the previous years that meant he 
couldnt carry out his plans to pay off the mortgage. Mr H said that Barclay declined his 
request to extend the term without providing any written reasons or an explanation why it 
wouldnt agree the term extension. He also said that Barclays hasnt given him the personal
information it holds on him as he requested.
I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint subject to any further submissions. 
In summary, my findings were, and which form part of this decision:
Mr H had a contract with Barclays to repay the mortgage by 16 April 2020  but Barclays 
should have taken into account the relevant guidance and rules from the Financial 
Conduct Authority that allowed it to set aside affordability checks if changes to the 
mortgage were in Mr Hs best interests.
Barclays had failed to carry out an assessment of whether a term extension was in Mr 
Hs best interests because it had mistakenly thought that he was increasing his 
borrowing.
Barclays failed to identify that Mr H was vulnerable and it didnt adapt its approach. It 
should have taken a more conciliatory approach when speaking to Mr H  and if it had it 
seemed likely that it would have found out more about Mr Hs circumstances.
While I could see that extending the term could just be pushing the problem down the 
line, I didnt think that was a fair or reasonable way to look at the circumstances of this 
case: Mr H had given valid reasons why he couldnt repay the mortgage as planned; Mr 
H can clearly afford the interest payments based on his pension income; he has several 
properties he could sell which would repay the mortgage balance; Barclays records dont 
support that it fully understood the reasons why he couldnt repay the mortgage; 
Barclays had not shown that it had understood or applied the rules that applied to 
borrowers in Mr Hs position; and it hadnt followed its own policy to carry out a holistic 
review. 
As objective review of Mr Hs circumstances would support that it was in his best 
interests to approve a term extension. There were good reasons why he could not carry 
out his plans during the previous term extension, it was reasonable that he needed more 
time to do that and he had a viable and reasonable plan to repay the mortgage.
It wasnt clear why Mr H needed three years to carry out his plans. But it was now 
around 18 months since the term ended without any progress being made and it was 
likely that the pandemic caused Mr H some difficulties in carrying out his plans. In view 
of that I proposed that Barclays should extend the term of Mr Hs mortgage to 16 April 
2023.
Mr H has been caused a great deal of distress and inconvenience by the way that 
Barclays dealt with him. He has had to bring a complaint about this matter and has had 
the threat of losing his home hanging over him. Those were both stressful things  and 
bearing in mind Mr Hs personal circumstances I could see how he would have found it 
particularly upsetting. 
Mr H considers that Barclays hasnt provided recordings of all the phone calls he had 
with it. That may be the case, but Im satisfied that I have enough information to reach a 
fair decision on this case without that information. And I have taken into account the way 
that Barclays handled this matter overall in my award of compensation.
Both Barclays and Mr H accepted my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both sides have accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings I reached as set out above. Barclays didnt assess Mr Hs request to extend the 
term of his mortgage fairly or reasonably. If it had done so, it would have been fair to extend 
the term of the mortgage. I consider it would be fair and reasonable for it to do so  and to 
pay Mr H £500 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
Formally extend the term of Mr Hs mortgage to 16 April 2023.
Pay Mr H £500 for any distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman