DRN-3260224
The complaint
Mr N complains about Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) who declined his 
claim under his gadget insurance. 
What happened
Mr Ns mobile phone was stolen while he was at work. He had left it in an office that he said 
was locked and secure. When he returned, the phone had been taken. He reported the theft 
to the police and Assurant. He also blocked his phone with his phone provider.
Throughout the claims process, Assurant asked several questions regarding the loss of the 
phone. During a call with Mr N, Assurant informed him that his claim would be declined, in 
line with the policy terms and conditions. Assurant relied on the term that said that 
policyholders had to take care of their mobile phones. Assurant said that meant that 
policyholders must not knowingly leave their phone somewhere it is likely to be lost, stolen or 
damaged. 
Mr N complained to Assurant as he was unhappy with the claim being declined. In its final 
response, Assurant said that it had reviewed the calls in which Mr N spoke about the 
incident. And in those calls, he mentioned that the phone had been left unattended in an 
office that he knew had a faulty locking mechanism. And because of this, it felt that Mr N 
hadnt taken care of his phone and hadnt complied with the policy terms and conditions. So, 
the claim remained declined. 
Mr N was given his referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said that he 
didnt think Assurant had proved that Mr N had knowingly left his phone somewhere it was 
likely to be lost, stolen or damaged or that he took a risk doing so. Consequently, he 
recommended that Assurant accept Mr Ns claim and settle it in the way it wouldve been 
settled, had it been accepted at the time. 
Mr N accepted the view, Assurant did not. It said that Mr N had left his phone unattended, 
there were issues with the door locking mechanism in the room where the phone had been 
left. And Mr N couldve always had the phone with him. So, Assurant asked for a decision 
from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will be upholding this complaint and I hope my findings go some way in 
explaining why Ive reached this decision.
Assurant has effectively given three reasons why it declined Mr Ns claim. That is, he left his 
phone unattended, he knew there were issues with the doors lock in the room where his 
phone was taken from and he couldve always had his phone with him. I think it would be 
helpful to examine each of the reasons it gave and what I thought about them. 
Assurants first reason is that Mr N left his phone unattended and because of this he didnt 
take care of his phone. I have considered the policy terms and conditions regarding what 
Assurant meant. The policy provides the following:
We expect you to take care of your mobile phone. If you dont take care of your mobile
phone then we may not accept your claim. Taking care of your mobile phone means:
Not knowingly leaving your mobile phone somewhere it is likely to be lost, stolen or
damaged, just think would you leave your wallet or purse there?
If you need to leave your mobile phone somewhere then we expect you to lock it
away out of sight if at all possible. If you cannot lock it away then you must leave it with
someone you trust or concealed out of sight in a safe place.
Ive had a thought about what this means. The first section of the term details how Assurant 
wants policyholders to take care of their mobile phone. It further expands on what taking 
care means. The policy explained that policyholders should not knowingly leave their 
phones somewhere it was likely to be lost, stolen or damaged. In this complaint, Mr N 
confirmed that he left his phone in an office, that could be accessed by other staff members 
and when open, by members of the public. 
I have listened to the call recordings and in particular the recording in which Assurant 
declines Mr Ns claim. What is of note, is that on the incident date, he was present in the 
office by himself before having to undertake work duties and leaving the office for around 15-
20 minutes. Mr N confirmed that at the time there were two members of staff (including him) 
but the other member of staff was not in the office at the time and was working elsewhere. 
When Mr N had to leave the office, he said that the door was locked behind him, he did his 
duties and on return the phone was gone. Mr N also read to Assurant the police report that 
details the CCTV of the incident, which showed that the door was closed, and the office had 
been entered by person/persons unknown. 
From the evidence before me, from both parties, I cant see how Assurant has provided any 
evidence to support that Mr N knowingly left his phone somewhere it is likely to be stolen. 
The evidence from Mr N is that he left the phone in a locked office. The office was entered 
by a person or persons unknown, who took the phone. This evidence is supported by CCTV. 
I think that Mr Ns account throughout the claims process has been clear and consistent and 
persuasive. And I think that as Mr N had left his phone in an office that he believed was 
locked,  its reasonable to accept that he believed that his phone had been left in a room 
where it was likely to be secure.
The second part of the term provides that if Mr N had to leave his phone somewhere then 
the obligation on him would be to lock it away out of sight, but if it cant be locked away then 
either leave it with someone who he could trust or conceal it out of sight in a safe place.  
Assurant asked several questions about whether he had a locker. He explained quite clearly 
that he did not. He further explained that he didnt ever use one and particularly didnt have 
access to one, when the incident occurred. So, Mr N was not able to lock his mobile phone 
away. The term goes on to provide that if Mr N was unable to lock the phone away, he could either 
leave it with someone he could trust or conceal it out of sight in a safe place. 
Mr N explained that on the night in question, there were two members of staff (including him) 
on duty. The other member of staff was not located in the office. In other words, Mr N was 
the only person present in the office. So, I think that there wouldve been no one whom he 
couldve left his phone with. 
The policy then goes on to say that Mr N wouldve had to conceal it (the phone) out of sight 
in a safe place.  I have been provided with photographs of the office that the phone had 
been taken from, as well as Mr Ns account. He told Assurant that the phone was concealed 
on a desk that was behind a counter. The photographs show that there is a high-level 
counter on the desk and from the window looking into the office, anything behind that 
counter cannot be seen from the door. Furthermore, as Mr N said that the office was locked, 
I think it is reasonable to accept that he wouldve thought that his phone was concealed and 
in a safe place. And I agree.
Assurant also had copies of the photographs and said that Mr N left his phone on or next to 
a computer which was in clear sight from outside and very close to the door.  But I dont 
agree. The door opens inwards, so I dont think that the desk is very close to the door and I 
dont think the photographs show this either. In addition, Mr N said that from the door or 
window the phone wouldnt have been seen as it was conceal behind the desk. 
Assurant asked Mr N about the locking mechanism on the door. He explained to them that 
there was a digital code lock on the door. And when he or other members of staff were in the 
office the door would be unlocked. When he left the office, the door had a button that 
activated the lock and, on each occasion, he left the office with the door locked. 
He also mentioned that the door on occasion, jammed locked, even describing on one 
occasion that it had to be forced open. From what Ive read, the lock on that door had been 
fixed around five months earlier. So, I think it was more likely than not that the door lock was 
in good working order and that Mr N had locked the door as he said he did. 
Finally, Assurant questioned Mr N about whether he could have taken his mobile phone with 
him. Mr N explained that although there was no rule/policy that prevented him from taking 
his phone, the reason he didnt do so was due to safety reasons and possible disciplinary 
procedures, given the nature of his work. I think that this is a reasonable explanation that Mr 
N gave. But moreover, as he believed that he had left it in a locked office, I dont think he left 
it in a room where hed have had reason to think it was likely to be stolen. 
Also, the policy terms and conditions require Mr N to conceal the phone out of sight. There is 
no requirement for Mr N to take his phone with him. So, I dont think its reasonable for 
Assurant to have declined Mr Ns claim for this reason. 
Taking all of this into consideration, I think that Mr N didnt leave his phone in a place that he 
likely knew was going to be stolen and I think that he reasonably took care of his phone.
Putting things right
Given the circumstances, I think its fair and reasonable that Assurant General Insurance 
Limited put matters right, as I direct below. My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Mr Ns complaint. 
To put matters right, Assurant General Insurance Limited should pay Mr N the cash 
alternative value of the phone (at the time that he originally made the claim), as he has since 
replaced the stolen phone. 
Assurant General Insurance Limited must pay the cash settlement within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr N accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
If Assurant General Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr N how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr N a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman