DRN-3191826
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Nationwide Building Society unfairly declined their porting 
application. They say it breached the terms of the mortgage and should release them from 
the early repayment charge (ERC) so that they can re-mortgage elsewhere.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 2017 with a 10-year fixed rate product. 
They say they expected to be able to port the mortgage on the same terms, including having 
a 10% deposit. 
In 2021 Mrs S asked about porting the mortgage. Nationwide said as Mrs S was self-
employed she needed a 15% deposit.
Mr and Mrs S say Nationwide changed the terms of their mortgage and it would be unfair for 
it to apply the ERC if they decide to go elsewhere. They say the delays caused by waiting for 
this to be sorted out meant their house move is on hold, and they missed the stamp duty 
holiday.
Nationwide said it applied its lending policy correctly. It said it should have made Mrs S 
aware shed need a 15% deposit when she first called about porting. It offered £100 
compensation as an apology for this and the time Mrs S was on hold. 
Our investigator said when Mrs S asked about porting in 2021 Nationwides policy was that 
self-employed applicants needed a 15% deposit. The mortgage offer sent to Mr and Mrs S 
said porting was subject to meeting lending criteria.  
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S say its unfair for Nationwide to apply an ERC when it changed the basis on 
which theyre able to port their mortgage. 
The fixed interest rate product Mr and Mrs S took out included an ERC. This applies until 
2027. Mr and Mrs S say when they chose the product in 2017 they were told that theyd be 
able to port with a 10% deposit.
Nationwides records say that Mr and Mrs S told its adviser they had no plans to move in the 
next ten years, but were aware that if they did the deal is portable subject to lending criteria. 
The mortgage offer set out the ERC, which applies until 2027. It said the product was 
portable. However, it said this was if we are able to offer you a new loan and This does not 
guarantee acceptance of any future loan application.
Mr and Mrs S ported their mortgage product in 2018. The mortgage offer issued in 2018 said 
the product was portable. It also said this was if Nationwide was able to offer a loan, and 
there was no guarantee of this.
While Mr and Mrs S say they were told theyd be able to port with a 10% deposit the 
available evidence doesnt support this. 
I dont agree that Nationwide changed the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage. 
The terms of their existing mortgage didnt change. What did change is Nationwides criteria 
for new mortgages. 
I should say here that porting doesnt mean the mortgage is transferred to a new property. 
What happens is that the old mortgage is paid off, and a new mortgage is created and 
secured on the new property. The purpose of porting is to avoid an ERC, and what is ported 
is not the mortgage itself, but the interest rate product. 
In order to port the product to a new mortgage, Mrs S needed to apply successfully for a new 
mortgage. She needed to meet Nationwides lending criteria in place when she made her 
application.
Nationwide is entitled to make a commercial decision about its lending criteria, and to 
change its lending criteria from time to time. While I appreciate its frustrating for Mr and 
Mrs S that changes to Nationwides lending criteria mean they now need a 15% deposit, I 
cant fairly say that Nationwide made an error or treated them unfairly. It follows that I dont 
think its fair and reasonable to require Nationwide to waive the ERC if they repay their 
mortgage during the product term. 
When Mrs S raised her complaint with Nationwide she said she was unhappy with the 
service she received when she contacted Nationwide in April 2021. High call volumes meant 
she was put on hold and had to call back the next day to complete a decision in principle. 
And she wasnt immediately given correct information about the deposit. Nationwide 
apologised for the inconvenience this caused and offered £100 compensation. As this wasnt 
part of the complaint Mr and Mrs S brought to us, I havent looked into these issues here. 
Nationwide has said its offer is still available. I leave it to Mr and Mrs S to contact Nationwide 
if they want to accept its offer.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman