DRN-1751767
complaint
Mrs B complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
AXA, as the insurer, has taken responsibility for this sale, so Ill refer to it as the seller in this 
decision.
background
Mrs B took out a hire purchase agreement in a store in 2000. At the same time she was sold 
a PPI policy which wouldve helped cover the repayments on the agreement if she couldnt 
work. Mrs B paid a total of £30.45 for PPI. 
Mrs B initially said that she didnt know she had the PPI, although later she said that it was 
sold to her as if it was something she had to have. Mrs B says she didnt have enough 
information about it and that it wasnt fit for purpose. 
The adjudicator thought that Mrs Bs complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs B disagrees, so her 
case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mrs B applied for the credit in an application completed in store. AXA has supplied a copy of 
the agreement. Theres a separate section for the PPI which makes clear the cover is 
optional. It says in capital letters only sign if you want cover. Mrs B has signed in this 
section and also signed the whole form.
So, on balance, Im satisfied Mrs B bought the PPI knowing she had a choice about it.
AXA didnt make a personal recommendation to Mrs B about the PPI so it didnt need to take 
reasonable steps to make sure it was suitable for her. But it did need to make sure it gave 
her all the information she needed to make her own decision. I dont think AXA did this well 
enough. For example, theres no mention of what the exact benefits were. 
But looking at Mrs Bs circumstances I dont think more information wouldve changed her 
mind about buying it. I think its likely Mrs B understood the policy would pay a benefit if she 
wasnt able to work. And as I think Mrs B chose to take out the PPI, it seems she was 
interested in this type of cover. 
It doesnt look like Mrs B was affected by any of the terms which mightve made it more 
difficult for her to make a successful claim, such as those related to existing medical conditions or unusual employment circumstances  so it wouldve been useful for her if 
something went wrong. I havent seen anything to suggest the PPI was unaffordable for Mrs 
B.
Mrs B says she was entitled to some sick pay, and that friends or family would have helped 
her out if needed. But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially 
for longer; help from others cant be guaranteed. As Mrs B had only worked for her employer 
for about two years I dont think shed have been entitled to much redundancy pay So, I think 
the policy offered Mrs B a useful benefit.
On balance, I dont think Mrs B lost out as a result of anything AXA did wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint, so it follows that AXA France IARD doesnt have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman