DRN-3253836
The complaint
Mr T complains that Liberty Mutual Insurance Europe SE (Liberty Mutual) has unfairly 
declined a subsidence claim on his residential buildings insurance policy.
References to Mr T or Liberty Mutual include respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr T purchased his property in 2014, which he let to tenants in 2018 onwards. 
In July 2019, Mr T took out a residential landlord policy with Liberty Mutual.
In May 2020 Mr T noticed damage to the property affecting the front door and 
cracking inside and around the porch and a retaining wall. Mr Ts tenants also 
complained of increased water bills. Following an investigation, an underground leak 
from a mains service pipe within the property boundary was discovered.
Mr T spoke to Liberty Mutual. It investigated and in June 2020 Liberty Mutual 
declined the claim for subsidence saying the policy didnt cover existing issues. And it 
relied on photos of cracking to the porch prior to the policy being taken out. 
Mr T complained, disagreeing with the outcome and saying Liberty Mutual hadnt 
completed a sufficient investigation. Liberty Mutual agreed it shouldve carried out 
further investigations. In August 2020, it began trial pits and soil sampling.
In October 2020 Mr T complained again, saying the claim was taking too long and 
had been subject to delays. Liberty Mutual disagreed, and declined the claim shortly 
after on several grounds. It said the cause of the damage was settlement which was 
excluded. It said the foundations werent adequate and said faulty design and 
materials were also excluded. And it referred to the damage being pre-existing.
Mr T provided comments from his own structural engineer which said the escape of 
water may have caused the movement. Liberty Mutual didnt change its position, 
saying these comments reflected the defective design and workmanship in the build 
of the porch and retaining wall. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She considered the engineer reports 
provided, and was more persuaded by Liberty Mutuals as their level of investigation 
was more extensive, and their soil sample data suggested the movement wasnt 
connected to the escape of water. She also said Mr Ts engineer hadnt provided 
persuasive evidence to explain how movement to the property wouldve remained 
progressive after the leak had been repaired. So, she concluded Liberty Mutual had 
fairly declined the claim in line with its settlement exclusion.
Mr T disagreed and provided a detailed response. In summary he said the cause of 
the damage was not certain, and Liberty Mutuals investigations were flawed 
amounting to gross negligence. He commented on the soil analysis, and said 
investigations (including a CCTV inspection and crack monitoring) shouldve been 
undertaken. He also said the evidence didnt explain why the settlement would occur 
recently coinciding with the water leak.
The Investigator looked again but didnt change her mind. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ts submissions to this Service span many pages. Within this decision I wont be 
responding in similar detail. This is not intended as a discourtesy, but a reflection of the 
informal nature of this Service. 
My role is to focus on what I consider the crux of the complaint to be which means I will only 
comment on those things I consider relevant to the decision I need to make. That may also 
mean I dont comment on everything Mr T has said but I can confirm I have read and 
considered everything said by both parties.
Cause of damage and exclusions
Within Mr Ts policy, it says the insurance will cover subsidence or ground heave of the site 
that the buildings stand on, or landslip. It goes on to say it will exclude damage caused by or 
resulting from certain perils, including:
The bedding down of new structures, settlement, shrinkage or expansion; and 
Faulty design, workmanship or the use of defective materials
Ill look at these in turn. And in doing so, Ill consider each of the expert reports provided. As 
these have been discussed by our Investigator at length previously Ive focused on what I 
consider to be key sections.
Liberty Mutuals report of September 2020 commented on the quality of the ground in 
question, describing the foundation as weak, made ground (imported soil) of soft dark 
brown silty sandy clay with occasional brick fragments.
The foundation bears onto an inherently weak ground based on the insitu testing 
undertaken and as such it could be considered that: 1) the made ground was not adequately 
prepared for the purposes of construction and 2) the foundation itself was not designed to 
take into account the underlying soil conditions, thus doomed for failure which has become 
apparent in the early term.
It goes on to say that the poor bearing capacity ground could be considered settlement of 
the foundation of the new structure as it is within ten years of the construction. As well as 
faulty design and use of defective materials, commenting on the depth of the foundations.
The engineer also comments that the moisture content readings it took would be regarded 
as normal, and its investigations have not produced any evidence to suggest an 
excessive escape of water that might have contributed to and/or exacerbated failure of the 
front porch or the retaining wall, either in isolation or simultaneously.
The evidence here suggests to me that the escape of water wasnt related to the damage in 
question. And in light of the extent of investigation, I find Liberty Mutuals commentary 
around the quality of ground and resulting settlement to be persuasive.Mr T has also provided a report from November 2020 which discussed the damage. 
They were also critical of the quality of the build of the porch, saying: it appears 
clear that the porch was constructed with poor quality foundations, being relatively 
narrow, shallow and  crucially  founded into very soft made ground. And the 
construction is far less substantial than a properly designed retaining wall of this 
height would require.
They noted the extension had not moved significantly for the first 6 or 7 years. And 
said the timing of the escape of water was strongly suggestive to being a key trigger, 
if not at least an exacerbating factor to the damage of the porch.
It said while the made ground that supported the porch foundations was very weak 
and arguably unsuitable as founding material, its measurements and observations 
were made after the escape of water, so it was likely the prolonged water leak had 
softened the soil by washing out fines. 
I take on board these comments. And the comments about the quality of foundations seems 
to be agreed between experts. I can also understand the reasoning for linking the escape of 
water to the damage in question in light of the timing and the possibility of the water washing 
away fines within the soil. But most of the commentary provided by Mr Ts engineer is 
opinion based without presenting new evidence or data. 
This is not to dismiss their opinion or the report as I have carefully considered it, but simply 
that in the event of conflicting expert views I must base my decision on what I consider to be 
most likely in light of the evidence. And I think Liberty Mutuals reasoning was supported by 
more extensive testing and data. Im also not persuaded Mr Ts engineer has explained why 
the moisture testing wouldve shown normal readings in light of the alleged impact of the 
water only a short time after the event.
Liberty Mutual also reviewed Mr Ts report and didnt change its mind. It said the comments 
highlighted the defective design and poor workmanship adopted in the construction of the 
porch and the retaining wall. And it said the report didnt include evidence to support that the 
escape of water caused the movement, particularly in light of its own site investigations 
showing the moisture readings to be normal. I think these are fair conclusions to reach.
For these reasons Im satisfied the available evidence supports that the damage most likely 
occurred due to the settlement of the property within around six years of it being built upon 
poor quality made ground. So, I think it was reasonable for Liberty Mutual to decline this 
claim using its exclusion for settlement.
Even if I was satisfied this was not due to settlement  which I am  taking into account the 
strength of the commentary from both experts in this case about the quality of the ground 
and build, I would also be satisfied that Liberty Mutual would be able to fairly apply its 
exclusion for faulty design, and use of defective materials given.
Liberty Mutual also declined this claim as it said the damage had occurred prior to the start 
of the policy, and that the foundations were too shallow and therefore defective. For the 
reasons Ive given above, Im already satisfied the claim has been fairly declined. So, I wont 
discuss this point any further.
Claims handling
Following Mr Ts initial complaint to Liberty Mutual around July 2020 it agreed to carry out 
further investigations. This included a site investigation involving two exploratory trial pit and boreholes, one situated at the underside of the porch and main house foundation and the 
second at the underside of the foundation for the retaining wall structure.
I wouldnt expect policyholders to have to complain to achieve a fair investigation for their 
claim, so as Liberty Mutual has recognised already, Id consider this to be a mistake on its 
part for not taking these steps initially. Im satisfied Liberty Mutual took the claim forward at a 
reasonable pace following this.
Within Mr Ts responses hes said Liberty Mutual hadnt carried out a sufficient investigation. 
Hes discussed the locations of the investigations being inaccurate. But this commentary 
isnt supported by a technical opinion, so hasnt persuaded me.
And Mr T has mentioned specific types of investigation that he said Liberty Mutual had 
indicated would be necessary but didnt carry out (such as a CCTV inspection and crack 
monitoring). However, the quote I believe hes referenced said A thorough investigation 
would usually involve some of the below before listing investigation methods. And it 
acknowledges it did carry out investigations using some of these methods. 
I wouldnt expect an insurer to routinely complete all possible investigations when handling a 
claim  only those which seems relevant in the circumstances. Ive not been given any 
expert opinion to support that a CCTV inspection or crack monitoring was necessary in this 
claim. Liberty Mutual has also commented that a CCTV inspection of the drains wasnt 
necessary in this case as Mr T had said the cause of the escape of water was a fault with 
the mains which had already been resolved. I think this was reasonable. 
So, while I understand Mr T may feel strongly on this matter and Ive considered his 
concerns, his comments havent persuaded me that Liberty Mutuals investigations were not 
sufficient in the circumstances.
Following Liberty Mutual providing its final position on the claim to Mr T, it invited him to 
provide a copy of his own engineers report for it to reconsider - which it did, and Ive 
discussed this above. So, while I recognise this may not have led to the outcome Mr T 
wanted, Im satisfied Liberty Mutual had taken on board all of the relevant and available 
evidence when reaching its decision.
Overall, I acknowledge the claim couldve been better handled in places, especially at the 
start when Liberty Mutuals initial investigation was lacking. However, taking into account the 
life of the claim and that Im satisfied Liberty Mutual has declined this fairly in line with the 
policy terms, I dont think these mistakes necessitate compensation in this case.
Other issues
Following our view Mr T has raised a number of points about the wider claim. Including 
concerns about a rental claim not being paid, and about a subsidence marker being left on 
his file for some time. While I understand hes engaged with Liberty Mutual on these points 
during the life of this claim, this isnt something that was considered by this Service as part of 
his overall complaint. If Mr T wishes for this Service to consider these points, this will be 
separate to this complaint.
My final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman