DRN-4266788
The complaint
Mr F complains about the way British Gas Insurance Limited dealt with a claim he made 
under his Home care insurance policy.
What happened
Ill summarise the main points about this dispute:
Mr F had a policy with British Gas to cover his boiler. He got in touch with it in early 
December to report a problem with the boiler.
It visited 7 December and said a new fan was needed but left the boiler working 
whilst the new part was ordered. The part was ordered but it arrived faulty from the 
manufacturer. The part was reordered and then installed on 13 December.
The following day, pipes burst in Mr Fs loft. Significant water damage was caused to 
the building and contents and Mr F had to move out whilst it was put right. He 
thought this was a result of the way British Gas had dealt with his claim.
British Gas said the policy didnt cover plumbing, so it couldnt consider the problem 
under the policy. And it didnt think the way it had dealt with the claim had caused the 
problem either. It said it hadnt worked on the pipes and the boiler was working 
throughout. It also said it had dealt with the claim in a reasonable period of time, 
noting all appointments were kept.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said there wasnt 
any evidence to show British Gas was responsible for the water damage or had 
otherwise caused delays or acted unfairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy only covers the boiler  not the plumbing. So theres no cover under the 
policy for the burst pipes or the resulting damage.
The key point of Mr Fs complaint is that British Gas is responsible for the pipes 
bursting because of the time it took to install the new fan.
Under its policy, British Gas says it will carry out any repairs within a reasonable 
timescale, unless something beyond our control makes that impossible. Im satisfied 
it fulfilled that, bearing in mind the timescale noted above and that four days were lost 
to a faulty part. I dont hold British Gas responsible for the manufacturer sending it a 
faulty part because thats beyond its control.
British Gas says it left the boiler working throughout, so heating was always available 
to Mr F. He hasnt challenged that or provided any evidence to support his viewpoint. 
So if the pipes burst because they froze, I dont think British Gas can be held 
responsible. Without evidence of a delay or an expert opinion linking British Gas 
actions to the water damage, Im not satisfied its responsible for what happened.
I know Mr F is also unhappy with how British Gas responded to his complaint. But 
thats not something, in itself, I can consider. As he was unhappy with the response, 
he exercised his right to refer his complaint to this Service to consider. For the 
reasons above, Im satisfied British Gas treated him fairly.
I understand Mr F has reported the water damage to his home insurer, and its 
covered some of the claim. If hes unhappy with the way his home insurer has dealt 
with that claim, hes entitled to make a separate complaint about that.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman