DRN-3136789
The complaint
Miss L is unhappy Monzo Bank Ltd havent refunded money she lost as a result of a scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In July 2020 Miss L was contacted by a 
merchant about investing in cryptocurrency. After speaking with the merchant Miss L was 
told she would be taught how to trade and would see her investment on a trading platform. 
So, Miss L decided to pay £10,000 by debit card to the merchant. She did this via a 
legitimate cryptocurrency exchange Ill refer to as B, where Bitcoin was purchased, and the 
funds deposited in an e-wallet for cryptocurrencies she had set up. From there she then sent 
the bitcoin to the merchant. 
Miss L contacted Monzo in August 2020 to raise a scam because shed been unable to 
withdraw her money the merchants platform. After she provided some further information 
about the scam, Monzo said it couldnt raise a chargeback because the money had been 
sent to B who provided the service that Miss L wanted, which was to provide and then send 
on the cryptocurrency shed purchased. But Monzo did pay Miss L £50 for sending a final 
response letter that was meant for another customer. Miss L remained unhappy, so she 
contacted this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said there was no 
reasonable prospect of successfully raising a chargeback. The investigator added that the 
transactions shouldve been flagged with Monzo, but if it had this wouldnt have made a 
difference. 
Miss L disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said Monzo shouldve 
stopped the payment and if it had provided a fraud and scams warning, she wouldnt have 
asked it to continue with the payment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Having thought very carefully about Monzos actions, Im not going to uphold Miss Ls 
complaint. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for her, but I dont think I can fairly 
say Monzo should reimburse her. Ill explain why. 
Firstly, Ive considered whether the chargeback process was an option for Miss L. A 
chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by card scheme providers  in this case, Mastercard. 
It arbitrates on disputes between a customer and a merchant where they havent been able 
to resolve matters themselves. The arbitration process is subject to the rules of the scheme 
 which are set by Mastercard  and there are only limited grounds on which a chargeback 
can be raised. Chargebacks raised outside of these grounds are deemed invalid. 
From the evidence Ive seen, the records show the payments went to B. The service 
provided by B would be to convert the money into cryptocurrency. B provided the service 
asked for, therefore there are no chargeback rights under the scheme, albeit I accept Miss L 
wouldnt have been aware that she was sadly falling victim to a scam at the time she made 
the payments. 
Miss L has said that Monzo didnt warn her this was potentially a scam or fraud, but Ive not 
seen anything to suggest it had any indication that it was a scam at the time. So, Ive also 
thought about whether Monzo ought to have intervened before allowing the payment Miss L 
made to be progressed. 
I agree with the investigator that Monzo shouldve flagged the £10,000 payment and spoken 
to Miss L about it. But if it had done so, I dont think this wouldve stopped the scam. Miss L 
has said she was trying to invest to pay for medical treatment for a family member. She said 
she borrowed around £80,000 to pay towards this scam (with further payments being made 
later in the same month from an account Miss L had with another bank). 
As our investigator set out, there were no warnings about B on the IOSCO or the FCA 
website at the time of the payment because B is a legitimate firm. So, I dont think there 
shouldve been something more automated on Monzos system to alert it to this payment 
and for it to block it until further investigations were done.  
Taking everything into account, if Monzo had discussed the payment with Miss L I think its 
most likely she would have explained that the payment was towards an investment and that 
she had previous experience of investing. Ive also considered that she was keen to continue 
with the investments due to her circumstances at the time. And even if thered been a 
conversation between Monzo and Miss L where shed disclosed that the scam merchant 
were the ultimate intended recipient of her funds, there were no warnings published about 
them at that time. 
I accept Miss L has provided bad reviews of the merchant online. But after considering 
those, it appears that they were posted after the transaction was made. And I dont think it 
would be the role of the bank to check online reviews for Miss L. So, overall, I think she 
would have gone ahead with the payment anyway. And I dont think this is a situation where 
Monzo ought to have refused her instruction for the reasons Ive explained above. 
Monzo offered £50 for the poor service provided to when it sent her the incorrect final 
response. I think thats a fair offer for the impact the error caused here. 
I appreciate Miss L has been through a very difficult time and been the unfortunate victim of 
a scammer, but I dont agree Monzo needs to refund any of the payments she made.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman