DRN-4061678
The complaint
Ms E complains about an agreement she took out with Close Brothers Limited.
What happened
Ms E acquired a used car in December 2021 using a conditional sale agreement from Close 
Brothers Limited. The agreement was for 60 months, made up of 59 monthly repayments of 
£352.09 and one monthly repayment of £362.09. The total amount payable was £21,135.40.
Ms E took the agreement out and intended to allow the car to be mainly used by her partner. 
Ms E said the car was registered in her partners name and said she was told by the 
supplying dealership that it was ok to have the car registered under a different name to that 
on the agreement. She also said she was told that after making a few regular repayments, 
she would be able to transfer the account and the repayments into her partners name.
After some time, Ms E split up with her partner, and wished to transfer the details on the 
agreement to her now ex-partner and remove her name from it. And so, she said she 
contacted the supplying dealership and Close Brothers Limited. She later complained to 
Close Brothers Limited as she couldnt get her issue sorted. 
Close Brothers Limited sent Ms E their final response and explained that they tried to contact 
her on occasions but were unable to get hold of her and investigate further. And so they 
didnt uphold her complaint due to lack of information. 
Ms E referred her complaint to our service as she believed Close Brothers Limited werent 
helpful and that the agreement was misrepresented. She said it was explained to her that 
her name could be removed from the agreement eventually.
Close Brothers Limited had provided their internal notes on this complaint and within it they 
said they had relied on their terms and the car has since been seized due to it not being 
registered in Ms Es name.
Our investigator found that Close Brothers Limited didnt need to do anything further. In 
summary, he explained he hadnt seen evidence to suggest Ms E had tried to contact the 
supplying dealership to change the agreement details. But in any event, the finance 
agreement which Ms E signed said the car must be in her possession or control. And as the 
car wasnt registered in her name, she had breached the terms of the agreement. He went 
on to explain that he contacted Close Brothers Limited to enquire what options were 
available to Ms E to end the agreement, but he didnt receive a response. So he encouraged 
Ms E to contact Close Brothers Limited about her options.
Ms E disagreed with the investigators findings. Ms E provided screenshots of conversations 
she held with her partner and what she felt showed that she tried to resolve things with the 
supplying dealership. She also provided screenshots of an email from the police. They 
showed she received acknowledgement that her contact with them had been received and 
had been given a reference number. These screenshots did not show why Ms E had 
contacted the police.
As Ms E disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why below.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law, regulations 
and guidance. Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 explains that, under certain 
circumstances, finance providers are liable for what they say and for what is said by a credit 
broker or supplier before the consumer takes out the credit agreement.
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the car. The company that sold 
the car was the dealership. I have approached this case on the basis that the loan was set 
up as a result of pre-existing arrangements between Close Brothers Limited and the 
dealership and that section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act therefore applies.
Ms E complains she was misled into taking out a finance agreement with Close Brothers 
Limited on the basis that she was told that she could change the repayment details after 
making a few successful repayments. So Ive considered if a misrepresentation occurred 
here.
I would consider a misrepresentation to have taken place if Ms E was told a false statement 
of fact that induced her into entering into the agreement she otherwise would not have. So 
ultimately, what I need to firstly consider is whether Ms E was told that she should take the 
agreement out in her name and transfer it to her partner at a later stage.
Ms E has provided screenshots of conversations she held with her ex-partner about 
transferring the loan. The screenshots dont show what she was told by the dealership at the 
time she was taking the agreement out, but rather only show the dialogue between herself 
and her partner about contacting the supplying dealership. I cant see anything to show that 
Ms E was told she could transfer the loan into her ex-partners name. Instead, the 
information in the agreement she signed suggests she wouldnt be able to. 
Ms E signed a conditional sale agreement from Close Brothers Limited. Section 5 of the 
agreement is titled, Restrictions on Use and goes on to say:
You may not abandon, sell, gift or transfer the Goods to a third party and you must keep the 
Goods in your possession or control..
I think this term in the agreement is clear in explaining that the car cannot be gifted to 
another individual and it must be in Ms Es possession or control. Ms E has said that her ex-
partners details were recorded in the vehicle log book, and not hers. And she has also told 
our service that her ex-partner was driving the car. So, Im satisfied she didnt have 
possession of it and I can see why Close Brothers Limited repossessed the car as they 
believe the terms of the agreement were breached.
With all this in mind, I dont think a false statement of fact was made as the agreement Ms E 
signed was clear on the restrictions on the use of the car. It follows that I dont think the 
agreement was misrepresented to Ms E.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman