DRN-2391653
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about the surrender of their Collective Investment Accounts (CIAs) 
and Independent Savings Accounts (ISAs)  by Old Mutual Wealth Limited, referred to as 
OMW or the business.  
They say theyve lost out over of £7,000 as result of the actions of OMW and other third-
party businesses involved. 
What happened
On Monday 16 March 2020, at 10:15am, Mr R called OMW to say that he and Mrs R were 
closing their CIAs and ISAs. 
Mr R said their Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) told him that if they called before 
10:30am, they could secure the previous days valuation on their investments. OMW said 
that it couldnt confirm the values, until written instructions were received, but provided him 
with a value  what the investigator referred to as the indicative value  from the last 
valuation it had on the investments, from Thursday 12 March 2020. 
Mr R also notified OMW that he and Mrs R now wished to withdraw their ISAs in full, rather 
than partial withdrawal, like their CIAs, contrary to their earlier intentions. I understand that 
Mr R also called his IFA and left a message indicating his intentions prior to calling OMW.  
Later the same day, OMW received the following withdrawal forms signed by Mr and Mrs R 
 dated on Friday 13 March 2020  from their IFA:
At 10:29:03 am, it received Mr Rs (partial) ISA withdrawal form. 
At 10:30:01 am, it received Mr Rs CIA closure form. 
At 10:31:18 am, it received Mrs Rs CIA closure form. 
At 10:31:18 am, it received Mrs Rs (partial) ISA withdrawal form. 
It seems OMW wasnt sent the correct and up to date instructions  reflecting Mr and Mrs 
Rs change of mind regarding their ISAs  or within the set deadline.  
On 17 March 2020, OMW sent Mr and Mrs R confirmation of the closure of their CIAs and 
withdrawal statements in the sum of £50,162. I understand the amount wasnt what they 
were expecting. 
On 18 March 2020, Mr and Mrs Rs IFA sent an amended withdrawal request  this time 
requesting full withdrawals of their ISAs. On 19 March 2020, the remainder of their ISAs  in 
the sum of £2,325  were withdrawn.
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy about OMW not acting in accordance with their telephone 
instructions on 16 March 2020, and not receiving amounts they were led to believe they 
would receive. Theyre also unhappy about the time way their complaint has been dealt with. 
In a Final Response Letter (FRL) dated 31 March 2020, OMW rejected the complaint. On 
8 April 2020, following Mr Rs further objections, OMW said that the forms had been received 
too late in order to complete the necessary checks and to submit to the fund managers to 
place the deals. It referred to various terms and conditions (T&Cs) of the ISA  including 
T&Cs 22.1 and 22.2  which made clear the instructions would be placed at the end of the 
next working day, after being acknowledged/accepted by its system. 
Mr R, on behalf of himself and Mrs R, disagreed with the business. He maintains that theyve 
lost over £7,000  based on the figures he was previously given by OMW, and in due course 
referred the complaint to our service.   
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Mr and Mrs R were following instructions from their IFA when they contacted OMW  
on 16 March 2020  in order to secure the previous Fridays valuations. 
Shes only considering the actions of OMW  and not the IFA, or any other third-party 
 so in the circumstances, she cant say OMW is responsible for advice given by their 
IFA.
Mr and Mrs Rs concerns about the way OMW handed the complaint is not 
something that she can consider because its not a regulated activity. 
The information contained within the T&Cs for both the CIAs and the ISAs  also 
repeated in the questions and answers section of the investment withdrawal forms  
explains clearly what happens when instructions are received about surrendering 
investments. This information is also available on the OMW website. 
The information makes clear that trades are based on when the instructions are 
received, if its before (or after) the cut off point for each fund.
It seems that if OMW receives instructions prior to cut-off time it will forward this to 
the fund manager to place the trade. If instructions are received after this deadline, 
theyll be placed the following day. So, OMW cant guarantee the actual values Mr 
and Mrs R would receive would be in line with their expectations.
Despite Mr Rs claim that his IFA called OMW on 13 March 2020 to find out when the 
cut off time was, OMW hasnt been able to find a record, so she cant comment on 
this further. 
Mr R called OMW on 16 March 2020, at around 10:15am, in which call he said he 
was purchasing a property and needed to know the definitive values of their funds. 
The phone operative told him Ill be unable to confirm definitely how much youd 
receive. 
Despite Mr R saying that he was told by his IFA that if he notified OMW before 
10:30am theyd secure Fridays figures (and that he wanted to leave some funds left 
in his ISA) he was still told that OMW couldnt guarantee those figures. 
Mr R said that hed called in line with advice (from his adviser) and wanted 
confirmation of the figures. The agent provided a figure of £18,312.53 for each ISA 
and £52,739 for each CIA but clarified that these werent confirmed valuation figures. 
OMW also confirmed that the figures were from Thursdays pricing of the funds  not 
Friday as Mr R says. 
In the circumstances, given the process for obtaining the pricing of funds, OMW 
didnt give incorrect information or provide the wrong figures. Mr and Mrs R selected 
option B on their withdrawal forms to withdraw 100% from their CIAs but not their 
ISAs.
Even though Mr R called OMW prior to the cut off  in order to secure the previous 
days valuation  OMW wasnt wrong to not accept his oral instructions over the 
phone because the amount was greater than £25,000  which was the limit of phone 
instructions. The signed instructions were in fact received after the cut-off point so the withdrawal 
and closures had to be actioned the following day (Tuesday) in line with OMWs 
T&Cs. 
Both the ISA forms initially contained instructions to withdraw £15,000 from the ISAs. 
By signing the forms Mr and Mrs R agreed for OMW to carry out their instructions as 
set out in line with its T&Cs. 
OMW wasnt subsequently obliged to contact Mr and Mrs R or their IFA about actual 
values received.  
Section 22 of the T&Cs regarding processing instructions made clear that OMW will 
action the instruction after it has been acknowledged by its system, at the end of the 
next working day. 
In the circumstances, although only one of four instructions was received by OMW 
before the cut off time, it was unreasonable to expect it to forward this instruction to 
the fund manager to action in such a short space of time. And even if the forms had 
been sent, the ISA values wouldve been taken for the next working day, so would 
never have been valued the same day as Mr R expected. 
OMW made clear that it received the (amended) ISA closure instructions from Mr and 
Mrs Rs IFA on 18 March 2020, which it then processed. Its the reason why £15,000 
was initially withdrawn on 17 March 2020, and then the remainder of £2,325.41 on 19 
March 2020. 
Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the investigators view. Over numerous emails they raised a 
substantial number of points (and questions) about why they thought the investigator was 
wrong. Its not necessary for me to repeat the contents of 15 or so emails in this decision. 
The investigator, having considered the additional points, wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. In summary, in response to Mr and Mrs Rs various points, she said:
She has only considered the actions of OMW. Complaints against two other third-
party businesses will be dealt with separately. 
Shes aware that Mr and Mrs R were unaware of some information  regarding the 
timings of the instructions  before she mentioned it in her view. But its part of her 
role to find out what happened in order to determine whether (or not) the business 
has done anything wrong.  
On the face of the evidence, she doesnt agree that her view is flawed, incompetent 
or prejudiced, or that it lacks empathy. 
Mr R confirmed that although the investments were taken out a year ago, he and Mrs 
R havent read the T&Cs, even though its what theyve agreed to. 
Despite what Mr R says, OMW still cant find the details of a phone call from 13 
March 2020. Even if Mr R was a witness to a call about the values he might get, this 
still wouldnt change her view regarding the T&Cs which make clear the position. 
She used the word indicative  to which Mr and Mr R want to know the source  to 
describe the values given by OMW on 16 March 2020. It was her own word used to 
convey the point that it couldnt confirm the values. The call recording  which Mr and 
Mrs R also have a copy of  states:
oIn regard to the amounts you would receive from the withdrawals, as these 
are stocks and shares and the plans may fluctuate whilst that is completing, I 
will be unable to confirm definitely how much you will receive. But what I can 
do is give you the value of your policies today.
The T&Cs  in particular pages 9 to 12 for the CIAs, and ISAs  made clear how the 
process works, including the how long its likely to take, and the different cut off times 
for the different types of funds. 
OMW hasnt failed in its duty to Mr and Mrs R as customers.  
 Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the investigators response, they maintain that OMW is still at 
fault and is responsible for their losses. Again, theyve asked a significant number of 
questions  many of them repeated  to which they want answers because the investigator 
hasnt provided detailed answers. They feel that OMW along with other businesses involved 
have failed them.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
One the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr and Mrs R say, Im not 
persuaded that the business has behaved unreasonably in processing their instructions to 
surrender their CIAs and ISAs. 
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise the 
strength of feeling Mr and Mrs R have about this matter. Theyve provided detailed 
submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I 
hope they wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, 
and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
I note Mr and Mrs R have said: We have submitted a massive number of questions which 
we would ask you to consider research and answer please EACH & EVERY ONE OF 
THEM. But the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a 
separate subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this 
case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt mean Im not considering the 
pertinent points. Many of the questions posed by Mr and Mrs R arent relevant because they 
involve the actions of third-party businesses. I appreciate they think the issues are 
intertwined, but be that as it may, when considering the complaint against OMW I cant hold 
it responsible for the actions of a third-party business. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs R might feel our service has been biased towards the business, but 
I dont agree, and Im sorry they feel that way. My role is to consider the evidence presented 
by them and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, fair and reasonable 
decision based on the facts of the case, rather that answer what if? questions or take any 
side. This isnt how our process works. Its not my role to punish the business for any 
regulatory breaches either, thats the role of the industry regulator the Financial Conduct 
Authority (the FCA). My role is to decide if OMW has done anything wrong and where 
appropriate award redress for any financial losses for which its responsible and/or 
compensation for any trouble and upset caused if its at fault - not all errors will mean that 
compensation is automatically due.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
Im aware Mr and Mrs R have numerous questions about why the business acted in the way 
that it did and about the actions of third-parties, but my not seeking to answer these questions 
doesnt prevent me from reaching a decision in this case. Despite Mr R calling OMW on 16 March 2020  regarding his and Mrs Rs change of mind 
about their ISAs  I note the requests that OMW subsequently received were dated from 
Friday 13 March 2020. They/their IFA spoke to OMW the previous week  Thursday 12 
March 2020  and they were happy with the values of their investments for that day, so I 
dont know why they didnt submit their requests sooner rather than allow time to pass.  
I note that not only did some of the requests not contain the up to date and correct 
instructions, but all (but one) set of instructions werent even submitted on time either. In 
other words, except for the ISA instructions in Mr Rs name - which barely made the cut off 
point but didnt reflect his changed instructions  the three remaining requests were received 
after the deadline. In the circumstances I cant blame OMW for any of this. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs R were only made of this information after it was mentioned by the 
investigator in her view, but in the circumstances, I dont think OMW was obliged to notify 
them given that the process was already made clear in the T&Cs. I understand that Mr and 
Mrs Rs IFA accepts that it made an error in relation to this but theres potentially some issue 
in relation to redress in terms of whats been paid and what Mr and Mrs R were expecting. 
Whatever the case may be, its not relevant to this complaint against OMW. 
I note that OMW has a process in place with regards to surrender of the CIAs and ISAs  
which the investigator has referred to in detail and if customers cant respond within the 
timeframe with the correct information, the process is likely to take longer and potentially 
return different values to what they were expecting. In this instance the timing of when the 
requests were received wouldve (inevitably) had an impact on how and when they were 
processed, and consequently the value of the investments. Im satisfied that OMW 
processed Mr and Mrs Rs request in line with its T&Cs. 
I note it was only after OMW sent Mr and Mrs R confirmation of the closure of their CIAs  
on 17 March 2020  that they submitted new and amended instructions on 18 March 2020  
in relation to the full withdrawal of their ISAs. In due course on 19 March 2020 the remainder 
of the ISAs were withdrawn. 
Ive no issue with Mr and Mrs R changing their minds on the day of the transfer, I appreciate 
theyre entitled to change their minds before the accounts are fully surrendered  but this 
change of mind wasnt reflected in the instructions OMW received from their IFA. 
The other issue is that despite Mr R calling OMW in the morning on 16 March 2020 (before 
the written forms were sent) it still couldnt act on his instructions over the phone because 
the amounts in question were over £25,000, so the instructions had to be in writing. In the 
circumstances the business wasnt wrong to process the requests in line with the written 
instructions only and not Mr Rs call. OMW isnt at fault for Mr and Mrs Rs written 
instructions not matching Mr Rs intentions as expressed in the earlier phone call. 
I note OMW made clear the following in its documentation:
By telephone: we can accept your request by telephone in the following circumstances:
- your withdrawal is up to £25,000, and
- your CIA is in your sole name, not jointly held or in the name of a trust, company, 
club,charity or pension scheme, and
- the money will be paid into the bank account used to pay for the investment (if you
invested by cheque or direct debit) or we have valid proof that the bank account is the 
payees.
 
That notwithstanding, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs R were at any point told or led to 
believe that theyd receive a guaranteed value for their CIAs and ISAs. It seems on 12 March 2020 they were told the values for that particular day not what theyd receive on surrender  
whenever they decided to surrender. I appreciate they thought they were guaranteed the 
values on 12 March 2020 - and re-confirmed on 13, 14, 15 and 16 March 2020  but this 
wasnt the case so I cant blame the business for them not receiving what they (erroneously) 
thought they would get.   
The stockmarket is not something that OMW has control over or can predict. The values 
theyre likely to receive will depend on the date (and time) of their request, and the length of 
time taken to process the request. Even if the values were as Mr R suggests  the same for 
five days  then its not unlikely that theyd change after a week. This change doesnt mean 
that Mr and Mrs R are entitled to a higher figure. 
Im mindful OMW says in its FRL that its adviser explained that as the accounts were 
invested in stocks and shares the values may fluctuate whilst the withdrawal was completing 
and therefore she was only able to provide you with the current value of your accounts.. I 
note that OMW only confirmed the values to Mr and Mrs R on 17 March 2020, as being the 
values that theyd receive. I appreciate this was missed by them at the time, but its easily 
done given everything they had going on.   
On balance, Im satisfied that the T&Cs, readily available and accessible  not only within 
the policy documentation but also online  made this issue reasonably clear. Im satisfied the 
T&Cs were overall clear, fair and not misleading. If Mr and Mrs R chose not to read the key 
documentation, I cant blame the business for any misunderstanding they had. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs R think the deadline is unfair, but I dont agree. A business  in the 
exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement  is entitled to choose a daily cut-off point to 
process requests, its up to the customer to submit their application(s) on time. 
I note Mr and Mrs R are unhappy with the investigators use of the word indicative value. 
But as a term of expression, the values they received over the phone on 16 March 2020 
were only indicative, rather than definitive. I also note the values given were from the 
previous Thursday, rather than Friday, so Mr and Mr R werent entitled to those figures in 
any event. 
I note the following was made clear in the T&Cs:
7. What fund prices will I get for my withdrawal?
Sales of funds are dealt on a forward pricing' basis, which means that your funds will be
sold at the first prices available after your request was carried out. We therefore cannot
guarantee the prices you will receive. However, once the fund sales are complete, we 
will send you details including the prices and the value of the proceeds.
I also note that OMW website provided further clarification:
When we receive instructions to buy or sell funds they are usually processed on the
day of receipt and funds are usually bought or sold no later than the day
following receipt.
Most of our funds trade once a day at a time known as the dealing point. This is the
point up until which the fund manager will accept instructions to trade. We operate a
cut-off time prior to the dealing point. Any deals placed before the cut-off time
will receive the price at the next dealing point. Deals placed after the cut-off
time will receive the price at the subsequent dealing point.
The dealing point for all funds available through the Old Mutual Wealth's platform is12 noon and the cut-off time is 10.30am.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Rs understanding of what they thought might happen and the 
values they might receive but in the circumstances Im unable to blame the business for this. 
I note that the phone operative, in one of the early calls, made clear that the values werent 
guaranteed. Im mindful of what they say they were told by their IFA, but I cant blame OMW 
for this.  
I note in the call to OMW on 13 March 2020, Mr R was told unequivocally Ill be unable to 
confirm definitely how much youd receive. Mr R then went on to say that hed been told by 
his IFA that if hed notified OMW before 10:30 am theyd have Fridays figure and that he 
was hoping to leave some funds in his ISA. The operative in my opinion quite rightly said 
that she was unable to provide the figures as the application hadnt been received. 
In conclusion, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that OMW behaved 
reasonably and in line with its terms and conditions in response to the instructions received. 
Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs R were told or led to believe theyd receive a set value for 
their CIAs and ISAs. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs R will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator and realise my decision isnt what they want to hear. Whilst I appreciate both 
their deep frustration and anguish, Im not going to ask the business to do anything. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint 
and give Mr and Mrs R what they want.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman