DRN-3919573
Complaint
Mr P is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) recorded a fraud 
prevention marker against him.
Background
In November 2018, Mr Ps NatWest account received a payment of £6,740.00 from a third-
party. The majority of the funds were spent in retail transactions, transferred to a third-party 
and withdrawn from a cash machine. NatWest then received a notification from the bank 
which sent the payment stating that the payer of the funds had reported being a victim of 
fraud. NatWest reviewed Mr Ps account, decided to close it and also record a fraud 
prevention marker. Mr P complained. NatWest looked at Mr Ps complaint and didnt uphold 
it. As Mr P remained dissatisfied he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ps concerns. She didnt think that NatWest had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr P unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr P disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that NatWest has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr P is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that NatWest must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr Ps account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
NatWest also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr P was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr P allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Ps complaint, I need to decide whether I think NatWest had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Ps account and that his actions 
suggest he was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that NatWest has 
done this here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
Mr P says he was approached by someone on social media offering him the chance to make 
some money. He says he was told to provide his banking details along with his online 
banking details to receive £100. Mr P no longer has any copies of the messages because he 
was blocked by the person he was talking to. Ive thought about what Mr P has said. 
But Im afraid Mr Ps inability to provide anything to corroborate his version of events makes 
it difficult to place much weight on what hes said. I realise these events took place some 
time ago and this could explain why Mr P no longer has any of the relevant social media 
messages from the time discussing this activity. But I have to weigh this against the fact that 
Mr P didnt tell NatWest this during its investigation of his complaint - instead he said he 
believed he was a victim of ID theft. Given Mr Ps inconsistency on these matters, its difficult 
for me to place any weight on what hes now saying without anything to corroborate it.
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that NatWest did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr Ps account. And NatWest was also 
reasonably entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not Mr P was complicit in this. As 
this is the case, I dont think that it was unfair for NatWest to record a fraud prevention 
marker in the circumstances that it did and Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr P  especially in light of the ongoing impact 
hes said the fraud marker is having on him. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to. Furthermore, Mr P 
might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as he applies for a 
Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman