DRN-4094154
The complaint
A charity, which Ill refer to as C, is unhappy with the service it received from Bank of
Scotland plc (BOS) surrounding its Bounce Back Loan (BBL).
Cs complaint is brought to this service by its treasurer, whom Ill refer to as Mr B.
What happened
In August 2020, C successfully applied to BOS for a £12,500 BBL and received the loan
funds shortly afterwards. Cs responsibility to make full monthly payments towards the BBL
was deferred by Mr B until March 2022, at which time Mr B called BOS and explained that C
wasnt trading and wouldnt be able to make any payments towards the BBL until it began
trading again. BOS placed a hold on Cs account to allow it time to potentially recover its
financial position. But further BBL payments were missed by C so that the loan fell into a
position of sustained arrears.
On 9 August 2022, with Cs BBL account now having missed five monthly payments, BOS
issued a formal demand notice to C requiring full payment of the BBL balance. Shortly
afterwards, Mr B called BOS and asked that C be given more time to clear the arrears on the
account. BOS suggested that Mr B speak with their recoveries team, but when Mr B didnt
then contact their recoveries team, BOS terminated Cs BBL agreement moved the debt to
its collections and recoveries area. Mr B wasnt happy about this, especially as hed tried to
contact BOSs about Cs BBL but had been unable to get through on the telephone, and so
he raised a complaint on Cs behalf.
BOS responded to Cs complaint and apologised for the difficulty Mr B had encountered
when trying to get in touch with them on the telephone. However, BOS didnt feel that theyd
acted unfairly or unreasonably by terminating the BBL agreement for non-payment as they
had and didnt uphold that aspect of Cs complaint. Mr B wasnt satisfied with BOSs
response, so he referred Cs complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that BOS had acted
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation. Mr B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 31 March 2023 as follows:
Its clear that there are two aspects to Cs complaint here. These are that Mr B is 
unhappy that Cs BBL agreement was terminated, and that Mr B is unhappy that he
couldnt get through to BOS when he called them to try to prevent this.
Mr B may be suggesting that if he had been able to get through to BOS, that he 
would have been able to negotiate a way forward that didnt involve the termination of 
Cs BBL agreement at that time. But I dont feel that its very likely that this would 
have been the case. Indeed, I feel that even had Mr B been able to speak with BOS 
when he wanted to that its more likely than not that BOS would still have moved to 
terminate Cs BBL agreement within a relatively short timeframe.
I say this because Cs BBL was in a position of prolonged arrears, with no payments 
having been towards the BBL since full monthly repayments became due. 
Additionally, Mr B had explained Cs position to BOS on several occasions, including 
that C wasnt trading and that there were ongoing restrictions placed on Cs working 
premises by the local council that prevented it from doing so.
When an account holder isnt making payments towards a loan, it isnt incumbent on 
the loan provider to allow the account holder an indefinite amount of time to recover 
their financial position and clear any accrued arrears. And, given that BOS didnt 
move to terminate Cs BBL agreement until after several payments hadnt been made 
by C, Im satisfied that BOS did provide C with a fair and reasonable amount of 
forbearance here.
It's also notable that Mr B was able to speak with BOS on several occasions. This 
includes on 25 March 2022, when BOSs call notes record that Mr B confirmed it 
remained unknown when C would be able to begin trading again and so accepted a 
30-day hold on the account to seek third-party advice on Cs options. Another notable 
call took place on 12 August 2022 at which time Mr B again confirmed that C wasnt 
trading and that it still wasnt known when C would be able to begin making 
payments towards its BBL.
BOSs contact notes for the 12 August call also confirm that Mr B asked for more 
time for C to recover its position but was told by BOSs agent that it couldnt now be 
confirmed that Cs account wouldnt be moved to BOSs collections and recoveries 
area or that a formal demand wouldnt be issued  which is what happened shortly 
afterwards.
All of which means that I feel that the terminating of Cs BBL agreement for non-
payment by BOS was unfortunately inevitable, given Cs ongoing inability to make 
payments towards the loan and the significant prolonged arrears that had arisen as a 
result. And I dont feel that the defaulting of Cs BBL account was tangibly impacted 
by the difficulties Mr B experienced when trying to telephone BOS  again, because I 
feel that Cs BBL agreement would have been terminated by BOS within a short 
timeframe regardless.
But Mr B did experience long hold times when trying to telephone BOS, which often
prohibited him from doing so. It isnt within the remit of this service to instruct a 
business to change its policies or processes, including how a business chooses to 
resource its incoming telephone lines. But it does seem clear from Mr Bs testimony 
that C was inconvenienced by these long waiting times, especially as BOS appear to 
have not provided any alternative contact channel to C, other than a telephone 
number for Mr B to use.
Accordingly, Ill be provisionally upholding this complaint on the limited basis that C 
has been unfairly and unreasonably inconvenienced here by not being able to 
contact BOS, and Ill be instructing BOS to make a payment of £150 to C as 
compensation for this inconvenience. However, as explained, I dont feel that it follows that because Mr B endured long wait times and struggled to contact BOS that 
Cs BBL agreement was terminated because of this.
Instead, because of the difficult position C found itself, both financially and in being 
unable to trade, I feel that Cs BBL agreement was unfortunately going to be 
terminated regardless. And so, I wont be provisionally issuing any further instructions 
to BOS here, beyond this payment of £150 inconvenience compensation to C.
Both Mr B on Cs behalf and BOS responded to my provisional decision and confirmed that 
they had no further points they wished to make. As such, I see no reason not to issue a final 
decision upholding this complaint in Cs favour on the basis explained above. And I therefore 
confirm that I do uphold this complaint on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
BOS must make a payment of £150 to C.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman