DRN-2790725
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the service he received from Financial Administration Services Limited 
(FASL).
What happened
Mr H says he unsuccessfully tried to make trades on the Fidelity platform on six days 
between 16 and 23 March 2020 between 8-9am. As a result he says he lost out on the 
advantages of trading early and suffered trading losses. Hes also unhappy that he had to 
chase FASL on several occasions for an answer to his concerns which caused him 
additional inconvenience and stress. Mr H feels he should be refunded his annual service 
fee of around £2,000.
FASL investigated Mr Hs complaint and couldnt find evidence of any technical issues 
during the times Mr H was trying to trade. However, they offered to investigate the matter 
further if Mr H could provide screenshots or other evidence of the problems he had during 
this time. They did apologise for the time it had taken to respond to Mr H and paid him £100 
in compensation.
Mr H felt the offer was derisory and didnt reflect the problems he had encountered. He 
referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into the matter and 
concluded that:
FASL had explained the platform could experience higher levels of activity during 
certain times including in the early morning and during times of high volatility in 
markets. In the week Mr H tried to trade markets were extremely volatile.
FASL did provide telephone support if customers experienced issues online. 
However, there are no records that Mr H tried to call them during this time.
He had seen internal emails showing FASL was investigating Mr Hs concerns and 
he thought FASL had taken expected steps to find out any potential causes for Mr 
Hs troubles. However, they couldnt find any indication of technical issues during the 
time. Mr H also didnt provide any additional evidence to help further investigations.
He didnt think it was fair to ask FASL to refund the annual service fee as Mr H had 
the use of their services. However, he thought FASLs customer service had been 
lacking as several online messages asking for acknowledgement of Mr Hs complaint 
had gone unanswered as they had been incorrectly attached to one of Mr Hs 
previous complaints. He recommended FASL should pay Mr H an additional £150 to 
acknowledge the frustration their lack of communication had have caused Mr H. 
FASL accepted the outcome and offered to pay Mr H £150 in addition to the £100 they had 
already paid him. Mr H still considered this offer was far too low and so the complaint was 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that paying Mr H an additional £150 for the inconvenience and 
stress FASLs lack of communication caused him is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint.
I understand that Mr H had previous issues with FASL in January and February 2020 which 
were separately addressed and compensated by FASL. This complaint only deals with the 
particular issues Mr H experienced in March 2020 when unsuccessfully trying to trade and 
the subsequent dealings with FASL about this issue. 
Based on internal emails provided by FASL Im satisfied they properly investigated Mr Hs 
complaint and liaised with various departments to establish if their systems had any faults 
during the week commencing 16 March 2020. They couldnt identify any general technical 
issues during this time or found any evidence on their systems that Mr H experienced 
problems. They offered to investigate this further if Mr H could provide any evidence of error 
messages he received which I think was reasonable. I cant see that such evidence was 
provided by Mr H. 
Mr H tried to trade during a week of extreme volatility in the markets due to the COVID 19 
pandemic and at a time of day when many investors wish to trade. This might have led to the 
issues he experienced, but theres no evidence this was FASLs fault. 
There is also no evidence what trades Mr H attempted, so even if FASL had been at fault it 
would have been difficult to establish what losses he suffered. In any event, I think it was 
reasonable to expect Mr H to call if he had troubles with online trades over several days to 
mitigate any losses. So Im not going to ask FASL to compensate him for this issue.
I can see that Mr H chased FASL for a response to his complaint over several weeks and I 
agree communications could have been better. The suggested additional award of £150 
which FASL have accepted seems fair in the circumstances. I dont think its proportionate or 
fair to ask FASL to refund their annual service fees as Mr Hs accounts still were 
administered during this time.
Putting things right
FASL should pay Mr H an additional £150 (bringing total compensation for this complaint to 
£250). 
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint and ask Financial Administration Services Limited to pay Mr H the 
compensation set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman