DRN-2134006
The complaint
Mr G complains that an appointed representative of Hub Financial Solutions Limited (Hub) 
failed to provide him with timely or appropriate advice regarding the transfer of some pension 
benefits from an occupational pension scheme to a personal pension plan.
What happened
Mr G held pension savings within an occupational scheme provided by his former employer. 
Those benefits were in the form of defined benefits  that means that the scheme 
guaranteed to pay Mr G a set amount each year when he retired. The trustees of the 
occupational scheme engaged an appointed representative of Hub to provide advice to its 
members on whether they should accept an offer being made by the pension scheme to 
transfer benefits to a personal pension arrangement. Although Mr G therefore only dealt with 
the appointed representative firm, it is Hub that is responsible for the service and advice he 
was given. For ease, in this decision, I will generally refer to Hub as the business Mr G dealt 
with.
The advice that Hub provided to Mr G was paid for by the trustees of the occupational 
pension scheme. However Hub was working solely on behalf of Mr G. It gathered 
information from him in order to assess whether it would be financially beneficial for him to 
accept the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) being offered by the occupational scheme. 
That CETV had been enhanced, I assume to make it more attractive, by approximately 6%.
The CETV that was offered to Mr G was only guaranteed until 16 July 2019. But 
I understand that the scheme trustees extended that date to allow Hub to complete its 
analysis of whether the transfer should be recommended to Mr G (and other scheme 
members). I dont however know whether the scheme trustees made Mr G aware of the 
extension of the deadline.
It appears that there were some delays before Hub provided its advice and recommendation 
to Mr G. He was given a number of reasons for these delays, including that he had just 
reached 55 years of age, and so Hub was concerned to ensure that change in age was 
reflected in any annuity quotations that it sought on Mr Gs behalf. It appears that Hubs final 
report to Mr G was provided in September 2019.
That report recommended that Mr G left his pension savings within the occupational 
scheme. It noted that the flexibility that might be provided by a transfer might have been 
attractive to Mr G. But it recommended that if that flexibility remained attractive when Mr G 
was closer to taking these pension benefits, that would be an appropriate time to revisit the 
transfer advice. The report also explained that Hub would not be willing to assist Mr G any 
further at that time with the transfer of his benefits  in other words that Hub wasnt willing to 
treat Mr G as an insistent client and facilitate the transfer on that basis.
Mr G was unhappy with both the advice Hub had given him, and the time it had taken for that 
process to be completed. So he made a complaint to the firm. He also referred his complaint 
to this Service, and since that process had started Hub didnt formally respond to Mr G about 
his complaint.
Mr Gs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He concluded that Hubs 
decision to not recommend the transfer was in line with the expectations set by the regulator. 
And he didnt think that any delays in the process had been so significant that they 
warranted Hub needing to pay any compensation to Mr G. So he didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld.
Mr G didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr G and by Hub. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, 
I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked 
at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what 
I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
The invitation that Mr G received, to transfer his benefits out of the occupational scheme, 
was made by the trustees of that scheme, not by Hub. Hub was engaged by the trustees to 
advise members such as Mr G in determining whether the CETV being offered would be 
beneficial for their circumstances. And Hubs costs in providing that advice were being paid 
by the pension scheme regardless of whether or not a transfer was recommended.
As our investigator has explained, the regulator requires firms to show a great deal of
caution when considering their advice on transfers such as these. In particular it requires
firms to use a starting point of an assumption that a transfer from a defined benefit scheme
is unlikely to be suitable. And it goes on to say that such a transfer should only be
recommended if a firm can clearly demonstrate that it is the clients best interests. So I think
Hub was entirely right to take a cautious approach when assessing whether it should 
recommend the transfer to Mr G.
It appears that Hub didnt meet the expectations it gave Mr G at the outset about the length 
of time that the advice process would take. There are many reasons why these delays might 
occur  many of which would be outside the control of Hub such as needing to await 
information on the CETV being offered, and then producing a comparison of that offer 
against what it had learnt about Mr Gs circumstances.
At this stage I think I should note that I havent seen anything that Hub requested from Mr G 
that I wouldnt normally expect to see when a firm was considering a transfer of this nature. 
So hopefully I can allay some of Mr Gs concerns that he was the victim of what he describes 
as a corporate fishing expedition. Hub has already explained that it didnt share any 
personal information provided by Mr G with the pension scheme. And as I said I think 
everything that it asked for was necessary to support an assessment of this nature.
In some circumstances the offer made by the occupational scheme, and the subsequent 
transfer, might be in the best interests of the consumer. But from the information that Hub 
recorded about Mr Gs circumstances, and its subsequent analysis, I would find it hard to 
conclude that the transfer was in Mr Gs best interests.By agreeing to the transfer Mr G would be putting a significant proportion of his retirement 
savings at risk. The occupational pension scheme provided him with a guaranteed income in 
retirement. I have noted that Mr G was concerned about the long term stability of his former 
employer. But that shouldnt have caused a detrimental impact on his retirement income. 
The pension funds were protected by legislation should anything happen to his former 
employer. And even if the fund was subsequently unable to meet its liabilities the Pension 
Protection Fund would step in to guarantee 90% of any pension that was due to Mr G.
As I said earlier, the regulator would expect Hub to clearly demonstrate any transfer was in 
Mr Gs best interests before it gave a recommendation for him to proceed. Here the analysis 
Hub performed suggested that Mr Gs pension savings, post transfer, would need to benefit 
from investment growth of 4.69% each year to match the guaranteed benefits provided by 
the occupational scheme. And I think it is important to note that rate of growth would be 
needed just to match the occupational scheme benefits. For a clear demonstration that the 
transfer was in Mr Gs best interests, it would be reasonable to expect that a much higher 
rate of investment growth would be needed.
Hub assessed Mr Gs attitude to risk as being moderate. And it also needed to take into 
account that these pension savings formed a large part of Mr Gs likely future income. Based 
on what might be reasonably foreseeable about investment returns, and considering the 
risks it was appropriate to be taken with these pension savings, an investment return of 
4.69% wasnt entirely unachievable. But it was certainly towards the top end of any 
reasonable estimates. So on the basis of clearly exceeding the benefits that Mr G would be 
giving up, it was unlikely that the necessary investment returns would realistically be 
achieved.
It is clear that Mr G found some aspects of the proposed transfer, and the increased 
flexibility it would give him in taking his retirement benefits, to be attractive. And that should 
be something that Hub needed to consider when formulating its recommendation. But the 
additional flexibility doesnt appear to be something that Mr G needed in the short term  he 
intended to continue working for a period of time, and had other funds that he could use to 
supplement any income. Hub noted that it might be appropriate for Mr G to look again at 
whether a transfer from the occupational scheme might be appropriate, when he was closer 
to taking those benefits and so had a better idea of what his spending in retirement might be.
It does seem that the advice process took longer than Hub had originally anticipated. And 
Hub might have been a little more proactive in keeping Mr G up to date with when he might 
receive its recommendation. But I havent seen anything that makes me think Mr G lost out 
as a result of any delays. The guaranteed CETV was maintained by the occupational 
scheme trustees until after Hub had provided its advice. And since that advice was that Mr G 
should leave his pension benefits in the occupational scheme he hasnt lost out on any 
investment returns that he might have received after the transfer had been completed.
I appreciate that this whole process has been very frustrating for Mr G. I havent seen the 
original information hed have been sent by the trustees about the option to transfer his 
benefits. But that information wasnt provided by Hub, and the firm wasnt responsible for its 
contents. It might have been helpful if that information had explained that the regulator 
considered that in the majority of cases it might not be beneficial for a transfer to go ahead 
and so helped to manage Mr Gs expectations from the outset. But I havent seen anything 
that makes me think that the advice Hub gave to Mr G was inappropriate or that he has lost 
out as a result of the time that advice process took.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Hub Financial Solutions Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman