DRN-1851354
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Metro Bank Plc didnt do enough to help when they fell victim to a banking 
payment scam. They say Metro should have done more to recover the money they lost and 
that it should reimburse them.
What happened
On 26 May 2019, Mr and Mrs R made an online payment of £2,940 from their current 
account on the instruction of who they believed was a gardening company theyd been in 
contact with about having some work done.
Mr and Mrs R subsequently discovered on 31 May 2019 that theyd made the payment to a 
scammer whod intercepted their emails with the company and sent them an email 
containing the scammers own account details. Mr and Mrs R contacted Metro that day to tell 
it what had happened, and to see what it could do to help. Metro contacted the scammers 
bank the same day to see if any of Mr and Mrs Rs money could be recovered. 
Unfortunately, no funds remained in the account and Metro said it wouldnt be able to do 
anymore to help.
Unhappy with Metros response, Mr and Mrs R complained to us. Our adjudicator looked at 
what had happened and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. They felt Metro hadnt 
acted unfairly in allowing the payment to be made and didnt think its attempt to recover the 
money had caused them any loss. 
Mr and Mrs R replied that Metros response once it was notified of the scam was inadequate 
and that it should have worked more closely with the beneficiary bank to investigate. The 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at laws that a banks expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And Ive taken that into 
account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
But thats not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof) for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the funds of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare duty).    
Regulated firms like Metro are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle 6).  
And, as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have 
taken proactive steps to: 
identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable circumstances, 
including those at risk of financial exploitation (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances); 
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which a 
number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated 
fraud and scams in recent years  which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide whether Metro acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr and Mrs R when they made a payment of £2,940 to a new payee in May 2019, or 
whether it should have done more than it did.
Ive reviewed Mr and Mrs Rs account history and the payment was for a higher amount than 
they typically transferred online. It could be argued that it was suspicious or unusual enough 
for Metro to have had concerns that the payment was genuine. 
However, even if Metro had flagged the payment as suspicious with Mr and Mrs R, Im not 
persuaded they wouldnt still have authorised it. I say that because of the sophisticated 
nature of the scam, the fact that Mr and Mrs R had already corresponded with the gardening 
company by email for a time prior to the payment being made, and because they clearly 
genuinely believed they were dealing with a legitimate company.
 
So, in the circumstances, I dont think Mr and Mrs R lost out because of how Metro 
processed the payment.
When Mr and Mrs R told Metro that theyd been scammed, Metro acted to see if any of their 
money was still in the beneficiary account and could be recovered. Unfortunately, the 
beneficiary bank confirmed to Metro that no funds remained in the account.We contacted the beneficiary bank for more details about the transaction history of the 
scammers account. The information it provided shows the funds were used by the time 
Mr and Mrs R had discovered theyd been scammed.
Any further investigations into what happened to the money after it left the scammers 
account werent the responsibility of Metro, and it wouldnt have unrestricted access to that 
information. So, contacting the scammers bank to try and retrieve the money was all Metro 
could do to help Mr and Mrs R at that stage.
Mr and Mrs R say Metro should be compelled to reimburse it as there were rules in place to 
say banks should repay customers who lost money in scams. I believe theyre likely referring 
to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. This is a voluntary code introduced 
with effect from 28 May 2019 to help prevent such scams and better support their victims. 
Although Metros signed up to the code, it doesnt apply retrospectively, so I dont believe it 
would be fair for me to find that Metro should comply with it in this case.
Its unfortunate that Mr and Mrs R have lost out, and I understand that this whole experience 
will have been very upsetting for them. But, in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say 
that Metro caused Mr and Mrs R to lose their money. I cant hold Metro responsible for 
Mr and Mrs R having fallen victim to a scam, and I dont think Metros actions once it knew 
what had happened led to any loss. So, I dont think it would be fair to ask Metro to 
compensate Mr and Mrs R. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman