DRN-3223713
The complaint
Ms W complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) will not allow 
her to cash in her annuity with it. Shes also complained that her annuity(s) were mis-sold in 
2010.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint and my provisional findings in a provisional 
decision. This is included below and forms part of this decision:
Ms W contacted Prudential in January 2010 saying she was approaching her 50th birthday and 
shed like information on accessing her tax-free cash. Prudential gave her that information and she 
decided to take her benefits with the maximum tax-free cash sum allowed and the rest paid as an 
annuity.
Later in 2010 Prudential received additional funds linked to this policy from Ms Ws time 
contracted out of the State Second Pension. It wrote to her to say it had received this 
additional money and it would be paying it in the same format as her earlier pension.
Although the annuity would be paid yearly (as due to its small size approx. £33.00 per 
annum it couldnt pay it monthly  it didnt tell Ms W this).
More recently, Ms W was contacted by Prudential about the regulators annuity review (which 
doesnt form part of this complaint). Ms W then complained about the annuity sale in 2010 and 
asked that Prudential allow her to cash in her annuities. Ms W said it was mis-sold as she wasnt 
told what she was getting and it wasnt explained properly. She said others had been given the 
cashing in option.
Prudential responded about the mis-sale and explained she had been given all the information 
required at the time. As she was only aged 50, none of the cashing in options were available to her 
at that point. However, it said the additional money it received, it should have told her why it was 
being paid yearly and offered Ms W £150 for the distress and inconvenience this may have caused 
 this figure also included the time taken to respond to the complaint.
With regards to cashing in her annuities, Prudential said legislation did allow annuities valued 
under £10,000 to be cashed in but this was at providers discretion and it had chosen not to offer 
this. Ms W was unhappy with this as shes explained the £33.00 was of no use to her.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mis-sale of annuity in 2010
Ms W has complained that her annuities were mis-sold. She says she wasnt given enough 
information and Prudential paid her one of the annuities without telling her. It appears she is also 
unhappy that she couldnt take a lump sum instead at the time.
Due to the legislation at the time Ms W couldnt take her benefits as a lump sum. The rules were 
restrictive in that Ms W wouldve needed to be aged 60 and her pension benefits under a certain 
size. I understand that Ms Ws pension benefits were over these limits in any event. And I can see 
that Prudential explained that at the time and Ms W still chose to take her benefits at age 50.
Ms W wrote to Prudential asking to take her benefits and she completed its form to select to take 
the maximum tax-free cash available and the remainder as an annuity. I dont think Prudential did 
anything wrong here, this was Ms Ws choice and I can see that she requested the money and 
had a need for it.
I think Ms Ws main concern here is about the second annuity paid in 2010 and she says she 
wasnt informed by Prudential about it. Ive seen that Prudential did send Ms W a letter on 19 July 
2010 explaining it would be paying her additional money that it had received from her contracted 
out payments. It also told her how much it was and how it would be paid.
However, it has apologised as part of this complaint and paid compensation for not giving more 
information about why this was paid yearly. We asked Prudential about why this annuity amount 
was paid separately and without Ms W requesting it specifically. It explained that this money was 
part of the same fund built up that Ms W had requested to take benefits from. However, this money 
was sent to it late (presumably by the Department for Work and Pensions) and so it couldnt be 
paid at the same time but it wasnt a separate policy. And had the funds been received by 
Prudential at the same time, when Ms W had asked to take her benefits it wouldve been included 
then. As Ms W had already taken her benefits  its only option was to pay this to Ms W, as this is 
what ought to have happened had the money always been with it.
Given this explanation, and the fact that Ms W did request to take her benefits in 2010, I dont think 
Prudential did anything wrong here. This was not a separate policy and as Ms W had taken her 
benefits from it, I think it was fair and reasonable to add this money to Ms Ws benefits she was 
already in receipt of. However, as it has admitted it couldve communicated this more clearly to Ms 
W  and explained why the payment was yearly instead of monthly.
So I dont think the annuities were mis-sold in 2010 and Ms W couldnt cash them in then. So my 
findings will concentrate on whether Ms W ought to be able to cash in her annuity(s) now. I 
understand that Ms Ws complaint focuses on the smaller annuity (£33p.a) but she has also 
referred to both annuities that are in payment.
Relevant considerations
DISP 3.6.4 R says that in considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
the case, I will take into account the relevant law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance 
and standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
What are the regulations about cashing-in or commutation?
Various bits of legislation have helped form the current legislation that allow annuities to be 
cashed in. These include:
The Finance Act 2004 Section 164
The Finance Act 2004 Section 273B
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171
- reg. 11 De minimis rule for pension schemes
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171 
reg. 11A (inserted on 6/4/12)
Finance Act 2014 Section 42 Pension flexibility: taking low-value pension rights as lump 
sum
As a result of the above, the legislation in regard to commutation payments now reads:
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171 .
PART 2 COMMUTATION PAYMENTSreg. 11A
(1) A payment to a member by a pension scheme which is not a public service pension 
scheme or an occupational pension scheme in respect of an arrangement under that scheme 
if
(a)the member has reached normal minimum pension age or the ill-health condition is 
met (see paragraph 1 of Schedule 28) ;
(b)the payment does not exceed £10,000 ;
(c)the payment extinguishes the member's entitlement to benefits under the 
arrangement;
The Finance Act which allowed providers/schemes to over-ride the rules of the scheme and make 
payments that otherwise previously wouldnt have been allowed (which now includes cashing-in of 
annuities)  was a permissive over-ride. What this means is the schemes are allowed to make 
these payments if they wish to do so  it isnt mandatory legislation.
So in essence what the legislation says is a person in Ms Ws position doesnt have a right to 
commute their pension pot to a cash lump sum. However, if a provider wants to offer this it can, but 
only up to a limit of £10,000.
What are the relevant regulatory rules and guidance? 
COBS 2.1 Acting honestly, fairly and professionally 
The client's best interests rule
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
Principles for Businesses
PRIN 2.1.1R The Principles
6 Customers' interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
Guidance to firms:
FCA Alert to firms: Fair Treatment of Customers 12/05/2015
All firms must be able to show consistently that fair treatment of customers is at the heart of their 
business model.
Taken together, all of this means in essence that firms must take the best interests of their 
customers into account in the actions they take. However, this doesnt mean that it should act in 
the interest of a single (or a small group of) customer(s) which would be at the expense of other 
customers. Nor to act in a particular customers interest without consideration of other factors or 
wider implications.
Im aware of no other codes of practice that would apply here, other than the legislation and 
regulatory rules Ive referred to above. However Ive also considered:
-What would have been good industry practice at the relevant time? Im aware some 
providers have allowed commutation of small annuities in the past.
-Contractual and other legal matters. Im aware that in some annuity contracts, there 
may be ownership issues (it may be subject to a separate contractual/legal 
arrangement with another party) or other lives attached to the annuity that could cause 
issues with commutation.-Practical matters. For example, an annuity is a life-long insurance contract that is not 
designed to be cashed in. For that reason, it is often backed by long-term less liquid 
investments that may be more difficult to value or sell; and doing so might negatively 
affect the pricing of annuities for other customers.
The key questions that I need to consider in deciding what is fair and reasonable in this 
case
1.Does Prudential have discretion to commute Ms Ws annuity as requested? For 
example:
-Is the value under £10,000?
-Is Ms W the legal owner of the annuity?
-Is Prudential the other contracting party or has it been re-insured?
2.If Prudential is free to commute the annuity, would it have been in Ms Ws best 
interests to allow commutation? For example:
-Would it expose her to the risk of financial difficulty in the future?
-Would it affect other income that she relies on - such as state benefits being 
reduced due to the commutation payment?
3.If Prudential was free to grant Ms Ws request to commute the annuity and doing so 
would have been in her best interest, was it fair and reasonable for Prudential to 
refuse? In other words, did it exercise its discretion in a fair and reasonable way?
My findings in light of the above considerations
Prudential hasnt made any specific arguments in relation to this case as to why it isnt free to 
allow Ms W to cash-in the annuity. So I am proceeding on the basis that it does have discretion 
to commute her annuity.
Its also not provided any information specific to Ms W to show that she would be worse off if she 
were to commute the annuity to a cash lump sum. Having considered what Ms Ws told us and the 
value of her annuity, which is paying her just £33 a per annum, Im satisfied the annuity is so small 
it doesnt provide any meaningful income on which she relies. I accept her position that shed 
benefit more from a cash lump sum, even if small. For these reasons, and subject to the lump sum 
value (which hasnt been determined), Ive proceeded also on the basis that it would be in Ms Ws 
personal interest to encash this annuity.
Ms W also appears to have suggested she should also be allowed to cash in the larger annuity  
as shes asked whether it would be over £10,000 and shes said that £10,000 would be very useful 
for her. However, this annuity looks to me to provide a level of income that she would gain some 
benefit from. So Im not satisfied that it would necessarily be in Ms Ws personal interest to cash in 
the annuity. So my findings from here only relate to the smaller annuity.
This case therefore comes down to whether Prudential fairly took into account Ms Ws 
interests when it chose not to exercise its discretion to allow her to cash-in her annuity. I think 
it did.
Prudential has told us it is unwilling at this point in time to offer a cash in value to Ms W, 
essentially because the annuity product wasnt designed to be cashed in, so it would be difficult 
to offer that option now without incurring significant cost and inconvenience  and possibly to 
the detriment of other customers. It made a number of points about this, for example:
-Offering commutation to Ms W simply because the annuity is small means it would have 
to offer the same option to all customers with small annuities. Otherwise, it wouldnt be 
treating its customers consistently (and therefore fairly). It doesnt have the systems and processes in place to facilitate significant numbers of commutations.
-Without appropriate processes and checks, customers could be exposed to the risk of 
poor outcomes.
-Designing an appropriate framework to allow a commutation option would require 
significant time, planning and regulator engagement (and presumably cost).
-Annuities are long-term commitments, backed by long-term and illiquid assets, so 
cash values arent easily realised.
Having thought about this very carefully, I think Prudentials points are fair ones. I dont think 
Prudential simply disregarded Ms Ws interests in this case. Its position is based on its 
considerations of what allowing commutation could mean for its customers and business model 
more widely.
It seems to me that Prudential could avoid many of the challenges it has raised if it were to treat 
Ms Ws case as exceptional. The cost and impact in this one case would be small for a business 
the size of Prudential. However, I acknowledge Prudentials difficulty here. Im not persuaded there 
is reason in Ms Ws case to treat her differently to other customers with small annuities. (Its my 
understanding that is a significant portion of customers.)
Ive kept in mind that Ms W would probably be better off with a cash lump sum and the 
annuity isnt useful to her. Ive balanced this against the fact that commutation wasnt 
something Ms W had a right to. And while Prudential was free to allow her request, Im 
satisfied it did have other legitimate interests to weigh up, including the way the annuity 
product was designed, the impact on Prudentials existing systems and processes, the 
interests of its customers more widely and the potential cost.
On balance, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Prudential to decline Ms Ws request. 
It acted in line with the contract and the rules and treated Ms W in line with other customers.
We have seen that some providers are looking into their stance on cashing-in annuities and Im 
aware that some businesses have previously offered cash values to customers. If in the future 
Prudential changes its position on cashing in annuities or legislation changes, its possible Ms W 
may benefit from such a change. But in the present circumstances I dont think shes been treated 
unfairly.
I appreciate Ms W will be disappointed with this but for the reasons explained I am not 
intending to uphold her complaint.
Ms W hasnt added anything new or substantive following the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the findings reached in my provisional 
decision. And so my final decision remains the same and as set out above.
In summary, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Prudential to decline Ms Ws 
request. It acted in line with the contract and the rules and treated Ms W in line with other 
customers.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, I do not uphold this 
complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman