DRN-3709797
The complaint
The complaint is about a charge applied to a property which was owned by X with Santander 
UK Plc (known at the time as National & Provincial Building Society). X died in February 
2019; her estate is represented here by Mr E, one of the executors of the estate. Mrs P and 
Mrs J are the other executors.
The complaint is that Santander failed to remove a charge applied to the property for a loan 
taken out in May 1989 and redeemed in February 1992. Mr E says this has caused stress, 
distress and inconvenience and would like to be compensated for the delay in removing the 
charge.
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to all parties, so I wont repeat them in detail here. 
Instead Ill give a brief summary, and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. It will be because I dont think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
X previously jointly owned the property with her partner (whom Ill call R). R died in 1998 
and X died in February 2019: Mr E, Mrs P and Mrs J were named as executors of Xs estate. 
Ill mainly refer to Mr E throughout the decision because he has been the party 
corresponding with our service, but I do note Mrs P and Mrs J are also joint parties on the 
complaint.
As part of the administration of the estate, Xs property was transferred to the executors in 
2020. During the process of first registration Mr E says the Land Registry informed them of a 
charge on the property, which they say had been repaid in 1992. Mr E says following various 
and prolonged correspondence with Santander, if finally agreed to remove the charge in 
August 2021. 
Mr E complained on behalf of the estate. Santander acknowledged the poor service provided 
and offered £200 in compensation. Mr E didnt agree and referred the complaint to our 
service because he felt the charge should have been removed some 29 years prior to when 
it was and says the whole episode was very stressful. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr E asked for it to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman.         
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer. X was a consumer, and so 
met the definition of an eligible complainant set out in our rules. Following Xs death, 
eligibility to complain vested in her estate.
The rules say that a complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant by a 
person authorised by the eligible complainant or authorised by law. In this respect, Mr E as 
executor can complain on the estates behalf.
But I must explain that, although Mr E is representing Xs estate, it is X who was Santanders 
customer at the time of her death. Mr Es role is to bring the complaint on the estates behalf, 
in the same way that other consumers might instruct a solicitor to represent them in a 
complaint. But this does not entitle Mr E to air his own grievances about Santander, because 
he and the other executors are not its customers.
Mr Es role is limited to putting forward the estates complaint, and any redress that might be 
claimed can only be for loss to the estate. Mr E cannot claim compensation for any time, 
trouble or upset he (or the other executors) might have suffered whilst dealing with the 
estates affairs. As to the merits of the case itself, Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator, for the following reasons:
Its clear that the charge should have been removed once X and R had repaid the 
loan. Santander didnt do this, so Ive considered the impact of this on X. Having 
done so I think the impact was minimal, I say this because I cant see X has suffered 
any financial loss because of this error and it seems X was unaware that the charge 
was still on the property. The issue with the charge only came to light following Xs 
passing. I appreciate Mr E has said there is the potential that this could have derailed 
a potential sale, but this didnt happen, and I cant make an award for something that 
didnt materialise.
There is no doubt that Santander didnt provide the expected level of service when 
contacted about the charge by Mr E on behalf of the estate of X. Ive already 
mentioned why I cant make an award for any stress, distress or inconvenience 
caused to the executors. And its not possible for an estate to be caused distress. 
Furthermore, its unusual for this service to instruct the payment of compensation for 
inconvenience to an estate, and this is because an estate is a legal entity rather than 
a person  and generally speaking, its usually only people, and not legal entities, 
that can be considered as being inconvenienced. However, there can be cases 
where this service will consider that the actions or non-actions of a business have 
caused an estate to have been inconvenienced such that some compensation to an 
estate is warranted.
I do feel that there were occasions where Santander didnt provide the service 
expected and so the estate through the executors had to do more work than I would 
have anticipated in relation to the charge on the property. Santander accepted the 
service provided wasnt to the level it would have expected and has offered 
compensation of £200. I think this is fair in the circumstances considering the overall 
impact on the estate of X. 
I note Mr E mentioned compensation Santander paid on a different complaint, but my 
role is to consider the facts of this case and base my decision on the evidence and 
circumstances involved here, I cannot comment or base my decision on any 
compensation Santander may have offered in different circumstances.        
I realise that this wont be the outcome that the estate of X was wanting here, but I trust its executors will understand, given what Ive explained above, why Ive made the final decision 
that I have.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
I understand that the offer of £200 compensation is still open and if Mr E would like to accept 
it on behalf of the estate, he should contact Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of X to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman