DRN-4376148
The complaint
Mr G has complained that he is unhappy with the quality of a car he acquired in May 2021, 
using a hire-purchase agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading 
as Audi Financial Services (VFS).
What happened
Mr G acquired a used Audi in May 2021, using a hire-purchase agreement with VFS. The 
car was nearly four years old, with a mileage of 50,330. The cost of the car was £22,790, of 
which Mr G borrowed £21,089 over a term of 48 months, with a monthly repayment of 
£358.82. A final payment of £9,215 would be due at the end of the contract if Mr G wanted to 
keep the car. 
Mr G said that he had had a number of problems with the car within six months of acquiring 
it. Some repairs were covered under warranty but others he had to pay for himself. He then 
told us that in November 2022 the engine rocker arms failed, causing engine damage. The 
Audi garage confirmed that the engine needed to be replaced, and the cost of this was 
estimated at £17,815. Mr Gs extended warranty would only contribute £5,000 of the cost of 
the work, leaving him with over £12,000 to pay.
Mr G told us the part that failed was replaced in the 2019 Audi model, so was a known fault, 
He is also unhappy that VFS hasnt been clear about what it might do to help him in relation 
to getting another car. So he wants VFS to take the car back and cancel the finance 
agreement, and also refund the monthly payments hes made while ha hasnt been able to 
use the car. 
Mr G complained to VFS, but it said it would not be upholding his complaint. Mr G was 
unhappy with this, so brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into Mr 
Gs complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr G didnt agree, and asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Because VFS supplied the car under a hire-purchase agreement, its responsible for a 
complaint about the quality, and theres an implied term that the car was of satisfactory 
quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable person 
would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances such as (amongst other 
things) the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. When considering satisfactory 
quality, I also need to look at whether the car is durable  that is, the components within the 
car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time.
In this case of course, the car was nearly four years old, with a mileage of 50,330 when Mr G 
acquired it. And the price was lower than that of a new car. So its reasonable to expect that 
parts of the car would have suffered a degree of wear and tear, and that a car of this age 
would likely need repair and maintenance sooner than a newer car. 
Ive taken account of the relevant law, in particular the Consumer Rights Act 2015, (CRA). 
There are certain times, set out in the CRA, when a consumer is entitled to reject goods, in 
this case the car, if they dont conform to contract  a short term right to reject within 30 days 
of taking delivery, or a final right to reject if a repair or replacement hasnt resulted in the car 
subsequently conforming  that is, it then being of satisfactory quality.
VFS sent in a copy of the cars history, along with copies of the sales documentation for the 
car. Ive looked at the vehicle history, and I can see details of the earlier repairs that Mr G 
mentioned, in relation to the steering rack, air conditioning, suspension and brakes. Mr G 
hasnt mentioned any ongoing problems with these repairs, so it looks as though they were 
satisfactorily completed. I cant see anything in the earlier repairs that relates to the later 
engine failure.
The vehicle history also includes details of what happened in November 2022. In summary, 
it refers to the roller rocker having failed, and excessive swarf in the engine, leading to the 
engine needing to be replaced. At this point, Mr G had had the car for about 18 months and 
had driven about 12,000 miles. 
The key issue here is whether the fault was present or developing when Mr G acquired the 
car, or whether it was the result of reasonable wear and tear. Car components do have a 
lifespan and will need repair or replacement after a certain period of time or level of mileage, 
so the failure of a component doesnt necessarily mean that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. In this case, Ive not seen anything in the vehicle history or 
other evidence to suggest that the failure of the roller rocker was due to anything other than 
reasonable wear and tear. 
Ive thought about what Mr G said about this being a known fault  and Ive looked at the 
online video he pointed out to us. But this is quite a general video and not specific to Mr Gs 
car  and it is not from the manufacturer. I also cant say whether the part referenced was 
the same as that in Mr Gs car. Ive also checked to see if there are any recall notices for Mr 
Gs make and model of car, and there are none relating to the roller rocker. So this doesnt 
change my view that the fault was due to wear and tear. 
I appreciate that all this has been very distressing for Mr G, but in summary, based on all the 
evidence and information provided, Im not persuaded that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. So I dont think VFS has done anything wrong, and therefore I 
am not upholding this complaint. 
Because I am not upholding the complaint, I cant direct VFS to take any action. However, I 
do think it would be helpful for VFS to clarify to Mr G what it may be willing to do to assist 
him with regard to another vehicle  there is a reference to a goodwill gesture of £500 but 
the final response letter to Mr G isnt entirely clear. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I have decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman