DRN-3713776
The complaint
Miss S complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt do enough to assist her in 
recovering money she paid using her credit card for flights that she was unable to take due 
to the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Miss S and her partner used a third party booking website K to arrange a series of flights 
with different airlines for a trip they planned to take in April 2020. Miss S used her 
Nationwide credit card to pay K, who booked the flights shed selected from its website. In 
total, Miss S paid £1,619.63.
Unfortunately, the travel plans were affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, which meant Miss S 
and her partner were prevented from entering their intended destination. Miss S approached 
K for assistance. K offered Miss S two options: an immediate refund of £87.76; or on 
payment of an assisted refund fee of £17.55, K would try to secure as much as it could by 
way of refund from the respective airlines.
Miss S didnt feel either option was appropriate. She turned to Nationwide to see if it could 
help, providing details of her flight arrangements and cancellations and the response shed 
received from K. After several weeks, Nationwide got in touch with Miss S to ask for 
information about the dispute to progress a chargeback claim. Miss S responded within a 
few days, but heard nothing further for another month, at which point she complained.
By way of acknowledgement and apology for the delay, Nationwide paid Miss S £25. It 
subsequently made a temporary credit to Miss Ss account for the money shed paid K, 
pending any response it received to the chargeback. K responded to Nationwide defending 
the claim. However, Nationwide failed to explain this to Miss S when she asked, instead 
leading her to believe the claim hadnt been defended and that K was now out of time to do 
so. Believing the dispute to have been resolved in her favour, Miss S arranged for the credit 
balance on her card to be transferred to her current account.
A couple of weeks later, Nationwide reversed the temporary credit, leaving Miss S owing a 
balance on her credit card. Miss S complained again. Nationwide acknowledged it had given 
Miss S the wrong information and paid her £50 compensation, proposing that in addition it 
would waive interest on the reversed transaction for two months. Miss S remained unhappy 
and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt think Nationwide had dealt with Miss S fairly. She was satisfied that 
Miss S had raised her claim in line with the card scheme chargeback rules, and that based 
on what Miss S had submitted from the outset, Nationwide should have progressed the claim 
in a timely way. The investigator felt the way Nationwide had handled matters had 
disadvantaged Miss S, and that Nationwide should have pursued the claim more robustly in 
light of Ks defence.
The investigator noted one of the flights had taken place  albeit without Miss S and her 
partner  and that this would not have been recoverable under chargeback. She considered 
it reasonable that Nationwide resolve Miss Ss complaint by paying her £1,507.77 (being the 
remaining amount that it could have sought to recover via chargeback) with interest.
Miss S was happy to resolve matters on this basis. But Nationwide didnt accept the 
investigators recommendation. It said it didnt progress the claim to arbitration by the card 
scheme as K had provided sufficient information to show it was acting in line with its terms 
and conditions. Nationwide also cited examples of cases it had progressed to arbitration  
including one involving K  that were unsuccessful due to being out of time. The investigator 
wasnt persuaded to change her view and so the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Miss S paid K using her credit card there are two possible ways in which 
Nationwide might be able to assist her to recover the money. As our investigator noted, 
these are  depending on the underlying circumstances  by making a claim directly against 
Nationwide under the connected lender liability provisions of section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (section 75), or through the card schemes chargeback process.
The way in which Nationwide handled a section 75 claim isnt the subject of Miss Ss 
complaint. For the record, I can see the potential difficulties in making such a claim, given 
the separate contracts that were created between Miss S, K and the respective airlines. But I 
dont think its necessary for me to go into detail on that issue. I say this because in relation 
to the way Nationwide handled the chargeback, there is sufficient evidence to persuade me 
that it is appropriate that Nationwide reimburses Miss S. Ill explain why.
Its generally good practice for a card issuer to attempt a chargeback where the right exists 
in the card scheme rules and theres a reasonable prospect of success. That means the 
circumstances of a dispute affect whether it would be appropriate for Nationwide to raise a 
chargeback. Here, the reasons that might have been used for a chargeback were that the 
agreed services werent provided or that a credit that was due wasnt received (that is, a 
refund that was due wasnt paid).
Nationwides position as I understand it is that a) the terms and conditions of the agreement 
between Miss S and K were limited in respect of the services K was providing  Ks 
obligation was to make the bookings as Miss S had selected and forward her payment; and 
b) even if it had progressed the chargeback claim further than it did, previous experience 
suggested it would be determined to have been raised outside the card scheme timescales.
In her initial assessment our investigator highlighted that the way chargeback operates 
doesnt necessarily sit entirely square with a claim brought under contract. There is good 
reason for this, not least because the chargeback system is designed to deal with disputes 
between card issuers and merchants (or merchant acquirers). With this in mind, the card 
scheme applicable here  Visa  provides that K Is the merchant of record in this scenario.
That means K is responsible for dealing with a claim relating to provision of goods or 
services. I understand that to be the case whether or not the merchant itself is contractually 
obliged to provide them. Presumably this is  among other things  to assist with addressing 
the difficulty a card holder might otherwise have in recovering payment the merchant sent on 
to a third party, and the merchant being better placed to recover from that third party.
This being the case, I can see a situation in which Ks own terms and conditions might well 
be insufficient to defend a chargeback claim when flights for which it has taken payment by card do not go ahead. Our investigator established that only one of Miss Ss flights took 
place, which is supported by the fact that K offered refund options.
The reason the flights didnt take place is, strictly speaking, not particularly important for the 
purposes of this chargeback claim. Im prepared to accept that the Covid-19 pandemic had 
an impact on the airlines in question. Be that as it may, in those circumstances where an 
agreed service cannot be carried out, the usual position is that the card scheme rules will 
require the merchant to accept the chargeback and the cardholder to be reimbursed.
With this in mind, Im satisfied there was a reasonable prospect of the chargeback claim 
being successful had Nationwide elected to challenge the defence K submitted. In respect of 
Nationwides second point, it doesnt appear that the timescale was raised as part of Ks 
submissions. But even if this were something the card scheme arbitration panel might have 
taken into account in determining the claim, it is evident that Miss S raised her claim in a 
timely way and that Nationwide had all the information it needed to pursue the chargeback 
claim well within the 120-day time limit.
Given that any delays in submitting the claim were on Nationwides part, rather than down to 
Miss Ss actions, if the claim had been rejected because it was raised out of time this would 
provide more reason for Nationwide to accept responsibility, not mitigate its responsibility.
For these reasons I consider Nationwides handling of Miss Ss claim to have fallen short of 
what I would consider to be a reasonable standard. While it has paid her modest 
compensation to acknowledge this, I dont think that goes far enough. Because of those 
shortcomings, Miss S was prevented from recovering her money via chargeback when it 
appears she had a reasonable prospect of doing so. It follows that I share the investigators 
view that the fair way to resolve this complaint is for Nationwide to reimburse Miss S the 
money for the flights that didnt take place, along with interest on that sum.
My final decision
My final decision is that to settle this complaint, Nationwide Building Society must, within 28 
days of receiving Miss Ss acceptance of this decision, take the following steps:
1. pay Miss S £1,507.77
2. pay interest on the amount in 1. at 8% simple annually, from the date it reversed the 
chargeback to the date of settlement. If Nationwide deducts tax from this interest 
payment, it should  if she requires it  provide Miss S with the appropriate tax 
deduction certificate
3. refund any interest it charged Miss S on her credit card account in respect of the 
reversed chargeback
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman