DRN-3185401
The complaint
Mr M has complained about a loan Everyday Lending Limited provided to him. He says 
the loan wasnt affordable and shouldnt have been provided.
What happened
The main loan details are as follows: 
Date taken Amount Term 
monthsMonthly 
paymentAmount 
repayableLoan status
16/07/2019 £1,000 18 £135.52 £2,439.36 outstanding
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr M and Everyday Lending had told us and she 
thought that Everyday Lending shouldnt have provided this loan. So she recommended 
upholding Mr Ms complaint. Everyday Lending disagreed and asked for an ombudsman 
to look at this complaint.
In brief summary, Everyday Lending said that the loan was intended for debt consolidation 
and this wouldve reduced the amount Mr M was spending on monthly credit repayments.   
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Everyday Lending  needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, this 
means that Everyday Lending needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to 
understand whether Mr M could afford to repay before it provided this loan. Our website sets 
out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were 
proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  
in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages 
of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or 
the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the 
risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So 
wed expect a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer 
irresponsibly.
Everyday Lending says it agreed to Mr Ms application after he provided details of his 
monthly income and spending. It says it cross-checked what Mr M had said against 
information on a credit search it carried out on Mr M and used data from the Office for 
National Statistics to see what typical monthly expenditure was likely to be for someone in 
Mr Ms circumstances. It also looked at his bank statements going back a couple of 
months. 
Everyday Lending told us the information it gathered showed that the loan was affordable 
for Mr M  and that it would help him break the cycle of debt he was in. 
It agreed that Mr M had taken numerous short term loans and that he was in a pay day loan 
cycle, due to high interest costs. But Everyday Lending understood it was reducing Mr Ms 
monthly creditor repayments and improving his credit rating by consolidating creditor 
repayments totalling £269, leaving him with just the smaller monthly repayments of £135.52 
for its loan  which put him in a better financial situation. 
Ive carefully thought about what Mr M and Everyday Lending have said. 
Our adjudicator thought that Everyday Lending shouldnt have provided the loan because as 
well as being able to see a couple of loans and a credit card close to the limit on his credit 
report, it also saw on Mr Ms bank statements that he had taken out two short-term loans 
within the previous five weeks or so running up to him applying for this loan. She also said 
that the monthly repayments it could see on Mr Ms bank statements showed he was 
actually paying around £100 more than Everyday Lending thought was the amount of his 
total credit commitments. She said that between mid-June and mid-July 2019, the monthly 
credit commitments shown on the bank statements Everyday Lending obtained from Mr M 
showed his payments to creditors totalled a minimum of £279.73.
Ive looked at everything afresh and I think its fair to say that the information Everyday 
Lending gathered showed that Mr M was actively searching out new credit  and taking out 
new loans. But I think its useful to remember that it isnt unusual for applicants for this type 
of high cost loan to have a credit history showing other high cost borrowing or even an 
impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be reasons to prompt a 
responsible lender to decline a loan application. 
And set against his credit history I've taken into account that Mr Ms home circumstances 
meant he wasnt liable for paying rent or mortgage, he had a steady income, Everyday 
Lending worked out (in a way that seems broadly reasonable to me) that he should have 
had a reasonable amount of spare cash each month to be able to afford this loan. 
Although Everyday Lending could see details of his spending which might suggest he had 
less money than it thought, nonetheless Mr M appeared to be broadly managing to avoid 
slipping into overdraft at the bank. There were no adverse markers on his credit report that 
indicated hed had any serious problems managing debt and no record of any bankruptcy 
or county court judgements. His credit report showed that the total outstanding balance 
owed to creditors was £923  made up of £412 owing on short-term loans and an 
outstanding balance of £478 on his credit card. And there was the recent borrowing which 
wasnt all reflected on the credit report Everyday Lending saw.  
Everyday Lending has agreed that Mr Ms use of credit had all the hallmarks of someone 
struggling with debt. And I think its fair to say that the overall picture suggested that Mr M 
probably wasnt likely to be able to sustainably afford to repay any extra credit.  
But whilst Everyday Lending understood that Mr M was potentially stuck in a cycle of 
needing to borrow to repay other loans it established that the purpose of the loan it was 
providing was to consolidate all his payday loans. I dont think Everyday Lending had any 
reason not to accept at face value what Mr M had said about this. And it seems to me that 
had Mr M used the loan from Everyday Lending for that purpose he would have been able to 
make significant inroads into repaying his outstanding debt  and so improve his financial 
situation. I think the scale of his debts compared to the value of the loan would suggest that Mr M could potentially have used the loan to move away from being financially 
overstretched. If he chose to spend the money differently, and not use it as he said he 
planned to, I dont currently think its fair and reasonable to say that this makes Everyday 
Lending responsible for his continuing financial difficulty. 
Its my overall view that Everyday Lending took reasonable steps to ensure that it wasnt 
increasing Mr Ms indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful, as 
well as taking reasonable steps to ensure Mr M was able to make the monthly repayments.
It would only be fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where 
a lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that Everyday Lending did 
anything wrong when deciding to lend to Mr M - it carried out proportionate checks which 
suggested the repayments were affordable if the loan was used for its intended purpose 
and it couldve helped improve Mr Ms financial situation. 
So overall I dont think that Everyday Lending  treated Mr M unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with this loan. As this is the case, Im not intending to uphold the complaint. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr M. But I hope hell understand the 
reasons for my decision and hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to. 
Although Im not intending to uphold Mr Ms complaint, I will just take this opportunity to 
remind Everyday Lending  of its obligation to exercise forbearance in light of Mr Ms 
apparent difficulty repaying this loan, should it choose to collect payments from him. This 
means that Mr M can expect Everyday Lending to treat him positively and sympathetically 
in any discussions. 
And if Mr M would like help to manage his finances or to speak to someone about his 
situation generally, theres more information about how to get free debt advice and other 
help on our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr M and Everyday Lending have both confirmed safe receipt of my provisional decision and 
Mr M has explained more about his circumstances. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Mr M for responding to my provisional decision. 
I appreciate that Mr M feels strongly about what happened and I would like to assure him 
that Ive taken carefully into account all the information I've been able to see and everything 
thats been said, including his comments in response to my provisional decision. 
Im very sorry that Mr M had a problem with debt and that his circumstances have been so 
difficult. But, for all the reasons I have explained, what Mr M has told me isnt enough on its 
own for me to be able to uphold the complaint. As no further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I explained in more detail in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman