DRN-2098553
The complaint
Mr S complains that TSB Bank plc unfairly closed his account with 30 days' notice, after it 
accessed his account information without his authority.
What happened
In March 2020 Mr S visited a branch of TSB. He said that upon arriving, he was met at the 
door by a member of staff, who enquired into the purpose of his visit.
Mr S said he explained that he needed to withdraw cash but was instead asked to use the 
ATM (automatic teller machine) outside. 
TSB has explained that to protect colleagues and customers, it was informing customers not 
to visit its branches unless necessary, and said this information was widely available through 
a variety of sources.
TSB said that despite being told otherwise, Mr S entered the branch and insisted on using 
the ATM, which Mr S doesnt dispute. So to try and de-escalate a situation, it asked Mr S to 
wait outside until there were less than 4 people in the branch, and it would then let him enter. 
TSB said that once in the branch, Mr S began using offensive language towards staff 
members and became threatening. TSB said it asked Mr S for his name at this point, but he 
refused to share this information, and continued to make offensive comments towards staff. 
So following this incident, it accessed the ATM records to identify him, and made the 
decision to close his account  giving him 30 days notice. It wrote to him setting this out.  
Mr S has argued that he only swore and lost his temper at the point TSB asked him for his 
name. And says TSB had no right to access ATM records to obtain his information without 
his permission. So, unhappy with the situation, Mr S brought his complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into the matter and concluded that it was not unreasonable for TSB to 
close Mr S account, as he was satisfied Mr S had exhibited threatening behaviour. But Mr S 
disagreed with the investigators findings and re-iterated that he only used offensive language 
when TSB said it would access his details, as it didnt have his permission to do so. 
So, unhappy with the investigators findings, Mr S asked for a final decision. And the case 
has now come to me, as an ombudsman, to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr S attempted to withdraw cash in branch, TSBs policy was for customers to only 
visit its branches if necessary. Its explained that this information was available when 
accessing telephone banking, on its websites, and was displayed at its branches. In light of 
government and regulator guidance I dont think this was unusual or unreasonable. 
TSB has said that as Mr S wanted to withdraw cash, it instructed him to use the ATM 
outside, as it was not necessary for him to enter the branch to carry out this transaction. And 
I can see from TSBs records Mr S only withdrew £400 in cash, which he would have been 
able to do from most ATMs. So Im satisfied that in refusing Mr S access to the branch, it 
was acting within its guidelines set out above. 
TSB went on to allow Mr S access to the branch after he insisted, but it was under no 
obligation to do so. So by this point, I think TSB has already gone above and beyond what I 
wouldve expected it to. 
Once in the branch, Mr S, in his words, lost his temper and swore at members of staff. He 
has argued that he only began to swear after staff told him they would be accessing the ATM 
to obtain his details, and that he was not being abusive towards them prior to this. But 
whether Mr S chose to address TSBs staff members in a threatening manner and use 
abusive language before, or after, it advised him it would be accessing his details, is beside 
the point. Mr S, by his own admission, swore at members of staff. 
 
The terms and conditions of Mr S account say that TSB may end its agreement with a 
customer if they are behaving improperly (for example, in a threatening or abusive 
manner), and that it can do so immediately. In my view, no matter the provocation, losing 
ones temper and swearing at members of staff is improper behaviour. So I think it was 
reasonable for TSB to take steps to end its agreement with Mr S.
 
Mr S is unhappy TSB accessed the ATMs records so that they could identify him. But he 
was a TSB customer, using a TSB ATM, in a TSB branch. I dont think it was wrong for it use 
the information available to it to identify him. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman