DRN-2902864
The complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Insurance Limited held him at fault following a claim made on his 
motor insurance policy. He wants compensation for the loss of his No Claims Bonus (NCB) 
and the cost of a private accident investigation. 
What happened
Mr S was involved in a collision with another car when he pulled out of a side road into a 
main road. Aviva considered the circumstances and held Mr S at fault. Mr S sent in 
photographs and a diagram, but Aviva didnt open these until after it had accepted liability on 
his behalf. It then said these wouldnt change its decision.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Aviva 
had reasonably considered the available evidence and decided to settle the other drivers 
claim. He thought it was entitled to do this by the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr S replied that a criminal act was the cause of the accident and he wasnt at fault. He said 
Aviva hadnt fully investigated the claim. He asked for an ombudsmans review, so his 
complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr S is adamant that he wasnt at fault for the accident. And hes taken some 
trouble to get independent advice to support his position. Mr S has provided us with his 
version of events. 
He said he was at a junction and wanted to turn right into the main road. He said he had a 
clear view and it was safe to enter the junction. There was an oncoming bus on the main 
road to his right that had indicated to turn left. Mr S said he then saw a car approach from his 
left and waited in the junction box for it to pass. He was then hit by a car approaching from 
his right. 
Mr S thought this car would have had to have been driven on the wrong side of the road to 
avoid a concrete barrier and enter the main road from a shopping centre. Mr S thought the 
other driver had driven illegally. 
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr S the same as someone else in his position. 
I think Aviva is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr S to take over, 
defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr S has to follow its advice in connection with the 
settlement of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a usual term in 
motor insurance policies, and I do not find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making its decision.
I can see that Aviva considered Mr Ss account of events. It also had a conflicting version of 
events from the other drivers representative. This said the main road had two lanes and 
provided a link to a map to show this. It said he was correctly proceeding in the right hand 
lane of this road when Mr S pulled out when it was unsafe to do so. 
Aviva considered this, and I can see that it viewed the map and images of the location, and it 
told Mr S:
The third-party in this case has already been established on the main road whilst we have a 
higher duty of care leaving the side road to make sure it is safe to make our manoeuvre. I do 
not feel you have done anything intentionally wrong and have made attempts to ensure it's 
clear for you to proceed, but sadly the liability will still rest with us as we are leaving the side 
road when it's been unsafe to do so. We have no area to successfully argue in court wrong 
doing by the third-party as they have been proceeding on the main road and established.
So the illegal act that Mr S maintained that the other driver had done before the collision 
wasnt relevant to the liability decision. Aviva thought a court would find against Mr S and it 
didnt have grounds to defend his position.
Mr S said the bus and the shopping centre both had CCTV cameras that may have shown 
the event. But Aviva didnt ask for these in time before they were deleted. But I think the 
main cause of the accident, as described above by Aviva, wasnt in doubt. So I dont think 
this footage would have changed the outcome for Mr S. 
Mr S sent in his version of events and other evidence, but Aviva didnt open these before it 
had admitted liability. But I dont think that these would have changed the outcome if they 
had been considered earlier. This is because the circumstances of the collision werent in 
doubt. And if there had been evidence that the other driver had acted illegally, this would be 
a criminal matter and Aviva settles claims based on its civil responsibilities.   
From its file notes, I can see that Aviva considered Mr Ss representations carefully. When 
he disputed its decision on liability, I can see that it reviewed its decision, and the evidence, 
several times. 
So I think Aviva investigated the claim reasonably and fairly. I cant say that it was 
unreasonable or unfair for Aviva to decide to settle the other drivers claim. I think its entitled 
to do this by the policy terms and conditions. And so I dont require Aviva to pay Mr S any 
compensation for the effect of the fault claim on his NCB or to reimburse his costs. 
From what I can see, Aviva settled the other drivers claim on a without prejudice basis. So 
this leaves it open for Mr S to take the matter to court at his own cost, if he so wishes.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman