DRN-3494955
The complaint
Mr S complains about how long he waited when he called Santander UK Plc. 
What happened
Mr S says he called Santander on 27 August 2021 at about 08.25AM. He says he waited for 
just over 70 minutes on those calls which was excessive. Mr S says he was caused 
inconvenience that day and spent further time making a complaint to this service. He would 
like appropriate compensation which he believes should be £100.
Santander has apologised for the call wait times. It says it can be difficult to predict call wait 
times but says compensation isnt justified here.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator accepted Mr S had been waiting for 
over 70 minutes. The investigator didnt think the complaint warranted compensation and 
thought Mr S would have had other methods to contact Santander. The investigator didnt 
think there any need to listen to any calls Mr S made as there was no dispute that he had 
been on hold for a significant length of time.
Mr S doesnt accept that view and in summary says the call wait time was unacceptable and, 
in the past, he has complained about less time being on hold, which resulted in 
compensation. He says his only option that day was to speak to Santander via the telephone 
and questions why the calls cant be listened to as he says he was given information about 
Santander staff levels. Mr S says his whole working day was dominated by this incident.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint and dont 
require Santander to do anything further in the circumstances of it. I appreciate Mr S will be 
disappointed by my decision and appreciate how strongly he feels about what took place.
I have no doubt Mr S was caused inconvenience and frustration by being on hold for over 70 
minutes. I also appreciated that he wanted to speak to Santander in person rather than use 
alternative contact methods. But Im satisfied that Santander has fairly apologised for the call 
time and explained that on occasions there are a variety of factors that result in longer wait 
times. I am sure Mr S appreciates that no two calls are the same and that it can be difficult to 
ensure there are enough staff members to deal with calls within a reasonable time period. It 
is of course not our role to direct Santander about its staffing levels.
The key issue for me to decide is if what took place justifies compensation. Having 
considered that issue Im satisfied that what took place doesnt justify compensation and that 
Santander has acted fairly by apologising and explaining why there are on occasions longer 
wait times. I dont think the impact of waiting over 70 minutes was significant enough to 
justify compensation and dont think Mr S suffered any financial loss. Overall, Im satisfied 
that there are on occasions, events that take place which can fairly be dealt with by an 
apology, as here.
I appreciate Mr S says he was awarded compensation in the past, but we consider each 
complaint on its merits and individually. I also appreciate that Mr S suggests that I listen to 
the relevant calls. I make clear that those calls are not available, and, in any event, I dont 
consider that they would have any impact on my decision as there is no dispute about how 
long Mr S was on hold for.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman