DRN-2728832
The complaint
Miss H has complained about the total loss settlement Society of Lloyds paid when she 
made a claim under her car insurance policy. She also complained about the poor service 
she received. 
All references to the insurer Society of Lloyds includes its agents.
What happened
In October 2020 Miss H was unfortunately involved in an incident and so she made a claim 
to her insurer, Lloyds. 
Lloyds settled Miss Hs claim as a total loss and paid her the market value for her car under 
the terms of the policy. Miss H asked Lloyds to arrange for personal items in the car to be 
returned to her. Lloyds did this and the items were posted to the address Lloyds held on 
record. 
Miss H called Lloyds as she hadnt received the items and it came to light that Miss H no 
longer lived at the address Lloyds had posted them to. When Miss H went to her old 
address to collect the items, some were damaged due to a leaking bottle of hand cream. 
Miss H complained to Lloyds. She said the market value it paid wasnt enough for her to buy 
a similar replacement car. She said Lloyds caused delays and didnt call her back when 
promised. She said she told Lloyds which address to send the personal items to. She was 
very upset about the returned items being damaged as they were of sentimental value and 
included an important identification document. 
Lloyds increased the total loss settlement by £125, bringing the market value sum it paid 
Miss H to £3,400. For some poor service, Lloyds paid Miss H £50 compensation. 
Miss H remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. She said she believes 
Lloyds breached data protection rules by sending her boyfriends passport to her old 
address. 
Our investigator explained our approach to valuation complaints. Having checked the main 
motor trade guides, he found the valuation Lloyds had paid was within the range of the 
guides and therefore reasonable. 
He found that Miss H hadnt notified Lloyds of her change of address until two days after 
she had requested the return of the personal items. And he explained that while it isnt our 
role to investigate data breaches, he didnt think Lloyds had acted unreasonably in posting 
the personal items to the address it held. He didnt think Lloyds could be held responsible 
for the unfortunate damage that occurred during transportation of the items. 
So the investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
Miss H didnt agree. She says Lloyds didnt treat her fairly as a vulnerable customer. She 
says Lloyds didnt tell her the car had been written off until two weeks later. She says she 
told it where to send the items to and they lost them. Miss H says her boyfriends passport is 
unusable. 
Miss H says Lloyds has left her in a state of financial loss. So she wants an ombudsman to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have a long standing approach to valuation complaints. We dont decide a valuation. But 
we can look at whether an insurer has reached its valuation in a reasonable way and in line 
with the policy. 
Miss Hs policy with Lloyds says the most it will pay in the event of a claim is the market 
value of her car at the time of loss. Lloyds relied on the main motor trade guides when 
deciding a valuation for Miss Hs car. This is in line with our approach as we find the main 
guides provide valuations based on likely selling prices for a car of the same make, model, 
age, condition and mileage as Miss Hs. 
Having checked the main guides, the valuation Lloyds paid of £3,400 is within the range of 
their valuations for a car similar to Miss Hs. So I dont think its been unfair to Miss H here. 
Screenshots show that Miss H changed the address under the policy online two days after 
Lloyds arranged the postage of personal items from her car in November 2020. Our 
investigator called Miss Hs broker who confirmed Miss H contacted them about a change of 
address and vehicle on the same day. So there isnt anything to show me that Lloyds acted 
unreasonably in arranging for Miss Hs items to be posted to the address it held at the time. I 
dont think Miss Hs items were lost.
Lloyds file notes show that on 30 October 2020 it discussed arranging a courtesy car. Miss 
H told it she had arranged for a replacement hire vehicle through her brokers which was 
being delivered later that day.
Overall Lloyds settled Miss Hs claim a month after the incident. It paid an additional £125 to 
Miss H on 3 December 2020 in respect of the market value which I think was fair and 
reasonable. There were instances of some poor service. But I think the compensation 
Lloyds paid of £50 is in line with awards we give for similar cases. I dont think the overall 
length of time it took Lloyds to deal with Miss Hs claim was unreasonable. 
I can understand Miss Hs upset at the condition the personal items were in when she 
collected them. Its very unfortunate that this happened during the delivery process. But it 
isnt something that I can say was within Lloyds control. 
Being involved in an incident can be an upsetting and stressful experience. Fortunately it 
isnt something that happens every day. I think its reasonable to expect a degree of 
inconvenience when having to deal with a claim. It is unfortunately inevitable. 
Ive taken into account Miss Hs personal circumstances when considering if Lloyds has 
been reasonable to her. Having done so, I think Lloyds treated Miss H fairly and did enough 
to resolve her complaint. I understand Miss H will be very disappointed. But this means Im 
not asking Lloyds to do anymore. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman