DRN-3357639
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mrs B says The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-operative Bank) mis-sold her PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include Mrs Bs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. Mrs B said shed had health 
problems at the time of the sale, and our adjudicator thought Mrs Bs ability to claim on the 
policy wouldve been affected, and therefore Co-operative Bank shouldnt have 
recommended the policy for her. 
Co-operative Bank disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, saying that the health 
information given by Mrs B at the point of sale suggested that she wouldve been able to 
claim. 
I issued a provisional decision in February 2022. Having reviewed all the evidence and 
information afresh, I said that I disagreed with our adjudicator, and had provisionally decided 
that the complaint should not be upheld. Both parties were invited to send in any further 
evidence they wanted me to consider. However, neither Mrs B nor Co-operative Bank sent in 
any response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Bs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Co-operative Bank made it clear that Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and 
she chose to take it out. I say this because Co-operative Bank sent in copies of Mrs Bs 
mortgage and PPI applications and mortgage offer document, and I can see that Mrs B 
had to state on the mortgage application that she wanted PPI. And on the mortgage offer 
the PPI is clearly stated to be optional.  
Co-operative Bank recommended the PPI to Mrs B, so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for her. And the evidence about Mrs Bs circumstances at the time shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For example, Mrs B was eligible 
for the cover and although she told us she wouldve been entitled to sick pay from her 
employer, the demands and needs statement from the point of sale shows that she said 
her entitlement would only have been statutory sick pay. It also shows that she said she 
wouldve struggled to pay the mortgage if shed been unable to work. So although Mrs B 
told us shed had some savings, it doesnt look as though these were significant, so I 
think she still had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mrs Bs employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. Mrs B says she had had several health problems prior to taking 
out the PPI, but I dont think it was wrong for Co-operative Bank to have recommended 
it. I say this because some of the health issues Mrs B mentioned did not seem to be 
ongoing. And although she told us about one issue that she said was ongoing, I can see 
from the PPI application form that Mrs B ticked boxes to confirm that she was in good 
health, hadnt undergone a major surgical operation in the preceding 12 months and nor 
was she awaiting hospital treatment, and hadnt consulted a doctor in the preceding 12 
months other than for minor illness. So it doesnt look as though Mrs B had health issues 
that she thought might be the reason for a claim on the policy, at the point she applied 
for it in November 2005. We asked Mrs B for more information or evidence, but she 
didnt send anything in.
Its possible the information Co-operative Bank gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out, so it looks like she 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs B as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from 
the information she was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems as though 
it would have been useful for her had something gone wrong. Because of this I dont 
think Mrs B would have declined the cover had Co-operative Bank done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mrs Bs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations 
and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So I think 
she would have still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mrs B would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy couldve 
provided a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Co-operative Bank should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact they 
had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Bs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint. 
In my provisional decision, I said that, for the reasons stated above, I didnt think the PPI 
was mis-sold. As neither party sent in any new information in response to my provisional 
decision, my conclusions remain unchanged. This means Co-operative Bank doesnt have to 
do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman