DRN-3373680
complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI), which Mr J says 
was sold by Headstart Financial Planning Limited (Headstart). 
Mr J says the MPPI was mis-sold to him when he was arranging a mortgage.
background
I can see Mr J has had quite a journey in bringing his complaint and getting it to this stage. 
Im very sorry the circumstances have meant its taken so long.
A few weeks ago I issued a jurisdiction decision about this case because liability for the 
sale was disputed. Headstart said it wasnt responsible for the sale and implied the high 
street bank which eventually lent Mr J the mortgage money was responsible. 
One of our adjudicators had comprehensively looked into the liability matter some time ago 
and said that Headstart was responsible for answering this complaint. I too agreed that 
Headstart was responsible for the sale and I said we could therefore go ahead and look into 
the merits of the complaint. 
With this in mind, an adjudicator looked again at the case and considered all the merits with 
a view to determining whether a mis-sale had occurred. He said that there wasnt enough 
evidence to say the MPPI had been mis-sold, so we shouldnt uphold the complaint made by 
Mr J. Mr J disagrees and still thinks the MPPI was mis-sold to him, so the complaint has 
come to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have also looked at and considered 
with care everything Headstart said about liability. None of this changed my view so I 
should make clear that I am now making a final decision about whether the MPPI was mis-
sold.
Taking account of everything, I am not upholding Mr Js complaint.
views of the parties involved
We have arrived at a situation where neither party is happy. As Ive said, I have already 
made a decision about liability for the sale by saying it was more likely to have been 
Headstart (the broker involved) rather than the bank. I accept Headstart still disputes this but  
as I have read everything that has been said with care, I think its much more likely that 
Headstart sold the policy and am now assessing the merits of the complaint on that basis.
On the other hand, having had sight of the adjudicators subsequent view that there wasnt 
enough evidence to uphold the complaint, Mr J is also unhappy. He still thinks the policy was 
mis-sold to him  and he cites Headstarts denial of never having explained the MPPI policy 
to him as supporting evidence of his mis-sale allegation. I fully understand the points he 
makes.
However, I think its fair to point out that this sale was in 2007, many years ago. So, I think 
relying only on the apparent recollections of the parties to the sale has certain drawbacks not 
least because memories can fade over time. I stress this interpretation applies equally to 
both parties. For example, I gave detailed consideration to the points being initially put 
forward by Headstart, but then used the actual documentation from the sale to supplement 
what was being implied about liability. Similarly, with Mr J, I looked carefully at his 
recollections about the sale but am now using the same documents from the time  and also 
my considerable experience of MPPI mis-selling  to assess what happened. And I think the 
foremost recollections of both parties are not supported by the documentary evidence. The 
documentary evidence is also more reliable in my view because it records what happened at 
the time of the sale.
did Mr J consent to the policy?
There is no doubt in my mind that the issue of mortgage protection was discussed at some 
point and probably some length when Mr J met with an adviser. I referred to this in my 
jurisdiction decision and there is plenty of references to it in the Headstart record of its own 
dealings with Mr J, back in 2007. This somewhat conflicts with Mr Js recollections  but as I 
say this was all a long time ago. I also note there is a clear reference to such a policy being 
sold and delivered to Mr J. This is contained in a letter sent to him in 2007 by the insurers. I 
note this was correctly addressed to Mr J and set out in the form of a welcome letter about 
his new MPPI policy. It contained details of who was covered and what was covered and it 
also says he had chosen the MPPI. It set out the policy cost, a monthly premium of around 
£39.73. This shows Mr J had an awareness of the sale. In an earlier letter from Headstart I 
note Mr J was told we recommend that all clients protect their mortgage responsibilities 
against critical illness, death, accident sickness and unemployment. I therefore also think Mr 
J would have known he had a choice about this policy.
Complementing these facts with my own considerable knowledge of these types of sale, I 
think Mr J would have also needed to complete a direct debit (or similar) in these 
circumstances, to enable the premiums to leave his bank account each month to pay for the 
MPPI he had bought. In my view the monthly MPPI premium was of such an amount to be 
visible and noticeable to Mr J. Put another way, I think that having set up the direct debit for 
the MPPI, he ought to have been aware of the money then leaving his account for a while; I 
think this would have been obvious on his monthly banking statements. This too shows an 
awareness of a sale.
I do accept there is a lack of undisputable evidence showing Mr J agreed or signed up for 
this policy, such as in a formal agreement or application form, but as Ive said, this was in 
2007 and businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely. Nevertheless, in my view 
theres plenty of other supporting evidence showing a discussion took place, a policy was set 
up, Mr J was written to and he began paying an amount each month for a considerable 
period. 
On that basis, its much more likely he agreed to the policy at the time, although I can accept 
he may not specifically remember these things now.
was the policy suitable for Mr J?
Mr J implies he didnt need this type of cover. I have looked at his circumstances and note 
this was most likely a mortgage secured against his home, so the implications of not being 
able to make the repayments could have been serious. Mr J may well honestly believe, with 
hindsight, he had other methods of repayment or indeed other financial support if he got into 
money trouble, for instance from a family member or partner. But this doesnt mean the MPPI wasnt suitable for him. We see many cases where consumers want to reduce or 
cover a risk, and whilst having certain other methods of informal support can be reassuring, 
these dont conflict with having a formal insurance policy. The MPPI Mr J was sold could 
have paid out up to £658 per month for a year if successfully claimed on, so I cant see 
anything which shows recommending it to him would have been necessarily wrong. I think 
many consumers would view the mortgage protection he bought as a useful cover for 
unforeseen events. It also appears to me Mr J was eligible for the MPPI and not caught by 
any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these policies. 
In my view, this was a suitable policy for Mr Js consideration.
was Mr J given enough information?
Given the absence of some documents and the disputed nature of the sale, there is less 
clarity about this. However, we know Mr J was sent the letter (above) with the insurance 
schedule contained in it. I was also sent a copy of the policy rules in booklet form which 
were evidently sent to him. I cant say for sure this happened, but having been sent a 
welcome letter with the schedule attached, I see no reason why the policy rules would not 
also have been included by the insurers  after all theres no dispute MPPI was eventually 
sold to Mr J. I also think its likely that periodic changes to the MPPI policy, such as the price, 
would have been notified to Mr J.
summary
In some cases, we simply cannot be completely certain about what happened. This is one 
such case. When policies like this were sold many years ago, we have to follow the evidence 
we still have access to and then make certain fair and reasonable judgments about what is 
more likely to have happened. 
In this case, there are lots of different disputes going on between the parties. In respect of 
the merits of whether this policy was mis-sold, I have looked at everything Mr J has said very 
carefully. I have read his detailed submissions following the adjudicators view and thank him 
for taking the time to set these out in an understandable format. I certainly dont wish to 
imply Mr Js recollections are not honestly held, but his main points of complaint really relate 
to there being no discussion about the optional nature and no consent as regards this MPPI. 
What followed however, shows this isnt at all likely: Mr J ought to have had an awareness  
through many different mediums  of the MPPI and its optional nature. There is no 
suggestion that having been told the policy was set up he asked why, or otherwise disputed 
hed given his consent.
So, the evidence here points to a sale carried out by Headstart. However, I can see no 
evidence to support the allegations made by Mr J about this policy being mis-sold. Accepting 
the absence of some important documents, the facts tend to show there was a discussion 
between seller and buyer - whether or not this is recalled by either party. There then followed 
a sale where appropriate documents were issued and a payment plan was set up. The policy 
seemed suitable for Mr Js circumstances of that time and everything points to him being in 
agreement of what had taken place. In my view, this MPPI policy was not mis-sold. 
my final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
I do not require Headstart Financial Planning Limited to do anything or pay any 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022. 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman