DRN-3122574
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc didnt successfully recover money he lost via 
investments. Hes also disappointed with the customer service he received and doesnt think 
that Barclays make appropriate reasonable adjustments.
What happened
Mr A had an account with an investment company Ill call P. Mr A made significant 
investments via his Barclays debit card into his account with P. 
In February 2020 Mr A complained to Barclays that he lost almost £200,000 via P and hed 
like these funds refunded. He asked for Barclays to either raise a chargeback, or recover the 
funds via the shared scheme the banks are part of for refunding authorised scams. 
In total Mr A explained that he lost £191,937.45 and hed like this refunded. Mr A explained 
that he suffered from cluster headaches and mental health challenges which meant he 
wasnt fit to invest in P  and therefore he should be refunded. He also highlighted that the 
contract he signed with P stated his losses were capped at £5,000 and Barclays explained to 
Mr A that they couldnt refund him under the voluntary scheme because he hadnt been 
scammed. They explained that P was a Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) regulated firm 
which traded in investments. However, the bank raised a chargeback on Mr As behalf on 
the 17 March 2020. 
Mr A was also unhappy that Barclays discriminated against him, provided poor customer 
service and breached his data.
 
Barclays responded to Mr As complaint, but didnt uphold it. They explained that theyd 
raised a chargeback on his behalf and they hadnt breached his data. 
On the 23 March 2020 they received a reply from P rejecting the chargeback. The bank 
didnt advise Mr A of the chargeback rejection until the 17 April 2020, and on the 
22 April 2020 informed Mr A he under 24 hours to provide further evidence to allow the 
chargeback to be contested. 
P rejected the banks challenge, and Barclays decided to raise the chargeback to the last 
stage arbitration with the card scheme operator, Ill call V. V reviewed the evidence 
presented from Barclays and P and rejected Mr As chargeback. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr As complaint. But they didnt uphold it. In summary 
she said:
Barclays acted fairly in raising the chargeback.
At the time it wasnt possible for Barclays to raise a chargeback under the reason 
code that Mr A couldnt withdraw his funds from the investment.
She wouldnt have expected the bank to refund the money because Mr A wasnt 
subject to a scam. 
The bank gave Mr A sufficient time to provide supporting evidence.
Shes not seen any evidence Barclays discriminated against Mr A or caused a data 
breach. 
Mr A didnt accept our investigators conclusion. And in summary he said:
When he signed up to P the disclaimer didnt appear  and he had evidence of this 
on a screenshot on his laptop. However because of the length of time his case has 
taken he had to sell his laptop. 
The length of time he was given to provide evidence to support the chargeback 
wasnt sufficient.
The chargeback should have been raised under three categories, misrepresentation, 
FCA rules not applied and goods and service not delivered.
He didnt understand the service he was using and wasnt fit to enter into the contract 
so it should be voided. 
Binary options were banned in the UK since April 2019 and are different to contract 
for difference (CFD). 
Our investigator responded to say that in her conclusions shed also mentioned CFD, and 
explained that this is a form of investment trading. She explained that because of the type of 
investment Mr A made Barclays couldnt raise a specific chargeback code about withdrawing 
investment funds.  
As Mr A didnt accept our investigators recommendation its been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr A that Ive read all the submissions hes submitted, however I wont be 
addressing every individual point thats been raised. Instead Ive focused on his key 
complaint points and what I think is most relevant for his complaint.
Chargeback:
As Mr As complaint about the chargeback, and whether Barclays acted fairly in their raising 
of the chargeback, is his key complaint Ive considered this first. 
Its my role to determine whether I think Barclays acted fairly when raising the chargeback 
and if not did their actions impact on Mr As likelihood of success. As our investigator 
explained a chargeback isnt a consumer right, however there are expectations on banks to 
raise and pursue chargebacks if there is a reasonable chance of success. 
As previously explained I can see that Mr A first contacted Barclays on the 10 February 2020 
to try to regain his lost funds. Barclays asked Mr A further questions and evidence relating to 
his claim on the 21 February 2020, and later followed this up on the 16 March 2020. And 
Mr A responded quickly with evidence to support his claim. Mr A was disappointed to learn 
that a few days later on the 22 March 2020 P rejected his claim  however Barclays didnt 
notify him until the 17 April 2020. And because the bank only had 30 days to respond and 
challenge Ps response Mr A had a limited window in which to supply further evidence. Ive 
thought about the banks actions here  and Im surprised by the delay in Barclays contacting Mr A following being notified by P. However  and I realise this will frustrate Mr A 
 Im not satisfied it would have made a difference to his likelihood of success. I say this 
because Mr A was provided with a substantial amount of time before the initial chargeback 
was raised to provide supporting evidence  which he did. Once P rejected the banks 
challenge, Barclays moved Mr As chargeback to the final stage, arbitration with V. It isnt my 
role to determine if V made the correct decision when reviewing the chargeback  but to 
assess if I think Barclays raised the chargeback correctly and fairly presented Mr As case. I 
understand this will frustrate Mr A but considering the bank took the chargeback through the 
three escalation stages and gave him a number of opportunities to provide supporting 
evidence Im satisfied they did. 
Mr As complained that the bank didnt raise a chargeback for misrepresentation, failure to 
follow FCA guidelines and goods and services not delivered. 
Ive considered Mr As response, however Im afraid I dont agree the bank made an error 
here. From the evidence Ive seen the bank raised the chargeback under misrepresentation, 
which Im satisfied is the most appropriate category, however even if it had been raised 
under a different code Im unable to conclude this would have likely altered the success of 
the chargeback. P have provided evidence of the application Mr A made, including the 
disclaimer which Mr A agreed to, and his terms and conditions. Based on this V concluded 
that the services werent misrepresented and I think its likely theyd also have concluded 
Mr A received the services he purchased. 
I understand that Mr A has explained he wasnt fit to enter into the contract at the time  
however it isnt my role to assess Ps actions here. Our service has previously looked at a 
complaint from Mr A about P, and Im therefore unable to consider this further. 
In summary, Im satisfied that Barclays have done everything they reasonably could here to 
raise the chargeback. 
Voluntary schemes:
Mr A has argued that Barclays could have refunded him under a voluntary scheme. I think 
hes likely referring to the continuous reimbursement model or best practice guidance 
relating to Authorised Push Payments scams. However, Mr A wasnt the victim of an 
Authorised Push Payment scam  P are a reputable investment company which is 
authorised by the FCA. Therefore the best practice guidance Mr As referring to doesnt 
cover his transactions. And I wouldnt expect Barclays to apply it in Mr As case. 
Discrimination and customer service:
Ive considered Barclays response to Mr As emails after he first contacted them in 
February 2020. I appreciate that Mr A expected a quick response to the email he sent on the 
28 March 2020 regarding his health conditions. Ive thought about the length of time before 
Barclays replied, and the impact of the Coronavirus pandemic, and Im satisfied the banks 
reply  in five working days  was reasonable. I can also see that Barclays responded more 
quickly on a number of occasions following this. 
Mr A has complained that Barclays has failed to make reasonable adjustments for him. This 
includes Barclays failing to summarise the chargeback rules and phoning him when hed 
asked to be contacted by email. In other words, the bank has failed their duty to make 
reasonable adjustments under the Equality Act 2010. Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into 
account when deciding this complaint  given that its relevant law  but Ive ultimately 
decided this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable. If Mr A wants a decision that 
Barclays has breached the Equality Act 2010, then theyd need to go Court. I can understand why Mr A feels this way but having looked at all the evidence I dont think 
Barclays has discriminated against him. Nor do I think Barclays has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. I hope that it helps Mr A to know that someone impartial and independent has 
looked into his concerns. Im pleased to see that Barclays also recorded a case note on 
Mr As record to highlight his reasonable adjustments, and referred him to appropriate third 
party organisations. 
Ive also thought about the data breach Mr As raised  and his unhappiness about how long 
the bank took before providing the calls. However, I cant hold the bank responsible for a 
letter being opened before it arrived, and I cant say theyve acted unfairly when asking Mr A 
to submit a form  and be specific  regarding the phone calls he requested. 
I understand Mr A will be very disappointed with my conclusions however, for the reasons 
Ive outlined above I wont be asking Barclays to do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I wont be upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman