DRN-2881048
Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
or around October 1997. Miss M says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), then trading as Halifax, 
mis-sold her PPI.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Miss Ms 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Miss Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ms. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Miss Ms 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Ive noticed that Miss M hasnt said she didnt know shed agreed to take out each of these 
policies, or that she was told she had to have it. So I think its fair to conclude she agreed to 
take out each policy because it was a form of protection she wanted to have. Whilst the 
paperwork from the sale is no longer available, this is supported by the fact that BoSs 
computer records show that at the time of making her mortgage application she was asked 
and answered questions to check she was eligible for the cover.
BoS has said that its treating the sale as if it had recommended the PPI to Miss M. That 
means that, as well as checking that she was given enough information about the policy, it 
also had to check that the PPI was right for her. And the evidence about Miss Ms 
circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable 
for her. For example Miss M was eligible for the cover and had some existing benefits from 
her employer if she was unable to work, lasting for between 3 and 6 months. In the event of 
a successful claim, however, the policy would have paid out for up to 12 months. This also 
meant she wouldnt have to fall back on other financial resources, such as savings. And 
given how long shed been in her job, I think the PPI would still have been likely to have 
lasted for longer than her redundancy entitlement. 
Miss M also told us shed have been entitled to a death in service payment from her 
employer. But that would have only paid out in the unfortunate event of her death. She 
wouldnt have been paid a death in service benefit if she was off sick or if she lost her job. 
Finally, I see Miss M has told us about having a separate critical illness policy. Such policies 
tend to pay out for specific illnesses being diagnosed rather than not being able to work, for 
which there can be a much wider range of reasons. 
There was nothing about Miss Ms employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. Although shes told us about a medical condition she had in 1985, it 
seems to have been properly treated at the time with medication without any further 
consequences. So I dont think it was wrong for BoS to have recommended the PPI. 
Its possible the information BoS gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Miss M as I concluded above, or too 
dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she were buying from the information she was 
given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Miss M would have declined the cover 
had BoS done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Miss Ms circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations 
and other exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So I think 
she would have still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Miss M would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide 
a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she were getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Miss Ms representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Miss Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Ms particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means BoS doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman