DRN-2564819
The complaint
Mr As complaint is about his mortgage account with OneSavings Bank Plc trading as kent 
reliance and referred to here as OSB. The main issues in the complaint are as follows:
although he was assured by OSB that if he paid arrears on his mortgage account by 
10 September 2019, no action would be taken, OSB appointed Law of Property Act 
(LPA) Receivers on 3 September 2019;
Mr A asked OSB to correspond with him via email as he lives abroad, but instead formal 
demand (and other correspondence) was sent to his UK address and did not come to his 
attention;
the LPA Receivers have blocked the sale of the property, causing him substantial loss; 
and
OSB has failed to respond to a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) made in 
December 2019.
To settle the complaint, Mr A wants OSB to dis-instruct the LPA Receivers, and compensate 
him for his losses, which he estimates to be more than £1.3 million.
Mr A has been assisted in bringing the complaint by solicitors and a family member, but for 
clarity I will refer to Mr A throughout.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
I will summarise what happened.
Mr A has a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage with OSB taken out in 2015. He borrowed a total of 
£1,008,600 (including fees) on an interest-only basis over a term of 15 years. The mortgage 
is secured on a property which Mr A was renting to tenants at a rent of approximately £5,300 
per month.
Mr A lives abroad but has a UK address registered on file to which his post is sent. Mr A has 
previously told OSB that it is his daughters home, and is where Mr A resides when he is in 
the UK. However, I note Mr A has now said this isnt the case. (I will address this later in this 
decision.)
The events giving rise to the complaint began in 2018. November 2018 is the last month 
when a full monthly mortgage payment was made. Thereafter the mortgage started to fall 
into arrears. From March 2019 Mr A had been telling OSB that he was hoping to clear the 
arrears within 6-8 weeks; each time he called, he would give a similar timescale. Mr A 
explained that he was owed money by third parties who had not paid him, as a result of 
which the mortgage had fallen into arrears. Mr A acknowledged he had been receiving the 
full rental income from the tenant.
On 14 August 2019 Mr A spoke to OSB. He confirmed his UK address. He was told that a 
letter before action had been sent that day and that OSB was intending to continue with legal 
action. Mr A again said he needed 6-8 weeks to clear the arrears in full but OSB said it could 
only give him seven days (so until 21 August 2019). 
The monthly repayment was due on the 20th of each month. On 14 August 2019 Mr A said 
hed make the August repayment of just under £3,400 on the 25th and that he would call on 
the 25th and give an update as to when the arrears would be cleared. No payment was made 
on 25 August 2019.
On 23 August 2019 OSB wrote to Mr A at his UK address. The letter said there were arrears 
of just over £12,000, as a result of which OSB was making formal demand for payment of 
the full amount due under the mortgage (around £1,058,000). Under the mortgage terms and 
conditions, the full amount fell due within 48 hours of the letter being posted.
On 29 August 2019 Mr A telephoned OSB again. The staff member he spoke to said Mr A 
would need to speak to the Collections team. She tried to transfer him but wasnt able to get 
through. Instead she said to Mr A that all she was able to do was to make a note of what he 
said and record it in the account notes. She explained to Mr A that formal demand for 
repayment of the mortgage had been sent on 23 August 2019.
During this call Mr A confirmed he was still receiving the rental income but because he was 
owed money elsewhere, hed fallen into arrears. Mr A said that in another two weeks hed be 
making a monthly payment. Mr A also said that he would be able to make payment in ten 
days or three weeks, or within eight weeks. 
Mr A asked if he could have correspondence sent to him by email. The OSB agent checked 
his email address and confirmed this with Mr A. But she said that OSB was limited in what 
could be discussed by email, as this was not considered secure. The OSB agent noted 
Mr As promises to clear the arrears and the timescale hed given and said that he should 
contact OSB again by 10 September 2019 if the arrears were still outstanding.
The following day, 30 August 2019, the same agent tried to telephone Mr A but wasnt able 
to get through. The note says Called Mr back to advise unfortunately I gave wrong info yesterday and FD [final demand] takes 48 hours to mature. mob number was unavailable. 
Sent email.
On 3 September 2019 OSB appointed LPA Receivers to take control of Mr As property.
Following this, there were various telephone conversations between Mr A and OSB on 
6 September 2019 and 9 September 2019 in which it was explained to him that he would 
need to contact the LPA Receivers as they were now dealing with the property. 
OSB also clarified  several times  that although Mr A was welcome to pay down the 
arrears, this would simply reduce the balance owed because the full amount of the mortgage 
was now payable. OSB suggested several times that Mr A might want to take independent 
financial and/or legal advice on his position. 
Mr A was unhappy that OSB wouldnt send letters by email, but OSB clarified that this was 
not a secure medium and so it was not its policy to do so. Mr A said that he thought all he 
needed to do was to pay off the arrears, but OSB clarified that this was not the case, as 
formal demand for the full balance had been made on 23 August 2019.
On 9 September 2019 Mr A explained that the property had been on the market since July 
2019 but thered been little interest due to summer holidays. He said thered been a few 
viewings. OSB made it clear to Mr A that hed need to talk to the LPA Receivers about this, 
as they were his agents and so would be dealing with any sale of the property.
A payment of £8,700 was made on 9 September 2019. This was insufficient to clear the 
arrears balance.
Mr A complained to OSB about how hed been treated. In its final response dated 
16 October 2019, OSB didnt uphold the complaint. It was satisfied that the decision to 
appoint LPA Receivers was reasonable, given the conduct of the account. The LPA 
Receivers also confirmed there were arears of service charge, insurance and a valuation fee 
which Mr A was required to pay, as well as the mortgage debt.
Dissatisfied with OSBs response, in November 2019 Mr A instructed solicitors, who 
submitted a complaint on his behalf to the Financial Ombudsman Service. The essence of 
the complaint was that OSB had failed to inform Mr A by email of the consequences of not 
bringing his arrears up to date  both in relation to formal demand and appointment of LPA 
Receivers. Mr As solicitors said that, had he been made aware of this, hed have 
immediately brought the account up to date.
The solicitors said that Mr A wanted the LPA Receivers to be dismissed and their fees 
removed from the mortgage account. Mr A also wanted OSB to take no action to sell the 
property while the complaint was being investigated.
In December 2019 Mr As solicitors contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service asking us 
to request the LPA Receivers take no action while the complaint was being investigated. The 
bank reluctantly agreed to ask the LPA Receivers to take no further action.
Two investigators looked at the complaint. The first thought the complaint should be upheld. 
He said OSB should have offered Mr A reduced payments when he was in financial difficulty. 
The investigator also found that OSB should have communicated with Mr A via email. He thought the decision to appoint LPA Receivers was unfair, even though he was satisfied that 
OSB had acted in line with its terms and conditions. 
The investigator asked OSB to instruct the LPA Receivers to hand the property back to Mr A, 
re-work the mortgage account to show the full monthly payment having been made from 
September 2019 to date (March 2020 at that time), adjust Mr As credit file and refund the 
difference in the monthly repayment and the rent to Mr A. He also asked OSB to reverse all 
fees on the account and pay Mr A £350 for distress and inconvenience.
OSB didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for it to be reviewed. 
Another investigator looked at the complaint. He noted further issues had been raised. In 
particular, Mr A said the LPA Receivers had blocked the sale of the property, as a result of 
which he had incurred significant financial loss. In addition, OSB had failed to respond to a 
DSAR made in December 2019.
The second investigator also upheld the complaint. He agreed with all the first investigators 
proposals to put things right, other than the £350 compensation. In addition, he thought OSB 
should reimburse Mr As solicitors costs of £8,300, and pay compensation of £1,000. In 
relation to the DSAR, he awarded Mr A compensation of £200 for failure to respond to the 
DSAR and directed OSB to provide Mr A with his DSAR information promptly.
Although Mr A was happy that his complaint had been upheld, he didnt agree with the 
redress. In a very detailed 20-page response, Mr A set out all his arguments about why he 
thought OSB had treated him unfairly. He said (and I summarise) OSB was employing a 
weak and desperate strategy to avoid liability of their mistake (sic). He wanted to be put in 
the position hed have been in if OSB had not appointed LPA Receivers.
Mr A says he was close to selling the flat at a pre-COVID-19 market price at the time the 
LPA Receivers were appointed. As a result of OSBs actions, hes unlikely to recover his 
losses for this  he had a private buyer with no estate agency fees. 
Mr A provided details of all the losses he was claiming, including actual costs of 
£174,474.15, fees of £82,508.58 and interest of £20,558.62, loss of opportunity at £767,700 
and what he calls immeasurable costs of £255,000, a total of just over £1.3million.
OSB didnt accept the second investigators findings either. In response, OSB said (and I 
summarise):
Mr A had provided the bank with a UK address (and on his application confirmed he had 
resided in the UK for more than 60 years). OSB was entitled to send correspondence to 
his UK address;
the Receivers were appointed when the account had been in arrears for more than nine 
months, with numerous promises to pay which were never kept;
the LPA Receivers ceased action on the account at the insistence of Mr As solicitors;
given the current level of arrears, it is not appropriate to hand the property back to Mr A;
OSB acknowledges Mr A was given incorrect information on 29 August 2019 but is 
satisfied that he was told during that call that formal demand had been made. OSB is 
prepared to pay £350 compensation for this;the DSAR was made by a third party, not Mr A. OSB cannot send Mr As data to a third 
party without his consent, which has not been provided.
Provisional decision of 18 November 2020
I issued a provisional decision, in which I reached the following conclusions.
Appointment of LPA Receivers: The crux of this complaint is that Mr A says he 
was assured when he spoke to OSB on 29 August 2019 that if he paid the arrears no 
further action would be taken. He paid the arrears by 9 September 2019, but OSB 
still went ahead and appointed LPA Receivers. All of Mr As claimed losses flow from 
this.
The mortgage terms and conditions allow OSB to appoint LPA Receivers. Mr A 
acknowledged to OSB that he was receiving the rent of approximately £5,300 per 
month, but this was not being used to pay the mortgage. Im satisfied the payment 
history on the account and the lack of firm proposals to clear the arrears since 
December 2018 justified OSBs decision to appoint LPA Receivers. 
Ive listened to all the calls between Mr A and OSB around that time, including the 
one on 29 August 2019. Its clear from that call that the OSB agent made it clear that 
she had no authority to make any decisions on the account, but would simply note 
what Mr A told her about his circumstances. She also explained that formal demand 
had been made on the account. 
I agree that she did say to Mr A that if the arrears werent cleared in ten days that he 
should contact OSB again. But I disagree with Mr A that he was told by OSB that no 
action would be taken if he cleared the arrears. It may well be that Mr A assumed this 
would be the case, but, if he did, it was not because of what he was told by OSB.
The following day, the agent realised that shed omitted to tell Mr A that the formal 
demand was considered served and effective 48 hours after the date of posting. 
OSBs notes show that she tried to phone him, but wasnt able to get through, and so 
emailed him instead. OSB has acknowledged that Mr A should have been told this 
during the call on 29 August 2019.
I also note that Mr A spoke to OSB twice on 6 September 2019  before hed paid off 
the arrears. It was made clear to Mr A repeatedly during both calls that OSB was still 
going ahead with calling in the loan and that it was repayable in full. OSB confirmed 
that paying off the arrears would not stop any action to recover the debt.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that OSB did not tell Mr A that if he cleared the 
arrears by 10 September 2019, no further action would be taken.
So even if Mr A had thought, after the phone call on 29 August 2019, that clearing 
the arrears would stop the action, he already knew by 6 September 2019  when the 
arrears were still outstanding  that this wasnt correct. Mr A went ahead and paid off 
the arrears on 9 September 2019 anyway, and Im satisfied that this was in the 
knowledge that OSB had already issued formal demand, called in the mortgage and 
appointed LPA Receivers.
It may well be that Mr A hoped that by paying off the arrears, OSB would dis-instruct 
the LPA Receivers. But Im satisfied that OSB said the complete opposite of this and 
was clear to Mr A that its intention was to continue, because of the payment history on the account and the number of broken promises to pay the arrears, going back to 
March 2019. 
Although the first investigator thought Mr A should have been offered reduced 
payments, Im satisfied OSB was under no obligation to do so, given this was a BTL 
mortgage and Mr A was in receipt of the full rental income. The forbearance 
measures in place for regulated residential mortgage customers do not apply to BTL 
borrowers. My review of the account history satisfies me that OSB handled the 
arrears appropriately.
For all these reasons, OSB was under no obligation to dis-instruct the LPA Receivers 
after Mr A paid off the arrears in September 2019.
LPA Receivers blocking a sale: Mr A has explained that, because of the 
appointment of the LPA Receivers, he lost the opportunity to sell the property. It 
wasnt until 9 September 2019 that Mr A mentioned to OSB that the property had 
been on the market since July. Mr A gave OSB details of the two firms of estate 
agents who were marketing the property. He said thered been little interest in it and 
no offers. OSB said that it was imperative, if Mr A had been marketing the property, 
that he discussed this with the LPA Receivers, as they would need to take over the 
sale.
Much later, in September 2020  after the complaint was brought to us  Mr A 
produced a letter from the daughter of one of his neighbours. This letter, dated 1 
September 2020, says shed made an offer on the property in August 2019 and that 
the sale was progressing. but when Mr A had told her about the appointment of the 
LPA Receivers, she decided not to proceed. Curiously, none of this was mentioned 
to OSB during Mr As telephone calls in August and September 2019.
In December 2019, when the complaint was brought to us, Mr As solicitors  
presumably acting on the instructions of Mr A  insisted that the LPA Receivers took 
no further action. OSB reluctantly agreed to this. 
Mr A says that the LPA Receivers have blocked the sale of the property. Its 
important to note here that the LPA Receivers are, pursuant to s.109 Law of Property 
Act 1925, Mr As agents, not OSBs. LPA Receivers do not fall within the scope of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. If Mr A is unhappy at the actions of the LPA 
Receivers, hell need to take this up with them. They are taking no action to sell the 
property because this is what Mr A asked for in December 2019.
Letters sent by post: Ive noted what Mr A has said about wanting mail to be sent to 
him via email. OSB has explained that it doesnt consider this to be a secure form of 
communication. Mr A has pointed out that its terms and conditions show it can 
correspond via email. Im satisfied this is optional, and that for important 
documentation  such as a letter before action or a formal demand  OSB is under 
no obligation to send these by email, which is not a secure medium.
When Mr A spoke to OSB on 14 August 2019 he confirmed his UK postal address. 
This is the same address to which OSB sent the letter before action, formal demand 
and notification of appointment of the LPA Receivers.
This is a BTL mortgage, and as such is considered a commercial loan. As with any 
commercial enterprise, Mr A is responsible for managing it. OSBs role is to 
administer the account, not to manage it on behalf of Mr A. It was up to Mr A to 
ensure that he had an address to which post could be sent and to make sure that any letters received at that address were drawn to his attention. If he didnt do so, thats 
not the fault of OSB.
Mr As solicitors argued that, if Mr A had been made aware of the consequences of 
not paying the arrears  calling in the mortgage and appointment of LPA Receivers  
hed have immediately brought the account up to date. But the consequences of non-
payment are explicit in the terms and conditions, and, as a commercial customer, I 
would expect Mr A to be aware of these. In any event, Mr A told OSB multiple times 
from March 2019 onwards that he wasnt in a position to bring the account up-to-
date, due to being owed money by third parties.
Failure to respond to DSAR: OSB has told us that the request for the DSAR 
relating to the data it holds on Mr A was not made by Mr A, but by a third party. If this 
is correct, then OSB is not required to provide the data, without Mr As specific 
consent.
Conclusion: After reviewing everything thats happened, I do not intend to uphold 
this complaint, other than in relation to the phone call on 29 August 2019 when Mr A 
was told to call back by 10 September 2019 if hed not paid off the arrears. As I said 
above, even before Mr A had paid off the arrears, he was made aware (on 6 
September 2019) that OSB was still going ahead with recovery of the mortgage debt, 
so I dont think the incorrect information given on 29 August 2019 had the 
consequences for him which Mr A is now claiming. Mr A paid £8,700 on 9 September 
2019, after he knew OSB had issued formal demand and appointed LPA Receivers.
OSB offered £350 compensation for its error in the phone call on 29 August 2019, 
and I think this is fair and reasonable. I dont intend to order OSB to pay anything 
else or take any further action.
Responses to the provisional decision
OSB had no further points to make. Both Mr As son and Mr As solicitors made further 
representations. These are detailed, so I will summarise them.
OSB knew Mr A was an ex-patriot and lived abroad, and so should not have sent 
correspondence to a UK address;
the UK address had been given to OSB in 2017 because Mr A hadnt been receiving 
post at his address abroad;
the UK address was not Mr As daughters home but was a rental property that was only 
used intermittently by family members;
Mr As daughter in fact works over 40 miles away from the address held by OSB;
during the phone calls in September 2019 OSB led Mr A to believe that it would 
correspond with him by email;
Mr A only gave the UK address so he could pass security;
Mr A is a layman who couldnt have been expected to understand the terminology used 
by OSB;
OSB should have given Mr A advice about the terminology used in its documents and 
should also have advised him to take legal advice;
OSB breached its regulatory obligation to treat Mr A fairly by sending correspondence to 
the UK address it held on file;
if Mr A had been aware of the severity of the situation, hed have begged, borrowed or 
stolen the money to pay the arrears;
the amount paid on 9 September 2019 was more than the arrears;
the LPA Receivers took the property off the market in September 2019;in September 2019 Mr A didnt mention the buyer for the property (which he told us 
about in September 2020), because he didnt know about this  it was his son who was 
selling the property and he hadnt told Mr A there was an interested buyer about to make 
an offer;
OSB told Mr A to email in letters, which nullifies its argument that email is not a secure 
medium.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is contradictory or incomplete, I am entitled to reach a conclusion based 
on what I think is likely to have happened, based on the available evidence. Ive reviewed 
everything Mr A, his son and his solicitors have said in response to the provisional decision. 
Ive revisited the file and looked at everything again and re-listened to all the telephone calls 
and Ive reviewed my provisional decision.
I also confirm that Ive concentrated on the substantive issues in the complaint. So although I 
confirm Ive read everything provided Im not required to comment on each and every point 
thats been raised.
Mr A had previously requested a hearing and on 4 December 2020 my decision to decline 
this was relayed to Mr As son by a team manager. Mr As son has again requested a 
hearing. Im satisfied that I do not need to hear Mr A in person in order to determine what 
happened. There are contemporaneous call recordings and detailed documents which are 
the record of the events giving rise to the complaint. Mr A has also instructed solicitors 
whove provided written submissions, and Mr As son has also provided further detail. In the 
circumstances, Im satisfied that I can fairly determine the complaint on the basis of the 
evidence before me.
Ive also noted what Mr As son has said about the actions of the LPA Receivers in relation 
to the marketing of the property. But LPA Receivers dont fall within the remit of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, so I wont comment on anything they have done. If Mr A is unhappy 
with the actions of the LPA Receivers, hell need to discuss this with them, as they are his 
agents.
In 2017 Mr A gave OSB a UK address for correspondence because, as he told OSB, he had 
difficulty receiving mail sent to his overseas address. OSB was, I find, entitled to assume 
that Mr A had made arrangements to receive post by having it sent to this UK address.
I note that on 6 September 2019 Mr A told OSB that because he lives abroad, he doesnt 
receive his post and only gets his letters after a few weeks. Mr A was asked about the 
address on file and why Mr A was having his correspondence sent to that address. Mr A said 
that his daughter lives at the property, and that she also travels, but that Mr A lived at the 
property when he was in the UK. 
It was also explained to Mr A during that call that OSB had to send correspondence by post, 
and that only the Collections Team was able to correspond by email.
I note Mr A is now saying that the property is not his daughters home, and is just a 
temporary rental property that is used intermittently by the family. But Mr A told OSB on 
6 September 2019 that it was his daughters home, albeit that she does travel.I also note, from information in the public domain, that between December 2006 and 
November 2014 Mr A was director of a UK limited company. He gave his correspondence 
address as the same UK address as that held by OSB. I see that on 31 October 2009 Mr A 
filed a form at Companies House confirming that he was resident in the UK, at that address. 
This contradicts what Mr A has said in the course of this complaint, which is that his 
permanent residence is abroad, and has been for thirty years. The current company director 
and company secretary appear to be Mr As family members and their address is still the 
same as that held by OSB. I also note that the UK address Mr A gave OSB is the same one 
Mr As son has provided to this service as his address.
But I reiterate that it is Mr As responsibility to ensure that correspondence reaches him, and 
if he has arranged to have it sent to an unoccupied property, its up to Mr A to ensure that he 
makes arrangements for someone to collect it for him. I cant see that Mr A told OSB that the 
property is largely unoccupied, and if this is the address hes provided, OSB is entitled to 
assume that letters sent there will come to his attention. And although OSB will correspond 
via email in relation to collections activities, Im satisfied that OSB is under no obligation to 
send important documentation by email, as OSB considers it is not a secure medium.
Its been suggested by Mr As solicitors that OSB owed Mr A a duty of care to give him 
advice about his obligations under the mortgage and to explain to him what steps it had 
taken to call in the loan  or alternatively to tell Mr A that he needed to seek legal advice. 
The solicitors have said that OSBs failure to do so breaches OSBs regulatory obligation to 
treat Mr A fairly.
The implication is that Mr A is a confused, vulnerable customer who wouldnt have 
understood what OSB meant when it referred to having sent the LBA (letter before action), 
and that he would not have understood the implications of appointing LPA Receivers without 
OSB giving him advice about this. But Mr A is a commercial borrower, having taken out a 
mortgage of almost £1 million to purchase investment property. As such OSB is entitled to 
assume that Mr A is fully aware of his rights, duties and obligations under the mortgage. If 
Mr A is not aware of those matters, OSB is under no duty to give Mr A unsolicited advice.
There is nothing in Mr As conversations with OSB to suggest he didnt understand what was 
being discussed. Mr A engaged fully in the discussions and, if there was something he didnt 
understand, Id have expected Mr A to have asked for clarification.
Mr As son has said that if his father had been aware of the severity of the situation, Mr A 
would have begged, borrowed or stolen the money to pay the arrears. I note that during the 
nine months from December 2018 (when the account first fell into arrears) until the LPA 
Receivers were appointed in September 2018, Mr A was in receipt of the full rental income 
of, I believe, approximately £5,500 per month. The monthly mortgage repayment was just 
under £3,400 per month. In the circumstances, Im satisfied that Mr A did have the money to 
pay the mortgage during this period  but for reasons of his own, chose not to do so.
The telephone calls from August 2019 onwards show that, before Mr A paid off the arrears, 
he was aware that (a) the account had been called in and (b) that LPA Receives had been 
appointed. As I said above, Mr A is a commercial borrower, so it was his responsibility to 
ensure he understood the implications of this.
The contact notes persuade me that OSB gave Mr A several months forbearance before 
any action was taken. I think this was reasonable, given Mr A had made numerous promises 
to bring the account up-to-date, but ultimately didnt do so until after OSB had called in the 
account and the LPA Receivers had been appointed. Im not persuaded Mr A was unaware of the consequences of non-payment. The mortgage terms and conditions are clear as to the 
steps OSB can take in the event of default.
Ive noted whats been said about the potential buyer for the property, which the Financial 
Ombudsman Service was first told about in September 2020. Mr As son has told us, in 
relation to this:
The sales process of the flat  was handled by me, and if there was a negotiation between 
myself and [the potential buyer] it does not mean my father was misleading the bank, but 
simply he was unaware of developments as I had not informed him about it as I was waiting 
for a formal offer. 
This is not borne out by a letter which I am told is from the potential buyer. She said:
I confirm that [Mr A], his son and I discussed the purchase of [the property] briefly 
back in 2017-2018 and then discussions became serious in August 2019 I 
discussed with [Mr A and his son] an offer of £2,250,000  [Mr A and his son] said 
they would be happy with this offer if submitted and I began discussions with my 
personal banker to get the financing in place to submit a formal offer  A couple of 
weeks later [the son] informed me that the [property] had gone into receivership
So on the one hand, Mr As son says his father didnt tell OSB there was a potential buyer 
because he didnt know about this; on the other hand, the potential buyer said Mr A had 
agreed the price and the potential buyer was arranging finance. 
Given the contradiction in this evidence, the weight I can attach to it is limited. But overall I 
think its unlikely, given Mr As discussions with OSB at the end of August 2019  and 
knowing that the arrears situation was serious  that he wouldnt have mentioned that hed 
already  just that month  agreed to sell the property for £2,250,000, and that the buyer 
was putting the finance in place for this.
Conclusion
After considering carefully the additional points made on behalf of Mr A, I am still unable to 
conclude that OSB acted unfairly. I think the £350 compensation already offered by OSB (as 
detailed above) for a minor error (quickly rectified) is fair. Because Im satisfied OSB has 
done nothing else wrong Im not upholding the complaint or ordering OSB to pay any 
additional compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman