DRN-3295932
The complaint
Mr A complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc wont allow him to take a new lower interest 
rate on his mortgage because it considers the mortgage to be in arrears. 
What happened
Mr A has a mortgage with The Co-op. He had a five year interest rate which came to an end 
in late 2020. Just before the rate ended, he applied to The Co-op for a new rate. The Co-op 
refused his application. It said he wasnt eligible for a rate because the mortgage was in 
arrears.
Mr A complained. He didnt accept that the mortgage was in arrears. And he said that, even 
if it was, he should still be allowed to take a new rate and by refusing one, The Co-op was in 
breach of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) rules and regulations for mortgages.
The Co-op said that the account was in arrears at the time Mr A applied for a rate in 
December 2020. It said that, in order to try and assist him, it had agreed to backdate a 
coronavirus payment deferral to earlier in 2020. That would mean that the mortgage would 
no longer be treated as being in arrears and Mr A would then be able to apply for a new rate. 
However, it said that Mr A had not got back in touch to make a new application once the 
mortgage was up to date, choosing instead to complain about the earlier refusal.
The Co-op said that since December 2020, when the mortgage reverted to its standard 
variable rate (SVR), Mr A had been underpaying each month and therefore arrears had built 
back up again. If Mr A now wanted to apply for a new rate, he would have to bring the 
mortgage up to date first, and any new rate would take effect from that application, not from 
December 2020.
The Co-op said that the mortgage had been in arrears by around one months payment 
since mid 2019, and it understood that this was not because Mr A was in financial difficulty, 
but because he was in dispute with the bank and choosing to withhold payments or pay late.
Our investigator didnt think The Co-op had acted unfairly, so Mr A asked for an ombudsman 
to look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Co-op says that new interest rates are not generally available to customers in arrears. 
Im satisfied that this is The Co-ops policy.
Mr As mortgage has, for a long time, been around one month in arrears. Sometimes its 
more, sometimes less  but its rarely out of arrears altogether. Ill say more about the 
reasons for that below, but the fact is that his mortgage was in arrears when he applied for a 
new rate in November 2020 and he wasnt therefore eligible for a new rate.
Under both the terms of Mr As mortgage agreement and the FCAs regulations more 
generally, there is no obligation on The Co-op  or any other lender  to offer new interest 
rates to customers. Mr As mortgage offer for his previous product explains that the 
mortgage will go on to the SVR at the end of the product term. Thats what happened here, 
and nothing in the mortgage offer says that he is entitled to a new rate.
The FCAs rules dont require The Co-op to offer new rates either. They do require fair 
treatment, and require The Co-op to offer certain forms of support to customers in arrears. 
But there is no obligation to offer a new rate.
That means that The Co-op doesnt have to offer new rates to its customers, and where it 
does so it is entitled to have eligibility criteria  which may mean that some customers are 
able to get a new rate and others are not. One example of its eligibility criteria is the policy 
that customers in arrears arent eligible for a new interest rate.
One reason for that is that a customer in arrears is more likely to exit their mortgage early  
either through sale of the property or repossession  if the mortgage is no longer 
sustainable. Ending the mortgage during a fixed rate involves an early repayment charge 
(ERC), which could significantly increase the amount to be repaid.
However, there may be circumstances where  notwithstanding that policy  offering a new 
rate to a customer in arrears might be the fair thing to do. That could include situations 
where a new rate makes the difference between the mortgage being affordable or not, or 
situations where a customer has come out of financial difficulty and a new rate would help 
them clear historic arrears more quickly. There may be other examples too.
So while Im satisfied that under its policy Mr A wasnt eligible for a new rate, I also need to 
think about whether thats fair.
Ive considered the history of Mr As mortgage and his dealings with The Co-op. 
Mr A has a longstanding grievance against The Co-op arising from things that happened 
more than ten years ago. He also disagrees with The Co-ops method of charging interest 
and applying it to his mortgage, in particular how his monthly payment relates to the way 
daily interest is added to the mortgage balance. Ive looked at the mortgage terms and 
conditions, Mr As mortgage offer and the transaction history  and Ive seen nothing of 
concern in how The Co-op calculates interest, adds it to the balance, or calculates and 
charges the monthly payment. Theres more than one method of doing this, and just 
because some other banks adopt a different approach, that doesnt mean The Co-ops is 
unlawful or unfair.
When he applied for a new rate in November 2020, Mr A told The Co-ops adviser that he 
pays his mortgage late deliberately to annoy the bank and senior executives, and because 
he disagrees with how it calculates his payments. He makes payments irregularly, often not 
by the due date and often not in one go, making several payments throughout the month. He 
said much the same to our investigator. As a result, the mortgage is generally in around one 
months worth of arrears.
It does seem that Mr A had some financial difficulties in 2020, related in part to the impact of 
the coronavirus pandemic. But it also seems that wasnt the reason for the arrears; the 
reason was his ongoing decision to manage his account in a way that reflected both his view 
of how it should operate rather than how it actually does operate, and his desire to irritate the 
bank.
Nevertheless, The Co-op decided that it would treat Mr A as if he had taken a coronavirus payment deferral  this meant that it could treat the mortgage as not being in arrears, 
making Mr A eligible for a rate. But Mr A didnt then apply for a rate. Instead he pursued his 
complaint, and only paid The Co-op the monthly payments he calculated he would have had 
to pay had he been given a new rate. As his mortgage was by then on the SVR, that meant 
the mortgage went back into arrears.
Im not in a position to comment on the validity or otherwise of Mr As longstanding grievance 
against The Co-op. It was a long time ago, I havent seen the evidence of what happened, 
and in any case what happened doesnt seem to be related to Mr As mortgage. From 
everything Ive seen, The Co-op is managing Mr As mortgage fairly and in line with the 
terms and conditions. 
But regardless of whether or not theres good grounds for it, Mr As decision to withhold and 
delay payments to his mortgage does not significantly affect The Co-op or its business. But it 
does mean that Mr A is not keeping to the terms of his mortgage, means hes not eligible for 
a new rate, and means he has to pay more than he otherwise would each month. In short, 
the way he manages his mortgage has a much worse impact on Mr A himself than it does on 
The Co-op.
Im satisfied The Co-op has treated Mr A fairly. Theres nothing wrong with the way it 
charges interest or how that relates to his monthly payments. It was right that he wasnt 
eligible for a new interest rate when he asked in November 2020  and fair that it tried to find 
a solution that would allow him to take a new rate.
In my view, its now up to Mr A to decide whether he wants to co-operate with The Co-op, 
bring his mortgage up to date and apply for a new rate to reduce his monthly payments  or 
to continue his campaign against it, and as a result pay more interest than he needs to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman