DRN-3611532
The complaint
Mr A complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) disclosed his account 
transaction information to his ex-wife.
What happened
Mr A says he told RBS in October 2021 to remove his ex-wife from a joint account they held. 
He says he received notification from RBS in November 2021 that it had removed her from 
the account. Mr A says in February 2022 his ex-wife told him that she had received a 
notification from RBS about a cash withdrawal he had made. He says that RBS shouldnt 
have provided personal information to a third party and is concerned about other 
transactions he made that may have been disclosed. Mr A says he would like appropriate 
compensation for the mistake and stress he has been caused.
RBS accepts it made a mistake and has apologised. It says it has corrected the mistake and 
offered Mr A £100 compensation. RBS says the information it gave Mr As ex-wife was 
limited.
Mr A brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought RBS had made an appropriate 
compensation offer and had corrected its records. The investigator explained our role was 
not to punish RBS and thought limited information had been disclosed.
Mr A doesnt accept that view and says the mistake took place months after the account 
should have been in his sole name. He questions if other transaction details were disclosed 
and says he has been caused uncertainty as well as stress in not knowing the answer to 
that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that RBS has made an appropriate 
compensation offer. I appreciate Mr A is likely to be disappointed by my decision and accept 
he will have unanswered questions about how the mistake happened in the first place.
There is no question here that RBS made a mistake about what ought to have been a 
relatively straightforward matter of removing Mr As ex-wife from their joint account. I have 
no doubt Mr A was caused concern and distress in finding out some months later that a 
message had been sent to his ex-wife about a cash withdrawal. And that he would have 
spent some time speaking to RBS about the mistake, which would have caused 
inconvenience.
The only real issue for me to consider is the level of compensation. Im satisfied that limited 
information was passed to Mr As ex-wife, which simply told her that money was withdrawn 
from an account. Im also satisfied that RBS corrected the mistake within a short time period 
of being told about it and that it fairly apologised for it. I dont think Mr A suffered any 
financial loss or the mistake continued unresolved for any real length of time. 
So, Im satisfied overall that RBS has made a fair and reasonable compensation offer of 
£100 in addition to its apology. I think the offer is in line with the award amount we would 
have made for this type of mistake and impact.
I appreciate Mr A questions if other transactions were disclosed. But I have to consider what 
did happen and what I have evidence of happening. I have not seen any evidence from 
either side that additional information or other transactions were disclosed.
It is of course up to Mr A to decide if he wishes to accept RBSs compensation offer but his 
acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this complaint. The 
investigator has made clear that its not our role to punish a business for a mistake.
My final decision
My final decision is that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has made a fair and reasonable 
compensation offer of £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman