DRN-2097791
The complaint
Miss M complains that Evolution Lending Limited shouldnt have lent her money secured by 
a further charge on her property. Miss M would like Evolution to refund the interest she paid 
and remove any adverse credit information it registered.
What happened
Miss M took out a loan for £12,000.00 together with fees and interest in May 2016. The loan 
consolidated various debts Miss M had. Miss M says that it should have been obvious from 
her credit file that that she was struggling with her finances, and that Evolution shouldnt 
have offered to lend her more money as it must have been obvious that she would have 
been unable to pay it back and she had a gambling problem.
Miss M says that this was irresponsible lending by Evolution as the loan was unaffordable. 
Our investigators view was that Evolution had carried out all reasonable checks to confirm 
that the loan was affordable and didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. 
Miss M disagrees saying that complaints she made about irresponsible lending by other 
lenders have been upheld because of gambling transactions on her bank statements and 
cant understand why this one was treated differently.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M approached a broker about consolidating a number of debts and a debt consolidation 
secured loan was recommended for her by Evolution. Miss M says that the loan to her was 
irresponsible lending and I understand that she has been successful in a number of other 
complaints on that basis. I have examined this complaint on its own merits. Lenders have to 
meet regulatory obligations when making the loans, but the regulations can be different 
depending on the type of loan and indeed the date the loan is made. This was a loan 
secured on land made in May 2016 and the rules that apply - MCOB rules - differ from those 
for unsecured loans and indeed from loans secured on land made before March 2016. 
So, when I look at what Evolution did, I have to look at whether Evolution complied with 
these rules and whether its lending was fair. These rules look to ensure that when a lender 
makes a loan that it is affordable. Secondly this was a loan made for the purpose of 
consolidating other loans and again Ive looked at whether such a loan was suitable for Miss 
Ms circumstances.  Assessing whether a loan is affordable requires looking essentially at 
Miss Ms income and expenditure and assessing whether she can pay the loan. Miss M had 
income of £76,500 and a possible bonus of £30,000. According to the P60 she had earnings 
of £118,589 in the previous year. The income and expenditure assessment showed Miss M 
to have a surplus of £716 per month and so £501 was available to repay the loan.
This loan wasnt to generate new money for her but to pay off existing debts of which Miss M 
had several including payday loans and credit cards. Evolution should have assessed 
whether consolidating debts by way of a secured loan was suitable for Miss M. I note that 
theres a high APR on the secured loan and fees on top of the debts. But Miss M was paying 
higher APRs on several of her loans. I noted loans in the hundreds of % APR. According to 
the credit report, the loans that were to be consolidated required payments of about £1,000 
per month and that was without paying anything off the credit cards. I would have thought 
that the consolidation gave Miss M the reasonable opportunity to deal with those debts by 
monthly payments of about £500 over the period of the 42 months of the loan. This loan 
would be secured but the problems that this might cause were highlighted to Miss M and she 
accepted the loan knowing that. So, I cant say that the recommendation was unsuitable nor, 
after listening to the sales call, that Miss M wasnt fully informed about the implications of 
agreeing to it.  
Miss M says that because of her gambling that she should have been refused this loan. But 
from the bank statements Ive seen, there is no obvious indication that it was gambling that 
was consuming her money. In addition, this loan wouldnt have enabled Miss M to gamble 
the money provided by the loan as it was used directly to pay off debts.
Im sorry to learn that Miss M lost her job which meant that she was unable to maintain 
payments on this loan. But that indicates that when she took out the loan it was affordable, 
and it was losing her job which made it unaffordable. Im sorry to learn of the circumstances 
that Miss M finds herself in. My role is to consider whether Evolution dealt fairly with Miss M 
when it made the loan in May 2016. I have to apply the rules relevant to this type of lending 
and to the circumstances of this particular case. As a result, Im not persuaded that Evolution 
has done anything wrong and so I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
I note that whilst Miss M is in financial difficulties, Evolution has agreed not to charge 
additional interest or charges on the account, and I would remind the lender that it should be 
positive and sympathetic to Miss M. But for the reasons set out above I cant fairly uphold 
this complaint,  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman