DRN-3782077
The complaint
Mr I says MBNA Limited, has treated him unfairly in relation to a transaction on his credit 
card which paid for bike parts.
What happened
In April 2020 Mr I used his MBNA credit card to pay for bike parts purchased through a 
website marketplace from a supplier Ill call Firm O. He paid Firm O just over £300. Firm O 
sent him parts and Mr I said they were the wrong ones, so he contacted Firm O to say so. In 
July 2020 there was an email conversation between Mr I and Firm O. Mr I said that if Firm O 
didnt have the ones he wanted he would accept another product and stipulated its model 
number. Firm O responded offering to send a different model number (albeit very similar 
numbers). Mr I responded by saying he was happy with that. And these were sent. On 
receipt Mr I said the ones received still werent what he wanted. But Firm O responded by 
saying thats what he agreed to, so it wasnt willing to do any more returns as it had supplied 
what was agreed.
Having reached deadlock with the Firm O, Mr I took his dispute to MBNA to see if it could 
help. MBNA says it considered Chargeback and the Consumer Credit Act and having done 
so it didnt think it needed to refund him the amount hed lost. So Mr I brought his complaint 
to this service.
Our Investigator has issued two assessments one in favour of MBNA and then one in favour 
of Mr I. MBNA remained unhappy and so this complaint came to me for a decision.
In September I issued a provisional decision describing my provisional reasons for not 
upholding this complaint. Both parties responded to that. So I now issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision and having considered those responses 
Im not persuaded to change my position as described in my provisional decision. MBNA had 
nothing further to add. Mr I commented very briefly that he received the same item twice. But 
didnt comment on my rationale as to why he couldnt make a claim under S75 (as MBNA 
argued) due to the requisite relationship (i.e. DCS) not being in place. This issue is the crux 
of this complaint and whether MBNA has to do anything more. And as neither party have 
commented on it I see no reason for me to change my position. Consequently Mr Is 
complaint is unsuccessful.
As an aside I also note that Mr I doesnt disagree with my reasoning regarding what 
happened or my reading of the parties being at cross-purposes. So I dont see any reasons 
to change my position on that matter. Albeit that due to my finding on DCS his claim under 
Section 75 couldnt be successful in any event.
Mr I used his MBNA credit card to pay Firm O for the bike. This means MBNA has certain 
responsibilities to Mr I (if certain criteria are met) which arise from the relevant law, 
specifically, Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). There is no need for 
me to go into great detail about how this operates, but in summary, if certain criteria are met, 
Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr I to hold MBNA liable for breaches of contract by the 
Firm O, or misrepresentations made by it in relation to the agreement made. Again without 
going into a large amount of detail a breach of contract occurs when one party to a contract 
fails to provide what it has agreed to under that contract. Misrepresentation is when 
something is said which is relied upon and transpires to be untrue leading to detriment.
MBNA is also a member of a card network which provides card services. And this network 
has rules which includes giving MBNA an avenue for card transactions to be disputed, 
namely through the Chargeback process.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is solely about MBNA and whether it did 
what it should have and whether it treated Mr I fairly. This decision isnt about Firm O which 
isnt within this services remit for complaints regarding Chargeback and S75. I hope this 
distinction is clear.
could MBNA challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr I does 
here, MBNA (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through the Chargeback process. Mr I 
doesnt dispute that he used his MBNA credit card here. Nor does he dispute the amount, 
date, or any other details about the transaction itself. So I dont think MBNA couldve 
challenged the payment on the basis Mr I didnt properly authorise the transaction, given 
what Ive just set out.
MBNA has pointed to the Scheme rules about time limits to raise Chargebacks. And it notes 
that the transaction the second set of bike parts were to be delivered at the end of July 2020, 
but it says Mr I didnt raise the issue with MBNA until much later in 2020, by which time it 
was significantly outside the time limits applicable. 
Ive considered the card network rules and it is outside of the time limits appropriate to the 
second delivery of parts. So I dont think Mr I has lost out here because MBNA didnt raise a 
Chargeback as it would have been out of time. And consequently would have been 
unsuccessful.
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here there are some 
requirements set out in the CCA which also have to be met before these issues can be 
considered. One of these tests is around financial limits and having considered these I think 
on balance that Mr Is claim meets the financial limits criteria.
Another test in the CCA for a valid claim is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place. This is often referred to as the DCS relationship or simply DCS. This 
means that there needs to be the necessary three-party relationship. This often looks like:
A debtor (who makes repayments to the creditor for the borrowing for the purchase)
A creditor (who has to send the borrowed amount direct to the supplier)
A supplier (who has to provide what was purchased to the debtor)
This means the person who paid for the goods (the Debtor-Mr I) should have a contractual 
relationship with the Firm O as well as with the credit provider (MBNA). And this is the crux of the complaint here. Mr I says that the DCS relationship is in place so MBNA can be held 
liable for any breach of contract.
Mr I paid Firm O using his personal credit card, but Mr I wasnt the contracting party to 
purchase these parts. MBNA has pointed to the account name used on the website 
marketplace that made the purchase and it belongs to a limited company (which Mr I is a 
director of). Having considered this evidence it is clear the account name used to order 
these parts was that of the limited company. I also note the delivery address was the 
business address of the limited company. And I also see some of the emails sent to Firm O 
about these parts were from an email address related to the limited company and not from 
Mr Is personal email. MBNA has said that this means there are too many parties involved 
for DCS to be in place.
Mr I has said he uses the address for deliveries because he knows there will be someone 
there to receive the deliveries. Mr I is also likely to argue that this DCS issue shouldnt make 
a difference. But it should be remembered that MBNA wouldnt have any liability here if it 
wasnt for this legislation. So it is fair that if there are criteria to be met before liability can be 
considered that MBNA can consider these criteria and for it to argue where such criteria 
arent met.
Having considered what happened in this transaction we have more than the requisite three 
parties. We have MBNA (Creditor), Mr I (Debtor), Firm O (supplier), and the limited company 
(the contracting party). So we have four parties here and considering the intertwined 
relationships here Im satisfied that the required relationship as set out in the CCA is not met 
and thus MBNA cannot be held liable for the loss Mr I has suffered here in any event.
As a consequence MBNA dont have to do anymore as a S75 claim cannot be successful in 
these circumstances. And as Chargeback couldnt be taken further this complaint is 
unsuccessful.
However whether or not DCS is in place doesnt make a difference here either. MBNA has 
argued that although the parts originally ordered werent what Mr I wanted, when he had 
follow-on email discussions with Firm O he stipulated a model number that he was willing to 
accept as the original part wasnt available. Firm O responded to this email by stipulating 
another part it could provide and gave the model number and colour (Silver) it could provide. 
Mr I then responded to this by email by saying:
yes I am happy with that, please, if you could. Kind regards To which Firm O responded 
the next day by saying OK we ship today.
Now it is clear (in retrospect) from the email conversations across the whole timeframe that 
the parties are talking at cross-purposes here. And it is also clear that neither party have 
been particularly detailed in their discussions of the bike parts being described or which 
parts are or are not available or wanted and not wanted. In fact most of these emails are 
brief and lacking in detail and are often one sentence only. So I think the writing on both 
sides could have been clearer.
But ultimately Firm O offer to send a set of bike parts (with model number and colour) to Mr 
I, which he clearly accepts, and these are sent and received (as per the photograph of the 
silver part received by Mr I). So in essence the contract has been varied by the agreement of 
both parties and then fulfilled. So although it is clear that the discussion is at cross-purposes, 
Firm O sent what had been agreed to be sent (albeit not the parts which Mr I actually wanted 
but those that he had clearly agreed to). Firm O make this very point in its later discussions 
with Mr I by pointing him back to the emails in question. So I am satisfied that there is no breach of contract here or material misrepresentation on the part of Firm O which MBNA 
should be responsible for. 
So all in all having considered the matter Im not currently persuaded MBNA has treated Mr I 
unfairly. I dont think the DCS relationship has been shown to be in place for the provision of 
the bike parts. And Mr I was out of time in relation to having a chargeback raised. So it is my 
decision that MBNA hasnt done anything wrong here which needs remedy. So this 
complaint doesnt succeed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against MBNA Limited. It has 
nothing further to do here.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman