DRN-2079372
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S are unhappy that CIS General Insurance Limited (CIS) turned down a claim 
under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S and Mrs S contacted CIS when they found that some of the flooring in their home was 
unstable. They thought this was due to a water leak in their home several years before, dealt 
with under a previous insurance claim. CIS sent a surveyor to assess the damage, who 
thought the claim should be investigated further.  So, CIS appointed a loss adjuster to 
assess the damage. He said he didnt think that the damage was due to an insured event 
and was unlikely to be due to the previous water leak. Following an internal review, CIS 
turned down the claim.
Mr S and Mrs S complained to CIS. CIS reviewed the claim and maintained its decision to 
decline the claim. However, it said that communication during parts of the claim could have 
been better. It gave Mr S and Mrs S £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by 
the communication issues.
Mr S and Mrs S complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She 
said she thought the claim had been fairly declined and that it was reasonable for CIS to rely 
on the loss adjusters findings, rather than those of the surveyor.
As Mr S and Mrs S did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In 2014, Mr S and Mrs S had a leak from the water main at their home. They claimed for this 
on their home insurance policy and the claim was dealt with as a cash settlement because 
Mr S and Mrs S arranged for the repairs to be done themselves. Mr S and Mrs S think that 
the 2014 water leak resulted in a large amount of water remaining under their floor boards, 
which caused the floor to rot and led to the claim that is the subject of this complaint.
Ive looked at the details of what was found as part of dealing with the 2014 water leak. Mr S 
and Mrs S arranged for a plumber to look at the damage, who identified the source of the 
leak and carried out repairs. The invoice from the plumber listed the works that were carried 
out, but it didnt say anything that suggested that water might remain under the floor as a 
result of the leak.
When the surveyor looked at the more recent damage identified, he provided a report that 
said:
Following completion of our inspection we have been advised that this damage is highly 
likely to have been caused due to a leak that occurred 5 years ago, a very large amount of 
water escaped beneath the property it is seems all the water was not removed and a large 
amount remained sat beneath the floor void and over the years has been damaging the floor 
supports, floorboards and wooden flooring along with the wall plates and walls themselves.
The report also included several photos of the damage, which showed extensive rot to the 
floor and its supports and said that there were potential structural issues because of the 
amount of time water had been able to soak into the property.
Because of the likely costs related to settling this claim, it had to be referred to a loss 
adjuster, who also carried out an assessment, which included considering the surveyors 
findings. The loss adjusters report said that although he couldnt rule out the possibility of 
water remaining under the floor boards, he thought that it was more likely that the issue was 
caused by ventilation issues and structural deficiencies and gave his reasons for this.
When CIS then assessed the claim, based on the loss adjusters findings, it turned it down, 
as it said there was no evidence that an insured event had taken place.
Ive thought whether CIS decision was reasonable. Having looked at both reports, I agree 
with CIS that the loss adjusters report is more convincing. Reading the surveyors report, I 
dont think this included a detailed explanation of how he formed his view of the most likely 
cause and there was only a limited amount of evidence that he used to support his findings. 
Looking at the loss adjusters report, I think he considered a range of options and explained 
why he thought that the issues with ventilation and some structural deficiencies were more 
likely to be the cause, as well as why alternative potential causes were less likely. 
Ive also thought about what happened in 2014. Ive read what the plumber said he needed 
to do to deal with the leak and repair the damage and this doesnt seem to show that he 
thought there was likely to be wider damage that hadnt been dealt with. Im also aware that 
Mr S and Mrs S said that the volume of water from the water leak was very significant. Ive 
no reason to doubt this, but what I havent seen is evidence to support the view that a 
significant amount of water remained under the floorboards for a long period of time that 
resulted in the damage that was then found five years later. Whilst, I dont rule out that this 
could have happened, I think that the explanation offered by the loss adjuster is more 
credible and that there was evidence to show why the loss adjusters findings were more 
likely to be the cause.
Mr S and Mrs S have now had the damage repaired and they provided a report from the 
company that did the work. This was passed to CIS, which considered whether this changed 
its view on the likely cause of the damage. CIS concluded that it didnt and provided Mr S 
and Mrs S with its reasoning. Ive also read the report. Having done so, I dont think that the 
latest report was as persuasive as the loss adjusters findings and didnt show that it was 
more likely that water from the water leak had been under the floor boards since 2014. So, I 
think that it was reasonable for CIS to maintain its decision that the damage wasnt caused 
by the leak in 2014, but was due to other issues that were not an insured risk. 
Im also aware that Mr S and Mrs S felt that they were in a difficult position. There was only 
limited access to the underfloor area, which meant that only a small part of it could be 
inspected. They would have had to pay for more of the floor to be lifted, or if they wanted 
their own survey carried out, and they needed to balance this against the likely cost of just 
getting the work carried out to repair the damage. I sympathise with this position, but when a 
policyholder makes an insurance claim, the onus is on them to show that an insured event 
has taken place. Without further evidence to support their claim, I dont think there was 
enough to show that the damage to the floor was caused by something covered by the 
insurance policy.Ive also thought about the delays with the handling of this claim, which seem mainly to be 
do with a lack communication when the claim was passed to the loss adjuster. CIS agreed 
that this part of the claim could have been dealt with better and, having looked at what 
happened, I think its response to this issue was appropriate.
So, thinking about this case as a whole, I think that CIS acted reasonably in turning down the 
claim on the basis of what the loss adjuster found and the investigations he carried out. I 
also think that CIS response to the communication issues that were identified and the 
compensation it offered were appropriate in the circumstances. It therefore follows that I 
dont uphold this complaint or require CIS to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman