DRN-4146425
The complaint
Mr D complains about the way Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money dealt with a 
payment dispute. Mr D also complains that a payment to purchase a car wasnt made as 
directed. Mr Ds told us compensation Virgin Money offered wasnt paid. 
What happened
Mr D had a current account with Virgin Money. On 16 February 2023 a payment of £24 was 
taken from Mr Ds account by a merchant. Mr D went on to dispute the payment with Virgin 
Money. The payment was later refunded by the merchant and paid back into Mr Ds account 
on 24 February 2023. Mr D has told us that he found it difficult to contact Virgin Money to 
discuss the payment and that he wasnt called back as promised. 
On 2 March 2023 Mr D made a payment of £7,500 in relation to a car purchase. The 
payment was held by Virgin Moneys fraud prevention systems. Once Mr D was able to 
speak with agents at the bank and verified the payment was genuine it was released. 
Mr D complained and Virgin Money issued a final response on 15 March 2023. Virgin Money 
said the payment Mr D disputed was refunded to his account and offered him £25 for service 
issues he experienced during the call. Virgin Money added that it had correctly held the car 
payment for further checks and offered Mr D a further £25 as a gesture of goodwill. Virgin 
Money didnt agree that calls Mr D had with its agents were handled poorly. Virgin Money 
said the compensation would be paid to Mr Ds account within 21 days. 
Virgin Moneys explained that Mr Ds account was switched to a new provider a short time 
later. As a result, the settlement payment it offered in its final response couldnt be made as 
planned. Virgin Money says the payment was subsequently sent to Mr Ds new bank 
account at the end of March 2023. 
Mr D referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Virgin Money had reasonably held Mr Ds car payment for further checks, in line with the 
account terms and conditions. The investigator agreed there were service issues but thought 
Virgin Moneys settlement totalling £50 was a fair reflection of the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr D so didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr D asked to appeal, so 
his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
A payment of £24 was taken by a merchant from Mr Ds account on 16 February 2023. Mr D 
contacted Virgin Money to raise a dispute and has told us there were delays getting in 
contact. When Mr D was able to speak with Virgin Money he was promised a call back but 
says none was received. Virgin Moneys provided a bank statement that shows the merchant 
refunded the disputed £24 on 24 February 2023. So Im satisfied the funds were returned 
and Mr Ds account was put back into the correct position. 
Virgin Moneys provided evidence from its contact notes that indicates it attempted to contact 
Mr D on 23 February 2023 to discuss the payment. But the payment was ultimately refunded 
the following day. I agree that there were some delays in speaking with Virgin Money and 
that the service it provided couldve been better. But Im satisfied Virgin Money took the 
issue on board and Im pleased the funds were returned to Mr Ds account without an 
unreasonable delay. In my view, Virgin Moneys offer of £25 for the issues Mr D raised is a 
fair and reasonable level of compensation that recognises the level of distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
A payment of £7,500 was held by Virgin Money on 2 March 2023. I can understand why this 
was concerning to Mr D, especially as he was attempting to make an important purchase. 
But I have to balance the inconvenience caused to Mr D against Virgin Moneys obligation to 
protect customers from fraud. Virgin Money has explained the sum Mr D was paying was 
substantial. In addition, the payment was to a new recipient Mr D hadnt paid before. Virgin 
Moneys provided information that shows the payment was held by its fraud prevention 
systems for additional checks before it could be released. I accept this caused Mr D some 
inconvenience. And I agree with the investigator that Virgin Money shouldve attempted to 
contact him when the payment was held. But Mr D contacted Virgin Money to check what 
was happening and it was ultimately able to release the payment. 
Ive reviewed Virgin Moneys account terms and conditions and they allow it to place a 
payment on hold if it has suspicions of fraud. Im satisfied Virgin Money fairly highlighted Mr 
Ds car payment for further checks before releasing it. Overall, I havent been persuaded that 
Virgin Money made a mistake or treated Mr D unfairly. 
When Virgin Money issued its final response it offered Mr D a total of £50 for service issues 
and as a gesture of goodwill. Ive reviewed all the available information supplied by both Mr 
D and Virgin Money. Im satisfied that Virgin Moneys offer of £50 recognises the distress 
and inconvenience caused to Mr D and is a fair and reasonable way to resolve his 
complaint. To put it another way, the settlement is very much in line with the award I 
wouldve made if Virgin Money hadnt already made an offer. As Im satisfied Virgin Money 
has already agreed a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances Im not 
telling it to increase the award. 
Virgin Moneys explained that its £50 settlement payment was delayed as Mr Ds account 
was closed following a switch to a new provider. But Virgin Moneys provided some systems 
information that shows the payment was forwarded to the new bank at the end of March 
2023. I can see our investigator asked Mr D to supply bank statements from his new account 
for the period in question but they dont appear to have been provided. If Mr Ds new bank 
account didnt receive the £50 payment, he has the option of contacting our investigator. If 
Mr Ds statements with his new bank dont show evidence of the settlement being received, 
well ask Virgin Money to make the payment, in line with its offer in the final response. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr D but as Im satisfied Virgin Money has dealt with his case fairly 
Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money has already agreed a 
settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman