DRN-3506671
The complaint
Mr Ks complaint is about events beginning in 2018 and about Prescient Financial 
Intelligence Limited (Prescient), his Independent Financial Adviser at the time. Quilter 
Financial Services Ltd (Quilter) is the respondent to the complaint. It says Prescient was 
acquired by Quilter Private Client Advisers (QPCA) in 2020 and that QPCA is its Appointed 
Representative.
Mr K says Prescient arranged the transfer of his Abbey Life Pension (ALP) to his Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) in 2018; but, as the Pension Commencement Lump Sum 
(PCLS) of around £35,000 was released to him, Prescient failed to make the remainder 
cash (around £105,000) available to the Discretionary Manager (DM) appointed to manage 
investments in the SIPP.
He refers to a 14 September 2020 email from the Prescient adviser in which he says the 
adviser conceded liability in the matter. He is also unhappy about a specific personal 
detriment that resulted from the cash remaining on deposit without his knowledge. In the 
main, he asked for compensation for growth that was lost because the cash remained 
uninvested in the SIPPs deposit account and for a refund of servicing fees paid to Prescient 
during the relevant period.
Quilter upheld Mr Ks claim for a refund of servicing fees, because it accepts that he did not 
receive the annual reviews he was entitled to in 2018 and 2019, and that he did not receive 
the level of service he had paid for. The transfer had been concluded by August 2018. 
Quilter calculated the fees received by Prescient between August 2018 and October 2019, in 
addition to which it calculated notional gain on the total fees amount and an income tax 
deduction. The total fees amount it used in its calculation differed from what Mr K had 
calculated. Eventually Quilter agreed to pay the total fees amount that he claimed. However, 
that settlement is pending the outcome of this decision. Quilter also offered Mr K £250 for 
the trouble and upset caused to him, but he considers this insufficient.
What happened
With regards to Mr Ks other two claims  lost growth and the personal detriment  one of 
our investigators concluded that the complaint should not be upheld and that Quilter should 
not have to do any more, in terms of redress, beyond the refund of servicing fees it has 
agreed. In the main, he said:
Four parties were involved in Mr Ks SIPP  the SIPP provider, the DM (providing 
investment advice), Prescient (providing financial planning advice) and Mr K (who 
had relationships with each of the other three parties).
The DM was the party involved in the personal detriment claim that Mr K has made, 
so Prescient/Quilter has no responsibility in that respect.
Mr Ks main relationship, in terms of investing (and the investments) in the SIPP, was 
with the DM. In this context, his relationship with Prescient is less clear. Its suitability 
letter to him at the time referred to him discussing investment matters with the DM; it 
made no investment recommendation; and it gave no indication that Prescient was to 
be involved in the investment of the transferred pension within the SIPP. There is 
also wider evidence, in emails between Mr K and Prescient about the negotiation of 
fees, that supports the conclusion that Prescient did not have a role in the 
investments within the SIPP.
The Prescient advisers email of 14 September 2020 does apologise for not 
arranging transfer of the cash from the deposit account and the adviser said this 
happened due to poor liaison (a communication blip) between Prescient and the 
SIPP provider. This suggests some responsibility on Prescients part, but it also 
suggests the adviser was accepting joint responsibility alongside Mr K himself. 
Mr K received the PCLS on 2 August 2018; on 26 September 2019 Prescient gave 
notice about transfer of the cash to the SIPPs deposit account; the advisers apology 
then happened around a year later; but Mr K would have known the transfer had 
concluded when he received the PCLS in August 2018; he knew Prescient was not to 
be involved with investment in the SIPP and that the DM was to manage that; so he 
ought to have discussed investment of the transferred fund with the DM upon 
knowledge that the transfer had completed; hence his main responsibility in the 
matter.
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) on 28 April 2022 and reached a different outcome. I 
provisionally upheld the complaint and I said  
My provisional conclusions are as follows:
I consider that Mr Ks claim for a refund of fees has been settled. I endorse the 
settlement, based on the total fee refund amount of £11,059.82 but only with the 
same notional gain treatment/approach in Quilters previous calculation. With regards 
to tax I intend to order this payment into Mr Ks SIPP, alongside redress for the lost 
growth claim, so the tax related terms of my order would apply  I set these out 
below.
Prescient/Quilter is responsible for the failure to make Mr Ks transferred cash, from 
the ALP transfer, available for investment (in the SIPP) in 2018 and for any loss of 
investment growth that has caused him/his SIPP. Quilter should pay him redress for 
this.
Quilter should also pay him a total of £650 for the trouble and upset caused to him in 
the matter  including the trouble and upset caused in his adverse personal effect 
claim. For the reasons I explain below, I consider that there is a causal link 
Prescients failure to make the transferred funds available for investment and the 
effect that Mr K has referred to. 
Refund of Fees
Both parties appear to have approached this issue on somewhat different grounds  Mr Ks 
claim seems to have been based mainly on Prescients failure to make the transferred funds 
available for investment, whereas Quilter has agreed to the refund because annual reviews 
were not conducted by Prescient in 2018 and 2019. However, both agree on the seriousness 
of the missing annual reviews and on the settlement resting on this basis. Whilst initially in 
dispute, the total fee refund amount has since been agreed and I note that Mr K was 
prepared to accept payment in this respect (and conclusion of the issue) whilst the other 
matters were referred to an ombudsman  but he was told all matters will be subject to the ombudsmans decision.
In the above context, I am satisfied to uphold this issue and, as I said above, to endorse the 
settlement that the parties have reached.
Investment of transferred cash
I understand the points upon which the investigator relied in his view, but I consider that this 
issue goes beyond those points. 
It does not appear to be Mr Ks claim that Prescient was responsible for advising on the 
investment(s) to be made in the SIPP with the transferred cash or that it was responsible for 
making such investments. He is quite clear that Prescients responsibility was to make the 
transferred funds available to the DM, and that it would then have been for the DM to 
proceed with the investment activity.
Mr K also does not appear to dispute receipt of the PCLS in August or the inference that can 
reasonably be drawn from that  such inference being that he would have been aware at the 
time, and from the PCLS payment, that the transfer had completed. However, this does not 
automatically mean he should have known that the cash remained in the SIPPs deposit 
account or that he had a role to play in ensuring it was made available to the DM. It is 
important to note that he had an IFA and a DM involved in this matter. 
He expected the IFA, Prescient, to make the transferred funds available to the DM; given the 
discretionary mandate held by the DM, the investments that should have followed would not 
have required any involvement by Mr K (no investment advice from the DM or investment 
instruction to the DM was necessary because of the discretionary mandate); and whilst 
Prescients annual reviews with him would probably have covered performance of those 
investments, they did not happen in 2018 or 2019; so, overall and on balance, I can 
understand why Mr K was not aware of the transferred cash sitting in the SIPPs deposit 
account and it is fair to conclude that he could not reasonably have been aware of that until 
Prescient  disclosed it. It also appears, from available evidence, that the SIPP statements 
sent to Prescient did not reach Mr K at the time because the annual reviews did not happen, 
so he did not have the opportunity to identify the inactive cash through such statements.
The present complaint is not about the DM. Quilter has said, or suggested, that the DM 
could have sought access to the transferred funds or sought progress in the matter but did 
not do so. I have not seen evidence that doing so was a part of the DMs role or that it had 
done that in previous transfers into the SIPP. I also have not seen evidence that the DMs 
action or inaction in any respect broke or diluted Prescients primary responsibility to make 
the funds available to it for investment  a responsibility that the advisers email of 
September 2020 affirms (and concedes was breached) and a responsibility supported by the 
additional wider evidence I will address below.
Quilters position appears to be based on its arguments about responsibility to advise on 
investments in the SIPP and/or responsibility to invest in the SIPP. It says Prescient had 
neither responsibility, but as I said above this does not appear to be in dispute and is not the 
issue, so such arguments seem to be redundant. In contrast, Mr Ks arguments have 
focused on the factual event that caused the transferred cash to remain unnoticed in the 
deposit account  that is, the advisers failure to move the cash on to the DM for investment. 
The balance of available evidence supports his key arguments. I note the following:
To his credit, the advisers email of September 2020 presented his a clear and wilful 
acceptance of responsibility  and an apology  for his failure to make the transferred 
funds available for investment and he explained that this was caused by a failure to communicate this at the time. This alone is arguably sufficient evidence on which to 
conclude that Prescient is responsible for the omission as Mr K alleges.
The SIPP provider wrote to us on 19 November 2021 to confirm that the DM did not 
have access/authority to move funds in the SIPP in 2018 and that this continued to 
be the case until 2020 when the DM obtained such access/authority after undertaking 
an advisory role for the SIPP. As such, the DM could not, and could not have been 
expected to, access the transferred cash in the SIPPs deposit account in 2018 or in 
2019.
Prescient was aware that investments were to follow upon completion of the transfer 
into the SIPP. Its financial questionnaire was completed and signed by Mr K in March 
2018 and this plan/objective was reflected within it. The same applies to its DB to 
DC client questionnaire, which he completed and signed in the same month, which 
referred to the DM and in which he said he planned to Take tax free benefit 
immediately and reinvest the remainder. [my emphasis]
There is evidence of previous instruction from Prescient to the SIPP provider for the 
movement of funds to the DM. This supports Mr Ks assertion that Prescient had 
done this successfully on previous occasions so the same task in 2018 was nothing 
new to it. In its communication to us, mentioned above, the SIPP provider confirmed 
it had previously done this upon Prescients instruction. Quilter also appears to 
accept that funds were transferred into the SIPP through Prescient in 2012 and 2014. 
Those funds were made available to and invested through the DM.
Overall, on balance and for the reasons addressed above, I am satisfied that Prescient was 
responsible for making the transferred funds available to the DM upon completion of the 
transfer into the SIPP, that it did not do so, that neither Mr K nor the DM appear to have 
been in a position to mitigate this and that Mr K was not and could not have been aware of 
this omission until the adviser disclosed it to him. Mr K is entitled to redress for any lost 
growth in the SIPP caused by this  caused by the cash remaining uninvested in the deposit 
account.
Mr Ks adverse personal effect claim
The facts support the conclusion that Mr Ks unawareness of, and the lack of transparency 
about, the cash sitting in the SIPPs deposit account  until the advisers late disclosure of it 
 led directly to the creation of the issue on which this claim rests. But for these facts, either 
the issue would not have arisen or if it did it would have been remote to Prescient/the 
adviser. Unfortunately for him the issue arose and it was caused directly by Prescients 
omission to make the transferred cash available for investment by the DM and, through no 
fault of his, by Mr K being unaware of this until it was belatedly disclosed to him. A financial 
loss does not appear to have been caused in this issue so none needs to be compensated 
for, but as I said above it adds to the grounds on which I intend to award Mr K £650 for the 
trouble and upset caused to him.
The adverse personal effect claim addressed in the PD is what I now refer to as the 
personal detriment claim. The PD proceeded to set out, provisionally, redress and 
compensation for Mr K. Both parties were invited to comment on the PD. 
Quilter said it was minded to accept the PD. However, it had two concerns about it. First, it 
said the end date for calculation of redress should be when  in September 2020  £93,500 
from the inactive cash deposit was made available to the DM for investment; it accepts that, 
thereafter and until the date of settlement, an interest award will apply; and it requested 
confirmation of the specific date on which the transfer of this cash amount to the DM was completed. Its second concern was/is about the PDs inclusion of Mr Ks personal detriment 
claim in the award of £650 for trouble and upset caused to him. It accepts the first two 
grounds for the award  that is, the trouble and upset caused to him by the missed reviews 
and the inactive cash deposit  but it considers that the Prescient adviser shared no 
responsibility in the personal detriment claim. It considers that Mr K should be awarded £350 
for trouble and upset instead.
Mr K accepted the PD. He said he had discussed the PD with his financial adviser and, with 
regards to redress, he provided the following information:
He said transaction history evidence confirms that the period of inactivity for the cash 
in the SIPPs deposit account began on 2 August 2018, after the PCLS deduction 
was made and when the remainder of £106,039 was left behind in the deposit 
account. He said this should be the start date for the calculation of redress.
Like Quilter, he too considers that the calculations end date should be when, in 
September 2020, funds from the SIPPs deposit account were made available to the 
DM. He confirmed the exact date as 23 September 2020.
Based on valuation evidence  and in line with the PDs use of his managed SIPP as 
the benchmark for redress  he confirmed that there had been growth of 17.9% in the 
SIPP between the start and end dates. He therefore calculated, on this basis and on 
the inactive cash amount, around £19,000 in redress is due to him. In addition, he 
repeated that the fee refund settlement of £11,059.82 is due to him and said the PDs 
trouble and upset award of £650 is also due to him.
He objected to Quilters argument that the personal detriment claim was/is remote to 
the Prescient adviser and he repeated the connection between the inactive cash (and 
his unawareness of it), caused by the adviser, and the personal detriment he faced.
He said all compensation money should be paid in full into his SIPP account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the PDs findings, and in the absence of comments from either party 
disputing its findings on merit, I retain those findings on merit and incorporate them into this 
decision. They have been quoted in the background section above so they need not be 
repeated in the present section.
Both parties commented on redress and compensation. To their credit, most of their 
comments match, and some of the comments agree with the PDs findings on redress and 
compensation. 
Mr K helpfully confirmed the specific start date as 2 August 2018  when the period of 
inactivity for the relevant cash deposit began  and both parties agree with the end date 
being set at the point funds from that cash deposit were eventually made available to the DM 
(which Mr K has confirmed as 23 September 2020). Quilter agrees that interest on the award 
will run from the end date to the date of settlement. Mr Ks growth rate calculation has also 
been helpful. I have not seen evidence to doubt it. However, I am mindful that, as I set out 
below, it remains for Quilter to conduct the relevant redress calculation, so I do not wish to 
prejudice that. The fee refund settlement between the parties was reflected in the PD and that settlement remains in place at present (pending payment by Quilter after this decision). 
Mr Ks request for all payments to be made into his SIPP is noted. This was provided for in 
the PD with regards to redress and the agreed refund, and the same will be reflected in my 
orders below. The award for trouble and upset is one for Mr K personally. I am not certain 
that there is a basis for Quilter to pay it into the SIPP, but I will provide for this too if Quilter 
finds that it is possible.
Overall and on balance, I do not consider that Quilter has said anything that affects the PDs 
finding on Mr Ks personal detriment claim. As I explained in the PD, the details behind this 
claim will not be set out  because it is not necessary to do so in order to determine it and 
because such details could breach Mr Ks privacy and/or anonymity. Nevertheless, both 
parties are aware of the relevant details and I consider they will also be aware that those 
details support the PDs finding on the matter, which I quoted above and repeat as follows  
The facts support the conclusion that Mr Ks unawareness of, and the lack of transparency 
about, the cash sitting in the SIPPs deposit account  until the advisers late disclosure of it 
 led directly to the creation of the issue on which this claim rests. But for these facts, either 
the issue would not have arisen or if it did it would have been remote to Prescient/the 
adviser. Unfortunately for him the issue arose and it was caused directly by Prescients 
omission to make the transferred cash available for investment by the DM and, through no 
fault of his, by Mr K being unaware of this until it was belatedly disclosed to him. A financial 
loss does not appear to have been caused in this issue so none needs to be compensated 
for, but as I said above it adds to the grounds on which I intend to award Mr K £650 for the 
trouble and upset caused to him.
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given in the PD (and above), I uphold Mr Ks 
complaint.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr K as close as possible to the position he would now be in but for the 
Prescient advisers failing and but for any resulting lost SIPP growth, as I addressed above 
(and in the PD). My understanding is that the refund of fees that has been settled relates to 
fees that were deducted from the SIPP so, in this respect, my aim will also be to provide that 
the agreed refund is paid by Quilter into the SIPP, if possible. Mr Ks cooperation and 
disclosure of relevant information has been noted above and he is ordered to engage 
meaningfully and co-operatively with Quilter to provide it with all information and 
documentation in his possession, and relevant to its calculation of redress, which it does not 
already have.
What must Quilter do?
To compensate Mr K fairly, Quilter must do the following:
Compare the performance of the transferred net cash amount in the SIPPs deposit 
account  that is the amount after deduction of the PCLS  with that of Mr Ks SIPP 
as managed by the DM during the period set out below. If the fair value is greater 
than the actual value the difference must be paid to him as redress. If the actual 
value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Calculate the notional gain value on the agreed total fee refund amount based on the 
benchmark Quilter used in its initial proposal; then add the resulting gain value to the 
total fee refund amount to achieve the refund compensation.Pay any interest set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If 
Quilter is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the 
interest, it must tell Mr K the deduction amount and give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, for him to reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs 
if appropriate.
Pay the redress and refund compensation into Mr Ks pension plan, to increase its 
value by their amounts and any interest. The payments should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. The payments should not be made into his 
pension plan if they would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. If the 
payments cannot be made into his pension plan, pay them directly to him. Had it 
been possible to pay them into the plan, they would have provided a taxable income, 
so the total should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using his 
actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if 
he is or is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. If he would have been able to 
take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation.
Pay Mr K £650 for the trouble and upset caused to him in all of the three relevant 
matters  that is, caused by him being deprived of the servicing and annual reviews 
he was entitled to in 2018 and 2019, caused by Prescients omission to make the 
transferred cash available for investment and the delay in this being disclosed to him, 
and caused by the effect that had on the personal detriment matter he has cited. If 
Quilter finds it possible to make this payment into his SIPP, it should do so.
Provide the calculation of the compensation to Mr K in a clear and simple format. 
investment namestatus benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to     
(end date)additional 
interest
  The net cash 
transferred 
from the ALP 
into Mr Ks 
SIPP deposit 
account in 
2018Invested 
after delayMr Ks SIPP, 
as managed 
by the DM 2 August 
201823 
September 
2020Interest at the 
rate of 8% 
simple per year 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
actual value
This means the actual value of the transferred cash at the end date. 
fair value
This is what the transferred cash would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark. Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the cash (and/or out of any investment 
made with the cash) should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid 
so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large 
number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if Quilter totals all 
those payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I endorse the fee refund settlement between the parties, so I have reflected above (in the 
refund compensation due to Mr K) the benchmark that was used as part of that settlement. 
With regards to redress, Mr Ks SIPP serves as the natural benchmark. But for Prescients 
omission to make the transferred cash available for investment and but for the delayed 
disclosure of this, that cash would have been subject to investment in the SIPP by the DM; 
so it is reasonable to base the fair value calculation on what that cash would be worth at the 
end date if it had been made available for investment by the DM on/from the start date. The 
start and end dates used above are based on available information that I consider to be 
liable, but if more accurate information (directly from the SIPP provider) in these respects 
emerges in the calculation of redress, such information should be used.
compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000, £355,000 or £375,000 (depending on 
when the complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any 
interest that I consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the 
respondent firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of 
my determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept the decision. 
In Mr Ks case, the complaint event occurred before 1 April 2019 and the complaint was 
referred to us after 1 April 2020 but before 1 April 2022 (it was referred to us in late 2020), so 
the applicable compensation limit would be £160,000.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ks complaint. I order Quilter Financial Services 
Ltd to pay him all the forms of compensation (and settlement) set out above and to provide 
him with their calculations in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman