DRN-2828357
The complaint
Mr P complains that Santander UK Plc allowed his ex-partner Ms K to make changes to his 
mortgage account without his permission in 2017 and again in 2020. 
What happened
This mortgage was taken out in 2006. Mr P and Ms K had separated when Ms K applied for 
a mortgage product with a preferential rate in 2017 when Mr P says that she declared that 
both her and Mr P still lived together. Mr P complained to Santander who confirmed in 
October 2019 that it wouldnt allow a change on the account without both parties signatures. 
When Mr P asked for call recordings of conversations the bank issued a letter on 16 
December 2019 saying that it had done nothing wrong in changing the account. It also 
advised Mr P that if he was dissatisfied with its response Mr P would have six months to 
bring his complaint about the 2017 change to us. But Mr P didnt do so and under the rules 
that apply to us we are unable to consider a complaint about Santanders actions in 2017.
Then in 2020, Ms K made two applications to Santander. One was for a three-month 
payment holiday and the other for a further fixed preferential rate. Mr P complained to 
Santander. In respect of the payment holiday it said that under government regulation during 
the Covid pandemic, either party could apply online without the others signature. Mr P says 
that there are lodgers in the property who pay the mortgage and Ms K wasnt suffering 
financial difficulties in the pandemic. Santander initially agreed that it had committed an 
error. But then it said that it wouldnt cancel the payment holiday if one party objected as the 
other party was free to make up the payment.
In respect of the product switch, Santander said that it offered Ms K options. One involved 
an Early Repayment Charge (ERC) but this would have required Mr P to agree. The other 
option was a tracker rate with an upfront payment of a product fee. As this wouldnt impact 
detrimentally on Mr P, it didnt believe that it required his consent.
 
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Mr P disagreed 
saying in summary that the requirement for two signatures was his safeguard on the 
account.
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Mr P and Ms K are joint account holders, Mr P doesnt pay the mortgage 
personally. Payment comes from Ms Ks account. Mr P objects to how Santander has 
handled Ms Ks request for a payment holiday and a preferential interest rate. Mr Ps 
objections appears to be based on Ms K having already had the advantage of a preferential 
interest rate and, over the period when that rate applied, she was able to save the difference 
between what they would have been paying on the standard variable rate and the 
preferential rate. After complaining about Ms K getting the 2017 preferential rate without his 
consent, Mr P got a commitment from Santander to the effect that it would get each partys 
signature to make any changes that would financially impact them both.
As an Ombudsman, I am bound by the rules that apply to us including what we can and 
cannot consider and so, as our investigator has pointed out, because Mr Ps complaint 
wasnt submitted within the six month period, I cant consider Mr Ps objection to Santander 
providing Mr P and Ms K with a preferential rate in 2017. But our rules also tell me that in 
coming to a decision I have to make it based on what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances and consider regulations and good industry practice.
In both these instances, Santander failed in its commitment to Mr P to get his authority 
before effecting a change to the payments on the joint account. I have to consider whether it 
was fair and reasonable for it to do so.
In respect of the payment holiday, Santander says that Ms K who was paying the mortgage 
asked to take advantage of a payment holiday that was available in the early stage of the 
Covid pandemic. The FCA put guidance in place for lenders to follow and Santander says it 
followed this guidance. Mr P says that Ms K wasnt in financial difficulties but Santander 
during that stage of the pandemic wasnt expected to investigate that. I can see that 
agreeing to this short holiday may have led to an increase in the mortgage balance but if Mr 
P didnt want that, he could have paid the balance, which was an option open to him.  But it 
seems that in any case, although the holiday was asked for and granted for April, May and 
June 2020, that payments were made manually in April and May and by DD in June and the 
payment holiday was cancelled on 1 May 2020. That suggests it had very little effect if any 
on the mortgage balance. Given also, that the FCA encouraged a prompt response to 
requests for payment holidays during the early stage of the pandemic, and Santander 
responded in the terms of the FCA guidance I cant fairly criticise Santander for dealing with 
Ms Ks request in the manner it did,    
In respect of the new preferential rate, Mr P didnt want it.  But he suffered no detriment by 
getting it. Indeed, this joint account was easier to manage with a lower interest rate. There 
was no ERC applicable if the mortgage was redeemed and so no exposure to it. The effect 
of Mr Ps objection would have been that they would both have been liable to pay more than 
they would otherwise be the case. But as Ms K paid the mortgage out of her account this 
would have affected Ms K more than Mr P. Mr P suggests he might have agreed to the 
change had Ms K signed to the effect that lodgers paid for the mortgage. This may have 
helped him in legal proceedings related to the division of the jointly held property.
Having considered the complaint, I believe that it was an example of good industry practice 
in a situation like this for Santander to offer Ms K a preferential rate without an ERC. I dont 
believe that it would have been fair or reasonable for Santander to uphold Mr Ps objection 
where the product would have benefited them jointly, was of no detriment to Mr P and 
upholding the objection would have led to one of the parties paying more than they would 
have had to. If Mr P wants evidence for the legal proceedings that the lodgers are paying the 
mortgage, he can establish that in those proceedings. I dont consider that Santander can 
fairly refuse Ms Ks application for the purposes of assisting one party to the mortgage to 
obtain evidence against the other party. 
So, although I understand Mr Ps annoyance that Santander did not meet the commitment 
that it made to him, in the particular circumstances of this case I believe that it acted fairly 
and reasonably and so, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.  
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman