DRN-1436164
 
The complaint
Mr P complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) lent to him in 
an irresponsible manner.  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision relating to this complaint in November 2019. In that decision 
I explained why I thought part of Mr P's complaint should be upheld. All parties have 
received a copy of that provisional decision, but in summary I said;
Mr P was given 14 loans by Sunny between December 2017 and March 2019. All of his 
loans have been fully repaid. I explained the relevant regulations that Sunny needed to 
follow when lending to Mr P, and that at different stages of their relationship different levels 
of checks might be appropriate.
I thought that the checks Sunny had done before agreeing the first four loans had been 
sufficient. And although I thought Sunny should have done more checks before 
agreeing loan 5 I hadn't received enough information from Mr P for me to conclude that loan 
shouldn't have been given to him. So I didn't think Sunny had been wrong to give Mr P the 
first five loans.
But I thought that the overall pattern of Mr P's borrowing from Sunny should have led it to 
conclude, by the time of loan 6, that any further borrowing would be unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful. This was now Mr P's sixth loan in around five months, and his pattern of 
frequent borrowing and repaying early should have indicated to Sunny that Mr P was most 
likely having significant problems managing his money. Mr P wasn't making any inroads into 
the amount he was borrowing, and he continued to have multiple loans open at the same 
time. I thought it more likely than not that Mr P was having to borrow further to cover the hole 
repaying his previous loans was leaving in his finances. And I didn't think the short gap in Mr 
P's indebtedness before loan 7 should have given Sunny any reassurance that Mr P's 
finances had returned to a more stable footing. 
So I thought that Mr P shouldn't have been given loans 6 to 14 and that he had lost out as a 
result. I asked Sunny to pay Mr P some compensation.
Neither Sunny nor Mr P has provided me with any comments or further evidence in response 
to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive once more considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Given that neither Sunny nor Mr P 
have provided me with any further evidence or comments I see no reason to alter the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.It follows that I don't think Sunny should have agreed to lend to Mr P from loan 6 onwards 
and that it needs to pay him some compensation. 
Putting things right
I dont think Sunny should have agreed to lend to Mr P after, and including, the loan
he took on 9 May 2018 (loan 6). So for each of those loans Sunny should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr P on the loans.
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from 
the date they were paid to the date of settlement*.
The number of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information 
recorded about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 6 to 14 should be 
removed from Mr Ps credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Ps complaint and direct Elevate Credit 
International Limited to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2020.
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman