DRN-3951762
The complaint
Ms R complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund over £39,000 she lost to 
an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Ms R fell victim to an investment scam in April 2022 after she 
was contacted by a broker Terra Markets (the scammer). She was encouraged to invest, 
and accounts were opened in her name with several cryptocurrency platforms and electronic 
money institutions, which she was told were needed for trading. This included an account 
with Wise, to which she made several payments using her Santander debit card between 
13-16 May 2022 totalling over £39,000. The funds were then transferred on again to a 
cryptocurrency account in Ms Rs name before finally being sent to the scammer. 
As part of the scam, Ms R says that the brokers applied for loans on her behalf from several 
lenders, which she objected to, but said that cash then started being deposited into her 
Santander account. Ms R then started to cancel all the other loans that she received emails 
about, which included a loan that had been applied for with Santander. Ms R later realised 
she had been scammed and reported the fraud to Santander.
Santander refused to refund the money Ms R had lost as it said she had authorised the 
payments. However, it acknowledged that the service it provided could have been better, so 
it offered £200 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that Santander ought to have 
intervened when Ms R made the first scam payment of £9,528.50 on 13 May 2022 as it 
wouldve appeared unusual. However, the investigator didnt think that any intervention 
would have ultimately prevented the fraud. He also thought Santanders offer of £200 
compensation was fair for the service issues Ms R experienced after reporting the fraud. 
Ms R disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it for the following reasons:
First, Im aware that there are multiple firms involved in the sophisticated scam Ms R has 
fallen victim to, and that she has lodged complaints against each of them. I acknowledge 
that some firms may have refunded some of the money Ms R lost or reached a more 
favourable outcome than others. But that doesnt mean that all other firms must follow 
suite and do the same thing. And while I have considered the scam and everything that 
happened collectively, I must consider complaints about each individual firm involved 
separately and on their own merits to decide if it has acted fairly and reasonably, which 
is what I have considered in the circumstances of this case against Santander. 
It isnt in dispute that Ms R authorised the disputed payments she made to her Wise 
account using her Santander debit card (where her funds were subsequently transferred 
on again before reaching the scammer). The payments were requested using her 
legitimate security credentials provided by Santander, and the starting position is that 
banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate 
payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Santander should have done more to prevent Ms R 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character.
Based on Ms Rs account history, Im satisfied the first scam payment of £9,528.50 she 
made on 13 May 2022 ought to have flagged as unusual. She had not made any 
payments of this value before, and I can see that the bank sent her an OTP asking her to 
confirm the transaction was genuine. But given the amount of money being transferred, I 
dont think this was proportionate. It would have been more appropriate for Santander to 
have got in contact and spoken to Ms R about the nature of the payment she was 
making at this point. 
However, even if Santander had intervened and spoken to Ms R at this stage, Im not 
persuaded it would have ultimately prevented the scam. I say this because I can see it 
eventually did speak to Ms R in relation to a £6,000 payment she attempted on 
16 May 2022 that was subsequently recredited to her account. Ms R told Santander that 
she had taken out a loan for home improvements and was transferring funds to her own 
account with Wise as it was easier for her to use when it came to budgeting. Ms R says 
she wasnt forthcoming with the true nature of the payments because she had been 
coached by the scammer to lie to the bank if questioned about the payments she was 
making. 
So, overall, even if Santander could have intervened sooner and asked more probing 
questions, Im not persuaded this would have likely revealed she was falling for a scam 
or ultimately prevented her loss. Therefore, I dont think its failure to look more closely 
into the payments can be considered the proximate cause of Ms Rs loss in these 
circumstances, as it seems likely she would have continued to provide false information 
in order to make the payments. As such, I dont consider it would be fair and reasonable 
to hold Santander liable for failing to prevent the scam.
Even if Ms R would have been honest about what she was doing, it also seems unlikely 
that any scam warning or request to carry out further research would have revealed the 
scam either. Ms R says that she researched the broker online at the time and saw 
nothing negative indicating that it was a scam. She saw that they had offices based in 
London and were calling from a London number, so she was satisfied they were 
legitimate. And after cancelling the loans applied for by the scammer, Ms R said she was 
uncomfortable with the way the investment was being made and wanted to pull out. But 
she said she was reassured and pressured by the scammer that if she continued with 
the investment, all loans charges and fees would be reimbursed upon payment of her 
dividends. So, despite having concerns and misgivings about what was happening, she 
continued to make payments to the scammer, which leads me to believe that any earlier 
warning or further questioning from the bank would have likely been ineffective. 
I understand that Ms R is also unhappy with the way Santander handled her claim. I can 
see that Santanders investigation could have been handled better because, amongst other things, she had to contact it several times and go through what had happened 
again with different agents, and also had issues accessing her money while her account 
was blocked. So, I appreciate the service Ms R received would have been frustrating and 
no doubt caused her further distress. However, Santander has offered £200 
compensation in recognition of its poor handling of her fraud claim which, I understand 
Ms R does not feel is commensurate to the experience she had had. But overall, Im 
satisfied this amount is fair and in line with the sort of award our service would make in 
these circumstances. So, I wont be asking Santander to pay any further compensation.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Ms R, and Im sorry to hear she has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Santander can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for her loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman