DRN-1851352
 
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about the mis-selling of a finance agreement by Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) trading as Audi Finance.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. 
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should not have been mis-sold to 
him. So, if he was told something that led him to enter into an agreement he would not have 
otherwise entered into, Id think VWFS were responsible and Id ask them to take some 
action.
I understand Mr B says that he was told the excess mileage charge would not be made. But, 
in the absence of further evidence to corroborate that version of events, I find the terms of 
the contract that Mr B signed, and which detail his obligation to pay a charge for mileage 
completed above 10,000 per year, to be persuasive.
If Mr B was told that excess mileage would not be charged it wouldve made sense to reduce 
the allowable mileage even further to reduce the monthly payments that would have been 
charged on the agreement. It was feasible to set up the agreement with a mileage limit of 
only 5,000 miles. But that wasnt done, and I think that supports my view that its more likely 
that Mr B agreed to the 10,000 mile limit than not.
I therefore dont think VWFS have been unfair when asking him to pay for the excess 
mileage he completed.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman