DRN-2935359
The complaint
Mr F has complained Oplo PL Ltd has lodged a fraud-related marker against his name.  
Mr F is represented in his complaint by his wife, Mrs F.
What happened
After having a loan application turned down by Oplo, Mr F found out a CIFAS marker was 
lodged against his name accusing him of making a fraudulent loan application.
Oplo had evidence that the bank statements, submitted in support of the loan application, 
had been doctored. They believed Mr F was responsible for this and wouldnt remove the 
marker. Mr F brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator spoke at length to Mrs F about what had happened. She confirmed Mr F 
was dyslexic so couldnt be responsible for amending his bank statements. She admitted 
shed done this to remove gambling transactions which she believed may have a negative 
impact on Mr Fs loan application. Our investigator told Oplo theyd not met the benchmark 
for sufficient evidence to lodge a CIFAS marker.
Oplo didnt believe theyd done anything wrong. Theyve asked an ombudsman to consider 
Mr Fs complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.  
Oplo is aware that there are rules around placing a marker which advises other business 
parties that the applicant has made a fraudulent application. This requires it to have 
undertaken sufficient checks to satisfy themselves they have enough grounds to press 
criminal charges as a result of the fraudulent application.
Ive got no evidence of the checks Oplo took although I suspect they relied on the checks 
they did to verify Mr Fs bank statements. All parties accept these had been doctored. Ive no 
reason to doubt the testimony of Mrs F that she made the changes for the best of reasons 
but as it turns out misguidedly.
Oplo has raised the issue that we only have verbal testimony from Mrs F that this is what 
occurred. I disagree. Ive also seen evidence from Mr Fs bank that they have a record of his 
dyslexia. This therefore backs up Mrs Fs claim that Mr F would have been unable to doctor 
the statement himself. It also supports the fact Mrs F made applications for Mr F as she was 
helping him out with the paperwork needed for any loan application.
It seems clear to me Oplo didnt probe any further beyond the statements to find out what 
had been going on. Im therefore satisfied they didnt carry out sufficient checks and in any 
case theres not enough evidence to support a CIFAS marker that Mr F made a fraudulent 
application.
Putting things right
As I dont think Oplo did enough, they now have to remove the CIFAS marker from Mr Fs 
record.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Oplo PL Ltd to remove the CIFAS 
marker they lodged against Mr F.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman