DRN-2735121
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC transferred her account to a third party without letter
her know that the reduced payment plan she had agreed had been cancelled.  
What happened
Ms R took out a Professional Studies Loan with Metro in 2015. In January 2018, Ms R
contacted Metro as she was experiencing financial difficulties and couldnt meet the
contractual repayments. This was because Ms R had recently become a single parent and
was no longer in employment. In February 2018, Ms R contacted Metro again and confirmed
that she was struggling financially. As a result, Metro and Ms R agreed to a payment plan
where Ms R would make reduced payments toward the loan, although arrears would accrue
on her account.
In October 2018, Metro ended the reduced payment plan, and they sent Ms R a Notice of
Sum in Arrears (NOSIA). In November 2018, Metro attempted to take a payment by direct
debit at the contractual amount, but the payment was returned due to lack of funds.
Later in November 2019, Metro sent Ms R a letter advising her that her account had been
sold to a third party, and the sale of the account went through in December 2019. The third
party subsequently defaulted Ms Rs account.
Ms R was unhappy that Metro had ended the payment plan without notifying her that were
going to do this. And she was unhappy that Metro had sold her debt to the third party. So,
she made a complaint.
Metro looked at Ms Rs complaint. They felt that they hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably
with regard the ending of the payment arrangement or the sale of the account. So, they
didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms R wasnt satisfied with Metros response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that Metro were within their rights
to sell the account. But they also felt that Metro hadnt acted fairly toward Ms R in how theyd
chosen to end the payment arrangement and communicated this to Ms R.
However, because our investigator felt that Ms Rs financial circumstances meant that, even
if Metro had given Ms R clear notice of their intention to end the payment plan, Ms R
wouldnt have been able to make the higher repayments needed to avoid the account going
into default, they didnt feel the ultimate outcome of Ms Rs account being defaulted could
have been avoided. So, they didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms R remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 March 2021 as follows:
To begin I must confirm that my review is only concerned with the actions of Metro 
Bank. A consideration of the merits of the actions of the third party, once they 
became owners of this account, is beyond the remit of this investigation.
Having completed my review I find that Im in agreement with our investigator in that I 
feel that Metro could have done more to communicate to Ms R that her payment plan 
was ending.
I have reviewed the contact notes provided by Metro which suggest that Ms R was 
being set up on a three-month payment plan, although it is notable that this service 
hasnt been provided with a copy of any letter from Metro to Ms R which explains this 
to Ms R.
Its also notable that the payment plan didnt end three months after it was first set up 
in February 2018. Instead, Metro have advised that this payment plan ended 
naturally in October 2018.
However in order for a payment plan to end naturally, that plan must have a defined 
term that has come to an end, and that term must have been communicated by the 
business to the customer so that it is understood by that customer. And that doesnt 
seem to have happened here. During my review I havent seen anything that 
confirms that Ms R was informed that the payment plan was scheduled to end in 
October 2018, and indeed, its one of the key points of Ms Rs complaint that this 
wasnt explained to her.
So, it doesnt feel fair to me that Metro ended the payment plan in October 2018, and 
I say this because Metro didnt make Ms R aware that the payment plan was going to 
end at that time. And clear communication about this point is what this service would 
expect here, especially considering that Ms R would be considered as being a 
vulnerable customer, given her personal circumstances at that time.
I note the Notice of Sum in Arrears letter that Metro sent to Ms R, but this doesnt 
state that the payment plan has ended, but rather gives a summary of the arrears 
that have accrued on the account during the period that the payment plan was active. 
Importantly, the notice also explains that it is a requirement to send such notices 
every six months regardless of whether a payment plan is in place or not.
So, Im not satisfied that this notice provided Ms R with a reasonable explanation that 
her payment plan had ended, and I can understand why Ms R might have thought 
that her payment plan was ongoing, even after having received this notice.
Im also aware that Metro Bank sent an SMS text message to Ms R asking her to 
contact them. Ms R has stated that she received that message, but that it included no 
detail and was one short sentence asking Ms R to contact the bank. Ms R feels that 
this message lacked any sense of urgency or detail and wasnt proportionate to what 
had taken place  namely, that her payment plan had ended.
I appreciate that Metro will point out that, regardless of the wording of this message, 
it was a request for Ms R to contact them that Ms R didnt act upon in a timely 
manner. But I find that Im sympathetic to Ms Rs view here, and its understandable 
to me that Ms R didnt respond to this message with any urgency of her own.And so, while Im of the opinion that Metro were entitled to sell Ms Rs account to the 
third party, Im not satisfied that Metro have acted fairly toward Ms R with regard the 
level of communication that they issued to her in order to let her know that her 
payment plan was coming to an end, and I will be upholding this complaint on that 
basis.
I understand that Ms R would like Metro to recall the account from the third party and 
write off the remaining balance of the debt. This isnt something that I would be 
willing to consider in this instance, for several reasons.
The first is that, when a customer has borrowed money and has had the benefit of 
that money, then its almost always going to be the view of this service that its fair 
that the customer pays that money back. And I think thats the case here.
The second is that Im in agreement with the point made by our investigator that, had 
Metro communicated to Ms R more effectively that her payment plan was being 
ended, its unlikely that Ms R would have been able to make the higher payments 
needed to avoid the account going into default.
I understand that this will be frustrating for Ms R, but I must note that Metro werent 
obliged to maintain the reduced payment plan indefinitely and so were entitled to 
bring that plan to an end  although, as mentioned, I am concerned with how Metro 
communicated this.
While I can sympathise with Ms Rs circumstances, from the information I have 
available to me, I cant reasonable conclude that she would have been able to 
honour the terms of the loan agreement moving forwards, as she would have been 
required to. So, it seems to me that it was more likely than not, given the 
circumstances, that Ms Rs account would have defaulted here. And because of this 
it seems fair to me that the default that has already been applied to Ms Rs account 
should stand.
But I do think that Metro should compensate Ms R for the distress and inconvenience 
shes experienced here, especially given that shortly afterwards they transferred 
ownership of the account to the third party, who did subsequently default the 
account. And its notable that the letters that Ms R received relating to that transfer 
explained that all payment plans in place would be transferred over with the account.
So, as mentioned above, I will be upholding this complaint on that basis, and I will be
provisionally instructing Metro to make a compensation payment of £300 to Ms R 
because of this.
In my provisional decision letter, it was explained to both Ms R and Metro that I was willing to 
consider any comments or additional information that they might want to submit, so long as 
these were provided to me no later than 2 April 2021.
Ms R did not provide any further comments. Metro did respond and stated that while they 
accepted the spirit of my decision, they felt that the amount of compensation I had 
provisionally awarded to Ms R was more than the circumstances of this complaint merited.
Matters of compensation are often subjective, and an offer that is considered reasonable by 
one party might not be thought of as such by another. But I do feel that the award of £300 
compensation to Ms R is a fair amount here, considering the level of distress and 
inconvenience she has incurred. It follows that I see no reason not to finalise my decision in line with what I outlined in my 
provisional decision, and I will be upholding this complaint on that basis.
Putting things right
Metro Bank PLC must pay £300 to Ms R to compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience she has incurred.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Metro Bank PLC on the basis 
explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman