DRN-1432958
The complaint
In his capacity as a director of a limited company (company D), Mr M complains that 
Santander UK Plc debited company Ds account with £2,600 in error. This caused the 
account to go overdrawn, leaving Mr M unable to pay company Ds contractors. 
What happened
On 5 July 2019 Mr M went into a local Post Office to withdraw £2,600 from                   
company Ds account held with Santander. 
But rather than debiting this amount from company Ds account, it was credited in error. The 
Post Office realised its mistake and asked Mr M to return to it so the error could be 
corrected. 
The matter became protracted and various conversations happened after this date between 
Mr M, the Post Office and Santander. But eventually company Ds account was back 
showing the correct balance on 31 July 2019 and Santander paid Company D £80 
compensation for the problems that had happened. And Mr M considered this matter to be 
closed.  
But, on Thursday 8 August 2019, Santander incorrectly debited a further £2,600 from 
company Ds account. Mr M contacted Santander as company Ds account was now 
overdrawn and a new complaint about this issue was raised. 
Santander adjusted this error on Tuesday 13 August 2019. But Mr M told it that hed been 
unable to pay company Ds contractors and, as a result, a production loss had been incurred 
as the contractors stopped work.  
Santander reviewed the complaint and sent a final response letter acknowledging the 
mistake and it paid £500 compensation for the inconvenience caused. Mr M didnt think this 
was enough, so he referred the matter to this service. He said Santanders error had lost his 
business at least £4,500. 
He later provided this service with a letter from an accountant saying that company D had 
subsequently lost the contract it had been working on as a result of this issue. The letter 
acknowledged that Santander had made good its error on company Ds account but said it 
hadnt taken into account the reputational damage caused. It was explained that Mr M had 
been unable to replace the contractors that had stopped working. And that the lost contract 
was worth £170,000. The letter also said that company D now had debts of around £10,000 
due to the cost of equipment that had been hired to undertake the contract. Mr M also 
said that this had had a huge impact on his personal well-being and mental health. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He acknowledged that Mr M had told us 
about the impact this matter had had on him personally. But he ultimately explained that we 
can only make awards to the customer of the business complained about. And that here, 
Santanders customer was company D, not Mr M personally. So, he said he could only 
consider any financial loss or inconvenience caused to company D. 
In this respect, he noted that Mr M had told us that he had been able to pay the contractors 
one working day later  with money borrowed from family. And that Mr M hadnt been able to 
provide details of the contract company D had been working on   or evidence that the 
contract had been terminated solely as a result of this issue. So, he couldnt conclude that 
Santanders error had caused a financial loss. Overall, he felt the £500 paid by Santander 
was fair given the circumstances and evidence available.  
Mr M didnt agree and sent in further paperwork including contracts for the 
contractors, details of the work to be carried out and the cost of hiring equipment. But this 
didnt change the investigators opinion. So, the complaint was passed forward for a final 
decision.
While Ive been reviewing the information previously provided for a final decision,    Mr M 
sent in further information from the firm company D had the contract with. This confirms the 
contract had been terminated. But the investigator still didnt think this altered the outcome 
hed reached. He said that the information didnt support company Ds position that the 
contract was lost directly as a result of Santanders error. Mr M didnt agree reiterating that 
company D had been unable to employ new contractors and that was a direct result of 
Santanders mistake.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to say that I can see that this whole episode has clearly taken its toll on Mr Ms 
health. But, as the investigator has explained, the customer of Santander, and therefore the 
eligible complainant in this case, is a limited company. And a limited company is a separate 
entity to that of its directors/owners. So, while I have every sympathy for the impact on Mr M 
personally, my role here is to consider if company D has incurred a financial loss and/or 
inconvenience as a direct result of Santanders error.
From what Ive seen Im satisfied Santander was wrong to debit the account by £2,600 when 
it did. Neither Mr M nor Santander has not disputed this. So, what I need to decide now is 
whether Santanders compensation payment is sufficient to put right any evidenced financial 
loss and/or adequately acknowledges the inconvenience the error caused company D.
 
Having considered all the information provided, Ive reached the same overall outcome as 
the investigator. I know Mr M will be disappointed as I understand how strongly he feels 
about company Ds complaint. So, Ill explain why.  
Mr M says that Santanders mistake meant he was unable to pay the contractors working                            
for company D. He says the sub-contractors stopped work and posted details about this on 
social media - including hurtful remarks about him and his family. He says that this caused 
company D reputational damage leading to the loss of a substantial contract. So, Ive 
thought carefully about what Mr M has told us. 
Ive no reason to dispute that Mr M was unable to pay the contractors on  9 August 2019. 
Company Ds account was overdrawn without an agreed overdraft as a result of the error. But he has told us he was able to pay them the next working day  with money borrowed 
from family. And, ultimately, Santander made good its mistake a few days later. So, Mr M 
wouldve been able to return the money he borrowed very quickly. And Ive not seen 
anything to make me think that Mr M incurred any costs for borrowing this money for the few 
days it was needed.
Mr M provided some paperwork relating to the job company D was working on  for 
example, the contractors costs and the cost of equipment. But he hasnt provided any 
evidence to show the actual contract between company D and the third-party firm or what 
the contract was worth to company D apart from the accountants letter mentioned above. 
So, I havent seen enough evidence to fairly determine the extent of any financial loss. 
But even if I could, that doesnt mean I would automatically hold Santander liable for the 
loss. To do so, I would have to be satisfied that Santanders mistake was the sole and direct 
reason for that loss.
So, Ive looked at Mr Ms latest submissions. This includes an email from a third-party firm 
confirming that the contract was terminated. But I dont think this is confirmation that 
Santanders error led directly to the contract being terminated. Rather the email suggests 
that the contract was terminated when company Ds workforce walked off-site after a 
performance meeting in November 2019, when it was highlighted that company D had failed 
to make good defects in the main drainage lines. This suggests to me that company D had 
still been working on the contract  in some capacity, after Santander mistake. I say this 
because I think the third-party firm wouldve raised these issues much early than November 
had work not progressed after August 2019.
But I have noted that Mr M has said that he was having trouble getting the required 
contractors to complete the job. He says this was because the contractors he was unable to 
pay as a result of Santanders mistake posted negative comments on social media about 
company D and Mr M being unable to pay its workers.  
    
So, Ive thought about this carefully. And again, I have no reason to doubt what Mr M has 
told us. But, while I accept that Mr M wouldve had some problems with his contractors when 
he was unable to pay them on the day they expected to be paid, I dont think I can safely 
conclude what happened was a reasonably foreseeable consequence of Santanders error. 
Unfortunately, banks do make mistakes. And while I think Santander could have foreseen its 
error might cause some difficulties for company D  for example, not being able to make the 
payments it was due to make. I dont think it was reasonably foreseeable that the contractors 
would stop work indefinitely and take to social media in the way Mr M says they did. Overall, 
I think its more likely that is was the actions of the contractors which contributed to any loss 
company D has incurred. 
In light of the above, I cant safely conclude company D made a financial loss directly as a 
result of the error Santander made.  
Santander has not disputed its mistake or that the mistake caused company D 
inconvenience. It has paid company D £500 compensation in recognition of this. Ive thought 
carefully about whether this amount is fair. 
I recognise that Mr M  on behalf of company D, had to contact Santander to resolve the 
matter. But from what Ive seen Santander put things right within a few working days. And, 
as mentioned above, I accept the error wouldve caused company D some inconvenience with its workforce. But I dont think Santander couldve foreseen the action the sub-
contractors would take. 
So, overall, I think that Santanders compensation payment of £500 is enough in relation 
to this complaint given all the circumstances of the complaint and the information 
provided. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that Im not upholding this 
complaint  in the sense that the compensation already paid by Santander UK plc is 
fair. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman