DRN-3722256
The complaint
Mr H complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim he made 
under sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr H is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around January 2018, Mr H was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr H decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In June 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Hs behalf under section 75 of the 
Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations about 
the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mr H to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system was documented as £9,984.95 to mislead Mr H, as when 
the interest was added the total cost was actually £18,974.80;
the system would be self-funding;
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on his electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments; and
the system would not require maintenance (but in fact the inverter would have to be 
replaced during the systems 25-year lifespan, at a cost of £1,000).
Further, the CMC said that the system was underperforming, in that it was not generating as 
much energy as had been estimated at the point of sale. It added that the salesman had 
failed to explain that the system would deteriorate over time and become less efficient.
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr H or that there were any 
other reasons for the claim to be upheld.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator disagreed with most of the complaint 
points which had been raised. But she agreed that the system was significantly 
underperforming, and she thought that this meant that the estimated performance at the 
point of sale amounted to a misrepresentation. On that basis, and because at that time 
Shawbrook had not substantively responded to the underperformance issue, she upheld this 
complaint.
In response, Shawbrook did not dispute that the system was underperforming, but it asked 
for time to carry out an inspection of the system to find out why. But as the adjudicator 
thought that Shawbrook had already had enough time to deal with this issue, the case was 
passed to me for review, without waiting for the proposed inspection.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold it in part, for broadly the same reasons as the adjudicator. I will 
explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr H paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr H could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr H and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing him loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr H says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and solar quote, titled Getting Started. Ive considered these, along with 
Mr Hs testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is most 
likely to have happened.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr H, explaining any benefits of the system, prior 
to him agreeing to enter into the contract. Mr H has signed it.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr Hs version 
of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
On balance, Im satisfied that Mr H was told that the overall cost of the system was more 
than its cash price. The credit agreement makes it clear that £9,984.95 is only the cash 
price. It sets out a clear breakdown of the deposit, the amount of credit provided, the total 
charge for credit, the monthly payments, and the total amount repayable, £18,974.80.
Having considered all the evidence, including Mr Hs recollections, Im satisfied that he was 
told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, as set 
out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the credit 
agreement, made it clear that it would cost Mr H more than the cash price as he had decided 
to pay for it with an interest-bearing loan.
The inverter
I dont think it is likely that the salesman would have told Mr H that the system would require 
no maintenance over its estimated lifespan of 25 years. It is possible that the salesman did 
not tell him during the meeting that the inverter would need to be replaced, but that is not the 
same thing as a misrepresentation. So I dont uphold this complaint point.
FIT payments and savings
Mr H has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and the savings on his energy bills. Ive considered the quote 
that was provided by P as well as Mr Hs recollections of his meeting with Ps representative 
to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr H could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. (The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.)
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr H could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £162.70. The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr H 
could expect from the system. The expected year one electricity savings are £294.80 and, 
when taking into account the optional extras chosen by Mr H, the combined income and 
savings in year one are shown as £966.30. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all 
together.
This results in an average monthly income of about £80.50. And Im satisfied that the same 
document set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due of £106.68. As a result, 
Im not able to conclude that Mr H was told that the monthly loan repayments would be 
covered by the FIT payments and savings.
Theres another section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 
60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is 
the length of the loan that Mr H entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £106.68. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement gives 
the correct monthly figure of £104.86, but the difference  £1.82  is too small to affect the 
following observations.) For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the expected grand total 
return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the 
system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative figure for the 
first five years of the loan, meaning that the system would not begin to make enough money 
to cover the loan payments until the sixth year.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr H could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. Ive carefully thought about 
Mr Hs version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part of the 
sales process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can 
reasonably find that he was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the 
FIT income and savings.
Self-funding and system depreciation
Ill now consider whether P told Mr H that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the £1.82 
discrepancy in the monthly payments). On balance Im also satisfied that the salesperson 
referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr H was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain period of time. The Putting it all together section gives a payback time of nine years.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
25 years. This too shows that during year nine the overall benefits that Mr H could expect to 
receive would reach the cash price of the system, £9,985.
This table also shows, in the first column (which is titled Panel degradation), how the 
panels will reduce in efficiency year on year. This is shown as a percentage which reduces 
each year, ending in year 25 at 91.2%. So Im satisfied that the quote did take into account 
that the panels would deteriorate over time, and that this would have been factored into the 
table, and into the quote generally. Im also satisfied that the quote made this clear to Mr H.
So Im satisfied that P told Mr H that the system would pay for its cash price in nine years. If 
that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to 
enter into the contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, then that could amount to a 
misrepresentation.
The CMC says it is untrue because it will actually take 25 years for the system to pay for 
itself. So Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line 
with the contract between P and Mr H.
Underperformance and proposed inspection
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 2,524 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Mr Hs FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 2,113 kWh a year. This is much less than estimated by P at the point of sale 
(84%), so Im satisfied that the system is underperforming.
This could be because the system was misrepresented to Mr H, but that is not the only 
possible explanation. It could also be because it was not installed properly, or is defective in 
some other way. If so, that would be a breach of contract, for which the usual remedy is to 
give the supplier (or Shawbrook) one chance to repair it. Or it could be for some other 
reason  for example, Shawbrook has suggested that Mr H might have just turned the 
system off for a while, although I dont think that is likely.
An inspection would answer that question, so I have considered whether to wait for that to 
happen before issuing a decision in this case. But I have decided not to, because it has been 
over two years since Mr H first raised his section 75 claim, and Shawbrook has said that it 
will take some time to organise an inspection (which it did not offer to do until the adjudicator 
gave her opinion of this case earlier this month). I think that an inspection could, and should, 
have been arranged in 2020, so I do not propose to make Mr H wait any longer.
Putting things right
In this case, I think fair compensation means trying to make sure that Mr H doesnt suffer a 
financial loss, which in my view would mean that the solar panel system should generate 
roughly what was promised via the sales paperwork and MCS certificate. So to put things 
right I direct Shawbrook to:
a) calculate the difference between what the panels have generated as income (through 
FIT and savings) for Mr H and what the sales paperwork set out as being the annual 
total income savings; and
b) add 8% simple interest to that amount and pay the total to Mr H.
The finance agreement in question ends in March 2033. So to ensure that Mr H doesnt lose 
out going forward, Shawbrook must:
c) calculate the average annual underperformance percentage so far, and assume that 
the panels will continue to underperform at that rate through to the conclusion of the 
finance agreement;
d) recalculate the total income savings for each year going forward until the conclusion 
of the finance agreement, having applied the percentage reduction identified in 
paragraph c) above;
e) pay Mr H the difference between the revised amounts calculated in d) above and the 
total income savings set out in the sales paperwork.
I also direct Shawbrook to pay Mr H £100 compensation for his inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Shawbrook Bank Limited to 
put things right for Mr H in the way I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman