DRN-2362346
The complaint
Mr B complains that Esure Services Limited (Esure) gave him incorrect advice regarding 
the suspension of his motor insurance policy.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The policy terms and conditions state: Suspension of cover can only continue until 
your next renewal date and is subject to the following conditionsyou have not made 
a claim during the current period of cover. It further states that the unused premium 
will only be refunded if the policy conditions are met.
Mr B called Esure on 30 July 2020 to discuss the suspension of his policy. But given 
that he had an ongoing claim, he should have been told that he would not be entitled 
to a refund of premiums as he did not meet the policy conditions set out above.
However, I appreciate that the agent Mr B spoke to gave incorrect advice and could 
have been clearer with regards to what he was entitled to, as the agent told him hed 
be entitled to a refund within three weeks. But I do not think it would be fair to ask 
Esure to honour this when it was clearly a mistake and is not something Mr B was 
contractually entitled to under the policy terms. Ive also seen no evidence that he 
relied on this advice to his detriment, or that it has caused him any financial loss for 
example, such that there is no fair and reasonable basis in which he should be given 
the refund either. 
I acknowledge, however, that the service Mr B received from Esure was poor and 
that he was disappointed to learn he had been given incorrect information. The 
insurer has offered £50 compensation for the trouble and upset this has caused, 
which I consider to be fair compensation in the circumstances.
I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr B, but in the circumstances Im, 
satisfied that Esure do not need to offer a refund, and that their offer of £50 compensation is 
fair. So I will not be directing them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman