DRN-4500442
The complaint
Mr S complains for himself and as representative of the estate of X (his late wife) about 
several issues in respect of his current account.
What happened
Mr S complained that Barclays haven't removed his late wifes name from the joint account 
despite him providing the necessary documents for this to take place. He also complained 
that Barclays fraud team failed to contact him concerning a fraudulent/disputed payment in 
August 2022 and failed to follow up on this.
For these issues Barclays offered total compensation to him of £100, and to send new cards 
and remove his late wife from the account.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator proposed that Barclays 
pay total compensation of £120. And that it issue the new cards, and remove the name from 
the joint account and investigate the disputed payment.
I issued A provisional decision. In it I said that as well as taking the actions proposed, 
Barclays should pay total compensation of £190.
Barclays accepted my provisional findings.
Mr S has no further comment to make, although I understand from him that he does now 
have his new bank cards.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the following is a summary of my provisional findings:
failure to issue new cards/ discrimination
Mr S said in calls with Barclays that he had dyslexia and dyspraxia which made it difficult for 
him to understand. He also said that, during the call on 17 November, the adviser constantly 
interrupted him, which confused him. I do think that as this came after he had confirmed his 
address in the web chat, Barclays should have taken steps to get his new cards issued to 
him.
Barclays has sent us its notes of the call on 17 November 2022, it has not been able to 
provide a recording of the call. The only call recording for that day was one where an adviser 
rang Mr S to confirm his appointment for a video call. And there was a certain amount of 
Mr S and the adviser talking over each other. I think it likely that the adviser was simply 
trying to explain the position to Mr S, and thats likely to be what happened regarding the 
other call.
But I dont think there was any intent to confuse or discriminate against Mr S, as I dont think 
he was treated any differently to any other customer in his position.
Barclays should issue new debit cards, for Mr Ss accounts, the details of which our 
investigator set out in her view.
payment dispute
Mr S wanted to raise a dispute about a payment for £118 which went out from his account 
on 5 August 2022. Barclays should follow this up and investigate the payment and, as 
necessary, and if appropriate, raise a dispute about it.
contact by fraud team
I see that Mr S contacted Barclays because he was concerned about a possible fraudulent 
payment in early August 2022. I think that Barclays did attempt to call Mr S to discuss this.
removal of Mr Ss wifes name from the joint account
Mr S complains that despite advising Barclays that that his wife had passed away and 
providing the death certificate, it had failed to remove her name from the joint account. I 
understand Mr Ss distress at this not being sorted. The death certificate has now been 
supplied so Barclays, if it has not already done so, should remove the name from the joint 
account. I think though that the compensation offered by Barclays for this part is fair.
conclusions
I dont find that Barclays failed to make reasonable adjustments for Mr S in respect of his 
dyslexia or dyspraxia.
Barclays should have followed through on providing new cards for Mr Ss accounts and 
he suffered considerable inconvenience because of this.
Our Investigator attempted to get the new cards issued but that Mr S was unwilling to 
contact Barclays or provide the needed information.
As well as paying the £30 offered, Barclays should pay a further £90. I should make it 
clear that this is in respect of the issue of the new cards.
Barclays should also pay the further £70 offered in its letter of 2 December 2022. This 
makes a total of £190.
As neither party has any further comments to make, my provisional findings have not 
changed. These should now be regarded as final.Putting things right
Barclays should, insofar as it has not already done so:
Issue new cards for Mr Ss accounts and new PINs, as Ive set out above.
Remove Mr Ss late wife's name from the joint account and confirm to him when that has 
been done.
Investigate the disputed payment of £118 made on 5 August 2022.
Pay a further £90, making a total payment of £190, taking into account any payment 
already made.
My final decision
I'll hold the complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to provide the redress set out 
under putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and the 
estate of X to accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman