DRN-3975418
The complaint
Miss D complains that a used car she acquired via a hire purchase agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In March 2022 Miss D visited a car dealership having seen an advert for a used car. The 
advert said that an extended warranty with a roadside assistance company may be available 
as the garage was approved by this company to be a car dealer. 
Miss D decided to purchase the car and entered into a four-year hire purchase agreement 
with MotoNovo. The car was around seven and half years old and had a mileage of about 
142,500. Miss D says she was told the full-service history would be posted to her, but that 
she didnt receive it. 
Miss D says that when she collected the car, she found it jerky but thought that it may be 
due to her driving or that the issue would settle over time. Miss D says, as time passed, 
there were times when the car would perform as expected but other times when she would 
find it jerky and losing power. She says she complained to the dealership about the way car 
drove at the end of March but found it unhelpful. She then arranged for the car to be 
checked by a local garage. No issues appear to have been found with the car, and Miss D 
says this was because no fault code was displaying.
Miss D continued to drive the car, but says she asked for the car to be examined on other 
occasions by a garage. She says that again due to no fault code displaying, no issue with 
the car could be found.
In May 2020 diagnostics revealed that there was a problem with two of the injectors and 
Miss D contacted the warranty company. It was arranged for the car to be taken to an 
approved garage for inspection. This garage reported that there was an extensive carbon 
build up in the inlet system. Miss D says she was told this was likely due to the car having 
been only used for short drives for an extended period. The warranty company said this 
would be considered as wear and tear and so repairs wouldnt be covered by the warranty. It 
was suggested that the EGR should be replaced at a cost of £1,800. Miss D took the car 
back.
In June 2022 the car broke down and a fault light appeared which showed there was an 
issue with number 3 injector. The car was taken to a garage and the injector replaced. Miss 
D says the garage reported to her that the engine was continuing to misfire despite the 
repair and so she complained to MotoNovo about the quality of the car.
MotoNovo arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the car. The engineer reported 
that a significant misfire was noted and that on running diagnostics the fault code showed an 
issue with cylinder number 3. The engineer said that the repair had not rectified the issue 
and it was possible there was piston damage. However, they said this fault would not have 
been present or developing at the point of sale taking into account that Miss D had had the 
car on hire for a period of 104 days and had driven around 5,000 miles in it. The engineer 
said that the cylinder head should be removed but this would be at Miss Ds expense.
MotoNovo didnt uphold Miss Ds complaint as it said the issue was due to wear and tear 
which would be reasonably expected in a car of this age and mileage.
The car remained at the garage and Miss D authorised further repairs. The garage emailed 
Miss D and said having partly stripped the car it had found there were some bolts missing 
with others loose and that in areas where gaskets should have been used sealer had been 
used instead. It said that one valve in the cylinder head was bent, and the cam shaft was 
very worn. It said it would send the cylinder head away to be assessed to see what valves 
would need to be replaced.
On receipt of this email, Miss D complained again to MotoNovo about the condition of the 
car. It arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the car for a second time. The 
engineer reported that they had viewed the car in a partially dismantled condition and had 
been told by the garage that the cylinder head had been sent away. They also reported that 
they were informed the cylinder number 3s exhaust valve had displayed an excessive 
carbon build up but had not been bent. The independent engineer said they found heavy 
wear to the camshaft lobes.
However, the engineer again concluded that the car had developed the misfire since Miss D 
had purchased it and although the previous work had not been of the highest standard the 
car wouldnt have been faulty at its point of supply. The engineer reported there was no sign 
the repairs had failed, and the faults had arisen due to wear and tear. They said it was not a 
durability issue.
MotoNovo didnt uphold Miss Ds complaint in light of the second independent engineers 
findings. Miss D was unhappy at the view taken by MotoNovo and complained to this 
service. She said the problems had been present with the car since she had acquired it and 
that she was not responsible for the wear and tear that had caused the faults. She said it 
was clear the previous repairs had been of a poor standard and she thought they had been 
carried out to cover up the problems with the car.
Miss D also raised that she hadnt received the full-service history and had discovered that 
despite the selling dealership saying it was authorised by the roadside assist company it had 
not, as it should have done, carried out an 82-point pre-sales check authorised garages are 
expected to by the roadside company. Miss D said the selling dealership couldnt prove the 
car had been of satisfactory quality at its point of supply.
Our investigator didnt recommend Miss Ds complaint should be upheld. He said that 
although the car had been found to have faults this didnt necessarily mean it wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when supplied to Miss D. He said a car of that age and mileage would be 
expected to have suffered wear and tear to its components and he thought the car had been 
reasonably durable.
Miss D disagreed with the view of our investigator. She said that the car should have lasted 
longer than three months and it had required extensive repairs. Miss D said she had relied 
on the supplying dealer having carried out the pre-sales check as it was an authorised 
garage and was providing a warranty. She said the supplying dealer hadnt checked the 
cars performance before supplying it to her and she wouldnt have bought the car if she had 
known this. Miss D said she experienced problems with the car from the point of supply and 
so the issue had been present when she had acquired it.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, 
but I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Miss D is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. MotoNovo is also the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about 
their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price, and all other 
relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
Here, the car wasn't new being around seven and half years old and having a mileage of 
around 142,500 so I think a reasonable person wouldnt expect the car to be fault free as 
they would a new one. The cars components would have suffered wear and tear from use 
and so repair and maintenance costs would be expected after a reasonable period of time.
Miss D has raised that she didnt receive the full-service history which the car was advertised 
as having. She also says the car hadnt undergone the approved pre-sales checks expected 
by an authorised dealer and on which she had relied to show the car was of good quality. 
Although MotoNovo has said the supplying dealer has informed it that the paperwork had 
been supplied, it also says Miss D hasnt raised a complaint with it that the car was 
misrepresented by the dealership. Looking at Miss Ds original complaint to MotoNovo, Im 
satisfied that this was about the cars quality due to the fault that had developed, and she 
didnt raise an issue about it possibly having been being misrepresented in respect of it 
having been fully checked or having a full-service history. I cant consider things that the 
business hasnt had an opportunity of investigating first and so Miss D would need to raise 
these matters first with MotoNovo. If she was then unhappy at MotoNovos response, she 
could bring a complaint to this service. 
Miss D has said the supplying dealer isnt able to prove the car was of satisfactory quality at 
its point of supply. While I dont know what pre-sales checks, if any were carried out by the 
selling dealership, MotoNovo hasnt relied on any such checks as being evidence the car 
was of satisfactory condition when it was supplied to Miss D. MotoNovo has only relied on 
the evidence provided in the two independent inspections.
Although I appreciate Miss Ds concerns that the car might not have been inspected as per 
the expectations of the roadside assistance company when authorising the dealership, I 
cant reasonably say this means the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at its point of supply
Miss D says her use of the car wouldnt have caused sufficient wear and tear to have caused the faults. She also says that its clear the car had the fault from the time she acquired it. But 
although Ive seen Miss D took the car to be checked at garages from the end of March 
2022, I havent seen any evidence of any faults having been found even though 
investigations were carried out. I appreciate Miss D says the fault was intermittent, but I 
would have inspected the misfire to have been picked up before the diagnostics in May 
2022.  I have also seen that although Miss D was recommended to have repairs carried out 
in May due to the wear and tear found it appears she continued to drive the car until it broke 
down in June 2022. I dont think I have sufficient evidence to be able to reasonably say the 
car had a fault from the point of supply.
Looking at the two independent inspections, while I appreciate the second one has a 
mistake as to the number of miles driven by Miss D the first doesnt. Both of these reports 
state that the fault with car has arisen from wear and tear and that this would be expected for 
a car of this age and mileage. They say the fault wasnt present at the point of supply and it 
has arisen following Miss Ds use of the car. They said there wasnt a durability issue with 
the car.
I appreciate why Miss D says she couldnt have caused the wear and tear in the time she 
was using the car. But as set out above, due to its age and mileage at the point of supply to 
Miss E, there would be an expectation that the cars components would be showing signs of 
wear and tear. And that because of this, various components of the engine would require 
repair after a reasonable period of use. And what would be considered to be a reasonable 
period of time would depend on both the age of the car and the amount of use it had had 
prior to Miss E acquiring it. I think its fair to say this car had been subject to more than 
average use looking at its mileage. So, with the further mileage added by Miss E I think it 
would be reasonable to expect repair issues to arise relatively quickly.
Although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Miss D, I accept both of the 
independent engineers conclusions that there wasnt a durability issue with this car.
For the reasons give above, I am satisfied on the evidence Ive seen that the car was of a 
satisfactory condition and reasonably durable at its point of supply to Miss D. Im not 
upholding her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out Im not upholding Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman