DRN-4223786
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained about a loan they took from Shawbrook Bank Limited 
(Shawbrook).
What happened
On 2 September 2018, Mr and Mrs S took out a trial membership from a timeshare supplier 
(the Supplier). This membership entitled them to take five weeks of holidays at the 
Suppliers properties (or elsewhere if they used an exchange programme) in a three-year 
period. The membership cost £4,395 and to pay for this, they took a loan for the total amount 
from Shawbrook. Mr and Mrs S didnt keep up their loan repayments and, in October 2019, 
Shawbrook defaulted the loan.
In August 2022, Mr and Mrs S complained to Shawbrook. They said that, on 10 September 
2018, they gave notice to cancel the membership and associated loan agreement as they 
didnt want to use their membership. But they didnt get confirmation that their requests were 
received and neither the membership nor the loan were actually cancelled, negatively 
affecting Mr and Mrs Ss credit files. They also asked for evidence that Shawbrook actually 
transferred funds to the Supplier, in particular they wanted to know Shawbrooks complete 
account balance before and after the loan was paid. They also asked for proof that the 
Supplier actually provided them with the services due under the agreement. Mr and Mrs S 
asked for £50,000 in damages.
Shawbrook acknowledged the complaint, but didnt send a full response to it. Unhappy with 
the time Shawbrook took to investigate, Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt think Shawbrook needed to do 
anything further to resolve it. She didnt think the evidence suggested that the membership, 
nor the loan, had been cancelled during the relevant withdrawal period. She also said that 
the loan was a standard consumer credit loan as part of which Shawbrook paid the Supplier 
the loan proceeds after it was taken out and she saw no reason for the loan to be set aside. 
Finally, our investigator said lenders like Shawbrook had duties to report information to credit 
reference agencies and no evidence of any inaccurate reporting had been provided.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with our investigators view. They asked for recordings of the calls 
between themselves and the Supplier. Mr and Mrs S also said that just because the Supplier 
and Shawbrook didnt receive their letters doesnt mean they werent sent. For example, they 
may have been lost in the post. They said that as they never used the membership, that 
demonstrated that it had been cancelled and they argued that they shouldnt have to repay 
the loan for a service they never used.
Mrs S also said that Shawbrook hadnt answered all of her communications about her 
complaint and that had affected her credit score, so she wanted compensation for that.
Finally, Mr and Mrs S said that they wanted to see a full breakdown of how the funds 
advanced had been spent by the Supplier and they wanted to see the precise allocation of 
funds, down to the penny. Mr and Mrs S thought they were entitled to this under the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA), to demonstrate that the funds had been used for their 
intended purpose.
Our investigator responded to say that evidence was provided to demonstrate that Mr S had 
contacted the Supplier and Shawbrook on the same day in June 2019 to cancel the 
agreements, but there was no evidence of any attempt to cancel them before then. So, she 
thought the cancellation requests happened outside of the withdrawal period. She also didnt 
think there was any duty under the CCA for Shawbrook to have to provide the information 
asked for, nor was there any other reason for her to recommend that Shawbrook cancel the 
loan.
Mr and Mrs S responded to say they still wanted evidence on how the loan proceeds were 
spent, given that they never received any services from the Supplier. As Mr and Mrs S 
disagreed with our investigator, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
Before that happened, Shawbrook provided a recording of a call between it and Mr S, when 
he called to cancel the loan. Our investigator explained that this didnt change her view on 
the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Ive made a finding on what happened, I do so on the balance of probabilities  which, 
in other words, means I have based it on what I think is most likely to have happened given 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
How long did Mr and Mrs S have to cancel their membership and loan?
The Suppliers membership documents include a page titled SEPARATE STANDARD 
WITHDRAWAL FORM TO FACILIATE THE RIGHT OF WITHDRAWAL. It sets out how Mr 
and Mrs S could have withdrawn from the membership within fourteen days of taking it out 
by writing to a specified address or by email. Mr and Mrs S signed to say they acknowledged 
receipt of the information on how to withdraw.
Shawbrooks loan agreement contains information about how Mr and Mrs S could withdraw 
from the loan agreement. In summary, it says that if they exercised their right to withdraw 
from the membership, the loan would be automatically cancelled at no cost. Further, they 
could withdraw from the loan itself within fourteen days of it being executed, but they would 
have to repay in full the amount borrowed as the timeshare membership wouldnt be 
automatically cancelled. Shawbrook gave an address, phone number and email address to 
provide notice of termination and also explained that, if the agreement was terminated, 
Mr and Mrs S would have to pay £1.35 interest per day from when notice to terminate was 
given to when the payment was made.
I think the evidence shows that Mr and Mrs S had fourteen days from taking out the 
membership and loan to cancel either or both of those agreements. And as they signed a 
form saying they had specifically been given information about how to cancel the 
membership, they would have been aware of that period.
Did Mr and Mrs S cancel in time?
Mr and Mrs S have provided copies of the letters they say were sent to Shawbrook and the 
Supplier to withdraw from both agreements. Both letters are signed and dated 10 September 2018. Mr and Mrs S say these were sent by post, but they didnt check they were received. 
Shawbrook and the Supplier confirmed they had no record of receiving these letters.
Having considered everything, I dont think the evidence suggests Mr and Mrs S cancelled 
the membership and loan.
The Supplier provided evidence that Mr and Mrs S had been in contact with it after the 
fourteen-day withdrawal period, which ended on 16 September 2018. In particular, on 
27 September 2018 Mrs S told the Supplier that she had started a new job and couldnt 
arrange a holiday at that point. On 8 October Mrs S called to book a break over New Year 
and on 15 October Mr and Mrs S tried to book a holiday for December. The Supplier also 
have a record that Mr S called on 19 June 2019 to ask to cancel the membership as he was 
moving overseas. None of that fits with Mr and Mrs S either cancelling the membership 
within fourteen days or believing that they had done so  after all, it is difficult to explain why 
someone would try to use a membership that had been cancelled. I also find the Suppliers 
records believable as they fit with a call recording provided by Shawbrook.
Ive heard a copy of a call between Mr S and Shawbrook on 16 June 2019, the same day the 
Supplier recorded that Mr S called to say he wished to cancel the membership as he was 
moving overseas. Mr S explained that he and his wife signed up for the Suppliers trial 
membership, but he said they cancelled it and hadnt used it, so he was calling to let 
Shawbrook know. The call handler said to Mr S that, as the loan was taken out the year 
before, he would need to ask the Supplier to pay back the funds before the loan could be 
cancelled. Mr S said that he had just rung the Supplier and they knew Mr and Mrs S werent 
using the trial membership, but had told him to call Shawbrook. But the call handler 
confirmed that the Supplier needed to refund the advance before Shawbrook could do 
anything. Mr S said we were told we were allowed to at any stage, so they directed us to 
you, so are they playing games with us are they, do you think?  Weve got it in the contract 
here we can cancel it. Mr S said hed call the Supplier back and repeat what hed been told. 
And he also explained that he was leaving the country shortly and would close his account 
when he left. He said they were going to use the membership, but they wouldnt now he was 
moving away. Mr S didnt say at any stage during the call that theyd cancelled the 
membership the year before. 
I think the call demonstrates that Mr S tried to cancel the membership and loan for the first 
time on 16 June 2019 and not within the fourteen-day withdrawal period. I find it surprising 
that, had Mr S believed hed cancelled the membership earlier, he didnt mention it in this 
call. Rather, I think this call fits with what the Supplier had recorded  that Mr and Mrs S no 
longer wanted the membership as Mr S was moving overseas.
Further, I can see that Mr and Mrs S made repayments to the loan between October 2018 
and May 2019, before they fell into arrears. Again, this fits with what Mr S said in the call 
recoding in June 2019  that he was moving overseas and would close his account. I cant 
see why Mr and Mrs S never questioned the loan repayments, nor is it clear to me why they 
would have repaid a loan that they thought had been cancelled shortly after it was taken out. 
On balance, I see no evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs S tried to cancel the membership and 
loan within the fourteen-day withdrawal period.
I also agree with our investigator that Shawbrook has a duty to accurately report to credit 
reference agencies the status of its customers loans. I understand this may have a negative 
effect on Mrs Ss credit rating if the loan is still in default, but Ive not seen any evidence that 
Shawbrook have not reported matters accurately.
Finally, I cant see any other reason for Shawbrook to cancel or terminate the loan. I think 
Shawbrook lent money to Mr and Mrs S to buy the membership and that loan was arranged as expected.
Do Shawbrook or the Supplier need to account for how the loan proceeds were used?
There is no duty on Shawbrook or the Supplier to account to Mr and Mrs S for where the 
loan proceeds went or how they were used. And I dont think it would be either reasonable or 
practical to ask either to do so.
When a bank, like Shawbrook, pays loan proceeds to a business, like the Supplier, they 
arent normally paid in cash. Instead money is sent electronically from one account to 
another. From what I know about how these are paid, I also think its likely that proceeds are 
paid in batches, so a lender might send a given supplier a sum equivalent to a number of 
loans at regular intervals, rather than send lots of individual amounts. For the avoidance of 
doubt, I have no reason to believe that Shawbrook didnt pay a sum of money to the Supplier 
in respect of Mr and Mrs Ss loan. And just because it didnt send the Supplier cash, that 
doesnt mean the sum transferred didnt exist or that Mr and Mrs S arent liable to repay the 
loan.
Also, the Supplier isnt the regulated financial business responsible to answer this complaint, 
so I dont have any power to tell it to supply details of what happened to the proceeds of 
Mr and Mrs Ss loan. But in any event, I doubt the Supplier would be able to provide that 
information. That is because the proceeds would have been paid into a bank account and 
then used by the Supplier in the course of its business, not kept separately to only pay for 
the services Mr and Mrs S were entitled to. Further, just because Mr and Mrs S chose not to 
use the services they purchased, that doesnt mean they arent liable to repay the loan to 
Shawbrook.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint against Shawbrook Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman