DRN-1851013
The complaint
Mr H complains about the value Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) allowed him for his car 
when it was damaged and written off in an accident, and he claimed under his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2019, a car Mr H owned was involved in an accident. It was a left-hand drive 1977 
model, and Mr H had owned it since 1999. He still used it for regular transport, and it had a 
recorded mileage of some 241,728 miles. For the purposes of his insurance policy Mr H had 
recorded its value at £4,000, but this wasnt an agreed value.
Ageas agreed that the car was beyond economic repair and should be written off. Its 
engineer consulted a classic car valuation guide and estimated that taking into account its 
age, condition and mileage its market value immediately before the accident was £2,500. 
Ageas offered to pay Mr H this amount, less a deduction of £625 in respect of some parts he 
wished to take and the policy excess of £100.
Mr H didnt agree with this valuation. Since he had acquired the car he had fitted a 
replacement low mileage engine and five speed gearbox, a complete new interior including 
leather seats, a sunroof, and electric windows. Ten years ago he had spent £2,000 on a 
complete respray, and had given the car a full antirust treatment. 
He thought its market value was in the region of £6,000 to £7,000. In support of this he 
produced several magazine articles, and an independent valuation from the registrar of a 
classic car club for this model.
The registrar confirmed that very few examples of this model now survived in the UK, which 
made it hard to find one for sale, particularly in the condition of this car. He also noted that 
he was regularly approached by serious purchasers for this model, and continually 
monitored the value these cars sold for. He said the model was attracting growing interest 
from enthusiasts and estimated the market value of Mr Hs car at £7,000.
Ageas wouldnt increase its offer, so Mr H complained to us.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She said it wasnt our 
role to decide what the market value of a car was. But we would look to see that an insurer 
had acted reasonably in reaching its valuation.
She said that while she accepted that the registrar had a special interest in this type of car, 
she considered him a reputable source of information. Because of the age of the car, the 
usual trade guides we used couldnt supply valuations. However, she had assembled the 
following information about this and similar cars which she thought relevant:
the registrars valuation - £7,000
Ageass trade guide - £2,500
another trade guide - £4,500
a recent classic car website for a similar, but low, mileage car - £9,995
recent classic car magazine adverts - £6,000 to £12,000
a December 2018 advert for a high mileage car - £9,500
the £4,000 market value Mr H included in the policy document.
The investigator recognised that it would be hard to find an exact like for like car offered for 
sale. Ageas considered that Mr Hs car was condition 1, which she thought was similar to the 
cars she had found.
Looking at the figures she had found, she had discounted figures of £2,500, £4,000 and 
£4,500, which she thought on the evidence were too low. She had also discounted the figure 
of £12,000 which she thought was too high. 
The figures which were left produced an average of £8,123.75. She thought this was a fair 
market value for Ageas to offer Mr H, less the deduction of the £625 it had made for the 
parts he had taken and the £100 policy excess.
Mr H accepted the investigators recommendation. In reply Ageas submitted a report from 
one of its senior engineers. He said he had found a similar model advertised at £5,250. This 
was low mileage, but had been sitting in a garage for several years and was stated to be 
likely to need attention.
In his opinion, Mr Hs car was only in fair condition, and would require refurbishment to bring 
it back to being in good condition. In a different classic car guide, he had found Mr Hs model 
of car, in condition 1, valued at £4,500. In his opinion he considered this was a more 
accurate market value for Mr Hs car.
The investigator accepted that the engineers valuation of £4,500, and the advert for £5,250, 
were valid evidence towards the value of the car. She added these figures to those she had 
found before. She again discounted the value of £12,000 as being too high, and also the 
value of £2,500 as being too low. The average of the remaining figures was £6,343.13, 
which she thought would be a fair market value for Mr Hs car.
Ageas responded to say, in summary, that taking an average of asking prices on the market 
for vehicles that werent directly comparable wasnt the most appropriate way to value a car, 
compared with the experience and qualifications of its senior engineer.
Mr H commented that his car had been left-hand drive. He had looked at similar cars for sale 
on the continent and found there was a market there too at similar prices to those the 
investigator had discussed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator has said, it isnt our role to establish definitively the market value of a car. 
However, we will consider whether an insurer has acted fairly and reasonably in arriving at a 
valuation.
In normal circumstances we place considerable reliance on the standard trade guides in 
assessing market values. However, these are less reliable where there are few cars of a 
particular model for sale, and where they vary considerably in condition, mileage, and condition as between one another. In these circumstances we will look more widely for 
evidence of a cars value.
Ageas initially quoted a trade guide value it had found of £2,500. The investigator thought 
this seemed out of line with the other evidence of value she had found, and suggested a 
much higher figure. A more senior Ageas valuer then found another trade guide with a value 
for a condition 1 example of Mr Hs car of £4,500, even though, now that it had been 
scrapped, he wasnt sure it was quite this condition.
Interestingly, he found an advert for a similar car advertised for sale at £5,250. This was 
lower mileage, but was said to have been sitting in a garage for several years and was 
stated to be likely to need attention. This wasnt the case with Mr Hs car, which was in 
regular use. From the photos after the accident of his car, the external paintwork also seems 
in excellent condition.
After including the new evidence Ageas had produced, the investigator produced an 
adjusted average figure of £6,343.13, which she thought was a fair market value for Mr Hs 
car. However Ageas didnt agree.
I agree with Ageas that basing the value on the average of the different pieces of evidence 
the investigator found is a somewhat crude mechanism. However, after considering all the 
evidence, Im not persuaded that the latest guide figure Ageass engineer has produced is a 
fair result. 
I think the evidence suggests that the market value of Mr Hs car was likely to have been in 
the region of £6,000 to £7,000. This was the figure Mr H suggested at the outset. This car 
was one of three similar cars he owned, and he had at least twenty years of owning and 
running this model. In his initial letter to us setting out examples of different models he had 
found for sale he very fairly pointed out why his car wasnt as valuable as the more 
expensive models.
The figure the investigator calculated is in the middle of the range Ive mentioned. So I think 
its a fair value for Ageas to pay on this claim.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable that Ageas should pay Mr H as the market value of his car 
£6,343.13, less the deduction of the £625 it has made for the parts he has taken, and less 
the £100 policy excess.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr H 
as the market value of his car £6,343.13, less the deduction of the £625 it has made for the 
parts he has taken, and less the £100 policy excess.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman