DRN-4109892
The complaint
Miss C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc blocked and closed her bank account. And didnt 
treat her fairly when it asked her to repay her overdraft. 
What happened
Miss C had an account with HSBC with an agreed overdraft of £1,250.
HSBC blocked and reviewed Miss Cs account. At the time of the block the account was 
around £1,250. overdrawn. Following this, on 7 April 2022, HSBC decided to close Miss Cs 
account immediately. 
Miss C was worried that due to her account being closed she wouldnt be able access her 
benefit payments and a £3,000 payment she said she was expecting from a government 
saving scheme. So, she rang HSBC on 7 April 2022, to find out how she could access her 
payments. HSBC said it was happy to arrange to transfer Miss Cs benefits to another 
account she held. And asked her how she intended to repay the money she owed the bank. 
During the call HSBC said it was happy to complete an income and expenditure form and 
work out if it could offer her a repayment plan. But said Miss C needed to repay the 
overdraft.
Miss C told HSBC that she didnt have time and just wanted her benefit payments. She also 
said she needed the £3,000, as this was a deposit for a house purchase, she said was due 
to compete on 18 April 2022. Miss C said she would call back to go through her income and 
talk about repaying her overdraft. HSBC agreed and asked Miss C to call back so that it 
could transfer her benefit money to her other bank account. 
On 11 April 2022, Miss Cs benefit payments credited her HSBC account. Miss C called 
HSBC and the funds were transferred over to an account Miss C held with another bank, 
that was already set up as a payee on her account. HSBC told Miss C that the £3,000 
payment hadnt credited her account. During the call Miss C spoke to HSBCs financial 
support team who went through an income and expenditure exercise with her, however 
HSBC werent able to offer Miss C a repayment plan as the assessment revealed that 
Miss C could only afford to repay around £6 each month towards her overdraft. 
HSBC wrote to Miss C on 22 April 2022 and told Miss C that if she wasnt able to repay her 
overdraft by 10 May 2022, her account would be passed to its collections and recoveries 
team. The letter also said that if she had trouble repaying the full amount, she could contact 
HSBC who would work with her to come up with a suitable arrangement, based on her 
income and expenditure. The letter also incorrectly said HSBC had previously asked Miss C 
for information and had warned her that if she didnt provide the information, it would close 
her account with two months notice. 
Miss C called HSBC on 22 April 2022. She explained that she hadnt been asked for any 
information and was concerned about how she was going to repay what she owed the bank. 
During the call, HSBC went through an income and expenditure exercise, detailing all of 
Miss Cs outgoings, income, and other debts. At the end of the exercise HSBC said it 
couldnt offer her a repayment plan as Mis C could only afford to repay just over £6 each 
month towards her overdraft. HSBC advised Miss C to speak to debt advisory charities and 
provided contact details. HSBC said that theses charities would be able to look at Miss Cs 
circumstances and work out a way forward that covered everything Miss C owed based on 
her income.
During the call HSBC said it could offer Miss C a token payment arrangement. HSBC 
explained that this could be put in place for six months, but if she didnt clear the balance 
within this time a default would be registered which would impact her credit file. However, 
given the amount Miss C was able to afford it was unlikely that this arrangement would have 
led to Miss C avoiding a default. HSBC explained that entering into any arrangement to 
repay her overdraft and being defaulted would impact her credit file.
Not wanting her credit file to be impacted, Miss C repaid her overdraft on 25 April 2022. She 
said she had to ask her dad to lend her £500 and use a credit card to clear the overdraft, 
which was costly as she had to repay interest on the money.
Miss C complained to HSBC about closing her account and asking her to repay her 
overdraft. HSBC said it hadnt done anything wrong when it reviewed and closed Miss Cs 
account. It also said based on the terms and conditions of Miss Cs account it was entitled to 
ask Miss C to repay her overdraft. 
Unhappy with this response Miss C brought her complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. Miss C said that HSBC hadnt treated her 
fairly when it closed her account. She said she was forced to use foodbanks as she couldnt 
access her benefit payments and had to quickly arrange a new bank account. Miss C also 
said that HSBC didnt explain any repayment plans would impact her credit file and that 
shed been forced to take on more debt to repay her overdraft as HSBC left her no option but 
to repay the overdraft in full, which she did to protect her credit file. In relation to the letter 
HSBC sent Miss C on 22 April 2022, Miss C said that HSBC had lied - the bank never gave 
her two months notice and never asked her for any information. So, she wants HSBC to pay 
her compensation.
An investigator looked into Miss Cs complaint. He said HSBC hadnt done anything wrong 
when it closed Miss Cs account and asked her to repay her overdraft. He also said that 
HSBC had done what he would expect regarding offering Miss C ways to repay her overdraft 
and that HSBC had explained to Miss C that any repayment plans would be reported to the 
credit reference agencies. 
Miss C disagreed and pointed out that her husband who had the same complaint that he 
brought to our service, had been offered £150 compensation by the investigator who looked 
at it. So, she  said should be awarded the same amount of compensation. She also said that 
HSBC should have given her more time to repay her overdraft. In an attempt to mediate this 
complaint, the investigator contacted HSBC about the outcome of Miss Cs husbands 
complaint.  HSBC said as a gesture of goodwill it would also offer Miss C £150 
compensation. However, Miss C said this wasnt enough. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information HSBC 
has provided is information that we considered should be kept confidential. But I want to 
assure Miss C that I have considered everything that she and HSBC have submitted as part 
of this complaint. 
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that HSBC has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. They can broadly be 
summarised as a responsibility to protect persons from financial harm, and to prevent and 
detect financial crime. To comply with its obligations HSBC may need to review an account 
and/or restrict its customers access. And thats what happened here.
Ive no doubt that not having a functioning bank account made things quite difficult for 
Miss C.  Shes said because of HSBCs actions she didnt have access to her benefits for 
around ten days. I dont agree. I say this because Ive listened to telephone calls Miss C had 
with HSBC on 7 April 2022, about accessing her benefit money. During the call HSBC 
agreed that it would allow her to access these funds  which amounted to just under £1,000. 
From looking at Miss Cs bank statement I can see that her benefit money credited her 
account on 11 April 2022. Miss C contacted HSBC the same day and the bank transferred 
all the funds to an account she held with another bank. So, it seems Miss C wasnt deprived 
of her benefit funds. 
I can understand why she Miss C found this experience with HSBC stressful and upsetting. 
But as Ive explained, banks have legal obligations to comply with various laws and 
regulations. Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that HSBC was complying with 
its obligations when it blocked Miss Cs account. So, whilst I accept this caused Miss C 
upset and inconvenience, I cant say HSBC treated her unfairly when it blocked her account. 
So, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to award Miss C compensation since I dont find HSBC 
acted inappropriately. 
I then turn to the banks decision to close Miss Cs account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep a customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed. At times, following a review, banks sometimes choose to end their 
relationship with customers. This can be due to a number of reasons and a bank isnt 
obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same as if Miss C decided to stop banking 
with HSBC, she wouldnt have to explain why. 
HSBC have relied on the terms and conditions when closing Miss Cs account. The terms 
explain that the bank can close the account immediately and by providing two months 
notice. In this case HSBC closed Miss Cs account without notice. Having looked at all the 
evidence, including how Miss C was operating her account, in my view that was reasonable. 
So, it was entitled to close the account as it has already done. Ive also kept in mind that 
Miss C had access to another account, as she transferred her benefit money to an account 
she had with another bank, which I think wouldve minimised the impact of the immediate 
closure. So, I wont be asking HSBC to pay Miss C any compensation.
Miss C is upset about a letter she received from HSBC dated 22 April 2022. The letter told 
Miss C that the bank was closing her account as shed not provided information it had 
requested. And were giving her two months notice. Miss C says this isnt true and that 
HSBC are lying. Weve asked HSBC about the letter. It has accepted it sent the letter to 
Miss C by mistake and apologised for any upset it caused Miss C. I havent seen any 
evidence that the letter had a significant impact on Miss C. So, I think this is a fair and 
reasonable way to resolve this aspect of Miss Cs complaint. And I wont be asking HSBC to 
do anything more. Overdraft
When HSBC closed Miss Cs account it was overdrawn by just under £1,250. Miss C says 
HSBC treated her unfairly by asking her to repay her overdraft immediately and has said that 
she had to take on other debt to repay it. Miss C also says that HSBC didnt explain how her 
credit file would be impacted if she entered into any arrangements with the bank to repay the 
overdraft. She says she felt pressured to repay what she owed in full to protect her credit file. 
And she wants HSBC to refund the amount she paid to clear her overdraft.
The existing rules and guidance for dealing with customers in arrears and default expect 
HSBC to treat customers with forbearance and due consideration and allow the customer 
reasonable time and opportunity to repay. In simple terms this means HSBC should treat 
Miss C fairly and give her appropriate support. 
HSBC was entitled to explore all available options to support Miss C. Id expect them to get 
an understanding of Miss Cs individual financial circumstances to decide how best to help 
her. In order to assess Miss Cs situation, HSBC asked her for details of her income and 
expenditure. I can appreciate this was a time consuming task for Miss C. But I dont think 
this was unreasonable given HSBC needed to check if a repayment plan was an option  in 
fact I think it was necessary to ensure any payment plan would be realistic, affordable, and 
sustainable. Having listened to the calls between HSBC and Miss C, Im satisfied that HSBC 
explained to Miss C why they needed the information about her income and expenditure. 
She was also made aware of the consequences on her credit file to agreeing to a payment 
plan. 
Based on information she provided about her income and expenditure, HSBC didnt think 
Miss C had enough spare income to enter into a repayment plan. HSBC said the only other 
option available to Miss C was a token repayment arrangement, which would mean Miss C 
had to clear what she owed within six months. Given what Miss C had told HSBC about her 
financial circumstances I think its unlikely that this would have been a suitable option. HSBC 
also provided information about organisations she could contact to seek independent advice 
about her financial situation. I havent seen anything to suggest that HSBC applied pressure 
to Miss C to repay her overdraft. And Ive not seen any evidence that Miss C reached out to 
any of the debt charities for help. It was Miss Cs decision to repay the overdraft in full, which 
she did to protect her credit file. Overall, Im satisfied HSBC took appropriate steps to help 
Miss C and did what Id expect them to do. 
In summary, I recognise how strongly Miss C feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt 
it was a frustrating and upsetting time. So, I realise she will be disappointed by my decision. 
But overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say HSBC has acted unreasonably and 
treated Miss C unfairly when it blocked and closed her account. And asked her to repay her 
overdraft. So, I wont be asking HSBC to do anything, and I dont think this complaint should 
be upheld. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman