DRN-3786827
The complaint
Mr S complained that AWP P&C SA (AWP) damaged his guttering whilst responding to a 
repair under his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr S made a claim to AWP when he noticed a small leak in the roof of his property. AWP 
attended within two hours of the reported claim and fixed the leak. Unfortunately, whilst 
accessing the roof using a ladder, AWPs contractor damaged Mr S guttering.
Mr S said every time it rained he had to leave his living room as the faulty guttering meant 
the rain was falling out causing a disturbing noise. Mr S was unhappy as he said AWP didnt 
acknowledge it was its fault initially.
AWP said it had reached an impasse regarding the next steps in resolving the complaint. It 
offered to repair the damaged guttering itself or asked Mr S to provide a quote from his own 
contractor setting out what contribution was required for the damaged section should further 
work on the guttering also be required.
Mr S was unhappy the complaint took so long to resolve. He didnt like that AWP asked for a 
waiver when repairing the guttering so to avoid liability if it caused further damage.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with the options AWP presented for settling the claim, so he said he 
had the work carried out himself by a contractor to repair the damage. At the same time, he 
upgraded his guttering, including having new facias fitted. He said the cost was about 
£1,700. He wants to be compensated a fair amount for repairing the damage and for the 
distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He thought AWP had made a reasonable 
offer in how to repair the damage. He didnt think AWP had compensated Mr S for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the delays in resolving the claim and for the noise 
caused by the damaged guttering. So, he awarded £200 compensation for this. Mr S 
disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 4 October 2022. I said:
In making an offer, I think AWP have signalled it caused the damage, so Im only consider 
whether I think it has resolved the damage to the guttering fairly as it was responsible for the 
contractors who carried out the work.
It is difficult to ascertain a precise timeline of events as both parties have only provided a 
limited amount of information in relation to the complaint. So, I will make my decision based 
upon what has been made available and what I think is reasonable.
I can see the damage occurred around February time and AWP issued its final response in 
June, so it would appear it has taken three to four months for AWP to accept liability and 
provide some possible solutions. I think this is too long for what is a simple issue. AWP 
havent explained any mitigating circumstances of why it took so long to provide these 
options. I think it couldve obtained the information it needed sooner to accept liability and 
made Mr S an offer of settlement. Therefore, I uphold this aspect of the complaint.
I have considered whether I think the options AWP offered were reasonable. I think the 
options couldve been better. I dont think it was fair for AWP to offer to fix the guttering but 
then expect Mr S to sign a waiver if it caused further damage. If it didnt think it could fix the 
guttering without causing damage or if the state of the guttering was beyond repair, I think it 
shouldve said so and not made the offer in the first place.
I think it was reasonable to offer an option for Mr S to get his own quote, with the caveat it 
wouldnt pay for any upgrades beyond rectifying the actual damage. I think AWP was fair to 
advise against Mr S doing the work himself for safety reasons. But I think, if Mr S really 
wanted to do the work himself, he couldve got a quote from a contractor to allow AWP to 
settle the claim for damage.
However, as I think there was overall weakness with AWPs options, I uphold this complaint. 
Therefore, I think AWP should provide a fair settlement to Mr S to cover him for the cost of 
getting the damaged part of the guttering repaired. 
Unfortunately, putting a fair cost on this is difficult as no quotes have been provided for this 
only a verbal testimony from Mr S on the overall cost he incurred in having a wider range of 
work than what AWP was willing to cover. Also, no pictures have been provided of what the 
damage is. Therefore, I can only estimate what damage was caused and what I think it 
would cost to have this repaired by a tradesperson.
I think a ladder is only likely to have damaged one section of guttering. Replacing one 
section, I dont think would take a competent tradesperson long to fix. So, to cover the cost 
of this work I intend for AWP to pay £100 for the labour and materials.
I need to consider what level of compensation is required for the distress and inconvenience 
Mr S has suffered. I said there appears to have been a delay  I think this will have caused 
frustration for Mr S. He said every time it rained he had to leave the room. I can understand 
this may have caused some stress at times of heavy rainfall, but I think this is likely low in 
frequency. However, I think having to arrange for a contractor to do the work will have 
caused Mr S unnecessary inconvenience too. So, in the round, I think for this distress and 
inconvenience, I intend to award £200 compensation. I think this is fair.
Responses to my provisional decision
AWP accepted my provisional decision and didnt have anything further to add.
Mr S hasnt said whether he accepts or rejects my provisional decision. Mr S said [AWP] did 
not fix my roof only caused more damage and had [AWG] taken the time and come to my 
property and view the damage before denying the damage may have helped. He also 
thought AWP should know how much the repairs should cost.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require AWP P&C SA to pay Mr S:
£100 to repair the damaged guttering, and
£200* for distress and inconvenience
* AWP P&C SA must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
that Mr S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman