DRN-2557802
The complaint
Mr D complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund money he lost when he fell victim to a 
scam.
What happened
The background to this case is well known to both parties and has been summarised by our 
investigator in her view of the complaint, so I wont repeat it here in detail. But in summary, 
based on the submissions of both parties, I understand events occurred as follows.
Mr D was looking for some work to be completed on two properties. Hes told us he 
approached a number of builders, but agreed for the work to be carried out by a builder who 
had previously carried out some work for him and who had initially been introduced to him by 
a trusted friend.
Mr D received a quote from the builder for the work, which totalled £260,000  with £180,000 
required to be paid upfront and then two further instalments of £60,000 each. Mr D was told 
the upfront payment was for materials, three months labour and waste. Having agreed the 
price Mr D went ahead and made the following transfers through internet/mobile banking:
Date Time Amount
29/8/2017 16:46 £20,000
29/8/2017 16:51 £10,000
30/8/2017 09:06 £20,000
30/8/2017 09:07 £20,000
30/8/2017 09:07 £15,000
30/8/2017 14:50 £5,000
1/9/2017 09:06 £20,000
1/9/2017 09:07 £10,000
7/9/2017 12:39 £15,000
10/9/2017 19:15 £5,000
Total £140,000
The payments all went to the same account to which Mr D had paid the builder for the 
previous work he had carried out.
Mr D has said shortly after the bulk of the money had been transferred it dawned on him 
there was a risk that no work would get done. But it wasnt until Santander told Mr D that all 
of the funds he had sent, had been withdrawn (from the recipients account), that he thought 
he had been scammed and that no work would be carried out. 
Mr D raised the matter with Santander. He believes the payments would have looked highly 
suspicious, as hed never transferred this much before. It is Mr Ds belief that had Santander 
spoken to him about the payments, he wouldnt have made them. Santander looked into    
Mr Ds complaint and issued its final response on 16 November 2019, not upholding Mr Ds 
complaint. It said that it didnt think a fraud had occurred and that this was a civil dispute.  
Santander has also told us that it tried to recover the funds, but no funds remained to be 
returned to Mr D. It added that even if any of the payments had triggered it didnt think it 
would have made a difference, as Mr D had paid the builder before for previous work carried 
out  so it doesnt think it would have had any cause for concern.
Mr D then brought his complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into 
things. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. She thought that, while it was finely 
balanced, Santander could have intervened at the point Mr D was making the fourth 
payment to the builder and spoken to him before allowing that payment to be progressed.  
But she didnt think the intervention would have made a difference, as she thought Mr D 
would have been able to give Santander plausible answers to any questions it asked about 
the payment, including that hed had work carried out by the builder previously, that the 
builder had been recommended to him from a trusted source and that he knew the builder 
on a personal level. With the answers our investigator thinks Mr D is likely to have given, she 
didnt think it would have given Santander cause for concern that Mr D may have been at 
risk of financial harm.
Mr D disagreed with our investigators view and provided a detailed response, but in 
summary Mr D said;
- had Santander intervened and been thorough with its questioning it would have 
broken the chain of deception
- the scammer tried to befriend him and he didnt know him on a personal level
- he was put under pressure to make the payments
- he was in a vulnerable state due to family reasons; and
- Mr D also referred to other decisions this service had made
As Mr D disagreed with our investigators view the complaint has now been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in far less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here, being; should Santander have recognised Mr Ds 
payments as being suspicious and intervened, and if it had done so, would it have made a 
difference. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
I know Mr D has referred to other decisions issued by our service and feels these back up 
his view that his money should be refunded. But I would point out that, while on the surface 
complaints may seem quite similar to his, each complaint is determined by its own individual 
circumstances. Here, as Im required to do, Ive looked at the individual circumstances of   
Mr Ds complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr D, and I can understand entirely why he feels so 
strongly that this money should be returned to him. But having thought very carefully about 
Santanders actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfers to leave 
Mr Ds account. I also dont think it could have done any more than it did to try and recover 
the money.  
Santander has said it considers this a civil dispute, but Mr D disagrees and has said that he 
reported the matter to the police and the builder is wanted on a warrant. But even if I accept 
this is a scam, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably ask Santander to refund the money    
Mr D has lost. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story and taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Santander should fairly and reasonably: 
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent  
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr D, when he made the transactions and when he reported the matter to Santander, or 
whether it should have done more than it did.
Mr D has accepted that he authorised the payments to the builder. Because of this, 
Santander had an obligation to follow his instructions. But there are some situations in which 
it should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the payments 
- as Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Santander shouldve been on 
the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
Ive first thought about whether I think Santander should have intervened. Santander has a 
difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual activity or activity 
that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. But having reviewed the 
payments that Mr D has made, Im persuaded that a pattern of payments begun to emerge 
that I think ought to have caused Santander to be concerned that Mr D might have been at 
risk of financial harm.Having reviewed Mr Ds account activity for the twelve-month period leading up to the scam, 
I can see there are a number of large transactions, both in and out of the account, including 
three payments of over £9,000 to the same builder and account. On balance I dont consider 
the initial payments Mr D made to the builder, from 29 August 2017, would have appeared 
so untypical of how he usually operated his account, that I think Santander ought to have 
been concerned. 
But at the point, on 30 August 2017, where Mr D attempts to make a second payment for 
£20,000, just a minute after making another payment for £20,000, I think there was enough 
going on that Santander ought to have been concerned. With this I think it should have taken 
steps to conduct additional checks before processing the payment, as I consider the activity 
on the account represented a possibility that Mr D may have been at risk of financial harm.
Where I find Santander ought to have intervened, this in itself isnt enough for me to say that 
Santander should refund the money Mr D lost. I also need to be persuaded that its 
intervention would have made a difference and prevented the payments from being made. I 
have to base my findings on the balance of probability  that is, what I think is more likely to 
have happened, taking into account what I know. 
So Ive gone on to think about what difference I think an intervention would have made 
here. Having thought carefully about this, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say that it 
would more likely than not have made a difference and prevented Mr D from making the 
payments and Ill explain why. 
 
Had Santander intervened at this point, Id have expected them to ask Mr D some questions 
about the payment. I think it likely Mr D would have told Santander that the payment was for 
building work. Knowing the payment was for building work and given the size of the payment 
Mr D was intending to make, I think Santander ought reasonably to have asked further 
questions about the payment.
In these particular circumstances, Ive thought about the sorts of additional questions 
Santander couldve asked. Santander couldve, for example, asked questions such as, but 
not limited to, how Mr D had heard of the builders, did he have any paperwork regarding the 
work, was he satisfied with the previous work the builder had carried out for him and was he 
being pressured.
But Im persuaded, on balance, its more likely than not the answers Mr D is more likely than 
not to have given would have been sufficient to reassure Santander that Mr D wasnt at risk 
of financial harm. From the information Ive seen and considering the circumstances of what 
was happening, I think Mr D would have said hed approached the builder for a quote as 
hed carried out previous work for him, that he was satisfied with the work that had 
previously been carried out, that hed received a written quote for the new work and he had 
been in regular communication with the builder.  
I have to think about the answers I think Mr D is more likely than not to have given in the 
context of what I would reasonably have expected Santander to be on the lookout for and do 
at the time. Rogue trader scams were, and still are common and they wont all carry the 
same hallmarks. But with the answers I think Mr D is likely to have given, I dont think 
Santander ought fairly and reasonably to have been concerned that Mr D may have been at 
risk.  
Ive thought carefully about what Mr D has said about feeling pressured into making the 
payments. But having reviewed the chain of WhatsApp messages Mr D has provided, I am 
not persuaded that the requests for payment amounted to undue pressure, such that, at the time, it would have caused Mr D to flag this with Santander. The conversation appears to be 
amicable throughout, and while Mr D has said he didnt know Mr D on a personal level, from 
what Ive seen, while Im not suggesting Mr D and the builder were necessarily friends, it 
seems that Mr D did have an association with the builder  through work previously carried 
out, through mutual friends and the WhatsApp messages do suggest on a personal level 
through football. 
In summary Mr D was making payments to a person and account hed paid previously, for a 
builder who had previously completed satisfactory work, who had been recommended to him 
by a trusted friend, who Mr D had approached for a quote and who Im persuaded Mr D 
knew. I think this would have become apparent to Santander had it asked questions that I 
could reasonably have expected it to, based on what it would have known and seen at the 
time. And, with this, I simply dont think Santander ought fairly and reasonably to have been 
concerned that Mr D may have been at risk of financial harm.
Mr D has also mentioned that Santander should have asked him why he was paying the 
builders personal account, rather than the business account. At the time the payment(s) was 
made, the relevant regulations  the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (PSR 2009) set 
out that payments are sent according to unique identifiers (typically the account number 
and sort code).
In particular, section 74 of the PSR 2009 states:
(1) Where a payment order is executed in accordance with the unique identifier, the 
payment order is deemed to have been correctly executed by each payment service provider 
involved in executing the payment order with respect to the payee specified by the unique 
identifier
The impact of this is that the payment was correctly processed if it went to the account 
number and sort code instructed by the payer. There was no regulatory requirement for 
Santander to check the beneficiary account any further. So, I cant fairly say that Santander 
didnt follow Mr Ds instruction when it sent the payments to the account number and sort 
code provided, and I am not persuaded it should have done more to check the beneficiary 
name in the circumstances of this complaint, to determine whether the payment was going to 
a business or personal account.
Ive gone on to think about whether Santander did what it shouldve done once Mr D had 
reported the matter to it. Ive looked into what attempts Santander made to recover the 
money, once it was made aware by Mr D that he may have been the victim of a scam. In 
order for me to be able to fairly ask Santander to refund the money, I need to be satisfied it 
should have acted sooner in trying to recover the money than it did. And if I dont think it 
acted soon enough, I need to decide whether it made any difference. In this case I can see 
the money had already been moved and withdrawn by the time Mr D reported the matter to 
Santander. So, it wasnt able to recover the money Mr D had paid. 
I am sorry that Mr D has lost this money and I dont underestimate his strength of feeling. I 
understand the whole experience will have been frustrating and upsetting for him and that 
this has been a difficult time for him and his family. But I dont think I can fairly say 
Santander could have prevented him from losing this money. So, I dont think it would be fair 
for me to ask Santander to refund the loss.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint against Santander UK Plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman