DRN-2453164
The complaint
Mr E has complained about poor customer service he received during a mortgage 
application with Al Rayan Bank PLC (referred to here as ARB).
To settle the complaint, Mr E would like ARB to compensate him for the inconvenience 
caused to him.
What happened
ARB has acknowledged Mr E was caused upset and inconvenience during his application, 
so I dont need to set out everything that happened in detail in order to establish if something 
went wrong. Instead I will summarise matters briefly.
In the late summer of 2019 Mr E wanted to purchase a property and made an appointment 
with ARB for 27 August 2019 to discuss a home purchase plan. Following that discussion he 
paid a reservation fee of £400 to a developer. An administration fee of £399 and a valuation 
fee of £247 were also paid to ARB to enable the application to proceed. 
Mr E was hoping the application would proceed swiftly, but it took longer than he anticipated. 
It wasnt until December 2019 that ARB gave Mr E its decision on his application. 
Unfortunately ARB wasnt able to provide the full amount of finance Mr E needed for his 
purchase. Mr E says that, due to the length of time taken to decide his application, he 
missed a deadline of 18 December 2019 set by the seller and he lost his reservation fee.
Mr E complained. He was unhappy about what he said was unprofessional service by ARB, 
and about its unfairness in declining his application.
ARB didnt think it had done anything wrong. The bank explained that it had received all 
documentation to enable the application to be considered on 3 December 2019. Initially a 
business development manager told Mr E that he thought the application would be agreed, 
but unfortunately the underwriter reached a different conclusion and the application was 
declined.
ARB said that it thought Mr E had paid the reservation fee of £400 before hed spoken to its 
adviser. In the circumstances, ARB didnt think it was responsible for paying this. But as a 
gesture of goodwill ARB refunded the £399 administration fee and £247 valuation fee. 
Dissatisfied with ARBs response, Mr E complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An investigator looked at the complaint. Mr E provided evidence that hed spoken to  ARBs 
mortgage adviser before hed paid the reservation fee, and that his was at the advisers 
suggestion. As a result, ARB agreed to reimburse the £400 as well.
Although Mr E said he would accept this to settle his complaint, hed also asked for an 
ombudsman to review the matter. ARB wanted formal confirmation the case would be closed 
and the investigator asked Mr E to confirm by 22 January 2020 he would be satisfied with 
the additional £400 to close the complaint. No such confirmation was received. As the 
complaint appears to be unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision on it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr E is unhappy that his home purchase application was declined, after 
hed been given the impression by the business development manager that it would be 
accepted. 
I appreciate Mr E feels he wasnt treated professionally or fairly by ARB, and that he was 
messed around during the application process. I can see that, from his perspective, he 
thought things were going smoothly, but mortgage underwriting is often a finely balanced 
and nuanced affair. 
ARB is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that ARB makes in respect of what 
those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular lending assessment, and 
whether it should lend and if so, on what terms are clearly discretionary matters for ARBs 
own commercial judgement that I would not interfere with. Having looked at the way in which 
ARB considered the application, Im satisfied that it took into account all relevant factors 
before deciding to decline the application.
Given this, Im satisfied that ARB gave fair consideration to this application and so 
legitimately exercised its commercial judgement when deciding whether or not Mr E fit its 
lending criteria. This means that there is no basis upon which I can find that ARB has treated 
Mr E unfairly or unreasonably in relation to its consideration of his application.
Putting things right
ARB acknowledged Mr E was caused some upset and inconvenience. In addition to the 
banks goodwill gesture of refunding the application and valuation fees (a total of £646), ARB 
has now also agreed (after acknowledging that Mr E reserved the property after hed spoken 
to the mortgage adviser) to reimburse the £400 reservation fee. Im satisfied this is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this case.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that, in addition to the £646 previously refunded by Al Rayan Bank PLC, 
the bank should (if it has not already done so) reimburse Mr E with the £400 reservation fee 
he paid to the seller. I make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman