DRN-2942274
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as D has complained that Arch Insurance (UK) Limited unfairly 
turned down a claim under the disease clause in its business interruption insurance policy. 
Ms P, a director of D, has complained on Ds behalf. 
What happened
D held a business interruption insurance policy with Arch. It claimed on its policy after its 
business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. 
Arch ultimately accepted Ds claim under the clause for Government or Local Authority 
Action but said there wasnt cover under the clause for disease because the policy only 
provided cover for a specified list of diseases which didnt include Covid-19. 
Unhappy with Archs response, D brought its complaint to our service. It said Covid-19 was a 
notifiable disease and the policy couldnt have included Covid-19 in the list of diseases as it 
wasnt known about at the time the policy was entered in to. D referred to the Supreme Court 
judgment in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case in support of why its claim 
should be paid. 
Our investigator looked into Ds complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think the disease clause provided cover for its claim. 
D asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ds business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Arch have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ds claim under the clause for disease.
The relevant part of the clause for disease provides cover for loss resulting from the 
occurrence of:
Notifiable Human Infectious or Contagious Disease within a 25 mile radius 
 Where use of the Premises is restricted on the order or advice of the 
competent authority 
The Definitions section of the policy says that the following definitions apply and shall keep 
the same meaning wherever they appear in the Section. 
The policy says Notifiable Human Infectious or Contagious Disease has the following 
meaning:
Acute Encephalitis, Acute Poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chickenpox, Cholera, 
Diphtheria, Dysentery, Legionellosis, Legionnaires Disease, Leprosy, 
Leptospirosis, Malaria, Measles, Meningococcal Infection, Mumps, Opthalmia 
Neonatorum, Paratyphoid Fever, Plague, Rabies, Rubella, Scarlet Fever, 
Smallpox, Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Typhoid Fever, Viral Hepatitis, Whooping 
Cough or Yellow Fever.
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect
it to be included in the list of diseases. But there were similar policies on the market that 
provided cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies which covered all 
notifiable diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Ds policy is not 
like this  it sets out a defined list of the diseases which are covered and its this definition 
which applies to the clause rather than the Government-defined list. There is also nothing in 
the wording of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new diseases which 
might emerge. So, I dont think the clause can fairly be read as covering all and any new 
diseases. Therefore, this clause doesnt cover Ds claim.
D has referred to the Supreme Courts judgment in the FCA test case. However, Ds policy 
includes a specified list of diseases which doesnt include Covid-19. Therefore, the judgment 
doesnt impact Ds claim as this type of clause wasnt considered by the Supreme Court. 
I recognise this isnt the outcome D was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Arch to pay Ds claim under the clause for disease.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman