DRN-2885475
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has declined their home 
insurance claim for storm damage. 
What happened
In February 2020 Mr and Mrs N contacted UKI to make a claim for damage to their home 
sustained in a recent storm. They reported to UKI that the polycarbonate roof on an 
outbuilding had been ripped off and there was damage caused to the main house by a leak 
through a flat roof. They also said a tree had come down and smashed into their greenhouse 
and the roof panel to their gazebo had blown off. UKI appointed a loss adjuster to assess the 
damage. 
The loss adjuster visited a few days later and reported to UKI that there were indeed multiple 
areas of damage all of which were of an historic nature and the result of wear and tear rather 
than caused by a storm. Mr and Mrs Ns claim was declined so they complained to UKI. 
UKI looked into to Mr and Mrs Ns complaint and reviewed the decision to decline the claim. 
UKI said that although there was evidence of storm conditions on or around the time the 
damage was discovered, the underlying cause of the damage reported was wear and tear. 
UKI said that unfortunately damage caused by wear and tear wasnt covered by the policy so 
it maintained its decision to decline the claim. But it said that if Mr and Mrs N had any 
evidence that any of the damage had been caused by the storm conditions then it would 
consider it. 
Mr and Mrs N then complained to this service. Our investigator looked into their complaint 
but didnt recommend that it was upheld. Mr and Mrs N disagreed with our investigators 
findings. They said the polycarbonate roof had definitely blown off in the storm so it wasnt 
down to wear and tear. They said they opposed what UKI had done so a vulnerable person 
wouldnt have to go through what they had done through. 
Our investigator replied to say that this service was here to look at individual consumer 
complaints not to regulate the insurance industry. She also said that for the damage to be 
covered it would have to be caused by one of the insured events (or perils  which includes 
storm) listed in the policy but unfortunately there was no evidence that the damage had been 
caused by a storm. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, not all damage a home sustains will be covered by home 
insurance. Only damage caused by one of the insured events, or perils, listed in the policy 
will be covered. And its the responsibility of the policyholder to show that the damage they 
are claiming for was caused by one of the policy perils. Providing they can do so then the 
insurer must pay the claim unless it can rely on one of the policy exclusions to defeat it. 
UKI has accepted that there were storm conditions present on or around the time that 
Mr and Mrs N made their claim. But the presence of a storm alone doesnt automatically 
mean that it was the cause of the damage. Most well-maintained homes are able to sustain 
the types of storm we see in this country (and I note that the wind speeds on the day in 
question werent particularly severe). Often, whilst the damage manifests itself after a storm, 
it is typically the case that the storm has highlighted some existing damage rather than 
caused it. 
Ive reviewed the evidence available in this complaint and I dont think that UKI has unfairly 
declined Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. Thats because I dont think its unreasonable to 
conclude that the storm wasnt the dominant cause of the damage. From the photographs of 
the different areas of the property that were damaged, I dont think the nature of it is 
consistent with that which I would expect to see caused by a storm. 
That doesnt mean I doubt, for example, that panels of the polycarbonate outbuilding roof 
blew off in the storm. I accept that they did. But the roof is showing signs of age and wear 
and tear but for which I think it wouldve been able to withstand the wind speeds reported 
around the time of the storm. That means that its reasonable to think the principal cause of 
the damage wasnt the storm but the actual condition of the roof which was showing signs of 
extensive wear and tear. 
I can see that the same can be said for the roof panel for the gazebo, the wooden cladding 
to the main house, the door to an outbuilding, the guttering on the main building and the 
issues with the felt on the flat roof. Ive seen the photographs of the greenhouse too and 
I dont think UKI unfairly decided that the broken glass panels were inconsistent with storm 
damage. 
Mr and Mrs Ns policy includes an exclusion for damage caused by wear and tear and lack 
of maintenance. For the reasons Ive given, I dont think that UKI has unreasonably relied on 
this exclusion in order to decline Mr and Mrs Ns claim. Whilst I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs N, it follows that I dont think that UKI has unfairly declined 
their claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to accept or reject my decision 
before 22 July 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman