DRN-4001026
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy with the way in which Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De
Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A.handled a claim on her travel insurance policy and the service
provided.
What happened
Towards the end of 2019, Ms M travelled abroad. Whilst abroad she was sexually assaulted.
She says the perpetrator was arrested by local police and held in custody, pending a
criminal trial.
Ms M had the benefit of a travel insurance policy, underwritten by Mapfre (the policy). Ms M
contacted Mapfre for legal assistance under the policy. At that time, she was still abroad and
didnt speak the local language, so she wanted legal assistance liaising with the police and
prosecution service to seek compensation from the perpetrator for the sexual assault and
the personal injury caused. Mapfre declined the claim.
It initially concluded that any legal costs would exceed any losses claimed for because the
criminal court didnt award compensation. Ms M was unhappy with the lack of support from
Mapfre so she complained.
She also said that she was claiming for other losses under the policy including: the cost of
replacing her clothes (taken as a result of the sexual assault), interpreter costs, phone calls
and data services, the taxi fare to another hotel after the assault had taken place and the
cost of staying at that hotel. Ill refer to these collectively as the claimed items.
When responding to her complaint in April 2020, Mapre clarified that the legal assistance
section of the policy didnt extend to criminal cases. It also said that the claimed items
needed to be dealt with by a different department. However, Mapfre accepted that it
shouldve communicated better with Ms M from the outset and been clearer that the policy
wouldnt provide legal assistance to assist with a criminal case. It offered Ms M £300
compensation which she accepted. Mapfre also offered to put Ms M in touch with a law firm
to advise on a potential civil claim against the perpetrator (the law firm).
Many months passed without much progress or contact from Mapfre about legal assistance
to pursue a civil court case - or the claimed items. Ms M raised concerns about this in July
2020, December 2020, March 2021 and August 2021 without any substantive reply from
Mapfre. So, she brought a complaint to our service.
Shortly after, in October 2021, Mapfre apologised for the lack of communication and
accepted that Ms M had been given the impression that someone would be in touch with
her. It informed her that legal cover wouldnt be provided under the policy, as the law firm
had advised that the legal costs involved in pursuing such a case would exceed the value of
the claim.
However, Mapfre agreed to reimburse Ms M for the claimed items  totalling around £360. It
also offered Ms M further compensation in the sum of £400.
Our investigator looked into what happened and although she could see that Mapfre hadnt
fairly handled the claims made on the policy, she concluded that it had acted reasonably by
declining the claim for legal assistance. And, ultimately, it had covered the claim for the
claimed items. She felt that the compensation that had been offered to Ms M was fair and
reasonable.
Ms M disagreed so her complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh to
decide.
I issued my provisional decision in February 2023 explaining why I was intending to partially 
uphold this complaint. In response, the parties provided further information which I 
considered carefully and provided them with my further thoughts on this complaint. 
Mapfre accepted what I said. Ms M didnt reply. So, I need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mapfre has an obligation to handle claims fairly and promptly. And it mustnt unreasonably
decline a claim.
Mapfre accepts that it shouldve handled the claims made on the policy better and provided
a better overall service to Ms M. It accepts there were unnecessary delays, and its
representatives didnt get back to Ms M when it shouldve. In total its offered Ms M
compensation in the sum of £700 in recognition of that. Its also covered the costs of the
claimed items. So, the issues I think I need to determine are whether:
the compensation amount of £700 reasonably reflects the impact Mapfres errors had 
on Ms M;
Mapfre reasonably ought to have confirmed coverage for the claimed items earlier 
than it did;
Mapfre fairly and reasonably declined to provide legal assistance under the policy in 
respects of issues relating to criminal proceedings against the perpetrator;
 Mapfre fairly and reasonably declined to provide legal assistance under the policy to 
pursue civil proceedings for personal injury against the perpetrator/hotel he worked 
at.
The claimed items
Mapfre has agreed to cover the claimed items. Ms M asked for these expenses to be
covered in early 2020 and they werent paid until the end of 2021. Mapfre didnt request 
Ms M provide evidence in support the claimed items; it looks like the claim she sought to 
make was overlooked.
Im satisfied that Mapfre took too long to accept the claim in the circumstances and theres
no reason why it couldnt have taken the decision to pay the claim by the time Ms M raised
her concerns on 24 July 2020. So, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Mapfre to payinterest on the claimed items from that date until the date on which the claim was paid.
Claim for legal assistance (criminal proceedings)
The policy does provide cover for legal assistance. It says Mapfre:
will pay up to the amount shown in the table of benefits for legal costs that result
from dealing with claims for compensation and damages if you die, become ill or get
injured during your trip
It goes on to say that it wont cover:
any claim we or our legal representatives believe is not likely to be successful or if
we think the costs of taking action will be more than any award.
Im satisfied that Mapfre fairly and reasonably concluded that a claim for personal injury isnt
one that is pursued in criminal courts. Ive seen nothing to say that a criminal court in the
country where the sexual assault on Ms M took place would consider a claim and
compensation for personal injury if the perpetrator was found guilty of the sexual assault. So,
Im satisfied that Mapfre fairly declined coverage for any legal assistance required by Ms M
in connection with the criminal proceedings that were ongoing at the time.
Im also satisfied that Mapfre was in contact with one its panel of legal firms to ascertain the
details of any English-speaking lawyers in the country Ms M had visited to see if they could
assist her. And they provided those details to Ms M. Im also satisfied that Mapfre informed
Ms M  relying on the advice of the law firm, which I think is reasonable in the circumstances
 that Mapfre could consider providing legal assistance to pursue civil proceedings against
the perpetrator. And, with her agreement, it appointed its panel law firm to consider the
strengths of a civil claim being pursued under the policy.
Mapfre does accept that it shouldve handled Ms Ms request for legal assistance under the
policy in connection with criminal proceedings better. I appreciate that Ms M went to the
trouble of having to chase Mapfre for a response and she didnt receive written confirmation
at the time of Mapfres decision. Mapfre also accepts it couldve dealt with the request with
more compassion given the circumstances she found herself in. I think this wouldve caused
unnecessary distress to Ms M at an already incredibly difficult time for her.
Ms M was told around two weeks after first contacting Mapfre that it wouldnt be providing
cover in connection with the criminal case. I think that is too long in the circumstances here
but ultimately, Im satisfied that Mapres decision was fair and reasonable.
So, all in all, I think the compensation offered to Ms M by Mapfre in the sum of £300 fairly
reflects the distress and inconvenience experienced.
Claim for legal assistance (civil proceedings)
Mapfres final response letter dated October 2021 says Mapfre had liaised with the law firm
in order to ascertain the current status of her personal injury claim. And that the law firm had
advised that following a full review of Ms Ms case, legal assistance wouldnt be
provided as the costs involved in recovering any compensation is likely to be more than the
amount of compensation. Its accepted in the final response that Ms M hadnt been informed
of this decision up until then.
Im satisfied that the law firm instructed by Mapfre to consider the merits of Ms Ms claim for 
personal injury (to be brought in the civil courts  as opposed to the criminal court) had advised, before issuing the final response letter in October 2021, that there were reasonable 
prospects of Ms M succeeding in a claim against the manager of the hotel and/or the hotel 
and their insurers (if they were insured). However, the law firm also advised that the value of 
any claim would be limited to a maximum of £2,000. And in the law firms opinion, the value 
of any claim would outweigh the likely legal costs involved in pursuing a personal injury 
claim.
Im satisfied that Mapfre is reasonably entitled to rely on the legal advice of a qualified 
representative to decline the legal assistance claim under the policy. And as the policy says 
Mapfre wont cover any claim if we think the costs of taking action will be more than any 
award, I think Mapfre can reasonably rely on that term to decline the claim.
Distress and inconvenience
Mapfre has acknowledged in its final response letter dated October 2021 that it took too long
to confirm its position about covering the legal costs associated with Ms Ms legal costs.
Ms M was only made aware of Mapfres position in the final response.
So, Ms M was left in limbo for around 18 months not knowing what was happening about this
claim and whether legal assistance would be available under the policy to pursue a personal
injury claim. She was chasing for updates in July and December 2020. And also, in March
and August 2021. Im satisfied that this put her to unnecessary inconvenience.
From the tone of the correspondence, I can see that she was becoming increasingly
distressed and felt she wasnt able to start moving on from the sexual assault until she knew
whether there was legal assistance in place or not. I can also see why she felt Mapfre wasnt
taking her claim seriously, despite the very traumatic circumstances which led to her needing
legal support, and feeling like she was being treated as a second class citizen.
I can see why Ms M was left confused about where she stood and the legal routes available 
to her to claim compensation against the perpetrator, given the delays and lack of 
information provided by Mapfre.
Im satisfied that shes been put to considerable distress and inconvenience because of all
this  and the wait shes had to endure. This wouldve been made worse by having to also
chase for an update on the claimed items and already having received poor service when
handling her claim for legal assistance in connection with the criminal proceedings in early
2020.
Mapfre has offered Ms M £400 compensation, but I dont think that fairly reflects the distress
and inconvenience shes experienced for this element of her complaint. I think Mapre should 
pay Ms M a further payment of £500 (making the total sum of £900). This is on top of the 
£300 shes been paid in respect of Mapfres errors in early 2020.
Putting things right
I direct Mapfre to pay Ms M:
£900 distress and convenience as a result of the poor service provided from April 
2020 and the way in which it handled her claim for legal assistance to pursue civil 
proceedings for personal injury. From this amount it can deduct the sum of £400 it 
paid Mrs M after the final response letter dated October 2021.
simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum on the claimed items from the date on 
which the claim shouldve been paid (in July 2020) to the date on which payment was made, shortly after the final response letter dated October 2021. If Mapfre considers 
its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest paid, 
it should tell Ms M how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate 
showing this if asked for one. That way Ms M can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs, if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. to put things right by doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman