DRN-4343872
The complaint
Mr M complains that after Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) initially saying it could block 
transactions to certain merchants it failed to do so as they werent classified as gambling. 
This resulted in Mr M losing money as he was able to continue gambling to these merchants. 
Mr M wants a refund of money spent gambling after contacting Barclays about the 
transactions as he thinks Barclays shouldve offered more support.
 
What happened
Mr M contacted Barclays via web chat in relation to wanting to block gambling transactions 
to certain merchants made through gaming, leisure companies and social media sites. Mr M 
was told that gambling transactions were currently turned off on the account but it could look 
at the option to apply a block on the merchant to prevent payments from happening and 
transferred him to another advisor.
Mr M was told that an automatic cancellation for transactions to merchants could be applied 
but that this doesnt guarantee payments to merchants will stop leaving the account and it 
also wouldnt block his card. If a payment does leave the account it should be returned back 
to the customers account by the end of the next working day.
This advice was incorrect. The advisor was referring to something called continuous 
authority transactions which is effective in relation to reoccurring transactions, but Mr Ms 
payments were individual purchases  so if the advisor applied this cancellation to these 
transactions there wouldve been no guarantee the payments wouldve been returned.
Mr M was advised he already had a gambling block on his account and to contact the 
merchants directly to cancel the payments. The advisor also informs Mr M how to apply a 
gambling block on his account through its app and asks Mr M whether he wants to go ahead 
with the automatic cancellation for the merchant transactions - but it doesnt appear that Mr 
M replied before the chat ended.
Following this Mr M was still able to transact with these merchants as the transactions were 
classified as a purchase and categorised by the merchant as video game arcades which 
meant the gambling block he did have available didnt work on these transactions. Mr M 
complained to Barclays.
Barclays accepted it had provided incorrect information regarding its ability to block the 
transactions to merchants and offered £25 compensation. Barclays suggested Mr M have 
just an ATM card to assist his struggles with gambling and to deactivate the adverts on 
social media that promote gambling to avoid making the purchases.
Mr M was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked at all of this and although they thought Barclays couldve provided 
additional support to Mr M for his gambling by signposting him to third party organisations, 
overall, they thought Barclays had done enough as Mr M had already previously applied a 
gambling block to his account as well as advising him to contact the merchants directly. 
They thought the £25 compensation was fair compensation for the misinformation received.
Mr M has also been provided with a list of organisations that can provide further assistance 
with his gambling.
Mr M was dissatisfied with this, he doesnt believe the support Barclays has offered is 
enough and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It might help if I explain my role is to look at problems that a consumer has experienced and 
see if the bank has done anything wrong or treated the consumer unfairly. If it has, we seek 
to put the consumer back in the position they wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt 
happened. And we may award compensation that we think is fair and reasonable.
Mr M is unhappy that Barclays mis-advised him regarding the automatic cancellation of 
transactions to gambling merchants and at the support it offered him knowing that he had a 
gambling problem.
I sympathise with Mr M and the gambling struggles that he has, and I applaud him for 
seeking help. In situations such as Mr Ms while I wouldnt tell Barclays what tools it needs to 
have in place to support customers with a gambling addiction, I would expect it to utilize the 
tools it does have and make the customer aware of what it can do to assist and any 
limitations there might be.
 
In Mr Ms case Barclays did mis-inform him about the availability of the automatic 
cancellation of transactions to certain merchants. This simply wasnt an appropriate tool that 
would assist him to control his gambling. I note when Mr M got in contact with Barclays he 
was already using one of its tools as he already had a gambling block on his account. 
Barclays confirmed this and reminded him how to apply this block through its app and also 
advised him to contact the merchants directly as there were no guarantees. 
So although Barclays did mis-inform Mr M about being able to apply automatic cancellation 
of transactions for the merchants in question, Im satisfied that Mr M was already utilising the 
gambling tools Barclays had in place and that there wasnt anything much more Barclays 
could do.
Unfortunately, nothing is fool proof and the tools Barclays had available to support Mr M 
didnt work. Mr M was still able to make gambling purchases due to how the transactions 
were categorised by the merchant. And I dont think it wouldve made a difference if Barclays 
had provided the correct information regarding the ability to cancel transactions.  I think Mr M 
wouldve likely still made payments to the merchants in question  as he did just that despite 
being told there was no guarantee the payments would stop leaving his account. 
And I dont think Barclays should be penalised for the limitations in the tools it has for 
supporting customers with a gambling problem that are out of its control. Not being able to 
easily block all gambling transactions made online or otherwise because the merchant 
doesnt categorise them as gambling, isnt an error on Barclayss part  it simply isnt 
possible.
 So having considered everything, although Barclays made a mistake and provided Mr M with 
incorrect information  it has offered Mr M £25 compensation for this which I think is fair as I 
dont think this mistake made a material difference to Mr Ms circumstances and I dont think 
it would be fair to ask Barclays to refund Mr M the money he spent on gambling.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided what Barclays Bank UK PLC has offered to settle 
Mr Ms complaint is fair and Im not going to ask it to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman