DRN-3499949
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) declined his travel insurance claim.
Any reference to AXA includes all its agents. 
What happened
Mr I has travel insurance alongside his bank current account and the policy is underwritten 
by AXA. 
In November 2020, Mr I booked a trip and his travel dates were from 2 December 2020 to 11 
March 2021. He travelled to his destination but his return flight due on 11 March 2021 was 
changed a few times and then cancelled by the flight provider. Mr I managed to reschedule 
the flight for 19 May 2021. 
On 7 May 2021, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) 
published details of countries which were on the red list. One of those countries was where 
Mr I had travelled to. The advice was that for those returning from that country to the UK had 
to quarantine in a managed hotel upon arrival. 
Mr I stayed at the destination country for as long as he could to avoid the cost of the 
quarantine hotel and, while in that country, he stayed with family. Mr I eventually returned to 
the UK on 21 July 2021 and had to stay in a quarantine hotel for 10 days for which he 
incurred a cost. So he submitted a claim to AXA for this cost. 
AXA reviewed Mr Is claim and declined it. It said Mr Is policy had cover limit for trips that 
were 45 days or less. As Mr Is trip was over 45 days, AXA said Mr I had no cover. It also 
offered Mr I £50 for the lack of clear communication and the poor service it provided. 
Unhappy with AXAs response, Mr I brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought AXA hadnt declined the claim 
unfairly or unreasonably as from the evidence available, the trip was for longer than 45 days. 
So, Mr I had no cover available under his policy. She also thought the £50 compensation 
AXA made was fair and reasonable. 
Mr I disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Ive started by looking at Mr Is policy terms and conditions as this forms the basis of his 
travel insurance contract with AXA. 
On page 25 of the policy booklet, under the section Significant or unusual exclusions or 
limitations, it states:
[]
There is no cover for trips over 45 days in duration unless you have purchased the 
trip extension to provide cover for longer trips. Your upgrade schedule will show if 
you purchased this option.
[]
And on page 32, under the section headed Your travel policy, it states: 
Your cover available under this policy is only provided:
[]
c. For Trips within the Geographical Limits with a maximum duration of 45 days.
Mr I booked a trip from 2 December 2020 to 11 March 2021 which was a duration of 99 
days. Based on the above policy terms and conditions, as the duration of the trip was more 
than 45 days, there is no cover available for Mr I under his policy. I cant see that Mr I 
upgraded the policy to include a trip extension, so Im satisfied that even if the additional 
days were not included, he has no cover under his policy. 
Ive considered that Mr I had no option but to extend his trip. But, even so, the starting point 
is that the initial trip he booked already exceeded the maximum trip duration of 45 days. Im 
afraid therefore that the additional cost Mr Is claiming for the period he had to quarantine on 
his return to the UK would not be covered. While I have every sympathy for Mr Is situation, 
the policy clearly states that no cover will be provided for trips over 45 days in duration. 
Overall, taking everything into account and from the evidence available, Im not persuaded 
that AXA has declined the claim unfairly or unreasonably. Having considered also the £50 
compensation offered by AXA, I think this is fair in the circumstances of this complaint. I 
think AXA could have communicated more clearly with Mr I. 
I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask AXA to accept 
Mr Is claim. It follows that I dont require AXA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Is complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman