DRN-3684903
The complaint
Mr R complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (hereafter AXA) misinformed him during 
a private medical insurance sales call.
What happened
As both sides are aware of what happened Ill only summarise events below.
Mr R was losing access to a corporate medical insurance policy because of a change in 
employers, so on 24 March 2016 he called AXA to discuss taking out a personal policy. Mr R 
decided to take out a personal policy just over a month later but by that point had received a 
cancer diagnosis.
Mr R complained to AXA. That complaint was referred to this service and a fellow 
ombudsman issued a final decision. But Mr R had raised additional complaint points which 
are now the focus of my decision, they were:
During the call on 24 March 2016 AXA misinformed Mr R about the ability to have 
two policies (corporate and personal) running at the same time. Had it not done so, 
Mr R would have taken a personal policy out on the same day and gone on to pay 
less in premiums and have access to better coverage options. 
During the same call AXA failed to provide Mr R with any information about 
protecting his no claims discount (NCD) too; something he would have paid extra for 
had it been offered. 
AXA should put Mr R back in the position he would have been in were it not for the 
above. It should do so by refunding any medical invoices and premiums hed 
unnecessarily paid, awarding compensation for distress and inconvenience, and 
providing NCD protection if it were available. 
Initially AXA agreed it had misinformed Mr R during the call. It then told Mr R that this service 
had already considered his complaint and offered him compensation for not having 
explained that sooner. AXA also changed its position on the call.  It said itd correctly advised 
him that a personal and a corporate policy could not be used at the same time  meaning he 
couldnt claim for the same treatment under both, but both could run concurrently. 
Mr R referred his complaint to this service again and AXA said we should dismiss it.
Our investigator didnt recommend dismissal. They said there wasnt sufficient evidence of 
us having considered Mr Rs current complaint, but they didnt think his complaint should be 
upheld either as they werent persuaded that AXA had misinformed him. 
Mr R agreed with those dismissal findings but still felt his complaint should be upheld. He set 
out his position again and provided a report from a linguistic consultant in support. 
AXA disagreed with the dismissal findings but agreed with our investigators opinion to not 
uphold the complaint. It saw the report provided too, but said it didnt change its position, so 
given our investigator remained of the same opinion and no agreement had been reached 
between the parties the complaint was referred to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both sides for setting out their positions; they have done so at length. Though Ive 
considered everything made available my findings will only address those matters I consider 
relevant and central to the outcome of this complaint. 
The dismissal 
This service is able to dismiss a complaint without considering its merits in some 
circumstances; the ability to do so comes from DISP 3.3.4A of the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys handbook:
The ombudsman may dismiss a complaint referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service on 
or after 9 July 2015 without considering its merits if the ombudsman considers that:
(5) dealing with such type of complaint would otherwise seriously impair the effective 
operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Examples of what would seriously impair our effective operation are given in DISP 3.3.4B, 
and one is:
where the subject matter of the complaint has previously been considered or excluded 
under the Financial Ombudsman Service (unless material new evidence which the 
Ombudsman considers likely to affect the outcome has subsequently become available to 
the complainant)
Ive thought about whether we have previously considered Mr Rs complaint, but looking at 
the final decision my fellow ombudsman issued I note no reference to Mr Rs current 
complaint points within it. Neither when they set out the background to Mr Rs complaint, nor 
when they detailed what they were deciding. 
The final decision also said: 
 both parties have provided substantial information in relation to this complaint. Id like to 
reassure them that I have reviewed everything. My decision however wont cover each and 
every point in detail but will provide a response to those that are relevant to this complaint. 
And despite my fellow ombudsman using specific headings to separate their findings too, 
none of those concerned Mr Rs current complaint points. So I cant fairly conclude that we 
have previously considered his current complaint and as such will not be dismissing it. 
The call
Mr R says AXAs original position (where it initially agreed itd misinformed him during the 
call) should stand. AXA has already explained that position was sent in error however, and it 
now firmly maintains that it did not misinform Mr R. While I appreciate Mr Rs frustration 
about this of course, it would not be right of me to ignore AXAs current position and as such 
I will consider this complaint as it currently stands. That is, that AXA does not think it 
misinformed him.  AXA sold Mr Rs policy on a non-advised basis. So it needed to provide clear, fair and not 
misleading information to allow Mr R to make an informed choice about whether the policy 
was right for him and whether he should take it out. 
Although a recording of the call is no longer available, a transcript is. The transcript sets out 
that a number of matters were discussed during the call including: continuation cover, 
medical underwriting, pricing options, potential start dates, and what may or may not happen 
with the cost of the policy were Mr R to see a consultant or have an operation. 
While I wont recite all of the transcript here, Mr R says he understood the following to be 
AXAs confirmation that he could not have a corporate and private policy running at the 
same time: 
Mr R Okay. And can I have both policies running at the same time?
AXA Yes. I mean if you want  because obviously youre going to be coming off the 
Corporate one. You would have to use one or the other, you couldnt use them 
both at the same time, but yes if you
Mr R Okay. So Id have to come off the Corporate one before?
AXA Yes. You cant use both of them at the same time.
Its clear that Mr R feels very strongly about what he understood AXA to have said. Having 
considered the above extract and the transcript in its entirety however, I dont think that 
AXAs current position on not having mis-informed Mr R is unreasonable. 
AXAs response to the first question in the above rightly set out that Mr R could have two 
policies running at the same time. Before AXA could finish what it was saying however, the 
transcript suggests that Mr R asked another question. That was, Okay. So Id have to come 
off the Corporate one before?. AXA initially replied yes, but then went on to repeat that 
Mr R could not use both of them at the same time.
Like the investigator before me, while I acknowledge AXAs initial yes to the second 
question could be considered somewhat unclear, I dont think there is enough here for me to 
find in Mr Rs favour. 
Prior to its second response, AXA had already told Mr R that he could have both policies 
running at the same time. AXA didnt appear to have been able to provide its second 
response in full either given Mr R went on to ask another question, this time about the price 
of the policy starting in April. So although I think AXAs response might have been unclear, I 
cant fairly conclude that it constitutes Mr R being misinformed  especially as AXA had just 
said he could have two policies running at the same time. 
I know Mr R says he would have taken the policy out on the same day had he understood 
that he could have the two policies running concurrently, but Im not persuaded by this. 
During the transcript I didnt note anything that implied Mr R was looking to start cover on the 
same day as the call. Mr R was noted as putting forward a number of different start dates 
and scenarios for the policy too, and asking what impact they might have. 
Mr R has provided additional evidence to support his interpretation of the call. For example 
an email from a financial advisor explaining why it can be a good idea to have two similar 
policies running at the same time. And an example of where he took two similar policies out 
too. I thank Mr R for providing this, but as I set out above I remain mindful that the transcript 
doesnt appear to indicate that Mr R was looking to purchase cover that very same day. I am 
also mindful that Mr R has the added benefit of hindsight here, having now been able to 
identify the various impacts of the policys start date on its costs and coverage options. Mr R provided a report by a consultant linguistic too. It described itself as an analysis of the 
exchange between (Mr R) and an AXA representative and said it was highly logical and 
entirely reasonable for Mr R to have concluded AXA had advised it wasnt possible for a 
corporate and personal policy to be held concurrently. 
AXA said the report didnt provide any additional assistance and noted the linguistic 
consultant had set out a number of times that the transcript was unclear and lacks the 
additional transcript detail that is typical in linguistic transcripts. It also said the consultant 
had explained:
Linguistic transcripts, especially those used in CA, typically capture the words that are 
spoken and also use a variety of notations to capture how a speaker says something (e.g. 
the intonation, volume, and pace of their speech) and how an interaction plays out (e.g. 
pauses during speech, interruptions, overlaps between speakers (Jefferson, 2004). These 
additional features help aid the interpretation of the original spoken conversation by 
providing a more complete account of it.
Again, I thank Mr R for providing this report. But I dont think it was unreasonable of AXA to 
maintain its position given the consultant had explained the transcript lacked the additional 
detail that would normally be present to help aid the interpretation of the original 
conversation.  
The NCD protection
Turning to the issue of NCD protection, I can see that AXA did not refer to this within the call 
on 24 March 2016. I dont think it needed to do so though, as Mr Rs policy explained a 
policy holder needed to request NCD protection if they wanted that provision: 
Can I protect my no claims discount?
In some cases, we may offer you the chance to protect your no claims discount for a small 
fee. If you want to do this please contact us within 30 days of receiving your renewal 
documents.
AXA has already explained Mr R would not have been eligible for NCD protection given his 
previous medical history. But even if he were, Im satisfied the policy terms explained in a 
clear, fair and not mis-leading way that NCD protection was only available in some cases. 
And that if Mr R had wanted this provision he needed to be the one to request it.
As I noted above, Mr R has set out his complaint at length and it is clear that he feels very 
strongly about his position. I realise he is likely to be further disappointed by my decision and 
I am of course sorry to disappoint him. But for all of the reasons given above I will not be 
interfering with AXAs position on this occasion.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman