DRN-1490653
The complaint
Mr N complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr N and Barclays, so there is no need for me to repeat it all again here in 
any great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of 
direct relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
Barclays increased Mr Ns credit limit on his credit card, the last time being in 2003. He feels 
this was irresponsible lending by Barclays because at the time he was unable to repay the 
minimum amount every month. His account was passed to Barclays debt collectors in March 
2004 and his account defaulted in 2007.
Mr N experienced financial problems and got help from a debt management company who I 
shall call TS. Mr N made payments to his account with the help of TS from 2004 to 2010.
When Mr N complained to Barclays in 2019 they said they couldnt look at the complaint 
because it had been brought too late. Mr N was unhappy with Barclayss final response and 
so brought the complaint to this service and our investigator looked into it. Having done so, 
the investigator agreed with Barclays that too much time had passed and that Barclays didnt 
have to look at it.
Mr N didnt agree with that and asked that the complaint be passed to an Ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
Why I cant look into this complaint
The Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP), which from part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook, a financial services' regulator, govern what we can and cant consider. As part of 
this, one of the things I have to consider is whether the complaint was brought in time.
DISP 2.8.2 states:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably 
to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman 
within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint 
having been received; unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 2.8.2 R 
or DISP 2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances;
Applying this rule, its very clear that Mr N was aware of his financial difficulties back in 2004, 
because he was seeking help from TS. Further, although he was given credit limit increases 
he also received a credit limit decrease in November 2003. But Mr N had mental health 
problems and has told this service that he wasnt able to give TS the sort of details that he 
could do now. As such he says he was not capable of dealing with matters then and that this 
amounts to exceptional circumstances.
As a fact, this service did not receive a referral of Mr Ns complaint until 2019 which is more 
than 6 years after the Mr Ns credit limit was increased, that being the event complained of.
But I also have to consider when Mr N ought reasonably to have been aware of a cause for 
complaint  in other words when should Mr N have been aware that the increase in his 
credit limit gave him cause to complain. And if that date was more than 3 years before the 
complaint was made to this service then the complaint is out of time. 
I am sorry to hear that Mr Ns mental health was not good in 2003 and beyond. However, he 
was able to seek help from his mother who put him in touch with TS, and TS were able to 
help him by dealing with Barclays over a very long period of time. So although I wouldnt 
have expected Mr N to be immediately aware he had cause to complain, I would have 
expected that sometime up to 2010 it would be reasonable to think that he would, especially 
as TS were assisting him. 
Im allowed to consider late complaints if the failure to comply with the time limits is due to 
exceptional circumstances. This again takes me to the issue of Mr Ns mental health and 
whether that of itself could amount to exceptional circumstances. I think if Mr N had had no 
assistance at all, and his mental health had affected him to the point where he couldnt take 
any action for himself, then it could possibly amount to exceptional circumstances. But in Mr 
Ns case he was able to seek help, and he was able to instruct TS to act for him. So I cant 
see that exceptional circumstances arise here.
In summary Mr N has brought his complaint much more than 6 years after the event he 
complains of and more than 3 years after the date he could be said to have been reasonably 
aware he had a cause to complain. And I havent seen any evidence to support an argument 
that exceptional circumstances exist which would allow the complaint to be brought out of 
time.
My final decision
As the complaint was referred out of time, and Im not persuaded exceptional circumstances 
apply, Im afraid this isnt a complaint we can look into.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman