DRN-4368243
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax responded to his request 
to reduce the term of his mortgage. And he complains about what happened when he asked 
for a recording of the call where this was discussed.
What happened
Mr S told us he wanted to complain about how hed been sold a new mortgage deal, which 
happened over the phone during lockdown. Mr S wanted to listen to this call again, and 
particularly what Halifax had said about reducing the term of his mortgage, before he 
advanced his complaint about this. Mr S said hed requested the calls where this product 
was sold, and he wanted to complain about how these were sent to him. He said Halifax had 
breached data protection legislation by sending these outside of the stipulated time, without 
passwords to access the data, and in faulty formats.
Mr S said when he complained to Halifax about the problem with the call recordings, it just
started to send him £50 cheques, but it never rectified the problem. He said he still couldnt
tell whether hed been financially affected, because he hadnt been able to review the
requested information.
Halifax said it didnt think it had done anything wrong by turning down Mr Ss request to
reduce the term of his mortgage. And it said that it had sent call recordings to Mr S on 21
June, within a month of his request, so it didnt think it had breached any legislation. Halifax
said it recognised Mr Ss concerns, and it had offered him compensation of £300. Halifax
thought that was a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He thought it was fair for
Halifax to refuse to shorten the term of Mr Ss mortgage at a time when his income was
severely affected by lockdown. He said Halifax had recognised that its service when sending
call recordings was below the level it looks to provide, and our investigator agreed. He also
agreed that continuing to receive letters from Halifax, after Mr S told Halifax that
communication by letter wasnt suitable for him, would have been distressing for him. But our
investigator said he did think that an apology and offer of £300 was fair in the circumstances
of this case, so he wouldnt ask Halifax to increase this further.
Mr S didnt agree. He said that £300 was insulting, and he didnt think Halifax had sent the
information he had a right to, in time. Our investigator said our service doesnt fine or punish
businesses for not supplying information quickly enough. We look at the impact on the
individual. And here, he thought the offer made was fair.
Mr S wanted us to clarify what the £300 was for, and our investigator said it was for all the
areas of distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S. And our investigator said if Mr S
wanted, we could send the call recording he hadnt been able to listen to.
Mr S didnt agree. He still thought the deadline for supplying information had been missed,
and he said Halifax had ignored what he told it about his dyslexia when communicating with
him. He thought that if Halifax had refused to send us information, wed have fined it much
more than the £300 he was being offered.
Our investigator stressed that we dont fine businesses. And, because no agreement was
reached, he passed this case to me for a final decision. I then reached my provisional 
decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Mr Ss complaint to our service hasnt focussed on whether he should have been 
allowed to change the term of his mortgage. Hes asked our service to look into whether 
Halifax has breached data protection legislation. He asked it for recordings to refresh his 
memory about what happened when he had a call with Halifax, discussing a possible 
change to his mortgage term. Hes unhappy with how Halifax responded to that request. 
And hes expressed concern about how Halifax communicated with him.
Halifax has treated this as part of Mr Ss original complaint, about whether he should 
have been allowed to reduce the term of his mortgage when he took out a new 
mortgage deal in May 2020. And I think its appropriate for our service to resolve this 
issue for Mr S too.
On 12 May 2020, Mr S spoke to Halifax about a new mortgage deal. At that time, he 
was self-employed, and the nature of his job meant his income had been significantly 
affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr S was meeting his mortgage payments using 
savings, and although he said he could continue to do this comfortably for some time, 
Halifax said it wouldnt be appropriate to reduce the term of his mortgage at that time.
I have listened to the relevant call, and I can confirm that this is what I can hear on the 
call. Mr S had said his recollection was that he was told that he would need to go into a 
branch to reduce the term of his mortgage. Halifax did say he would need to go to a 
branch, but that was because his date of birth was wrongly recorded on its files, and it 
said it would need to correct this before he could make changes to his mortgage.
Halifax then went on to explain that as Mr S was self-employed and not able to work at 
the moment, it wouldnt be able to reduce the term of his mortgage, as he didnt have an 
income at that time. Halifax explained that, if Mr S took out a new deal on this call, 
although he would then be tied in to a particular interest rate for a fixed period, he could 
still make changes to the term of his mortgage during this time. And it also told him how 
he could make overpayments, if he wanted.
I think thats a reasonable view for Halifax to have taken at the time. I dont think it had 
to reduce Mr Ss mortgage term for him, at a time when his income had been very 
significantly impacted, and no one was able to confidently predict when it might be 
reinstated.
Ive also listened to the calls Mr S had more recently, to raise his concerns about the 
sale of his new mortgage product, when he said he should have been allowed to reduce 
the term of his mortgage but was told he couldnt. Mr S raised this complaint with Halifax 
on 6 June 2022. I do think Mr S asked to hear the recording of the call that he had about 
his mortgage then. I also note that the call handler told Mr S that he thought recordings 
were sent out on a disc, and Mr S said this was fine. I havent heard that Mr S requested 
any particular format, or confirmed that he had any particular needs, on this call.It took a little while for Halifax to get these calls sent to him. It said on 14 June that the
recordings would be on their way soon. There was then some confusion, as Halifax
apologised for the delay on 23 June, and then after this, said it had made a mistake, and
recordings had already been sent on 21 June.
I understand Mr S says he didnt receive these recordings, he only received the later 
ones. But Ive seen internal emails which suggest the recordings were sent on 21 June. 
I think its likely they were sent then, but I also think it was unhelpful for Halifax to then 
give Mr S conflicting information about whether they were sent.
I can also see that after this, Halifax claimed it hadnt breached data protection rules 
which require it to supply information within a month of the request, because it had 
supplied this information by mid-July. At this point, Halifax appears to have been 
working on the basis that the start date for this deadline was when documents were 
requested internally, not when Mr S had asked for them. That was clearly a mistake, 
and Halifax has recognised this since in its communications with Mr S. However, I think 
this mistake has both upset Mr S and prolonged this complaint for him. And Ill bear that 
in mind when Im thinking about compensation.
Mr S says hes never had the call recordings he wanted in a format that he could listen 
to. However, I cant see that Halifax had agreed at the outset to send these recordings 
in an audio CD format. And I can see that later in his complaint, Halifax did say it would 
try to send these to him in a different form. Mr S said he didnt want the recordings sent 
at that time. Our investigator has since repeated this offer, and Mr S hasnt taken our 
service up on this.
Mr S also complained that Halifax was writing to him, which hed repeatedly said wasnt 
the best way to contact him, because of his dyslexia. I think that Halifax was initially 
content to call Mr S, but he did then ask it not to, as he was concerned about its record 
keeping. He asked for communication by email.
Halifax said to Mr S that it wouldnt want to send a complaint response by email, 
because that wasnt a secure method of communication, so it would write to him about 
this. Halifax had sent Mr S its first complaint response letter, before Mr S told Halifax 
that this wasnt a suitable method of communication. But I note that Halifax continued to 
send letters after this. It did suggest that it could put in place a third party authority on Mr 
Ss account, in response to his comment that he might need this. And Halifax said it 
would discuss with him other ways for it to communicate with him.
Mr S, not unreasonably, pointed out that the letters Halifax continued to send him didnt
contain personal information about his accounts or mortgage, and he asked why Halifax
couldnt email him.
I think it was unhelpful for Halifax to continue to write letters to Mr S once hed explained 
that he was having difficulty with these. I can see that Halifax did make some attempts 
to offer different support to Mr S, but I note that it made attempts to do this through its 
letters, which doesnt appear to me to have been appropriate, given that Mr S had 
clearly explained that he was dyslexic, and that he had difficulties with reading. Halifax 
did have another line of communication open with Mr S, through email, and I think 
Halifaxs offers of support should have been made there.
I understand that Halifax has since apologised for the mistakes it made in this case, and 
it has offered Mr S an additional payment of £300, on top of the £50 it previously sent 
(which Mr S said he didnt accept). I know that Mr S feels hes been let down very badly by Halifax. And I can see that there has been confusion, and unhelpful communications 
from Halifax.
Its worth noting that the FCAs guidance for dealing with vulnerable consumers says 
that businesses should understand the needs of their target market / customer base, 
ensure their staff have the right skills and capability to recognise and respond to the 
needs of vulnerable customers and respond to customer needs through product design, 
flexible customer service and provision and communications. Although Halifax did 
attempt to make adjustments here, Mr S was clearly let down by the way the process 
was put in place, as letters continued to be sent to him. And the offers of support, which 
may have avoided the issue of those letters, were contained in the letters themselves. 
So I agree that Halifax ought to pay a little more in this case.
I think a total payment of £500 would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this
complaint. Ill allow Halifax to count towards that amount, any payment it has already 
made to Mr S. For the avoidance of doubt, that would only include any cheque for £50 
that Halifax previously sent him, if it can show that these were cashed.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax replied to say it didnt have any further comments, and would accept the decision. 
Mr S also replied. He said he was very disappointed in my decision, which he said was full of 
errors. Our investigator asked Mr S to elaborate, and he mentioned a typo in my provisional 
decision, where Id referred to Mr S requesting to extend, rather than reduce, the term of his 
mortgage. I do think its clear from the decision as a whole that this was an unfortunate typo, 
rather than a fundamental misunderstanding about the nature of Mr Ss complaint. Id like to 
apologise to Mr S for that, and I have corrected this in the text above. 
Mr S also said that Id contradicted myself, by saying 'I noted the call handler did tell Mr S he 
believes call would be sent in disc format but then following this by saying I cannot see 
where Halifax suggested they would be sent in disc format. Thats not quite what my 
decision says. 
I heard the call handler, on the call recording from 6 June, telling Mr S he thought the call 
recordings would be sent on a disc. But Mr S later said hed been told, on that specific call, 
that the recording would not just be on a disc, but also in an audio format. Mr S said hed 
been reassured that he would be able to listen to the recordings by putting the disc in a CD 
player. I havent been able to hear that Mr S did ask for that particular disc format, or that 
Halifax had offered or agreed to that. 
Halifax did later send a disc. But it wasnt an audio disc, it was a data disc, so Mr S could 
only listen to calls by playing this disc on a computer. Mr S said then that I have now learnt 
this cannot be used on a CD player as informed in the original complaint call. I dont think 
thats right, because I dont think Halifax did say that, on the first call. 
Mr S said there was very little mention of how he repeatedly asked for communication via 
email due to difficulties, yet Halifax continued to ignore further requests and continue to communicate by letter, despite his highlighting no account information was included in the 
correspondence. 
I do think I have reflected this point, in particular at the end of the third page, where I said 
that Mr S asked for communication by email. I then said that  I note that Halifax 
continued to send letters after this. And I noted that Mr S, not unreasonably, pointed out 
that the letters Halifax continued to send him didnt contain personal information about his 
accounts or mortgage, and he asked why Halifax couldnt email him.
My decision also notes that Halifax did offer Mr S support and alternative ways of 
communication, but I expressed disappointment that these offers were made in letters that 
Halifax sent to Mr S. Thats a format Mr S told Halifax he was having difficulty with. 
I think my decision is clear that I think it was unhelpful for Halifax to continue to write letters 
to Mr S once hed explained that he was having difficulty with these. And this was a key part 
of why Mr Ss complaint was upheld.
Mr S said there was no mention of the last phonecall he received from Halifax agreeing that 
it had failed, yet refusing to acknowledge this when discussing a solution on later emails. 
Its not clear what failure Mr S is referring to here. Mr S said on 19 July that he was refusing 
any future calls, and before this, his calls discussed issuing the requested recording, and 
whether or not Halifax had sent this to him. I said in my provisional decision that I could see 
Halifax told Mr S on 23 June that it hadnt yet issued the calls, but it then corrected this, and 
said they had been sent after all, on 21 June. I explained in my provisional decision that I 
thought the calls were first sent on 21 June. And that, in turn, means I didnt think Halifax 
failed to issue call recordings within a month of Mr Ss request. 
Mr S said that the cheques for £50 that Halifax sent had been destroyed. My provisional 
decision only allows Halifax to deduct money its previously paid Mr S, if it can show that 
those cheques have been cashed. 
Mr S then wrote again. He said that my provisional decision noted that Id seen internal 
emails which suggested the call recordings he wanted were sent on 21 June. Mr S wanted 
me to confirm whether I had witnessed evidence that proved the information was sent at the 
time, or only emails suggesting they were sent. He said hed repeatedly asked for proof that 
this email was sent, before raising this complaint, but hadnt been sent that.
My provisional decision says this I understand Mr S says he didnt receive these recordings, 
he only received the later ones. But Ive seen internal emails which suggest the recordings 
were sent on 21 June. I think its likely they were sent then 
I can see that Mr S emailed Halifax on 7 July to say he presumed the recordings were being 
withheld from him, as he hadnt received them. I have seen an internal email, dated 13 July, 
where the complaint manager checks with a colleague to see whether the recordings had 
been sent to Mr S or not. That colleague replied to say they had been sent on 21 June. On 
14 July, the complaint manager told Mr S the recordings had been sent on 21 June, and said 
she would send them again. Mr S later said he didnt receive this email either.
Whilst this email chain doesnt prove beyond any possibility of doubt that the mails to Mr S 
with the requested call recordings were sent, thats not unusual. In cases like this, I have to 
decide whats most likely to have happened. And, having considered these emails in the 
overall context of this case, I think what is most likely to have happened here is that they 
were sent. I dont know why the first or second email wasnt safely received by Mr S, but I 
havent been able to see that this is likely to be Halifaxs fault. Mr S said he wanted to know if the email was sent, so he could tell whether this was an 
issue of bad communication, or if Halifax had breached the guidelines by failing to send out 
the requested information during the correct time period. I do think its most likely that this is 
a case of bad communication by Halifax. I think it did try to get the documents to Mr S, within 
the required timescale. 
But I noted in my provisional decision that it was very unhelpful for Halifax to make two 
mistakes about this  that it initially said the recordings hadnt been sent on 21 June, and 
that it also said supplying them in July would still meet the deadlines. 
My provisional decision above notes that I thought this had both upset Mr S and 
prolonged this complaint for him. And thats another reason my decision was to uphold his 
complaint.
For the reasons set out above, I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I 
originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax must pay Mr S a total of 
£500 in compensation. Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax can count towards that 
amount, any payment it has already made to Mr S for this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman