DRN-3879870
The complaint
Ms A complains about the advice given by Liverpool Victoria Financial Advice Services 
Limited (LV) not to transfer the benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational 
pension scheme to a personal pension. She says its in her best interests to do this as she is 
gravely ill, and she wants to access her pension fund now as she is unlikely to live long into 
her retirement. Her inability to access her pension is causing her serious financial hardship 
as she can no longer work.
What happened
Ms A approached LV in 2021 to discuss her pension and retirement needs. Ms A sought 
advice as she had been recently diagnosed with a serious illness and was undergoing 
treatment for it. As she was nearing her retirement age, she wanted to consider her options 
about her future work, and pension entitlements, given the changes in her personal situation.   
LV completed a fact-finding process to gather information about Ms As circumstances and 
objectives. This showed that Ms A was aged 57 and currently employed but on sick leave, 
this would continue for the foreseeable future. She was currently in receipt of statutory sick 
pay. 
Ms A expected her expenditure to be around £9,0000 a year in retirement. And she felt that 
she could use her DB scheme benefits to provide this until her state pension was payable. 
She also wanted to fund some improvements to her home. 
LV also carried out an assessment of Ms As attitude to risk, which it said was at the lower 
end of the risk scale. That said, Ms A questioned the relevance of this as she thought her 
reduced life expectancy was a more important consideration.  
Ms A paid £2,208 for the advice.
In September 2021, LV said that Ms A shouldnt transfer her pension benefits. The suitability 
report outlined that Ms A was considering retiring straight away if she was able. This was 
mainly due to her illness and the related reduction in her life expectancy.
The information from the time of sale showed that whilst Ms A was currently undergoing 
treatment for this illness she was expected to improve, and she was considering returning to 
work, albeit in a reduced capacity. LV said that Ms A was making an irreversible decision to 
transfer but it wasnt certain that she needed access to the funds straightaway. She should 
revisit this decision when this was clearer. So, she may feel differently about her future in 
twelve to eighteen months time.
So, LV felt that the DB scheme benefits were the best way for Ms A to fund her retirement as 
it provided a guaranteed, and increasing, income which would be prohibitively expensive to 
replace. LV said that Ms A should try and preserve her DB scheme benefits as far as 
possible and consider other means to provide an income now such as state benefits, or 
returning to work at a later date, if her illness improved.
Ms A complained in 2022 to LV about this advice. She said that she understood the risk of 
the pension transfer and disagreed that she shouldnt transfer immediately. She said her life 
expectancy was much reduced, and she needed the pension funds to possibly pay for care 
or medical treatment. The advice to not move her pension was flawed because she was 
unable to pay for further advice. It was wrong to advise her to, essentially, live off state 
benefits. She had poor health, no dependents, and a need for flexible income. So, a DB 
transfer was the right thing to do. 
LV didnt uphold Ms As complaint. It said that at the time Ms A was given advice, her 
diagnoses, whilst serious, wasnt terminal. And as there was still a chance that she might 
recover it still didnt think it was best advice to transfer her DB scheme away. 
Ms A referred her complaint to our service. An Investigator didnt think the complaint should 
be upheld and she didnt think LV should pay compensation. She said that, at the time of 
advice, LV was right to say that she shouldnt transfer her DB scheme benefits. She agreed 
that whilst Ms As illness was serious at the time of advice, there was a chance of recovery. 
And so, it wasnt in her best interests to give up the guaranteed benefits the DB scheme 
offered. She said the advice fees were agreed before the advice was given. 
Ms A disagreed, in addition to what she has said earlier, she also feels that LV should have 
realised that she would struggle to pay any further fees and so this was her only chance to 
get advice, she couldnt go elsewhere. 
After the first advice period Ms A received information that her illness was likely to be 
terminal and she now had a very much-reduced life expectancy. LV has offered further 
advice following this change in circumstance with a reduced fee. I understand Ms A is in the 
process of receiving this.  
Ms A went on to also say that she can only transfer out within twelve months of her scheme 
normal retirement date, which is April 2024, and she says her pension transfer amount has 
fallen in value over this time. 
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements of the advice process LV followed
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. 
And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ive taken into account the rules that LV needed to follow when giving advice. The most 
important of these are the provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving 
a personal recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, LV should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Ms As 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in her 
best interests.
So, having considered these and the evidence in this case, Ive decided not to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
Financial viability 
LV carried out a transfer value comparator (as required by the regulator) to show what sum 
of money Ms A would need to invest at a risk-free return to provide the same benefits as the 
DB scheme at her age 57 assuming she took a full pension. The transfer values from Ms As 
three periods of DB scheme membership in total were £373,840.32. But the funds needed to 
purchase the benefits Ms A was giving up were £479,950.30. 
So if she made the transfer she would be giving up benefits immediately worth just over 
£100,000. It wouldnt normally be realistic or probable for an investment of this size to 
increase by this amount over the three years she had to retirement. Partculary as Ms A had 
a lower attitude to risk. It follows that from a finaicial liability perspective it was reasonable for 
LV not to recommmend that Ms A transfer when she was likely, if not almost certain, to be 
worse of if she did so because of this.  
I can see that Ms A has questioned the validity of this financial viability assessment and she 
thinks it is a number crunching excercise. But LV was required to produce this analysis 
under FCA rules  it couldnt simply ignore this regulatory requirement in Ms As case. And 
in my view the comparator is important because it highlights the risks involved in 
transferring and the valuable benefits provided by a DB pension. 
In summary LV was required to start with the assumpation that a transfer of Ms As DB 
scheme benefits wouldnt be right for her. This was because they provided a guaranteed and 
escalating pension from age 60 (or earlier if she wanted it). And the information LV recorded 
at the time and relied on to support the advice showed that it was highly unlikely Ms A would 
be better off financially if she retired as normal as a result of transferring. So I think the 
conclusion reached by LV, that transferring Ms As DB scheme benefits was likely not in her 
best interests from a financial viability perspective at the time it gave the advice, was 
reasonable.
But financial viability is not the only consideration  there might be other compelling reasons, 
which would make a transfer suitable. And its very clear Ms A is of the view that her illness 
and personal situation were more important factors than this. 
Flexibility and income needs
Ms A was 57 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire immediately if possible. It was 
recorded that at age 60 Ms As DB scheme would provide a total income of £9,015.93 a year 
plus tax free cash of £60,097.60. Or it could provide an immediate yearly income of 
£11,704.28. I dont have any information about what the immediate tax-free cash entitlement 
and reduced pension would be. But Id expect these to be lower than then amounts at 
Ms As age 60 and Ms A may have had this information.  
Ms A didnt want an immediate pension in any event. She was seeking advice to transfer her 
benefits away from the DB scheme and access the fund immediately. The suitability letter said that Ms A wasnt happy with the reduction from the scheme if she was to take the 
benefits from it straight away, and so she wanted to access her funds now. 
This would allow her to make some improvements to her home and enjoy the time up to her 
state retirement age. She would then be in receipt of her, and her partners, state pensions 
and so she wouldnt need the income from the DB scheme as her expenditure of around 
£9,000 per year would largely be met by the state provision. She said that if she was 
withdrawing too much from the DB transfer funds she would consider some work, but on a 
much reduced basis. 
Ms As want to access her DB pension was driven by her illness, which was, and is, very 
serious. But I dont think its unreasonable to say that whilst this was the case at the time of 
advice, the information LV had was that Ms A was undergoing treatment and she didnt have 
a diagnosis that it was terminal. So, it wasnt unreasonable to have given advice on the basis 
that she, could need to take benefits from the DB scheme for a significant time into her 
retirement. And I think LV was right to have factored this into the advice it gave. I think its 
reasonable to say that Ms As needs, as recorded at the time of sale, were immediate but LV 
did also need to consider her future. I appreciate Ms A thought her immediate needs were 
very pressing and she no doubt thought the transfer presented a solution to some of her 
current problems. 
But I note LV did say that Ms A should review this on an ongoing basis and particularly when 
her expected recovery time was passed to see if a transfer was in her best interests. Which 
again I agree with.   
So, LV concluded that the transfer was not in Ms As best interests and was unsuitable. 
Taking into account the available information and the starting assumption the FCA said LV 
needed to make, I dont think that conclusion was unreasonable at the time of sale.
The fees Ms A paid for the advice
Ms A did pay for the advice, and I understand it was a lot for her to pay. I can understand her 
frustration when she didnt receive what she thought was the right advice. But LV is entitled 
to be remunerated for the work it has done and I dont think the cost for the advice was 
unreasonable, and Ms A agreed to pay this regardless of the outcome. 
LV is now providing further advice at a much reduced rate and again this seems reasonable.  
It wont need to start again, and it only needs to factor in Ms As change in her illness 
diagnosis. Overall, I dont think the fees it has charged are unfair. 
What happened after the advice not to transfer
I do note that after the advice Ms As diagnosis did change and her life expectancy was 
reduced further. Her illness was diagnosed as being terminal. 
Ms A is now receiving more advice and she has provided some comment on this in respect 
of the fees she will pay and when she can transfer her benefits. Im only looking at the 
advice Ms A was given not to transfer her benefits in 2021. So, I wont comment on this 
here. 
Summary
I understand that Ms A disagrees with LVs advice and recommendation given in 2021. But 
Im satisfied LVs advice was based on her individual circumstances and needs at the time and that having considered these it said it wasnt in Ms As best interests to transfer the 
benefits from her DB scheme to a personal pension.
I appreciate that Ms A and LV have differing views of what was in her best interests and I do 
understand her reasons why. I think its important to stress that LVs role here wasnt simply 
to transact what Ms A wanted it to do. Its role was to advise Ms A, and in doing so it had to 
look beyond what Ms A wanted and make a determination of what it believed was in her best 
interests. And from what Ive seen, its clear that it believed Ms As chosen path, which was 
to give up a guaranteed income in retirement, wasnt in her best interests. I think this was a 
fair and reasonable conclusion for LV to have made at the time.
I want to clarify that I cannot change or influence the rules the FCA sets for businesses  
thats not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service. My role is to consider individual 
complaints to assess if any wrongdoing requires putting things right. And in this case, Im 
satisfied LV hasnt done anything wrong or treated Ms A unfairly here - so I dont uphold this 
complaint or make any award.
And its clear that Ms A is facing a difficult time in her life and I hope things can be improved 
as much as they can. Im sure that my decision will not be the outcome that Ms A wanted, 
but I hope it doesnt cause her undue distress. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman