DRN-4102213
The complaint
Mr S complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In July 2017 RBS approved a loan for Mr S. The loan was for £16,200 repayable over 60 
months at £340.51 per month.
Mr S says that RBS lent irresponsibly to him.
RBS disagreed. It said it used information provided by Mr S about his income and other 
borrowing to assess affordability for the loan. It said there was nothing to suggest that the 
loan wasnt affordable for Mr S at the time he applied for it.
Mr S remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that although RBS shouldve taken 
steps to build up a more detailed picture of Mr Ss financial situation, the information that 
wouldve been available didnt suggest that Mr S wouldnt be able to repay the loan.
Mr S didnt agree. He said he didnt remember declaring his income in writing at the time of 
the application and that a branch manager had dealt with his application over the telephone.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website, Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mr Ss complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say RBS needed to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to make sure Mr S could afford to repay the borrowing in a sustainable 
way. These checks needed to be focussed on the borrowers circumstances. Whats 
considered to be reasonable and proportionate will depend on various factors, such as the 
amount of credit, the cost of credit, the amount of repayments and the customers individual 
circumstances.
Theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to consider 
the factors Ive mentioned above when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate.
Mr S stated that he had income of £2000 per month when he applied for the loan. He 
declared mortgage/rent of £500 per month, living costs of £556 per month, existing loan 
repayments of £331 per month and credit repayments of £143 per month, leaving disposable 
income of around £470 per month.
RBS used the information provided by Mr S to assess affordability and found that there was 
sufficient disposable income available to Mr S each month to make the loan repayments 
affordable.
Based on what Ive seen, and because the amount of the loan was significant, I think RBS 
shouldve taken further steps to verify the information declared by Mr S. It couldve asked Mr 
S to provide payslips to prove his income and bills or bank statements to [prove his 
outgoings.
Ive looked at the information provided by Mr S, as well as the bank statements provided by 
RBS, to see what reasonable and proportionate checks wouldve shown had these been 
carried out at the time of the loan application.
Based on what Ive seen, theres nothing in the information to suggest that the loan wasnt 
likely to be sustainably affordable for Mr S. So, I dont think there wouldve been any reason 
for RBS to think that the loan wasnt affordable for Mr S, had it seen this information.
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think RBS has treated Mr S unfairly.
Mr S has said that he doesnt recall signing a loan agreement. This isnt something that Mr S 
raised in his initial complaint to RBS, so Im unable to consider it here. Mr S will need to raise 
this as a new complaint with RBS so it can be investigated.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman