DRN-4415837
Complaint
Mrs P has complained about a loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) 
provided to her. She says the loan shouldnt have been provided to her and made her 
position worse.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Mrs B with a loan for £6,029.09 in February 2022. This loan had 
an APR of 72.7% and the total amount to be repaid of £17,749.80, which included interest 
fees and charges of £11,720.71, was due to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of £295.83.
Most of the proceeds from this loan were used to settle outstanding balances directly with 
Mrs Ps existing creditors.
One of our investigators reviewed what Mrs P and Everyday Loans had told us. He thought 
that Everyday Loans shouldnt have provided this loan and recommended that Mrs Ps 
complaint be upheld. Everyday Loans disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
complaint.
My provisional decision of 2 October 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 2 October 2023 - setting out why I wasnt intending to 
uphold Mrs Ps complaint. 
In summary, I didnt think that Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld because:
I was satisfied that Everyday Loans had completed reasonable and proportionate 
checks.
Mrs P had committed to using the funds from this loan to repay the balances on her 
existing revolving credit accounts.
Our investigator had included payments towards repaying the balances which 
wouldnt have to be made going forward as well as transfers to other accounts, when 
determining that Mrs Ps committed expenditure exceeded her income.
When the payments that shouldnt have been included as Mrs Ps committed 
expenditure were excluded, she did have enough to sustainably make the 
repayments to this loan.
 
Responses to my provisional decision
Everyday Lending didnt respond to my provisional decision and or provide anything further 
to me to consider.
Mrs P disagreed with my provisional decision stating:
An income and expenditure assessment wasnt carried out with her before she was 
provided with this loan.
The fact that she was using her overdraft shortly before getting paid was an 
indication that she was struggling financially and couldnt afford the loan.
She took this loan out to repay rent and utility arrears.
She asked Everyday Loans for £3,000.00 and was instead provided with a loan for a 
much larger amount.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Ps complaint.
Id like to thank Mrs P for responding to my provisional decision and her additional 
submission. But having carefully considered them as well as everything else provided from 
the outset, Im still not upholding Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mrs P could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Everyday Loans says it agreed to Mrs Ps application after she provided details of her 
monthly income and information on her expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
credit searches it carried out and copies of bank statements which Mrs P was asked to 
provide. In its view all of this information showed Mrs P could afford to make the repayments 
she was committing to. 
On the other hand, Mrs P has said she shouldnt have been lent to. And since my provisional 
decision shes said that she took out this loan to repay rent and utility bill arrears.
Ive carefully thought about what Mrs P and Everyday Loans have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that while Mrs P says an income and expenditure assessment 
wasnt carried out with her, there is a detailed income and expenditure assessment form on 
file. And this form is dated February 2022, when this loan was taken out, and appears to 
have Mrs Ps signature on it. So Im satisfied that the available evidence indicates that it is 
more likely than not that Everyday Loans did in fact carry out an income and expenditure 
assessment with Mrs P before providing this loan to her.  
As I explained in my provisional decision, Everyday Loans carried out a credit search on  
Mrs P. And the information provided from the credit search does show that Mrs P had 
existing debts. But these were relatively well managed. Equally, having once again reviewed the bank statements obtained, I still cant see anything on them which indicated Mrs P 
wouldnt be able to make the repayments. 
I know that our investigator concluded that Mrs Ps committed expenditure was the same as 
her income because the bank statements obtained showed that she used all of the funds 
going into her account each month. Furthermore, Mrs P has reiterated the investigators 
finding that her usage of her overdraft shortly before being paid was an indication that she 
was in financial difficulty, in her response to my provisional decision. 
Ive considered what Mrs P has said. But as I explained in my provisional decision, the 
statements included all of the money going out of Mrs Ps account including payments to the 
accounts that were going to be consolidated, which Mrs P wouldnt have to make going 
forward. And even more importantly this also included transfers to another account, which 
were marked as savings on the bank statements. 
Mrs P says that she didnt have a savings account at the time and that these payments were 
more likely payments to her credit card. But I can confirm that these were payments to her 
daughter. These were in addition to the credit card payments she was making and there is a 
handwritten explanation on the statements suggesting that these were for savings. 
I suspect that this is the explanation Mrs P provided about these payments to Everyday 
Loans at the time of the income and expenditure assessment. But the reality is, given these 
payments dont appear to be contractual, I wouldnt automatically include them as committed 
expenditure in an income and expenditure assessment.  
Furthermore, Everyday Loans appears to have ensured that the majority of the funds from 
this loan would be used to repay Mrs Ps existing debts. Mrs P says that she wasnt told she 
could only use the finds to repay existing debts and actually took the funds to pay rent and 
utility arrears. 
Ive thought about what Mrs P has said. However, the purpose of the loan was recorded as 
debt consolidation. Secondly, there isnt any indication at all, in the income and expenditure 
assessment, that Mrs P was in rent or utility bill arrears at the time of this application. 
Indeed, Mrs Ps bank statements show payments to her utility provider in the lead up to this 
application. I dont rule out the possibility that Mrs P might have been in rent and utility bill 
arrears. But, even if she was, I cant see how Everyday Loans would have known about this.
Equally, while Ive thought about what Mrs P has said about her overdraft usage, her 
overdrawn balance each month was low  less than £10. So I cant reasonably make the 
finding that Everyday Lending ought reasonably to have realised that she was trapped in an 
cycle of unsustainable overdraft usage and that it was therefore apparent she was in 
financial difficulty.
So Im satisfied that Everyday Loans took reasonable steps here to ensure that it wasnt 
increasing Mrs Ps existing indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise 
harmful, as well as taking reasonable steps to ensure Mrs P was able to make the monthly 
repayments.   
I accept that Mrs P says she experienced difficulty making the payments. And the reason 
why might have been because she did go on to re-establish balances on her revolving credit 
accounts. But Everyday Loans could only make a reasonable decision based on the 
information it had available at the time. It wont have known Mrs P would do this  all it could 
do was take reasonable steps to ensure the balances would be repaid, which for the reasons 
Ive explained I think it did, it couldnt close the accounts in question because they were held 
with other providers.Ive seen what Mrs P has said about only wanting a loan for £3,000.00, rather than the  
£6,029.09 she was lent and that Everyday Lending didnt explain the total amount shed 
have to repay on her loan. I dont know what happened when Mrs P applied for her loan. Its 
possible that she wanted £3,000.00 in new funds but Everyday Lending suggested the 
possibility of consolidating her existing balances to reduce the monthly payments shed 
make towards credit commitments going forward. But there simply isnt enough here for me 
to be able to safely make this finding.
In any event, what is clear is that Mrs P knew her application was for £6,029.09 and thats 
the amount she was lent. I appreciate that Mrs P says that the total amount she would have 
to repay wasnt explained to her. However, Mrs Ps loan agreement not only sets out that 
she would have to pay £295.83 a month for 60 months, but that the total amount she would 
have to repay is £17,749.80. 
I accept that this loan is expensive. But as Mrs P signed the agreement indicating her 
acceptance of these terms and then accepted the funds, I can only reasonably conclude that 
she was content to proceed with the application on this basis, even if this might not be her 
intended course of action when she first approached Everyday Loans.   
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Everyday Loans didnt treat 
Mrs P unfairly or unreasonably when providing her with her loan - it carried out proportionate 
checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which suggested the repayments were 
affordable. And this means that Im not upholding Mrs Ps complaint. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mrs P  especially as she was initially told by 
our investigator that her complaint should be upheld. But I hope shell understand the 
reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mrs Ps complaint, I would remind Everyday Loans of its 
continuing obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration in the event of Mrs P 
has difficulty making payments and it chooses to collect payments from her. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 2 October 2023, Im 
not upholding Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman