DRN-3929175
The complaint
Mr T complains about the service he received from Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited (MBFS) when his hire agreement ended. He says although he accepted an offer to 
extend the hire period, MBFS arranged to have the car collected and then applied charges.
What happened
Mr T entered into a hire agreement in January 2018 for a term of 48 months. Mr T says he 
was invited to extend the hire period, and although he accepted this proposal, MBFS 
instructed a third party to collect the car. Hes also unhappy with the end of contract charges 
that were applied when the car was collected and inspected. Mr T told us:
towards end of the hire period, an arrangement was made with a third party to collect 
the car on 24 January 2022;
two weeks before the car was collected, he was invited to extend the hire contract for 
up to six months whilst he looked for another car;
he confirmed his wish to take up the offer, and was advised that it would take a little 
time to arrange the extension to his agreement;
on 23 January, the third party contacted him to confirm the car would be uplifted the 
following day, and although Mr T explained that he was arranging an extension to the 
agreement, the third-party representative insisted that the collection of the car would 
still take place the following morning;
he was without a car for several days and wasnt able to work, so he wants MBFS to 
pay him £3,200 for his loss of earnings;
MBFS needs to apologise for its administrative errors, write off the remaining end of 
contract charges and, in addition to paying for his loss of earnings, it should pay him 
a substantial amount for the stress and inconvenience it has caused him over more 
than six months.
MBFS rejected this complaint. It said the car was collected on 24 January 2022 by an 
independent third party and taken to a site for a detailed inspection, which took place on 27 
January. It said this inspection identified some damages requiring repairs totalling £692. 
MBFS said it had reviewed the charges following Mr Ts original complaint and agreed to 
remove some of them. It says that following this review, the amount required was reduced to 
£320 and it offered him £50 compensation because of the service hed received.
MBFS said its Vehicle Returns Standards (VRS) document detailed the expected return 
condition of Mr Ts car, and it said this had been provided to Mr T at the start of his 
agreement and again six months before it expired, and the VRS was available to review 
online. And it said Mr T had had ample opportunity to familiarise himself with its fair wear 
and tear expectations and this provided him with the opportunity to have any repairs carried 
out prior to any inspection.
MBFS said it was satisfied that the damage it had identified was clearly evidenced and had 
been charged in accordance with the Vehicle Returns Standards and its pricing matrix. It 
said these costs were what it would incur in ensuring the car was repaired and ready for 
resale. And it confirmed that it was owed £320 by Mr T.
MBFS said it had made no agreement with Mr T for an extension to his hire agreement and it 
had no record of him seeking a quote for such an extension. It said the car had been 
collected at the correct time; at the end of the contract.
Mr T disagreed and brought his complaint to this Service.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. 
He said hed looked at the evidence submitted by MBFS to support its position and assessed 
this against MBFS VRS document, and he thought the damage was visible and outside the 
fair wear and tear guidance and, as a result, was chargeable.
He said that although he could see MBFS had offered a contract extension to Mr T, he could 
find no evidence that this had been progressed; there was no evidence of a contract 
extension or of monthly payments continuing after the end of the original hire agreement.
Mr T disagrees, so the complaint comes to me to decide. He says MBFS failed to extend his 
contract when he asked it to do so, and the damage to the car was minimal and was normal 
wear and tear for a four-year-old car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
Contract Extension
On the subject of extending the hire agreement, the parties do not agree. Mr T says MBFS 
made an administrative error when it failed to extend his hire agreement after hed accepted 
its offer. MBFS says it didnt agree an extension to Mr Ts hire agreement.
Where both parties disagree on something like this, my role is to decide what I think is more 
likely to have happened taking into account all the evidence.
Ive had sight of the screenshot where Mr T was made aware of the opportunity to extend 
the hire agreement. This says As your finance agreement ends soon, wed like to offer you 
an extension of your existing contract*. This extension can be up to 6 months in duration and 
your monthly payment will remain unchanged during this time. As a valued customer this 
gives you the flexibility to continue driving your existing vehicle until a new one becomes 
available.
Please speak to your Retailer to extend your existing agreement, as theyre best placed to 
arrange this for you, making everything simple and easy. And there was a button Mr T could 
press to Request a call back now. And a footnote says again that Contract 
extensionsmust be made by a Mercedes-Benz Retailer on your behalf.
Mr T says he pressed the button, and implies that, by doing so, he believed hed accepted 
an offer to extend the hire agreement, and that the extension had been agreed by MBFS. 
But I dont agree.Theres no indication that pressing the button was anything other than expressing an interest 
in extending a hire agreement, and pressing the button was simply a request for someone to 
call Mr T to discuss things further. But the act of pressing the button did not automatically 
extend the hire agreement, did not confirm the additional hire term that may have been 
available, and did not commit Mr T to making any further payments. Moreover, the wording 
instructs Mr T to speak to his Retailer  the dealership where he acquired the car  so that 
the Retailer can make the extension request on his behalf. 
So, although I dont doubt that Mr T may have wanted to extend the hire agreement, or that 
MBFS had made him aware that an extension was possible, Ive seen no evidence that an 
extension actually took place. And consequently, Im satisfied that Mr T ought reasonably to 
have been aware that the car would be collected at the end of the 48-month term of the hire 
agreement hed signed, and that the car was collected correctly, and on time by the third 
party on behalf of MBFS.
End of Contract Charges
The terms and conditions of the agreement, signed by Mr T, sets out in some detail the 
acceptable return condition of the car. It clearly sets out that an assessment will be made in 
line with the VRS, and it sets out what the acceptable conditions are, with examples, and 
what conditions are unacceptable, also with examples. It goes on to explain that the 
customer will have to pay the costs of either repairing or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost 
of the consequent reduction in the sale of it. Ive read this carefully, and Im satisfied that 
Mr T was responsible for returning the car in good condition, but the question is whether all 
the charges applied by MBFS are fair and reasonable.
The inspection identified a number of areas of damage that it deemed to be unacceptable - 
outside fair wear and tear. After reducing the charges, those that remain outstanding are as 
follows:
1. Left hand front alloy  damaged spoke £110.00
2. Front bumper  scratched in excess of 50mm £210.00
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVLRA) and these are accepted as an industry standard in determining 
whether any damage goes beyond fair wear and tear. So, Ive also taken these into account 
as well as the VRS that MBFS uses, so that I can decide what is fair and reasonable for 
MBFS to charge Mr T.
The BVRLA guidance sets out the standard regarding fair wear and tear. Ive looked 
carefully at what it says in regard to the areas identified by MBFS. It says:
Wheels  Any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia or hub of the alloy wheel is 
not acceptable.
Bumper  Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not 
showing are acceptable provided, they can be polished out
So, Im satisfied that the areas identified by MBFS as damaged are indeed beyond what is 
recognised as fair wear and tear according to the published industry standards.
Ive also considered the VRS that was in place at the time Mr T signed his hire agreement in 
October 2018. It says:Wheels and Tyres  Minor scuffing or damage under 25mm to the vehicle alloy or 
steel trim edge or wheel face are acceptable ... Scuffs, chips and scratches 
exceeding 25mm are not acceptable.
Bumpers  Dented bumpers and / or any dents penetrating through to the base 
material when painted are not acceptable.
Finally, Ive looked very carefully at the evidence that MBFS provided, and Im satisfied that 
the areas of damage identified are indeed damaged outside fair wear and tear. The alloy of 
the front left wheel is scratched and scuffed; and there is clear visible damage to the front 
bumper. So, I think the charges have been applied fairly.
Given all of the above, Im satisfied that the charges MBFS asked Mr T to pay were applied 
fairly and in line with relevant industry guidance and its own published standards  MBFS 
has acted fairly in respect of the charges it applied.
Ive noted that MBFS has offered Mr T £50 in compensation for the service he received 
when it had to revise its charges. Its now for Mr T to contact MBFS if he wishes to accept 
this offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman