DRN-3043209
The complaint
Mr D has complained to Fiscale Financial Services Limited Fiscale about advice he 
received to transfer out of the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension 
plan.  
Mr D is being assisted with his complaint by a professional representative.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ds employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined 
benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr D was unsure what he should do so he was referred by a Community Union official to 
Fiscale. Mr D initially met with Fiscale in November 2016. Fiscale didnt have the necessary 
permissions to advise Mr D on the pension transfer. So, with Mr Ds consent, Fiscale 
referred Mr D to another regulated firm with the relevant permissions. Ill refer to this firm as 
Firm J. 
After receiving advice from Firm J, Mr D transferred his BSPS benefits to a personal 
pension. The agency for the personal pension was then switched to Fiscale. Fiscale then 
advised Mr F to invest his funds in line with his attitude to risk. 
In November 2019, Mr D with assistance from his representative, complained to Firm J 
about the advice he had received to transfer his pension. Firm J rejected the complaint. Mr D 
also complained to Fiscale at the same time. Fiscale issued its final response rejecting the 
complaint. It said that it hadnt provided Mr D with advice to transfer his pension. 
Mr D didnt accept what Fiscale said so he referred his complaint to our service for review. 
Mr Ds representative provided detailed submissions to this service, setting out why Fiscale 
is jointly responsible or the advice Mr D received to transfer his pension. 
In summary, Mr Ds representative has said that Fiscale and Firm J operated a joint venture, 
and their combined advice led to Mr D transferring his BSPS benefits to a personal pension. 
Both advisers endorsed each others work and played a role in the transfer of Mr Ds 
pensions. Mr Ds representative says Firm J and Fiscale were both involved in transferring 
large numbers investors out of the BSPS and their actions cant be viewed in isolation. The 
actions of Fiscale were such that neither company could have operated this scheme without 
the other, and both should be held responsible. The actions of Fiscale went beyond that of 
mere introducer to the point of being an integral part of a scheme. 
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators but they concluded that Fiscale 
wasnt responsible for the advice given to Mr D to transfer his pensions. So they didnt 
uphold the complaint. 
Mr D has asked for the matter for be referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D is unhappy that he was advised to transfer his benefits out of the BSPS. Its clear from 
the paperwork on file that Firm J gave Mr D that advice. Firm J had the relevant permissions 
to complete this transfer. The BSPS wouldnt have allowed the transfer to proceed if the 
request hadnt come from a firm with the correct permissions. So, in the case of Mr D, the 
transfer wouldnt have gone ahead without Firm Js involvement. Firm J has been declared 
in default by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). Therefore, any 
complaint against Firm J is now a matter for the FSCS; its not something this service can 
assist with. 
Although Firm J is responsible for the pension transfer advice, I have considered whether 
Fiscale should also be held accountable for the advice given to Mr D to transfer out of the 
BSPS.  
Both parties will be aware of the emails sent after the initial meeting between Mr D and 
Fiscale. I dont think there is anything within these emails that could be construed as advice 
or a personal recommendation. And I think it was made clear to Mr D in these emails that 
Firm J would be assessing the suitability of the transfer. And, only if Firm J considered the 
transfer to be in Mr Ds best interest, would it go ahead. 
Mr Ds representative says that Fiscale went beyond the role of a mere introducer. It says 
that before referring Mr D to Firm J, Fiscale told him to transfer from the BSPS due to the 
uncertainties with the scheme and the PPF. And he says that Fiscale endorsed Firm J and 
they were essentially working together. 
I cant say for sure what was discussed  between Mr D and Fiscale. But I dont doubt Mr Ds 
recollection. I accept that Fiscale may have spoken positively about the transfer. And of 
course, it was sharing the transfer fee with Firm J and was hoping to provide Mr D with 
ongoing advice, should the transfer go ahead. So I think its likely that Fiscale would have 
hoped that Mr D would transfer. But in my view none of Fiscales interactions with Mr D in 
this regard ultimately caused the potential losses he may have suffered.
Mr D has said that he understood that Fiscale didnt have the relevant qualifications to 
advise on the pension transfer. So, after his initial meeting with Fiscale, he was referred to 
Firm J for assistance. Firm J gave Mr D the advice to transfer and without its involvement the 
transfer wouldnt have gone ahead. 
Mr Ds representative has said that even if Fiscale didnt give advice, its still liable for this 
matter. It says this because it considers there was a joint venture between the two firms. Its 
referenced a previous decision issued by this service and a court case, which it considers 
supports its argument that Fiscale should be held jointly liable for advice provided by Firm J.  
However, this service decides each case on its own particular facts and merits. So the right 
outcome in one case may not be the right outcome in another as individual circumstances 
can vary so much. And whilst I must have regard for the law, the decision I come to on what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, may be different to what a 
court would decide. So in deciding this complaint, Im only considering the individual facts 
and merits relating to Mr Ds dealings with Fiscale. Mr Ds representative says Fiscale breached its regulatory obligations to treat Mr D fairly and 
have due regard to his best interests when dealing with Firm J.  But Fiscale didnt have the 
required permissions to give advice on a pension transfer, so it couldnt be expected to 
advise Mr D not to transfer. When a firm doesnt have the right permissions or qualifications, 
its generally considered acceptable to refer clients to a firm that does. 
Mr Ds representative says that it represents a large number of clients that transferred away 
from the BSPS after Fiscale referred them to Firm J. However, even if this was the case, I 
think on balance its more likely Fiscale referred customers to Firm J on the understanding 
that it would provide suitable advice, rather than on the premise that Firm J would 
recommend a transfer whether it was suitable or not. 
Its not reasonable to expect a firm who doesnt have permission or qualifications to provide 
pension transfer advice, to be able to identify whether advice, given by a firm who does have 
those permissions, was unsuitable. I think Fiscale were allowed to rely on Firm J, who were 
regulated, had the relevant permissions and advisers with the necessary qualifications, to 
provide suitable advice.
It was ultimately Firm Js obligation to provide Mr D with independent and suitable advice.
And if it wasnt suitable for Mr D to transfer, Firm J - as the experts in this field  ought to 
have clearly told him. And had they done so and provided reasons why, I dont think any 
previous discussions with Fiscale would have likely made Mr D go against Firm Js advice. 
Particularly as Mr D understood that Fiscale didnt have the right qualifications to advise on 
the transfer. So he was being referred to a firm that did.
In summary, I think it was Firm Js advice that caused Mr D to transfer and that its fully 
responsible for any losses Mr D may have suffered, if the advice was unsuitable. I dont think 
any loss Mr D may have suffered as a result of transferring away from the BSPS were 
caused by Fiscale. So I dont consider it fair or reasonable to uphold this complaint.Your text 
here
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022. 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman