DRN-3414927
The complaint
Mr C has complained about various aspects of the service provided by National 
Westminster Bank Plc trading as Ulster Bank (Ulster Bank), including the fact they 
allowed the title deeds of a property belonging to him, which they had a charge over, to 
be changed without telling him and without his consent.
Mr C also raised a concern about the conduct of the receivers appointed to deal with his 
debt to Ulster Bank.
What happened
Mr C complained to Ulster Bank about a number of things. Although, when he submitted his 
signed complaint form to us, he specifically complained about the fact Ulster Bank allowed 
the title deeds of a property they had a charge on to be altered. It seems this was linked to 
the appointment of a receiver in relation to a debt Mr C had with Ulster Bank. And Mr C also 
mentioned in his complaint form he had some concerns about the receivers conduct. It 
seems Ulster Bank issued two final responses covering the issues. One in 2018 and a 
further one on 23 June 2020. However, Mr C also compained about the way Ulster Bank 
handled a Subject Access Request (SAR), the sale of a life insurance policy, payment 
protection insurance and the fact that a senior executive of Ulster Bank refused to meet with 
him in person. 
Mr C asked us to consider his complaint on 3 October 2020. We thought we wouldnt be able 
to consider Mr Cs complaint about the change to the title deeds without Ulster Banks 
consent, because Mr C had asked us to do so more than six month after the final response 
issued in 2018. So, we gained Ulster Banks consent to do this. But it seems wed be able to 
consider it anyway because of the further final response they issued in June 2020 and the 
fact Mr C asked us to consider his complaint within six months of this.
In May 2021, before wed considered Mr Cs complaint, he was one of three parties offered a 
formal consensual settlement arrangement by Ulster Banks agent. Part of this included 
discontinuing all his complaints against the Financial Ombudsman Service, Ulster Bank as 
the lender and the fixed charged receiver involved. Ulster Bank told us Mr C agreed to this 
settlement and they provided a signed copy to show this. 
One of our investigators addressed the complaint points Ulster Bank had dealt with in their 
final response in June 2020. He said in this that Mr C should complain to the Legal 
Ombudsman about the solicitor involved if he wasnt happy about the change to the title
deeds. Mr C responded by raising the issue of Ulster Bank consenting to the change in the 
title deeds and saying again they shouldnt have agreed to this and that they should have 
told him theyd done so.
The original investigator left the Financial Ombudsman Service and the case was passed to 
another investigator. He wrote to Mr C and addressed his concern about the change in the 
title deeds. He explained that Ulster Bank only gave consent as a charge holder on the 
property and all they were doing were confirming they had no objection to the change. So, 
he didnt think Ulster Bank had done anything wrong.
Mr C didnt agree and came back with similar points to the ones hed raised previously. And 
he asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 24 February. In this I explained that I couldnt consider Mr 
Cs concerns about the receiver. I also explained that I didnt think Ulster Bank had done 
anything wrong by agreeing to the title deeds of the property being changed. Although, I 
mentioned that  even if I did think Ulster Bank had acted inappropriately, it wouldnt be right 
for me to consider this when Mr C had signed the abovementioned consensual agreement. 
I gave both parties until 10 March to provide further evidence and comments. 
Ulster Bank have responded to say they dont have anything further to add. Mr C has 
responded with the following comments and evidence:
That he had understood that I would consider his initial complaint to Ulster Bank and 
their reply.
That the Ulster Banks disclosure in response to his SAR was inadequate. 
Ulster Bank did not acknowledge the harm they had caused him by agreeing for the title 
deeds to be changed.
Hes raised some further issues about a mortgage that was assigned and about the 
receiver. 
Ulster Banks agents acted illegally and without a moral compass. 
He was forced to take out a life insurance policy and these should not be forced on 
consumers. 
His complaint about PPI was that his letters about this were not answered and his 
complaint was not acknowledged and he was simply referred to a PPI helpline. 
He requested a meeting because he felt agrieved no-one was available to address his 
concerns. 
The consensual agreement was changed to allow him to continue his complaint to us. 
He has provided copies of an email exchange with Ulster Banks agent to prove this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I would like to say that it is very frustrating that Ulster Bank failed to inform us that 
the terms of the consensual agreement had been changed following an email exchange with 
Mr C. But  from the emails Mr C has sent us  Im satisfied it was. 
I appreciate I didnt deal with all of Mr C complaint points in my provisional decision. This 
was because he didnt actually ask us to consider these in his complaint form. That said  
our investigator did address the majority of them, so Ive addressed the further points Mr C 
has raised in response to my provisional decision in this final decision. 
I am not going to comment on how Ulster Bank handled Mr Cs SAR, as I dont think its 
appropriate. This issue is something that Mr C should raise with the Information 
Commissioners Office, as they are the more appropriate body to deal with complaints about 
data issues. 
Ive already explained in my provisional decision why its not appropriate for me to comment 
on the actions of the receiver appointed to handle the administration process Mr C was involved in. And my view on this hasnt changed for the reasons Ive already given. It seems 
some of Mr Cs concerns which he has referred to as the actions of Ulster Banks agents 
refer to the actions of the receiver. The receiver is not Ulster Banks agent. And Ive not seen 
any evidence that Ulster Banks actual agents acted illegally. 
Im not going to comment on the issue Mr C has raised with the assignment of the mortgage, 
as he hasnt raised this with us before, as far as I can see. It may be it is linked to his 
concerns about Ulster Bank agreeing to the change of title to the property referred to above. 
And my view on this hasnt changed either. That is Ulster Bank did nothing wrong in 
agreeing to this. And their consent wasnt what was behind the change of title. This remains 
my view, as it is clear the title on the property concerned was change by one of the title 
holders and not Ulster Bank. Ulster Bank agreed to this as a charge holder based on what 
they were told and I cant see they did anything wrong in this regard. The charge was to 
protect their interest, not Mr Cs.
Ulster Bank said it required a life insurance policy as part of its terms for offering a loan to Mr 
C. I think this was acceptable, provided he was given the option to arrange the life policy 
through another provider if he wanted to. This isnt clear, but even if this wasnt the case, it is 
unlikely hes lost out, as he had to arrange one with someone. The reason it is acceptable is 
that it is up to Ulster Bank to decide what terms it wants to lend on and I cant see anything 
wrong with this being subject to life insurance cover, if thats what they felt was appropriate 
in the circumstances. 
Im not going to comment on the PPI issue. I can see Ulster Bank gave Mr C the option to 
contact their PPI helpline, but Mr Cs concern appears to be more about how Ulster Bank 
handled his complaint about PPI than the sale of the PPI itself. And complaint handling in 
isolation is not something I am able to consider. 
I think Ulster Banks response and explanation on the reason Mr Cs request to meet with a 
senior executive was denied was clear and reasonable in the circumstances. Its not usually 
practical or appropriate for senior members of staff at a business to meet with customers. 
And the business will usually offer an alternative, which was the case with Mr C. And I am 
satisfied this approach was reasonable. 
In summary, I dont consider there to be any points Mr C has raised where it is appropriate 
for me to say that Ulster Bank got it wrong, other than with regards to the consensual 
agreement and I dont think this in itself warrants compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint about National 
Westminster Bank Plc trading as Ulster Bank. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman