DRN-2897756
The complaint
This complaint is about. Miss Ys mortgage with TSB Bank plc. Miss Y is unhappy that TSB 
wont consolidate her unsecured debt into the mortgage over an extended term.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again in 
detail here. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the current circumstances, rounding the 
figures where appropriate, and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
Miss Y has a repayment mortgage and two unsecured debts  a credit card and loan, both 
with TSB. Due to a sudden and irreversible deterioration in her health, Miss Y is now unable 
to work and is reliant on benefits for her income. She currently has an income/expenditure 
deficit of around £600; Miss Ys mother is supporting her by lending her money to make up 
the shortfall. 
Since she notified it of her changed situation, TSB has offered a series of temporary 
interest-only concessions, but finding agreement on a longer-term solution has proved 
problematic. Ultimately, what Miss E would like to TSB to do is consolidate her unsecured 
debts into the mortgage and reschedule the entire debt on a capital repayment basis over 
fourteen years. TSB is prepared to extend the term of the mortgage debt as it stands, but 
isnt willing to consolidate the unsecured debt into the mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority; nor are we 
a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an informal 
alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customer to resolve their 
differences. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue 
thats been raised if I dont think it changes the outcome.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Wed expect a lender to consider offering help to consumers going through a temporary 
problem, especially in situations where it can be seen their situation is likely to improve. 
Clearly, TSB has done that for Miss Y, by virtue of the interest-only concessions it had 
agreed at regular intervals since it became aware of her circumstances. The real difficulty in 
Miss Ys case is that her financial difficulties arent temporary; she needs a permanent 
solution.
Ive looked at everything that has passed between the parties over the past two years or so. 
The first observation I have to make is to say that both parties have approached this 
situation openly and frankly, and communication between TSB and Miss Y has always been 
pro-active and conducted in a co-operative manner. Thats very often not the case in 
situations as sensitive as this one is. 
However, the sticking point is that with one exception (which Ill come to shortly) none of the 
potential solutions that have been discussed will move Miss Y into a position where her 
income significantly exceeds her expenditure without contributions from her mother. All they 
would do is reduce the shortfall. This is despite Miss Y taking the decision to sell her car and 
become reliant on public transport.
I said a moment ago there was one exception; Miss Y has provided a working hypothesis to 
show that if her unsecured debt was absorbed into the mortgage (taking the balance from 
around £16,000 to approximately £30,000) and the term extended to fourteen years (taking 
her to age 75) then she could afford the repayments. This is on the proviso that the newly 
consolidated debt is on capital repayment from the outset whilst the core mortgage debt 
remains on interest-only until she receives her state pension in six years time, and switched 
to capital repayment thereafter.
TSB wont agree to this; its not happy to consolidate debt where there is an income shortfall 
and, as I understand it, that Miss Y doesnt have a workable repayment vehicle for the 
interest-only segment in the meantime. This is the very nub of the argument, so Ive given it 
a great deal of thought. Having done so, whilst I fully accept Miss Y finds the decision 
unwelcome, I cant find it to be unfair treatment on TSBs part. 
I say this not least because even though it would move Miss Y into a positive 
income/expenditure position, the monthly surplus would still be very small; in the region of 
£40 or so. Miss Ys wider finances would remain marginal at best, and shed still be left 
exposed to even quite small, one-off, financial shocks. Even a modest repair bill would be 
enough to put her back into deficit in any given month. 
Also, the proposal runs contrary to TSBs lending policy on two counts. Thats not to say a 
lender can always rely on a strict application of its lending policy; fair treatment will sometime 
require a degree of flexibility, especially if there are no other alternatives for the borrower. 
Here, however, I think Miss Y does have an alternative, even if perhaps she doesnt realise 
it.
I understand why Miss Y has discounted selling and downsizing to repay the mortgage. 
Although her loan to value ratio is low (around 11% as I understand it) and she has 
substantial equity, her current home is a one-bedroomed flat. Realistically, Miss Y would not 
be able to find a cheaper property that was still a realistic home for her needs. There is 
another option that Miss Y has also discounted, but I think is perhaps more viable than she 
realises. 
Miss Y has ruled out equity release because she doesnt see her current home as being her 
last.  Aside from the slight contradiction with her earlier point about not downsizing, a person 
need not be in their final home before taking equity release. There are equity release 
providers in the market offering quite flexible products, that allow borrowers to make interest 
payments if they wish, to stop the debt from growing; some even allow borrowers to make 
capital reductions if and when their circumstances allow. More significantly, some providers offer equity release mortgage where the early repayment 
charge levied on redemption (the typical barrier for those wanting to sell and move 
somewhere else) isnt a permanent feature of the mortgage, but expires after a specified 
period. Thereafter, the borrower can repay the mortgage without fear of incurring an early 
repayment charge. Id recommend Miss Y seek advice from an advisor who specialises in 
the wider equity release market, and who is also independent rather than tied to one 
provider.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 September 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman