DRN-2928149
The complaint
Mr M has complained that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA UW) closed his 
potential claim on his motor insurance policy following damage to his car without telling him.
What happened
Mr M contacted AA UW in early June 2019 to let them know that a third party had damaged 
his car when theyd opened the door of their car in a car park. The call dropped off and it 
was around three weeks before AA UW called Mr M back. When they did so, Mr M explained 
what had happened and asked the claim adviser what it was best to do. The adviser 
suggested that it would be best to allow AA UW to write to the third partys insurance 
company and ask for an admission of liability. And she explained that once theyd heard 
back from the third partys insurance company Mr M could decide what he wanted to do. She 
explained further that if the insurer admitted liability Mr M could claim and AA UW would 
arrange and pay for the repair of his car without him having to pay his excess. Mr M agreed 
to this course of action. 
AA UW contacted the third partys insurer. The insurer queried the circumstances and the 
extent of the damage. AA UW then wrote to Mr M to ask him to clarify whether his 
windscreen had been damaged in the incident in the car park. Mr M called AA UW within a 
few days to explain his windscreen claim had nothing to do with the incident in the car park. 
However, AA UW then closed Mr Ms claim without going back to the third partys insurer or 
letting Mr M know theyd done so. And when Mr M got his renewal notice in February 2020 it 
show hed had a non-fault claim for the incident in the car park.
Mr M complained to AA UW, but they rejected his complaint saying theyd followed the 
correct process.
Mr M asked us to consider a complaint about AA UW. One of our investigators considered it 
and decided AA UW hadnt done anything wrong. Mr M didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
Mr Ms complaint was passed to me and I emailed AA UW explaining that I thought theyd 
provided a poor level of service to Mr M by closing his claim without telling him. I suggested 
this and the incorrect reference on the renewal notice to a non-fault claim had caused Mr M 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience. And I said AA UW should provide Mr M with an 
apology and pay him £100 in compensation. I gave AA UW until 15 July 2021 to respond, 
but theyve not done so. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think AA UW provided poor service to Mr M after he called them to explain he was making 
a separate claim for damage to his windscreen and they just closed his claim instead of 
going back to the third party insurer as they should have done. They also provided poor 
service by not bothering to inform Mr M theyd closed his claim. AA UW then provided poor 
service again when they sent Mr M a renewal notice saying hed made a non-fault claim for 
the incident in the car park, when he hadnt actually made a claim at all. And AA UW had 
told him if he didnt do so the incident would be recorded as notification only. 
Putting things right
I think these occasions of poor service warrant an apology and I also think they caused Mr M 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience. So, Ive decided the fair and reasonable outcome 
to Mr Ms complaint is for AA to apologise for the poor service Ive described above and pay 
him £100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint. AA Underwriting 
Insurance Company Limited must write to him and apologise for the poor service Ive 
described above and pay him £100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2021.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman