DRN-4096971
The complaint
Mr G complained about Scottish Widows Limited (SW). He wants to access the funds held in 
his pension plan due to his ill-health and was unhappy with the information he was given.
What happened
Mr G contacted SW about accessing the funds in his pension plan. He spoke to them in 
December 2021. He let them know he had a heart condition. Mr G says he told SW he was 
due to have surgery in the next few years. 
Mr G wanted to access the cash held in his pension plan early to pay for his funeral 
expenses in advance should complications arise due to his condition and the surgery. Mr G 
says he was left with the impression from SW this would be a formality. It's agreed that after 
this call in December 2021, SW sent Mr G the forms that would need to be completed for 
any claim to be made relating to his health.
Mr G says that when he looked at the information, he became very worried. Mr G went on to 
complain as he thought the information suggested that he was required to have a health 
condition that meant he was unable to work to be able to successfully claim. Mr G says he 
needs to continue working to support his family. He wants SW to allow him to cash in his 
pension plan so he can pay for his funeral in advance.
SW responded to Mr Gs complaint. They apologised for some administrative problems 
when it came to putting Mr Gs call through to the right people at SW. However when it came 
to his complaint about being able to take benefits from his plan, they didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong.
They said theyd listened to the call from December 2021 and were satisfied theyd given 
him the right information about making an early claim due to ill-health. In the call they had 
explained they could send out a form for Mr G and his doctor to complete and then SW could 
look at his claim, and this was what needs to happen. SW didnt think there had been 
detailed discussions about Mr Gs intention to continue working, and in any event there had 
been no guarantee his claim would be successful.
SW went on to provide a summary of the rules governing how funds held in a pension plan 
might be able to be accessed early. 
Investigators view
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. He didnt think SW had done anything 
wrong and took Mr G to what was said about ill-health in some of the guidance. The 
investigator didnt think we could ask SW to act outside of the relevant rules.
Mr G asked for his case to be considered by an ombudsman as he remains worried about 
what he feels is the real risk of his death and this leaving his family unable to pay for his 
funeral.
Provisional decision
On 28 February 2023 I issued a provisional decision. In this I set out that I didnt intend to 
uphold Mr Gs complaint but I explained that I wanted to share my thinking. SW didnt have 
anything further to add. Mr G didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my thinking from that set out in my provisional decision and so I am not 
upholding Mr Gs complaint about SW.
There are limited situations where a person can access funds held in their pension plan 
early. The relevant consideration here is around Mr Gs health. Where a person has serious 
ill-health, the rules around pension plans can allow someone to access funds early if certain 
criteria are met. The terms of a specific plan will provide more information about this and the 
claim process.
Here SWs terms set out that where a plan holder has ill-health, they may be able to access 
funds in the plan before the age of 55, and if they are seriously ill and expected to live less 
than 12 months, a person may be able to access the full value, tax-free.
The starting point is for a plan holder (Mr G) and their doctor to complete the form that SW 
sent to Mr G in December 2021. Once SW have the required information, a decision can 
then be made about whether the plan holder meets the criteria. It does not appear Mr G and 
his doctor have ever submitted the relevant form, and so SW have never made a decision 
about whether Mr G meets the criteria and might be able to access funds in his plan. I 
appreciate Mr G feels he will not meet the criteria, but he hasnt asked SW to consider this 
yet.
SWs requirement for further information, including completion of the form and medical 
information isnt wrong. Not only is it set out in the plan information, but it is a usual 
requirement in these circumstances. Such information is generally required by all pension 
providers if someone wants to access their pension funds early. This is for a number of legal 
and regulatory reasons, including those involving His Majestys Revenue and Customs 
(HMRC) and their rules about when and how people can access funds held in pension 
arrangements.
I am sorry this will disappoint Mr G, but SW havent done anything wrong. They have asked 
for more information about his health, as they are required to do. It is a matter for Mr G if he 
goes on to provide the information requested, to enable SW to make a decision on whether 
he is able to make a successful claim. I understand this is a very worrying time for Mr G, but 
I am unable to tell SW to pay Mr G the funds held in his plan here. 
In my provisional decision I set out some more information on Mr Gs plan that I hoped might 
provide him with some reassurance on some matters. This included information on 
beneficiaries, the usual benefits and what was needed. I also highlighted additional rules that 
might become relevant and helpful to Mr G in the future given the recent value of Mr Gs 
pension fund.  
For completeness I previously acknowledged that I had seen Mr G was also initially 
concerned that he felt he had been given an inaccurate impression in his call with SW in 
December 2021. I explained before that I didnt think this part of his complaint was pursued and my impression has not been corrected. I identified that SW said they had concluded the 
right information had been provided in the call, and this had been followed by SW sending 
the relevant form to Mr G on the same day.
Ive also seen that SW agreed they hadnt handled Mr Gs calls to themselves as well as 
they ought to have done. In particular when Mr G called shortly before 5pm and was put 
through to a department that had already closed. SW apologised for this, which I consider 
was appropriate here.
My final decision
For the reasons given I am not upholding Mr Gs complaint against Scottish Widows Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman