DRN-2636231
The complaint
Ms P complains that AXA France IARD offered her £400 compensation for a mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy which she accepted. Later AXA reduced its 
offer to £200. Ms P wants AXA to pay her the original amount offered.
 
What happened
In 2019 Ms P complained to AXA about the sale of the PPI. In August 2019 AXA wrote to 
Ms P upholding her complaint and offering compensation. AXA explained in its letter that it 
didnt have enough information about her account to calculate an accurate offer. It only 
knew the amount of the last premium she paid which was £1.49, and the length of time the 
policy had been active on her account, which was from December 1988 to October 1990.
So AXA had calculated what it said was the average amount it paid consumers who 
had held PPI on their account for a similar time and had paid a similar final premium. 
So AXA offered Ms P £400 in full and final settlement of her complaint.
Ms P signed a settlement form, but in January 2020 AXA wrote to her again. AXA said it 
had made an error and should have offered only £200 as this was the average 
compensation for a consumer like Ms P who had been charged a similar final payment and 
had held PPI for a comparable length of time.
Ms P didnt accept the new offer and asked this service to step in.
In August 2020 AXA offered Ms P £50 for the distress and inconvenience that its error had 
caused her to experience but declined to reinstate the original £400 offer.
An adjudicator from this service thought AXAs new offer of £200 plus £50 for its error was 
fair.
Ms P remained unhappy with AXAs offer and asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint.
In January 2021 I issued my provisional findings on this complaint and invited both parties to 
respond with any new information or points they wanted me to consider.
My provisional findings were that Ms Ps complaint should be upheld, I gave the following 
reasons:
Firstly Ive looked at the nature of AXAs offer.
Where a PPI has been mis-sold this service would normally expect a business to put 
the consumer back in the financial position theyd be in if the sale had not taken place. 
This would normally involve the business refunding all the PPI premiums together with 
any interest and charges incurred because of the PPI. And the business should add 
compensatory interest calculated at 8% simple for the time the consumer has been out 
of pocket.
In this case that isnt possible because after so many years AXA doesnt know the 
premiums Ms P paid. That isnt unusual and it is understandable as we dont expect 
businesses to keep detailed records indefinitely. So Id expect a business to make 
reasonable assumptions based on what evidence it has.
AXA knows how long Ms P held PPI on her account and what the final premium was. 
And it used this information to work out the average compensation it pays other 
consumers whod held PPI in similar circumstances.
So when AXA offered Ms P £400 it was never intended to be a completely accurate 
reflection of the PPI shed been charged. It was an estimate of the compensation she was 
due based on the average payment made to other consumers. In reality, if AXA had 
retained accurate records that allowed a proper calculation then Ms P could have been 
owed much less than £400 or indeed much more than £400.
It follows that when AXA replaced its offer with a new offer of £200 there was no 
guarantee that offer was any more accurate than the first. It hadnt, for example, located 
statements showing the actual PPI paid by Ms P. AXA in effect replaced one estimate with 
another, lower estimate. It remains the case that Ms P may be owed more or less than 
£200 if accurate data was available. And I dont think it is fair for AXA to replace one 
estimate with a different, lower estimate.
Secondly I note that when AXA made its first offer of £400 it asked her to sign in full and 
final settlement of her complaint. And Ms P did so in good faith. Ive seen no evidence or 
suggestion that Ms P might reasonably have thought the offer may be wrong. So AXA 
made an offer and Ms P accepted it. If Ms P had signed the settlement and later referred 
her complaint to this service it is likely AXA would point to the fact Ms P had accepted its 
offer in full and final settlement.
To be clear, if a business makes an offer to a consumer that is wrong, and I thought a 
consumer accepted it whilst reasonably knowing it was an error then I wouldnt expect 
a business to honour it. But in this case Ive seen nothing to make me think Ms P 
thought AXAs offer of £400 was anything other than a genuine offer to settle her 
complaint. So I think AXA should have honoured its first offer and made payment to 
Ms P.
I note Ms P first accepted the original offer in August 2019, my understanding is she 
chased payment but wasnt told until January 2020 that AXA was instead offering £200. I 
think that must have caused Ms P considerable upset. And Ms P has been caused a lot of 
inconvenience and trouble pursuing payment of the offer she accepted. And AXA should 
compensate her for the trouble and upset shes experienced. So Im intending to award  
Ms P £100 to compensate her for this.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms P has contacted us to say she accepts my provisional findings.
AXA has contacted us to say it also accepts my provisional findings.Therefore I see no reason to depart from the findings I set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
AXA should pay Ms P the £400 it originally offered her in August 2019.
And AXA should pay Ms P an additional £100 to compensate her for the trouble and upset 
shes experienced due to AXA withdrawing its original offer.
  
My final decision
I uphold Ms Ps complaint and direct AXA France IARD to pay Ms P compensation as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman