DRN-4031152
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy U K Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt repaired damage to his property after 
he made a claim on his buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2022 Mr O contacted UKI to claim on his buildings insurance policy for damage 
that he said was attributable to storms. And part of this damage was in relation to his roof. 
UKI arranged for a surveyor to inspect the property who concluded the damage to the roof 
was down to wear and tear. UKI then contacted Mr O to say the damage wasnt covered 
under the policy.
Mr O didnt agree with UKI. He said thered been a number of storms over the period and he 
maintains the damage was caused by those storms. He said there were three distinct areas 
of damage and he didnt think it was likely this was all down to damage caused gradually. He 
also arranged for another company to inspect the damage who concluded that the damage 
was caused by wind.
UKI reviewed the report Mr O provided, but remained of the opinion the damage was as a 
result of gradual damage. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Os complaint as she was satisfied that it was fair for UKI to 
say the damage was down to wear and tear. Mr O didnt agree with the investigator and 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
I should first set out that I acknowledge Ive summarised Mr Os complaint in a lot less detail 
than he has presented it. Mr O has raised a number of reasons about why hes unhappy with 
the way UKI has handled this matter. Ive not commented on each and every point hes 
raised but, instead Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key points I need to think 
about. I dont mean any discourtesy about this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of 
this service. I assure Mr O, however, that Ive read and considered everything hes provided.
The terms of the insurance policy covers Mr O for loss or damage arising from a storm.  
However, the terms of the policy also sets out that it wont cover loss or damage that 
happens gradually  i.e. if its down to wear and tear. UKI believes the damage occurred 
because of gradual damage. Mr O disputes UKIs stance and maintains the damage was 
down to storm damage. In thinking about this, Ive asked myself three questions:
1. Were there storm conditions as defined under the terms of the insurance policy?
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
There were wind speed of around 55mph at the time the damage occurred. So Im satisfied 
there was a storm and its not unusual for such windspeeds to damage to roof tiles. So Im 
satisfied the answer to questions (1) and (2) is yes. However, the issue is whether the 
storm was the main cause of the damage.
Ive considered what Mr O has said regarding this, but Ive found the expert surveyor reports 
particularly persuasive. In particular Ive found the report compiled by the surveyor instructed 
by UKI to be most persuasive. I note Mr Os contractor has said the damage was caused by 
wind, but hes also set out that the roof will have had experienced some wear and tear. And, 
further to this, UKIs report is more detailed and sets out clearly why the surveyor has come 
to the conclusion he has. But, irrespective of this, Im not persuaded that theres actually a 
material difference to the two respective reports. Its not disputed that the strength of the 
wind was a factor in the damage. But I need to consider whether this was the main cause.
UKIs report has clearly set out that the roof tiles have come away as a result of general 
wear and tear and nail fatigue. He also highlighted that there was evidence of the mortar 
eroding and shrinking. Finally he commented that some of the issue was in relation to a 
sealant failing around the log burner flue pipe and he considered this to be down to wear and 
tear. Ive reviewed the photographs the surveyor has provided in support of his assessment 
and Im satisfied that this supports his conclusion. 
Mr O has queried the veracity of the report as he said the inspection wasnt carried out until 
a long period after the event as hed had to pause the claim due to ill health. And he said in 
that time numerous temporary repairs had been carried out. But Im satisfied that UKI has 
provided sufficient evidence to support its stance that the damage in question has arisen due 
to a pre-existing issue with the roof. It seems to me that the storm has highlighted this issue. 
But I cant reasonably say that UKI is required to cover the damage caused by wear and 
tear. 
Ultimately, I havent seen anything to show that UKI has handled Mr Os claim unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman