DRN-3209747
The complaint
Mr C complains that Vanquis Bank Limited acted irresponsibly by giving him a credit card 
when he couldnt afford to make the repayments. 
What happened
On 11 December 2017 Mr C applied for a credit card from Vanquis. They approved his 
application, giving him a credit limit of £500.
Mr C complained to Vanquis that theyd acted irresponsibly by giving him this credit card. But 
Vanquis said theyd done nothing wrong. They were satisfied that theyd carried out 
appropriate checks before approving the application.
 
Mr C complained to our service that Vanquis should have carried out more detailed checks 
before giving him credit. He thought they should have looked at the type of lending hed 
been applying for, instead of just the amount. He said that, if theyd done this, theyd have 
seen that he was struggling with his finances. He felt theyd taken advantage of his 
vulnerability as someone who was young and inexperienced. He told us that the debts he 
accumulated had a serious effect on his mental health.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. He was satisfied that the checks Vanquis 
had carried out were reasonable and proportionate for the amount of credit they were 
offering. He noted that Mr Cs full credit report showed that hed made a number of 
applications for credit in the months before the application to Vanquis, some of which were 
pay day loans. But he said he hadnt seen any evidence to suggest Vanquis had seen this 
level of detail about Mr Cs borrowing. And he didnt think theyd acted unreasonably by 
approving the application based on the amount of information theyd seen.
Mr C disagreed with our investigators view, so the case has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out rules and guidance for lenders to follow  
these can be found in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Ive reviewed what this 
required Vanquis to do at the time of Mr Cs application. 
Before giving Mr C a credit card, Vanquis were required to carry out a creditworthiness 
assessment. This meant making reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves 
that hed be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. These checks werent just about 
how likely it was that Vanquis would get their money back  they had to focus on whether 
the repayments would adversely affect Mr Cs financial situation. 
There was no set list of checks that had to be carried out, but Vanquis had to make sure the 
checks they completed were proportionate in the circumstances. The CONC guidance listed 
a number of factors that might affect how extensive these checks needed to be, such as the 
type and amount of credit, the customers financial position, their credit history and other 
financial commitments. 
Vanquis have provided evidence showing that they asked questions about Mr Cs income 
during his application. Ive seen that Mr C declared that he was employed, with a personal 
annual income of £17,500. He explained that he lived with his mum and dad, but he didnt 
know what the household income was. Vanquis have told us they also checked credit 
reference agency information. This showed Mr C had a total of seven active accounts with 
other financial businesses, with a total outstanding balance of £1,200. It showed he had no 
defaults or county court judgments (CCJs) reported against him. 
Im satisfied that these were reasonable and proportionate checks in the circumstances. Ive 
gone on to consider whether these checks revealed anything that should have given 
Vanquis cause for concern that granting Mr C a credit card with a £500 credit limit would 
adversely affect his financial situation. 
The evidence Ive seen shows that Mr Cs existing borrowing was relatively low in 
comparison to the salary he declared in his application. Mr C told Vanquis he was living with 
his parents, paying £200 per month rent. So, I think it was reasonable for them to assume 
his monthly living costs to be relatively low. The credit reference agency data gave no 
indication that Mr C had previously been unable to make the required payments on other 
accounts. For these reasons, I dont find Vanquis to have acted irresponsibly or unfairly by 
approving his application.
Mr C has shown us a copy of his full credit file. This shows that hed applied for a number of 
loans, pay day loans and credit cards between March and December 2017. He feels strongly 
that Vanquis should have looked into the number of times hed applied for further borrowing 
and the type of lenders he was using. Ive given careful thought to this point.
CONC rules required Vanquis to ensure they based their creditworthiness assessment on 
sufficient information from the customer and, where necessary, a credit reference agency. 
Although it listed a number of factors that might be relevant to how extensive their checks 
needed to be, the CONC guidance made it clear that its likely to be disproportionate for a 
firm to consider all of these factors in all cases. It said they should consider whats 
appropriate in the circumstances.
Vanquis have explained that, in 2017, the credit reference agency information they obtained 
didnt show whether Mr Cs other accounts were pay day loans. I have to bear in mind the 
personal income Mr C had declared in his application and the relatively low amount of credit 
Vanquis provided. In those circumstances Im not persuaded that they should have carried 
out more in-depth checks, such as asking for a more detailed credit report. So, I dont find 
Vanquis to have done anything wrong here. 
My final decision
Although I realise this isnt the outcome Mr C is hoping for, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Corinne BrownOmbudsman