DRN-2826817
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) closed her bank account.
What happened
In April 2020, Mrs M tried to make a payment from her RBS bank account to her credit card, 
however she was unable to do so. After complaining to RBS she discovered her bank 
account had been closed. Mrs M complained about the closure and said it had caused her 
particular difficulties due to her personal situation; and because the bank account received 
her pensions.
RBS invested her complaint but didnt uphold it. It said it had written to her in January 2020 
explaining that it had made the commercial decision to close her bank account. And at that 
time it had given her 60 days notice, with it closing the account in early April 2020. It said, as 
per the terms and conditions of her account, it was entitled to do this.
Mrs M brought her complaint to our service. She said she hadnt received the closure notice 
letter and didnt agree RBS could just close her account  as she needed to this to access 
her pensions. She also wanted to know why the account was closed.
Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. While he appreciated Mrs M hadnt received the 
closure letter, he could see it was correctly addressed  so he didnt think RBS had done 
anything wrong. He agreed that the terms of Mrs Ms account meant it could close the 
account without a reason, as long as it gave 60 days notice, which he accepted it had done 
by the letter. And, while he understood Mrs Ms personal situation meant the account closure 
had inconvenienced her, he didnt agree this meant RBS wasnt entitled to action the 
closure. Mrs M disagreed with his assessment and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
A bank can decide who it wants to deal with as a customer, in the same way a 
customer can choose who to bank with. And if a bank decides to close a customers 
account it must follow the process thats set out in the accounts terms and 
conditions. But this may mean that it doesnt have to give a reason for the closure.
For this account, the terms and conditions say RBS can close the account by giving 
60 days notice. They dont state RBS must give Mrs M a reason for doing so. And 
Ive seen a copy of the account closure letter she was sent and a screen print to 
show that the closure occurred over 60 days after this. So Im satisfied RBS followed 
the process set out in its terms and conditions.
I appreciate Mrs Ms personal situation means the closure of this account was more 
inconvenient for her, especially as she didnt receive the closure letter giving her 
notice. But her living situation doesnt then mean that RBS has to offer her/continue 
to provide her with this bank account. It has made a legitimate commercial decision 
to no longer have her as a customer and its not our services role to interfere with 
legitimate decisions. While I accept the closure has caused Mrs M some difficulties, 
RBS has followed the terms she agreed to when she was using this account.
Im not asking RBS to re-open the account. I cant say it did anything wrong when it 
closed it and so Im also not awarding Mrs M any compensation.
For these reasons, although I understand Mrs Ms frustration, Im not upholding this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman