DRN-3959934
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as G complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) froze its 
accounts without warning, leading to financial loss and reputational damage.
Mr D, who is a director of G brings the complaint on Gs behalf. 
What happened
Mr D says that in 2021, G received an email from Santander warning it about several scam 
communications that were in circulation. Later in 2021, G received an email from Santander 
asking it to provide Know Your Customer (KYC) information. 
Mr D says he contacted Santander to ask whether the request might be a scam. Mr D says 
Santander told him that it was a scam and that it was unaware of the KYC information 
requests. Mr D followed this up in writing and didnt hear back from Santander.
Santander says it made unsuccessful attempts to contact G in October and December 2021. 
In January 2022, G confirmed to Santander on the phone that it had received the KYC 
emails. Santander offered to speak to one of Gs directors to explain the KYC process.
As Santander didnt receive the requested KYC information, it placed a block on Gs 
accounts in June 2022. The block was temporarily released to allow a payment to be made 
but then reapplied later in July 2022. G supplied some information which Santander 
considered. As Santander required further information, it applied two further blocks.
Mr D is unhappy that the KYC team didnt liaise with the phishing team. Mr D points out that 
Santander blocked a client account which should never have happened as the public has an 
immediate right to the funds held in the account. Mr D says that as a small company, G has 
spent many hours dealing with this. 
An investigator considered Gs complaint and didnt uphold it. He thought Santander was 
entitled to carry out regulatory checks and was satisfied that Santander had confirmed the 
KYC request was genuine before it blocked Gs accounts. The investigator said that 
Santander sent notifications to Mr D before the accounts were blocked.
G disagrees with the investigation outcome. Mr D says Santander failed in its duty of care 
towards G. Mr D says he contacted Santander to find out whether the email about the KYC 
exercise was genuine and was told it was a scam. 
Mr D says Santander failed to inform G through its internal message system that Santander 
would be contacting G about the KYC exercise and then failed to respond to Mr Ds letter 
asking whether the request was genuine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised Gs complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. The rules that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt 
mean Ive not considered everything that both parties have given to me.
I understand G wanted to protect itself from a potential scam (particularly as it had previously 
lost out financially because of fraud). But based on the evidence provided, Im satisfied that 
Santanders requests to complete the KYC exercise were reasonable and that it did enough 
to reassure G that the requests were genuine. 
Although Santander doesnt have copies of the original emails that it sent to G, it has 
provided the templates it used. The request for KYC information asks the customer to 
navigate to Santanders website, log in and from there select the My KYC portal option. 
This isnt a case of G being asked to open a link that may have come from a source posing 
as Santander. Instead, G was directed to use the secure Santander website. Im not 
persuaded that this posed a genuine security risk to G, so I think it was reasonable for 
Santander to expect G to complete the steps needed to use the KYC portal. I also note that 
in August 2021, Santander contacted G to say that it was going to carry out the KYC checks, 
making it more likely that the request in December 2021 was genuine. 
I understand that Mr D contacted Santander to ask whether the email request was genuine. 
Although Mr D says someone from Santander told him that it was a scam, Santander doesnt 
have a record of this. Santander also doesnt have a record of receiving Gs letter asking for 
confirmation the KYC request was genuine. But I dont think any of this changes my decision 
as Im satisfied G should already have been aware that it needed to complete the KYC 
process or risk having its ability to make and receive payments restricted.
I have listened to the call recording which took place between Santander and G in early 
2022. G says that due to its concerns about the authenticity of the KYC requests, the 
director concerned was polite but ignored the KYC information request. However, I cant find 
that this was due to a mistake made by Santander. Particularly as it offered to reassure Gs 
director and gave the same email address for queries as appears on the Santander 
corporate business website. During the call Santander reminded G of the March 2022 
deadline for providing the KYC information.
Santander followed up with further email reminders which G accepts it ignored. Overall, Im 
satisfied that Santander acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it 
reviewed Gs accounts and asked it to provide information. I dont find that Santander 
blocked Gs accounts without warning or that it did so unreasonably. 
After placing the initial block, Santander appears to have responded sympathetically to G 
when it agreed to temporarily lift the block to allow a significant transaction to go through. 
So, I dont find Santander treated G unreasonably. 
Santander accepts that it wouldnt usually block a client account. However, there was very 
little movement around the time of the blocks in terms of transactions from that account, 
making it unlikely that the blocks negatively impacted G. So, it doesnt change my decision 
not to uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman