DRN-3105995
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complained about the service they received under their home emergency 
policy with British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas).
What happened
Mr and Mrs O made a claim to British Gas when their boiler broke down in late May 2021. Mr 
and Mrs O said British Gas made four appointments before attending to fix their boiler, with 
two of these appointments having been cancelled on the day of the appointment meaning Mr 
and Mrs O took time off from work when it wasnt necessary. Mr and Mrs O said British Gas 
were no help whatsoever.
By the time British Gas honoured its appointment, Mr and Mrs O said theyd been unable to 
use their boiler to heat up water for around a month. Instead, Mr and Mrs O had to use their 
immersion heater which they said was expensive. Mr and Mrs O said they were unable to 
have their grandson visit during the month as they had no heating.
British Gas apologised for its poor service and paid Mr and Mrs O £250 in compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by the cancelled appointments and delay in getting 
the boiler fixed. British Gas tried to accelerate the fixing of the boiler during the month by 
invoking its Winter contingency plan, whereby British Gas would reimburse Mr and Mrs O 
the costs to fix the boiler if they chose to appoint their own engineer. Mr and Mrs O decided 
not to do this as they said they couldnt afford it.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought the compensation paid by 
British Gas was fair for the distress and inconvenience suffered when he took into 
consideration that Mr and Mrs O had access to hot water via their immersion heater. Mr and 
Mrs O disagreed and asked for £450 in compensation, so the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts of the case are agreed by both parties, so my role is to decide whether I think the 
compensation paid by British Gas is fair for the circumstances of this complaint. I will 
consider the impact of British Gas poor service on Mr and Mrs O when considering                 
the distress and inconvenience they have suffered.
I can see over the course of May/June 2021, British Gas failed to honour three appointments 
 on two of these occasions Mr and Mrs O werent informed until on the day. I understand 
this wouldve been frustrating for them, given they took some time off work for the purpose of 
allowing the appointment to go ahead. Fortunately, Mr and Mrs O still had access to hot 
water using an immersion heater during the period the boiler was broken. They said this was 
expensive for them. Mr and Mrs O havent been able to provide any evidence of the 
additional costs they incurred, so its difficult to put a figure on this. In the absence of this, 
Ive done my own research and estimate that additional costs for an average household of 
using an electric source to heat their water compared to a gas source would be around £20-
30 for the month.
In reviewing the complaint, I see British Gas were prompt in offering its Winter contingency 
plan soon after the complaint was raised. Whilst not ideal, I do think it has taken reasonable 
steps in trying to mitigate the impact of the broken boiler by offering Mr and Mrs O an 
alternative route to get their boiler fixed at no extra cost. Mr and Mrs O said to our service 
they couldnt afford the upfront cost of this, but there is no evidence in the complaint file that 
Mr and Mrs O notified British Gas that this was a significant issue for them. So, I dont think 
British Gas were given the opportunity to consider how it might have supported Mr and Mrs 
O better in this situation.
In considering the full impact of the cancelled appointments on Mr and Mrs O and British 
Gas attempt to mitigate the delays early in the process, I think the £250 compensation 
British Gas has paid is fair and is also enough to cover the level of additional costs Mr and 
Mrs O may have incurred in using their immersion heater. Our service considers 
compensation in the round, rather than looking at each aspect separately. When I consider 
the cost of the premium Mr and Mrs O paid, I think £250 is a proportionate level of 
compensation and is reasonable based on the circumstances of this complaint. And Mr and 
Mrs O will still have had access to potential benefits from the policy for the remainder of the 
year. The award is in line with what our service would recommend.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require British Gas Insurance 
Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman