DRN-3210162
The complaint
 A company, which Ill refer to as R, complains that because of the poor service it received 
from HSBC UK Bank Plc, it missed the deadline for converting its Coronavirus Business 
Interruption Loan (CBIL) to a Bounce Back Loan (BBL)
In bringing this complaint R is represented by its director, who Ill refer to as Mr G 
What happened
 On 22 March 2021, through their online chat service, Mr G contacted HSBC to let the bank 
know he wanted to convert the CBIL to a BBL. 
At first HSBC told Mr G this couldnt be done because R had already successfully applied for 
and received the CBIL funds, which meant R wasnt eligible for a BBL. However, soon 
afterwards HSBC retracted their earlier advice. They told Mr G that R would in fact be 
eligible for the BBL so long as the amount it wanted to borrow didnt exceed the £50,000 
BBL limit. 
Mr G told HSBC that in order to adhere to that limit, R would repay £10,000 of the CBIL and 
afterwards convert the remaining £50,000 balance into a BBL. HSBC confirmed that would 
be acceptable. But Mr G wasnt able to repay the £10,000 using the banks online facility as 
hed intended. So, HSBC gave him their number for telephone banking so that with their 
help, Mr G could kickstart the process by first repaying the £10,000. 
On 26 March Mr G rang HSBC and explained his intention. He says he was told that his 
proposal would be referred to the banks BBL team. 
A few days later, on 30 March Mr G called HSBC again for an update. Mr G said he was 
assured during that conversation that Rs application would be accepted even if it wasnt 
progressed before 31 March 2021  that being the last day when new applications could be 
made. 
On 21 April, Mr G called HSBC once more for an update. At that point, HSBC told him that 
because R hadnt applied for the BBL before 31 March 2021, it had missed the deadline and 
therefore it wasnt possible to progress things further. 
Mr G believed HSBC were responsible for him missing the deadline and complained to the 
bank.  On 5 July 2021 R repaid its CBIL in full.  
In their response to Rs complaint, HSBC said that in order for Rs CBIL to have been 
converted to a BBL, Mr G would first have needed submit an application on the BBL online 
portal. And when he did so hed have come to a question asking if the BBL was to repay a 
CBIL. Then on receiving the application, the bank could have worked it manually to ensure 
repayment of the CBIL as R intended. However, HSBC maintained that Mr G did not submit 
the application before the 31 March 2021 deadline and therefore, they were no longer able 
to process it. 
HSBC acknowledged, however, that Mr G did contact them before the 31 March regarding 
Rs BBL application and that at times his calls were not returned. The bank acknowledged 
also that having listened to some of Mr Gs calls, it didnt in fact advise him to submit Rs 
application online and could, therefore, have made things clearer to Mr G. 
HSBC concluded that R received poor service from them and was inconvenienced as a 
result. They paid R £200 compensation. Mr G didnt think that was a fair outcome and 
referred Rs complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought Mr G did everything he could to submit Rs BBL application to 
HSBC - including asking for help from the banks online chat and later Rs relationship 
manager, when it became clear an online BBL application wasnt possible. She agreed that 
in the circumstances, HSBC could have done more to help Mr G apply for the BBL. 
Furthermore, our investigator wasnt satisfied that HSBC had explained to Mr G what he 
needed to do to repay £10,000 CBIL and convert the remaining loan to a BBL. And she 
didnt think the banks suggestion that Mr G should have applied online was helpful because 
in truth that option was unavailable to him. Moreover, she felt it was unlikely in any event that 
the nature of the refinancing Mr G wanted to put in place could have been achieved through 
the banks online process. Particularly, given that R still had a £60,000 outstanding CBIL, 
which meant R wasnt going to be eligible for a BBL without first adjusting the CBIL balance 
to bring it in line with the £50,000 BBL funding R was looking to put in place as a 
replacement. 
To resolve the BBL application issue, the investigator recommended that HSBC consider an 
application for a BBL from R under an exceptions process that could be used in 
exceptional circumstances even though the Loan Scheme was otherwise closed to new 
applications. Then, if Rs application was successful, HSBC should provide R with the BBL. 
In relation to the banks acknowledged poor customer service, the investigator felt the £200 
HSBC offered R was fair and reasonable, especially against the background of the 
operational difficulties the bank was experiencing at time. 
R and HSBC both accepted the investigators conclusions. However, after carrying out the 
review requested by the investigator, HSBC said it hasnt been possible to consider Rs 
application under the exceptions process as recommended by the investigator. They said 
this is because it didnt meet the applicable criteria, most notably because R hadnt actually 
submitted a BBL application in the first place.
That being the banks position, the case was referred to me for review and final decision.  
The exceptions process has also since closed.
    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 It isnt in dispute that HSBC were at fault in the way they handled Mr Gs attempts to apply 
for the BBL on behalf of R. And the bank accepted the investigators recommendation of the 
steps they needed to take to put things right.
 
However, HSBC, explained that the stumbling block to putting into effect the investigators 
recommendation was that Rs application couldnt be considered under the exceptions 
process because it didnt meet the criteria set out by the British Business Bank. There were only very limited circumstances in which the exceptions process could be utilised 
and I accept that HSBC wouldnt have been able to do so for R, given that the company 
hadnt ever made a BBL application. In any event, the exceptions process has since closed 
and so there is now no mechanism by which HSBC could provide a loan under the BBL 
Scheme even if it was inclined to do so. 
In light of this, Ive considered how HSBC ought fairly to put matters right given that the 
shortcomings in its service left R without a BBL. In particular, Ive thought about whether a 
further and separate award of compensation would be appropriate for that.
The aim of compensation is to put a complainant back into the position, or as closely as 
possible that they would have been in had the error complained about not occurred. That 
easily stated objective, however, is not easy to achieve in practice.
 
Having considered this, Im not persuaded HSBCs error caused R to suffer any financial 
loss for which compensation aimed at addressing that loss would be an appropriate remedy. 
I say that because R does not now have the CBIL  that has been repaid. And although I 
accept it is without the BBL it wished to have as a replacement, Im not persuaded R is in a 
worse financial position as a result and therefore merits an award of compensation. 
  
I wrote to Mr G on 25 November 2022 to determine whether he had any thoughts regarding 
an alternative redress. 
Mr G and I later spoke on 12 December. He explained he was disappointed and upset the 
bank failed to assist him in his efforts to obtain a BBL on behalf of R. He said he wanted the 
bank to be punished to ensure that in future its customers do not experience the same poor 
service R received.
  
I explained to Mr G that unlike the Financial Conduct Authority who are the financial service 
industry regulators, our role is not to punish or fine such businesses and I cannot therefore 
do as hed like me to do in relation to HSBC. I explained that my role is to determine whether 
in the circumstances of this case the bank has done anything wrong and if so to award 
compensation for any financial loss and/or inconvenience caused by the banks action. 
I reminded Mr G that its not disputed that HSBC had provided poor service to R and that the 
investigator has already concluded the payment of £200 by the bank in recognition of that 
poor service was fair and reasonable, although whether that is true hasnt been considered 
by me. 
Mr G confirmed that as the way forward hed like me to consider this and to let him know 
what my decision is. So, I now turn to that consideration.   
Mr G has told us that the main impact of HSBCs poor service which meant R was unable to 
apply for the BBL was that R had then to repay the CBIL straightaway because HSBC were 
starting to charge around £200 interest per month  the equivalent of £2,400 per year. He 
said R was already struggling financially in what had become a difficult time. He said R has 
now been left in financial uncertainty. 
However, the decision to repay the CBIL was one taken by R in July 2021 and it happened 
after Mr G was told the BBL application wouldn't proceed. And furthermore, at the time the 
vast majority of the CBIL was unused and still in Rs account. 
I understand the decision to repay the CBIL was brought about by the interest that R was 
now expected to pay, when, as Mr G explained, R was struggling financially. In the circumstances that may well have been a reasonable decision. In any case, as Ive noted 
above, Ive not been persuaded the circumstances that then unfolded meant R has been 
made worse off financially for which it should be compensated. 
I now come to the question of whether with their £200 payment HSBC have sufficiently 
compensated R for their poor service. 
In the period between 22 March when Mr G first approached HSBC regarding R wish to 
transfer the CBIL to a BBL and 21 April 2021 when Mr G was told the deadline had been 
missed, Mr G has told us he made a number of calls to HSBC and he also sent emails.  
HSBC have acknowledged some of Mr Gs calls were not returned. And as I noted above 
important calls were made on 26 and 30 March and 21 April 2021 in Mr Gs attempt to 
determine the progress HSBC had made on Rs application. But for HSBCs poor service 
such communication wouldnt, in my opinion have been necessary and is indicative therefore 
of the inconvenience R experienced  
Putting things right
 Having thought about this carefully and taking account also of the operational difficulties 
faced by the bank because of the high demand for BBLs, Im satisfied the £200 the bank 
paid to R is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.        
My final decision
 For the reasons stated above, I am satisfied that HSBC UK Bank Plcs payment of £200 in 
compensation to R is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  I dont require 
HSBC UK Bank Plc to do anything more in respect of Rs complaint  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman