DRN-3372958
The complaint
Ms W complains about Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays). Her complaint is about Barclays 
allowing her husband to close their joint account, with her knowledge or agreement  when 
they refused her request to close the account.
What happened
Ms W was in an abusive relationship with her husband, and in October 2018 they separated. 
they had a joint account with Barclays, used for paying household bills. Following the 
separation, given the abusive relationship, Ms W contacted Barclays in January 2019 (by 
visiting a branch) to ask them to close the account. However, she was told this needed the 
agreement of her husband, which he didnt give. As the account couldnt be closed, because 
her husband was using the account to incur personal expenditure, Ms W felt she had to 
credit the account with funds to avoid it becoming overdrawn and so household bills could 
continue to be paid. She was also anxious to avoid payments being missed or made late, 
which might be recorded on her credit file and so affect her credit record.
 
Ms W subsequently took legal proceedings, the outcome of which included a court direction 
that the joint account be closed. However, before Barclays became aware of this, Ms Ws 
husband closed the account in June 2021  but without her knowledge or agreement. At that 
point the account had a nil balance, but because the account was closed, regular payments 
from the account were cancelled.
Unhappy at the account being closed by her husband (without her agreement or knowledge) 
when told she couldnt close the account without his agreement, Ms W complained to 
Barclays. In their final response, they upheld the complaint. They acknowledged Ms W had 
shown shed asked her husband to agree to the account being closed shortly after she said 
shed been told by Barclays in March 2019 she needed his agreement. However, Barclays 
accepted this was incorrect and Ms W should have been able to close the account. Barclays 
agreed to reimburse £704.38 to Ms W, being the value of transactions on the account from 
March 2019 to its closure that were outside of household bills (which Ms W accepted). 
However, Barclays wouldnt reimburse the costs Ms W had incurred on legal and court fees 
as the joint account dispute was only part of the overall divorce proceedings. But Barclays 
did offer £250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience Ms W had suffered.
Ms W then complained to this service. While her complaint was more than six months after 
the date of Barclays final response, because of the circumstances of the case, Barclays 
consented to this service considering the complaint. Ms W was unhappy at her husband 
closing the joint account without her approval or authority, despite her asking Barclays to 
close the account on several occasions because of the financial abuse shed suffered from 
him. She said she was told she couldnt close the account without his agreement. The 
closure led to several direct debits being cancelled, including ones she had with service 
providers. She was also unhappy that when she tried to restrict spending on the account 
through the banking app, it would only allow her to restrict spending on her cards on the 
account (not the account as a whole). Shed been affected financially and suffered distress 
over the period. She wanted Barclays to take domestic abuse seriously and that she be 
compensated for the distress caused.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding Barclays hadnt acted fairly. She thought 
Ms W had been told by Barclays she couldnt close the account without her husbands 
agreement. She noted Barclays had acknowledged their error in allowing Ms Ws ex-
husband to close the account and she thought Barclays refunding Ms W £704 in respect of 
the transactions spent on the account by her husband (outside of household bills) was fair 
and reasonable. But the investigator didnt think Barclays offer of £250 compensation 
reflected the distress and inconvenience she suffered - particularly given Barclays could 
have closed the account when Ms W first requested it in 2019. The investigator thought £500 
would be fair. The investigator also thought Barclays should refund the fees theyd charged 
for unpaid items from the account (£96) and remove the fees from Ms Ws credit file (if theyd 
been recorded).
Ms W disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. She didnt think Barclayss offer was sufficient for the distress and 
inconvenience shed suffered over the two-year period before the joint account was closed, 
and that her husband was able to close it without her knowledge or agreement. She also 
said her credit score was negatively affected from being in an overdraft position for the 
period, affecting her ability to apply for a mortgage. She also thought her ex-husband had 
been treated differently (by being able to close the joint account) to the way shed been 
treated by Barclays. She thought this was tantamount to gender discrimination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered very carefully what Ms W has told us about her circumstances and the 
nature of the financial abuse she suffered from her husband. I know it would have been 
extremely stressful for her, as would the uncertainty over her finances until the joint account 
was closed. This has been at the forefront of my mind when considering this complaint and I 
hope what Ive said makes clear how Ive reached this decision.
The main issue in Ms Ws complaint is that Barclays wouldnt allow her to close the joint 
account she held with her husband, which she first requested in 2019, but they allowed him 
to close the account (without her knowledge or agreement) in 2021. In the intervening period 
she suffered stress and anxiety from uncertainty over her finances, as well as financial loss 
through the transactions her husband made on the account for personal expenses that 
werent in respect of household bills.
From the evidence available, Barclays accept they gave Ms W incorrect advice when she 
requested the account be closed in January 2019 (that closure required the agreement of 
her husband). While Barclays doesnt have any record of Ms W visiting the branch, nor what 
was discussed and she was told, Ive seen the evidence Ms W subsequently asked her 
husband to agree to the closure. I dont think shed have done so unless shed been told by 
Barclays his agreement was required. Together with Barclays acceptance they gave Ms W 
incorrect advice, Ive concluded she should have been able to close the account at that time. 
The account would have needed the agreement of both parties (to closure) had it been 
marked as being in dispute  but Barclays have no record of such a marker being applied.
As there wasnt a marker applied, and the terms and conditions of the account provide for 
either party to close the account, it seems Ms Ws husband was then able to close the 
account in June 2021 without having to obtain Ms Ws agreement (or without her 
knowledge). In doing so, Barclays were applying the terms and condition of the account. But 
had they not given Ms W incorrect advice (and the account closed when she requested it) then the financial impact shes told us about would have been mitigated, as would the stress 
and anxiety shes described. Ill consider this impact when I set out what I think Barclays 
needs to do to put things right. 
Ive also considered what Ms W has said about what she considers to be gender 
discrimination in how Barclays treated her and her husband differently. I know Ms W feels 
Barclays discriminated against her because of her gender. But this service cant make a 
finding on whether an act or omission is discriminatory under the provisions of the Equality 
Act 2010, only a court can do this. However, Ive taken it into account when considering 
whether Barclays acted in a fair and reasonable way. Ive also considered whether her 
gender played a part in the way in which Barclays treated her and handled the issues with 
the joint account. Looking at what happened, Ive not seen anything to indicate that they 
treated Ms W differently than they wouldve any other account holder. While Ive concluded 
Barclays gave Ms W incorrect advice about closure of the joint account requiring the 
agreement of her husband, Ive not seen anything to indicate this was other than a mistake. 
And in allowing her husband to subsequently close the account, Barclays were applying the 
terms and conditions relevant to closure of the account  so they werent treating him more 
favourably than any other account holder.
The second issue in Ms Ws complaint is the financial impact that the account staying open 
had on her. In their final response, Barclays agreed to reimburse Ms W £704.38 in respect of 
transactions paid from the account from March 2019 to its closure that were outside of 
household bills. My understanding is that Ms W accepted this element of Barclays final 
response. As such, I think thats fair and reasonable (the account had a minimal balance at 
the point it was closed).
A third aspect relates to fees charged for failed payments when the account was closed. 
Barclays have confirmed that 12 fees totalling £96 were charged. Theyve agreed to refund 
these fees as a goodwill gesture. I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. As 
theyve agreed to refund them, I also think any record of them should be removed from Ms 
Ws credit file (if theyre recorded). 
Given what happened after Ms W requested the account be closed, I also think Barclays 
should remove any other adverse information on her credit file after she requested the 
account be closed, for example if the fees or the transactions outside of household bills took 
the account into an authorised or unauthorised overdraft position.
A fourth issue raised by Ms W is that she was led to believe that she could restrict payments 
made against the joint account through the Barclays banking app. Whereas she found the 
app would only put restrictions on the cardholder using the app (not the account). Which 
meant Ms W couldnt place restrictions that affected her husbands ability to spend against 
the account. While I recognise this would have caused further stress and anxiety to Ms W, I 
dont think its unreasonable for the banking app to operate in this way. I say this because, if 
one of the two account holders were able to place restrictions on the account itself (and 
therefore on the other account holder) the risk would be that one account holder could 
thereby restrict the ability of the other account holder to access the account. Applied to Ms 
Ws circumstances, it could have been used by her husband to affect her access to the 
account and to place restrictions on her ability to enter into transactions.
Having reached my conclusions on the issues in Ms Ws complaint, Ive thought about what 
would be fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes 
suffered. Barclays initially offered £250. Our investigator thought £500 would be fair and 
reasonable. Ms W thinks it isnt sufficient for the stress and anxiety shes suffered. Shes told 
us she feels a figure of at least £750 would be appropriate. In thinking about this issue, Ive 
considered very carefully what Ms W has said. That includes what Ms W told us when initially bringing her complaint, together with what shes said when disagreeing with our 
investigators view. Ive also considered the Family Court Report, which sets out in detail the 
nature of the abuse suffered by Ms W.
 
In deciding whats fair compensation in the circumstances, I need to think about the impact 
of Barclayss actions on Ms W, taking account of the specific circumstances of her case. 
Thinking about the circumstances of Ms W, I agree that she suffered very significant distress 
and inconvenience from what happened, particularly the length of time it took for the joint 
account to be closed from when she first requested it to be closed  almost two and a half 
years. Taking account of all these points and all the circumstances of the case, I think Ms W 
suffered significant distress and inconvenience which merits a substantial award.    
Ive thought about the impact of this on Ms W, I think its fair for Barclays to offer 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience that the delay caused Ms W. Ive noted 
that Barclays accepted our investigators view that £500 compensation was fair and 
reasonable  but wouldnt agree to increase the sum as Ms W requested. However, taking 
account of all the circumstances, I think £650 would be reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Ms Ws complaint. I require 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Reimburse Ms W £704.38 as the value of transactions paid from the joint account 
from March 2019 to its closure that were outside of household bills (if Barclays have 
not already reimbursed this sum).
Refund Ms W £96 in respect fees charged in respect of failed payments when the 
joint account was closed (if Barclays have not already refunded them).
Remove any record of the fees in respect of the failed payments from Ms Ws credit 
file (if theyve been recorded). 
Barclays should remove any other adverse information on her credit file after she 
requested the account be closed.
Pay Ms W £650 for distress and inconvenience.
Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell them Ms W accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman