DRN-3088299
The complaint
Ms G complains that the loan she had from UK Credit Limited was unaffordable to her.
What happened
Ms G took out a guarantor loan with UK Credit on 11 January 2019. She borrowed £12,500 
and was due to repay £389.27 monthly for 60 months.
Ms G says that UK Credit didnt carry out enough affordability checks when she applied for 
the loan. She said she was already over-committed to credit and the lending worsened her 
financial situation.
UK Credit says it asked Ms G about her income and living arrangements and verified her 
salary with a payslip. It said Ms G said she lived with her mum and paid £200 towards the 
rent and bills and that the reason for the loan was debt consolidation. UK Credit said that 
Ms G explained that the defaults and County Court Judgements (CCJs) on her credit file 
were due to her ex-husband who was now dealing with them. It said it took into account 
Ms Gs existing credit commitments along with an estimate for other expenditure and found 
she had over £800 of disposable income each month, making the loan affordable.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She wasnt satisfied UK 
Credits checks went far enough as the credit check suggested financial difficulties and it had 
not verified Ms Gs expenditure. That said, she found the existing information was enough to 
indicate the lending was irresponsible. She recommended that UK Credit should deduct any 
payments Ms G made from the principal and set up an affordable repayment plan for the 
balance. She also said it should ensure that any associated negative information is removed 
from Ms Gs credit file.
UK Credit responded to say, in summary, that Ms G had explained the late payments on her 
credit file as her pay date at work had changed. It said she attributed the historical adverse 
information to her divorce and said the defaulted accounts were being repaid by her ex-
partner. In addition UK Credit confirmed the loan was primarily to consolidate a more 
expensive loan and some of the defaulted accounts and Ms G had sufficient surplus income 
to sustain the repayments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when UK Credit lent to Ms G. Its 
rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that UK Credit needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
CONC 5.2A.4R states that:
A firm must undertake a reasonable assessment of the creditworthiness of a customer 
before:
1. entering into a regulated credit agreement; or
2. significantly increasing the amount of credit provided under a regulated credit 
agreement.
3. significantly increasing a credit limit for running-account credit under a regulated 
credit agreement.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income without the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment the customer has a contractual or statutory obligation to 
make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers 
financial situation (CONC 5.2A.12R).
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the cost of the credit is likely to 
be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.2A.16G (3): For the purpose of considering the customers 
income, it is not generally sufficient to rely solely on a statement of current income made by 
the customer without independent evidence (for example, in the form of information supplied 
by a credit reference agency or documentation of a third party supplied by the third party or 
by the customer).
And CONC 5.2A.17R (2) says: The firm must take reasonable steps to determine the 
amount, or make a reasonable estimate, of the customers current non-discretionary 
expenditure.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Ms Gs case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Ms Gs loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did UK Credit make a fair lending decision?
Did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive seen evidence to show UK Credit asked about Ms Gs financial circumstances, checked 
her credit file and verified her income. However, based on the information it received Im not 
satisfied that the checks carried out by UK Credit went far enough. I say that because:
The loan was over a term of 60 months and UK Credit needed to ensure the 
repayments were sustainable over that period;
UK Credits credit check showed:
oSeven defaults  the most recent being in February 2017;
oTwo CCJs, the latest being in July 2017, with a combined balance of £2,157;
oTwo accounts in arrears;
oTwo credit cards with a total balance of £1,541;
oCombined monthly repayments on a loan, a hire purchase and two 
communications accounts of £572;
UK Credit used an estimate for Ms Gs expenditure, excluding rent and credit, of 20% 
of the national average, based on her living arrangements;
I accept that Ms G explained the reason for the historical financial difficulties was due to her 
divorce and that she now lived with her mother. Indeed, UK Credits checks showed the 
defaults and CCJs were all more than a year earlier. I also acknowledge that Ms G said she 
was using the loan to clear one of her loans and defaulted communications accounts.
Nevertheless, even though Ms G said she planned to repay one of her loans with the money, 
she still needed to commit over 36% of her income to credit repayments. I consider this, 
combined with the defaulted accounts and recent arrears, shouldve indicated to UK Credit 
that it needed to fully understand Ms Gs financial circumstances before it approved the loan.
Ms G hasnt provided any bank statements from the time, but UK Credit provided an 
additional credit check it requested in March 2021. This shows:
Ms G used the loan to settle one of her existing loans and three defaulted accounts, 
as she said she would;
The balance on her two credit cards was largely unchanged;
Ms G continued taking out multiple loans, starting within weeks of her UK Credit loan: 
oBy the end of 2019, she had eight active loans with repayments totalling 
£1,165 per month;
oShe also took out a short-term loan and another credit card, both of which 
were defaulted in 2020;
Taking everything into account, it seems to me that Ms G could not afford to make the UK 
Credit repayments and continued to borrow elsewhere in order to maintain them in the short 
term. I can see from her statement of account that she first began to struggle to make the 
payments on time in October 2019, which coincides with her taking out the short-term loan.Although I havent been able to verify Ms Gs expenditure, she declared regular outgoings, 
excluding rent, approaching £800 to her representative. I consider that I have enough 
evidence to conclude that the repayments were unsustainable for Ms G. If UK Credit had 
carried out proportionate checks, Im satisfied it would have found that its estimate for 
Ms Gs expenditure, was significantly understated and that, in fact, the repayments were 
unaffordable to her. By approving the loan, I find UK Credit caused Ms Gs financial situation 
to deteriorate.
In summary, I find it was irresponsible to lend to Ms G and UK Credit did not make a fair 
lending decision, although I cannot conclude that it acted unfairly or unreasonably in any 
other way.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. UK Credit Limited should:
Add up the total amount of money Ms G received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Ms G made should be deducted from this amount;
oIf this results in Ms G having paid more than she received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement*);
oIf any capital balance remains outstanding, then UK Credit should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Ms G. 
Remove any negative information about the loan from Ms Gs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit to deduct tax from this interest. UK Credit 
should give Ms G a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman