DRN-3935641
Complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim 
they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system they say were misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs C are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In March 2018, Mr and Mrs C were contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to 
talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their home. After 
being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs C decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In July 2022, the CMC made a claim on Mr and Mrs Cs behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs C to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on energy bills would provide enough income to 
cover the finance agreement repayments costs.
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr and Mrs C or that there 
were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs C and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view saying that Mr and Mrs C had been told 
the system would be self-funding within the loan term, which is the same conclusion the 
investigator has reached based on the sales documentation  but they still did not uphold the 
complaint. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr and Mrs C paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs C could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs C and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities - 
what I think most likely happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Mr and Mrs C say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with the consumers testimony and recollection of the sales 
meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the 
consumers version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact. 
The cost of the system 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.Mr and Mrs C has said that the cost of the system was documented as £10,326.75. They 
have indicated that this was done to mislead them as this figure did not include any interest 
associated with the loan so hid the true cost of the system, £14,731.60.
On balance Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs C were told that the cost of the system was 
£10,326.75. The quote sets this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement 
which sets out that the cash price of the system was £10,326.75. The total amount of credit 
is £10,226.75 (after deducting a deposit of £100) and goes on to show that the total amount 
payable would be £14,731.60.
The quote also set out that the expected monthly loan repayment was £123.54. But their 
monthly payment is marginally different at £121.93  but I dont think this difference makes 
the quote mis-leading and it doesnt alter my findings in this case.  
Having considered all the evidence, including the consumers recollections, Im satisfied that 
they were told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this 
clear, as set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote 
and the credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was 
£10,326.75, it would cost Mr and Mrs C more than this as they had decided to pay for it with 
an interest bearing loan. 
Financial benefits covering the monthly loan payments 
Mr and Mrs C have said that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments and savings on energy bills. Ive considered 
the quote that was provided by P as well as the consumers recollections of their meeting 
with Ps representative to decide what is most likely to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs C could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr and Mrs C could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £207.27, which results in an average monthly income of £17.27. 
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs C could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £375.54 and, when taking into account 
the optional extras chosen by Mr and Mrs C the combined income and savings in year one 
is shown as £1,394.01. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together. 
As outlined above, Im satisfied that the quote set out that there would be an expected 
monthly loan repayment due of £123.54 (which is £1,482.48). Mr and Mrs Cs credit 
agreement shows their actual monthly loan payment was £121.93  but even that is 
£1,463.16 annually. As a result, Im not able to conclude that the consumer was told that the 
monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payment and savings on energy bills.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three table showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months since this is 
the length of the loan that Mr and Mrs C entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the 
loan as repayable in 120 monthly payments of £123.54. For each year of the 10-year loan it 
shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 
months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £123.54, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs C could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. The table does clearly set out that the overall income they could expect to 
receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately 
sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments even if it is only for a short period of time. 
This supports my finding above that the consumers werent told that the FIT payments and 
savings would cover the loan repayment. Ive carefully thought about the consumers version 
of events. However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part of the sales process 
which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that 
they were told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income and 
additional savings.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs C that the system would be self-funding from the 
outset. In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to 
have happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
Self-funding over the loan term 
That said, I do accept that Mr and Mrs C were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 25 years. This shows that by year 9 the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs C 
could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs C that the system would pay for 
itself by year 9, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were 
an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into 
the contract, and they subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a 
misrepresentation. 
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr and Mrs C. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the 
system is expected to produce 3,215.94 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr and Mrs Cs FIT statements and can see what the solar panels are 
generating on average annually. Im satisfied that the system is performing at around the 
expected level of performance. 
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to calculate the utility price and RPI inflation. 
I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 2020 and the increases have 
been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think explain why they havent been 
receiving the financial returns they may have been expecting from the solar panels. Since 
actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling predicted, the savings achieved 
through the energy generated by the system has been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have used them 
as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs C couldve expected to 
receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not have been as 
high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to unreasonable 
assumptions being used by P at the time Mr and Mrs C entered into the contract.
I understand the CMC has highlighted that Mr and Mrs Cs loan term is 10 years, and the 25-
year repayment table shows that the system will be self-funding within the loan term (at 9 
years). They add that based on the actual benefits received to date, the system will not be 
self-funding within 9 years, and therefore the system was mis-represented on that basis. 
However, Mr and Mrs Cs complaint has consistently been that the system will be self-
funding from the outset due to the monthly benefits covering the monthly finance costs  and 
it was this representation that they had relied on to purchase the system. And Ive already 
explained above why Im not satisfied that the system was sold on that basis. Their claim 
originally was not that the system would be self-funding over a period of time (such as the 
loan term), but from the outset with the benefits covering each monthly payment. 
I also do not think that the system producing lower benefits than estimated automatically 
means a misrepresentation has taken place. I would need to be satisfied that the estimates 
made by P regarding the systems performance over 25 years, and therefore that the system 
paying for itself in around 9 years (within the loan term of 10 years) was based on 
unreasonable assumptions. However, Ive explained above that Ps method for calculating 
the estimates was not unreasonable. While the system might not have performed in line with 
the estimates made at the point of sale, they werent calculated based on unreasonable 
assumptions. So I dont that means the system was misrepresented on that basis. 
I would add that going forward, given the current circumstances around utility costs, Mr and 
Mrs C may see a marked improvement in the savings they make during the term of the loan 
and the lifetime of the system. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs C 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.So overall, Im satisfied that Shawbrook did not act unreasonably or unfairly by not accepting 
the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman