DRN-1802147
 
The complaint
 This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr R payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1987. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr R disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
The sale of the PPI took place about 33 years ago and, not surprisingly none of the original 
documents from the actual sale are now available. Also I wouldnt expect someone to recall 
in detail everything that happened so long ago, so it can be difficult to know whether its fair 
to rely fully on everything they remember.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most likely to have happened, based on what evidence 
there is. 
Mr R says he didnt think he was given an option about taking the PPI. However it wouldnt 
be fair for me to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable supporting evidence 
of it. Where someone has said another person or organisation has done something wrong, 
fairness requires that the person making the allegation should present evidence that this 
probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to make someone prove they didnt do something 
wrong, especially when it was such a long time ago. Without stronger evidence, I cant fairly 
say the PPI was added without Mr R understanding he had a choice about this.  
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont think they apply.
I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr R, and this means it had a higher 
standard to reach during the sales process  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for Mr Rs particular circumstances. However, finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can 
lead to significant difficulties. And it looks to me as though a recommendation would have 
been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mr Rs situation at the time: 
Its likely Mr R was eligible for the policy. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr R received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when Mr R would 
need to fall back on any savings or other means he may have had for paying the 
mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put Mr R in a more secure 
position, if hed eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest he couldnt afford the PPI when he took it out. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr R would 
have been affected by any of these
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. 
Its hard to know how well Bank of Scotland explained the costs and benefits of the policy at 
the time of the actual sale. But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information 
about this would have affected whether Mr R took the PPI. I say this because the potential 
benefits were probably greater than Mr Rs sick pay and savings, and the cost wasnt 
significantly high. So its unlikely fuller information would have made the PPI seem less 
useful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman