DRN-3239769
The complaint
Mr H says Mohammad Saleem, trading as Allied Business Services (ABS) hasnt acted in
line with its duty of care as an insurance intermediary, which means hes lost between
£80,000 and £100,000 when an insurance claim he made was refused.  
What happened
Ill not repeat all the background detail of this complaint, as both parties know what 
happened. But in summary, in December 2015 Mr Hs property was flooded when a nearby 
river burst its banks. At the time Mr H had insurance that included flood cover  but when the 
insurer found out that the river was within about 25 metres of Mr Hs property it refused to 
meet his claim, saying it would never have offered cover if it had known this.
Mr Hs statement of fact  from about 2006 onwards  said that his property was a) not in an
area that had suffered flooding and b) was more than 250 meters from a river or other body
of water. Mr H had been sent the statement of fact every year when the policy was renewed 
and asked each time to check it was correct.
Mr H doesnt deny this - instead he says that ABS, a locally based business, had a duty of 
care to check his answers, and must have been aware that his property was nearer the river 
than 250 meters. He says thats even more so after work was done by the local council to 
uncover a previously hidden river not more than 25 metres from his property. 
He says ABS let him continue to make his incorrect statement of fact. He says hed never 
have deliberately done that, but that hes not a sophisticated buyer of insurance and relied 
on ABS acting in his best interests.
 
When Mr H complained, ABS responded to say:
a) its offices are some way from the river that was exposed and, unlike Mr H, ABS
wasnt included in the public consultation starting in 2012 about the proposal to
uncover a previously built over section of the river,
b) Mr H, despite his protestations, is in fact widely considered an expert on insurance 
ABS says its handled 14 claims on his behalf between 2006 and 2018. It said a claim Mr H 
had referred to in his complaint was about storm damage and a failed drain in 2008  so 
wouldnt have alerted ABS to any flooding issue.
c) at each renewal  including the one immediately before the flood in 2015, it wrote
and asked Mr H to confirm his statement of fact was still correct and that nothing had
changed. ABS says Mr H was a frequent visitor to its offices, consulting on various
insurance matters  and hed had plenty of opportunity to ask any questions or bring
the changes to ABS attention.
Mr H asked us to review his complaint. Hes used the services of a solicitor to help him  and
that solicitor has asked that not only should ABS pay Mr H compensation equivalent to the
amount of the claim, but also its costs.
I issued my provisional findings in December. The key points from this are:
Mr H must have known his property was within 250 metres of the river, especially as 
he was consulted about the opening up of a hidden river in 2012.
I thought his claims history suggested he was aware of how insurance policies work. 
And I understand hes previously made a claim for flood damage for a nearby but 
different property (with a different policy), so its fair to say he knew the area might 
flood.
I thought hed been careless when completing or checking his insurance paperwork 
over the years. 
I thought the paperwork from ABS suggested it was advising Mr H about what 
insurance to buy  even though it said it wasnt. Thats because the paperwork uses 
phrases like recommend  which is usually associated with an advised sale. I 
thought that meant ABS owed Mr H a duty of care that included checking his 
paperwork for obvious mistakes. I didnt give much weight to ABS assertion that it 
didnt know about the river development given its own office location and the nature 
of the work it does.
I didnt think ABS statement that it doesnt have the capacity to check every 
statement of fact it receives relieved it of its duty of care towards Mr H.
I couldnt take into account comments ABS made about other incorrect information it 
thinks Mr H provided, as this took place after the claim.
Taking everything into account I thought ABS had made mistakes. So I thought ABS should 
put Mr H in the position hed have been in if those mistakes hadnt been made. From what 
Ive seen, its clear neither the underwriter nor insurer would have provided cover for flood 
damage if it had known about the proximity of the river when the policy was renewed in 
2015. And I could also see Mr H hadnt bought flood cover for the property when he was 
using a different insurer. I didnt think it was likely Mr H could have bought cover, at least not 
at a reasonable price. I thought the likelihood of him making a successful claim for flood 
damage was very low.
I thought a fair way for ABS to return Mr H to the financial position hed have been in if the 
mistakes hadnt been made was to refund the premium hed paid for flood cover from the 
date he renewed his policy in 2015 to the date of the claim. I thought that might be about 
£200 at the most. I didnt think it appropriate to ask ABS to pay for Mr Hs legal costs as he'd 
chosen to incur those when bringing his complaint to us for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have responded to my provisional decision.
Mr Hs representative has restated some of the points they made before I issued my 
provisional decision. Mr H says also that hed have willingly paid extra to get flood cover for 
his property if hed known the insurer involved in this complaint wouldnt provide such cover. 
That may be so with the benefit of hindsight, but I explained why I thought it might be very 
difficult for Mr H to get suitable cover at a reasonable price. And I do have to take into 
account that hed had insurance on this property without flood cover in earlier years  so 
presumably he was content with the situation or not able to get flood cover at a price he was 
willing to pay.
Mr H has suggested I award a different settlement amount. However, having read what he 
and his representatives have said, I havent seen anything that persuades me it would be fair to increase the award. For clarity, I didnt award any compensation to Mr H, as Id concluded 
hed been careless when renewing his policy. Instead I asked ABS to return him to the 
financial position hed have been in if the mistake hadnt been made. I thought that would be 
that he had no cover for flood damage, but neither would he have paid a premium for this.
ABS has agreed to pay the £200 I recommended, but doesnt think it did anything wrong. It 
says that although it knew there were works being done in the town, they were hidden by 
hoardings so it had no knowledge that the river was being uncovered. I explained in my 
provisional decision why I thought it reasonable that ABS should have known about the 
works  that was both their offices proximity to the works and also the nature of the 
business ABS is in. Im not persuaded that the presence of hoardings around the works 
meant ABS wouldnt know what was being done  or, given their business, have taken the 
trouble to find out. 
ABS says if it had known the river was being uncovered it would have asked Mr H to change 
his answer to the relevant question on his statement of fact at renewal. Im not persuaded by 
that argument. I say that because ABS originally said it didnt have the resources to check all 
the statements of fact it receives. And it hasnt said it checked Mr Hs at any point. In that 
situation the level of awareness of the type of work being done wouldnt affect the outcome.
None of the points made by either Mr H or ABS persuade me I should change my provisional 
findings.
Putting things right
To put things right ABS should put Mr H in the position hed have been in if ABS hadnt 
made a mistake. Ive explained above  and in my provisional decision  why I thought this 
meant it was very unlikely hed ever have been able to make a successful claim. So I still 
think it fair for ABS to return to Mr H the premium he paid for flood cover from renewal in 
2015 to the date of the claim. If ABS wants to assess that as £200, this seems reasonable, 
as its unlikely  given the overall cost of the policy  that Mr H paid more than this for the 
flood element of the cover. As I explained above, Im not awarding compensation, but 
instead returning Mr H to the position hed have been in without ABS mistakes. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Mohammad Saleem trading as Allied 
Business Services to pay no more than £200 as a refund of premium.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022. 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman