DRN-3677305
The complaint
Company M is unhappy that Stripe Payments UK Limited wont reimburse the loss they 
incurred as a result of a fraud which resulted in their funds being diverted to a fraudsters 
account. They also feel that Stripe hasnt helped them resolve this matter.  
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at length 
here. 
Briefly, M uses a payment system powered by Stripe to take payments from their customers 
and deposit them into their account with Bank A. This process is facilitated through their 
online order and payments handling service provider S. 
It appears that Ms account with S was hacked into and their bank details were altered. As a 
result, their customers payments over a period were fraudulently diverted to an account with 
Bank B instead of their account with Bank A. 
M says that when the fraud came to light, they sought the help of S, both the banks and 
Stripe but none of them helped.  This complaint is against Stripe, about its failure to 
compensate or help M.
Stripe said that it was not their fault that the problem occurred, and M should approach S for 
a remedy. It said that M holds a Custom account with Stripe which was opened and 
operated via S. It said that M isnt able to log into this account and all instructions about 
payments were input and stored through S. It said that the hack occurred at S end and 
Stripe had not been alerted to the change of account details. Therefore, it cant be held 
responsible for Ms loss.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and concluded that it couldnt be upheld. In 
essence they said that Stripe couldnt be held responsible for the unauthorised access on 
Ms account with S. 
M reiterated that both S and Stripe failed them.  They asked how S could operate in this 
market unregulated and what is our stance on regulated businesses (like Stripe) working 
with non-regulated companies.
The investigator explained our Services role as an independent dispute resolution service 
and our jurisdiction in relation to this. They clarified that it wouldnt be for us to carry out 
checks on regulated businesses like Stripe or how they operate with other businesses. They 
said that if M has any concern about this or about S, they should approach UKs financial 
services regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator essentially for the 
same reasons. There isnt much more I could add to what they said. 
Based on what I have seen, I am satisfied that the problem occurred with the account M had 
with S. It appears that the third party gained access to this account and through this changed 
the bank account details. This was outside of Stripes control and as such I consider that it 
wouldnt be fair to hold Stripe responsible for Ms loss. 
I fully understand Ms frustration in relation to this matter in that Stripe says it is not 
responsible for their loss but S, and they find S unhelpful.  Unfortunately, S isnt under our 
jurisdiction and therefore we are unable to consider a complaint about it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms complaint against Stripe Payments UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman