DRN-3200107
The complaint and background
Mr B complains that Al Rayan Bank PLC (Al Rayan) did not help recover monies he paid to 
a trading website which he says turned out to be a scam.
On 16 November 2021, I issued my provisional decision rejecting this complaint.  For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
£265.25 payment
Mr B accepts he authorised a payment of £250 to Universe Markets.  But he argues he did 
not authorise an additional £15.25 (£265.25 in total).  
I have considered what Mr B has said and the information he has provided  including: what 
appears to be a declaration form confirming Mr Bs authorisation to pay Universe Markets 
£250; and an online article about cryptocurrency scam.  However, I have not seen anything 
in the evidence before me which sets out the actual amount Mr B was asked to pay Universe 
Markets.  Therefore, in the absence of this, I am unable to conclude that Al Rayan permitted 
an incorrect amount to be debited from Mr Bs account.
Chargeback
I acknowledge Mr B says he was the victim of a scam.  However, this in itself does not 
automatically entitle Mr B to a claim under Mastercards chargeback scheme rules.  
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Mastercard whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments.  Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess 
Mastercards arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated 
card issuer acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to present) a 
chargeback on behalf of its cardholder.
We would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the rights exist 
and there is some prospect of success.
The Mastercard chargeback rules relevant to the date of Mr Bs transaction state that 
chargebacks are available to the card issuer for transactions in which any value is 
purchased for gambling, investment or similar purposes.  However, issuers have no 
chargeback rights related to the use of these chips or value, unspent chips, or withdrawal of 
such value, or on any winnings, gains or losses resulting from the use of such chips or value.
I am satisfied that chargeback rights are limited through the Mastercard scheme rules when 
it comes to claims relating to gambling, investment or similar.  But they are not excluded 
altogether.  Mastercard have clarified there may be an appropriate chargeback route if a 
merchant does not make funds transferred to it available for use in the type of transactions 
for which it received them.  An example may be when the card account is charged to make a 
deposit, but the account balance is unaffected. 
Our investigator says Mr B was blocked from accessing his trading account.  This may well 
have been the case, but any dispute appears to have arisen after Mr Bs trading account 
was funded.  I say this having considered a telephone call note which details a conversation 
between Al Rayan and Mr B on 4 April 2018.  The note records that Mr B said, amongst 
other things, he had contacted Universe Markets about a refund, and they confirmed that 
this could be processed but, Mr B would incur charges.  To my mind, this does not suggest 
that Mr Bs trading account was not funded  rather he tried to withdraw from it and faced 
issues doing so.
So, taking all the above factors together, I am not satisfied that Mr Bs trading account was 
not funded with his deposit.  It follows that the circumstances of Mr Bs complaint do not 
attract Mastercard chargeback rights; and that Al Rayan acted reasonably at the time by not 
raising one.  I am satisfied that Mastercard have made it clear there would be no reasonable 
prospect of success through its scheme for the circumstances of Mr Bs complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Al Rayan confirmed on 6 December 2021 that it had nothing further to add to my provisional 
decision.
Mr B replied on 17 November 2021.  He did not accept my provisional decision and 
submitted, in summary:
He authorised £250 to Universe Markets, not £265.25.  He argues that the Traders 
Declaration Form he has provided supports this.
Al Rayan has demonstrated a lack of action/response regarding his complaint.  He 
argues when he contacted Al Rayan within hours of the disputed transaction, it 
lacked the knowledge regarding procedures and asked him to call back in one week.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered Mr Bs further submissions, I remain of the view that this complaint 
should not be upheld.  I will explain why.
I was mindful of the declaration form Mr B has mentioned.   I considered and referred to it in 
my provisional decision (see above).  Whilst the form shows that Mr B authorised a payment 
of £250  I have not seen anything in the evidence before me which sets out the actual 
amount Mr B was asked to pay Universe Markets.  So, as I set out previously, I am unable to 
conclude that Al Rayan permitted an incorrect amount to be debited from Mr Bs account.
I do not accept Mr Bs criticisms of how Al Rayan responded to his complaint.  As I set out in 
my provisional decision, I am satisfied that Mr Bs trading account was funded with the 
deposit payment he made, which meant the disputed transaction did not attract Mastercard 
chargeback rights.  Moreover, I am satisfied that Al Rayan made Mr B aware of this and did 
so in a timely manner.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above and before, I am satisfied that Al Rayan Bank PLC acted fairly 
and reasonably with regard to the disputed transaction, so I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman