DRN-4032103
The complaint
Mrs U complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc registered a marker about her at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database, when it closed her account.
What happened
HSBC said it had received a report that £3,000 paid into Mrs Us account on 9 August 2021 
had been obtained fraudulently. It said that it had then retained £2,400.80 of the funds as 
some had been spent. It didnt accept Mrs Us account that this was part of £5,000 sent by 
her husband from abroad.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that HSBC had 
shown that the business that sent the money to Mrs U was a charity. And there were 
concerns about why Mrs Us husband wouldnt have sent legitimate money to her directly. 
The messages Mrs U had provided with her husband didnt show that he was going to send 
the money by a third party. And although shed provided a statement showing hed 
withdrawn money from his account abroad on 9 August 2021 this didnt seem to equate to a 
sufficient amount and nor could Mrs U show that he intended to send these funds to her. Our 
investigator said that the receipt of exchange provided was handwritten and could have been 
produced at any time. So, he didnt think HSBC had made a mistake in closing her account 
and adding the marker.
Mrs U didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She said that the means of 
exchange and transfer is relative to rates/preferences of the service provider/customer and 
from my understanding, there is also the element of variation in mode of transactions in 
different settings, open market sources are widely preferred for their comparative advantage. 
Ones choice then depends on the service provider being able to do as expected. She 
explained that she had a number of bank accounts so she can distinguish between them for 
example her salary, savings and other transactions. She said that the rate of exchange at 
the time of the transaction was the going rate. Mrs U explained she had a professional job 
and wouldnt want to jeopardise this by acting fraudulently.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, HSBC needs 
to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted. The evidence must 
be clear, relevant and rigorous.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention.
Ive taken into account guidance from CIFAS about cases where someone receives 
fraudulent payments into their account like this  acting as a so called money mule. And 
that relevant factors in deciding whether Mrs U was deliberately complicit in what happened 
include whether she knew or ought to have known that the money wasnt legitimate, whether 
she may have benefitted from the money by keeping part and whether she has provided 
generic or inconsistent explanations.
I note that Mrs U has maintained a consistent version of events. And that she wanted the 
money that had been taken from her account to be returned to her. Im satisfied that the 
money paid to her was fraudulently obtained. And that there is no evidence to support that 
this specific payment originated from the country abroad she says her husband sent it from. 
The name of that sender and which appeared on her bank statement isnt a business that is 
involved in international payments and HSBC has shown is a charity. I note that Mrs U 
hadnt used this account for any significant payments before. She didnt start to access any 
of the money until November 2021 just before it was reported as having been fraudulently 
obtained. I note what she says about some of those payments that were made to official 
bodies and the evidence shes provided about her employment.
Mrs U has provided some evidence from her husband, but which doesnt show the money 
being sent. There was no reason for this to go through the third party involved I can see and 
why both Mrs U and her husband would think this legitimate. The handwritten document she 
says related to the exchange was dated for the same day that the money she says rapidly 
reached her account from abroad. The exchange rate appears to be favourable compared to 
what I understand to be market rates at that time. And I dont see how she would think that 
money from an unknown third party seemingly unrelated to any transfer had come from her 
husband. To find otherwise Id need to think that her husband was somehow scammed 
abroad, his genuine money taken and then his transfer funded by an unrelated third-party 
business. Im afraid that on the evidence available Im not persuaded this is the case. I find 
Mrs Us explanation of what happened and why money was sent in this way and which I 
quoted above to be unconvincing and not supported by evidence. So, on balance I consider 
that it is most likely that Mrs U was complicit in what happened and reasonably knew she 
wasnt entitled to this money.
HSBC says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mrs U received fraudulent funds into 
her account. So, Ive looked at whether HSBC was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. And 
that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to believe fraud or 
financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mrs Us account of events and the evidence she has provided, Im satisfied 
that HSBC had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming to this 
view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mrs U received fraudulent funds into her account and didnt report this to HSBC at 
the time.
- She authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- HSBC had grounds to believe that Mrs U had used fraudulently obtained funds based 
on the evidence it had.In light of this I dont consider it acted unfairly in closing her account. I appreciate that Mrs U 
will be very disappointed when I say that I wont be requiring HSBC to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman