DRN-3196348
The complaint
Miss T complains Sainsburys Bank plc (Sainsburys) failed to keep to its agreement to 
spread a missed loan payment over the remaining term of her loan account.
What happened
Miss T says she approached Sainsburys in early March 2021 as she was struggling to meet 
that months due loan payment. Miss T says Sainsburys agreed to add the payment, she 
was unable to meet in March 2021 and spread it over the remaining term of the loan. Miss T 
says she was told to call back next month to set up the direct debit that was cancelled for the 
missed payment but because she couldnt answer the security questions, due to an issue at 
Sainsburys, she wasnt able to do that. 
Miss T says she believed she had raised a complaint about this and was led to believe she 
didnt need to take any further action until the complaint had been resolved. Miss T says the 
complaint was never logged and Sainsburys are now asking for the arrears that have now 
built up, to be repaid in full, which has led her to seek support from a debt management 
charity to help her. Miss T says Sainsburys have recorded a default on her credit file which 
she feels is unfair and she is looking for an arrangement with Sainsburys for a manageable 
payment plan.
Sainsburys accepts it should have logged the complaint in April 2021 when it was raised by 
Miss T and should have sent a code to enable her to pass security questions when she 
called them. Sainsburys says although Miss T was waiting to hear back about her 
complaint, she should have been aware she still needed to make the monthly loan payments 
due from April 2021. Sainsburys says it acted correctly when defaulting Miss T for the 
monthly payments she missed. Sainsburys have offered Miss T £100 by way of 
compensation for failing to send the security code and not logging the complaint when it 
should have, in addition to the £25 refund for a late payment fee it charged in March 2021. 
Miss T wasnt happy with Sainsburys response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld the complaint. The 
investigator felt Sainsburys should have offered Miss T a second Covid payment holiday in 
March 2021, when she called them. The investigator felt that would have in all likelihood 
helped Miss T get her finances in order. The investigator says given Miss T is now on a 
payment plan set up by a debt charity there would be no benefit in removing the default 
registered against Miss Ts credit file. But given the stress and worry Sainsburys have 
caused in dealing with the matter, the investigator felt it should pay Miss T £350 in 
compensation and refund any late payment charges from March 2021 onwards.  
Sainsburys didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred 
to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Miss T, having approached Sainsburys for 
financial support, to then be asked to repay her missed loan payments in one lump sum and 
then have her credit file adversely affected.
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Sainsburys could have provided any 
alternative financial support to Miss T when she approached them in March 2021, and if it 
acted fairly when it marked adverse entries on her credit file.  
This service has been provided with a number of phone call recordings/transcripts and while 
that has proved helpful, I wont be commenting on these individually as I dont feel its 
necessary in order to come to a full and impartial decision here. Thats not to say I havent 
considered these - I have.
Miss Ts complaint centres around the fact Sainsburys insisted on her clearing the arrears 
accrued on her loan in one amount, even though her complaint at this time was still ongoing 
about the financial support it had previously agreed with her. In addition, Miss T feels 
Sainsburys acted unreasonably when it then defaulted her and registered adverse 
information on her credit file.
The investigator in her view, provided a detailed timeline of events between March 2021 and 
June 2021. Its fair to say, having seen the relevant call transcripts and listened to the phone 
call recordings, Miss T was trying to discuss the problems she was facing following her not 
being able to make her March 2021 loan payment. Its also worth saying, and by its own 
admission, Sainsburys didnt help matters here by failing to properly log Miss Ts complaint 
about what it had previously agreed with her in March 2021 and were also at fault by not 
providing her with the security code she needed to pass security, so the matter could be 
discussed. 
While Sainsburys have apologised for those mistakes and offered Miss T £100 by way of 
compensation, it has stated it was correct to issue the default notices when it did and 
subsequently register the default on Miss Ts credit file. While I understand the points 
Sainsburys have made regarding this, Im not fully persuaded by its argument here. 
I say this because I take the view most of the problems Miss T faced, could have been 
avoided if Sainsburys had taken the correct course of action to support her, when she called 
them in March 2021. Sainsburys maintain when Miss T contacted them in early March 2021 
the financial problems she faced at that time were of a short-term nature and not Covid 
related. Sainsburys says, in any event, as it had previously provided Covid support back in 
August 2020, it would have been unable to provide the same level of support again. 
Sainsburys were unable to provide the actual call recording for that day in March 2021 but 
were able to provide the call transcript.
While its never as clear as having the call itself, from what I have read, I am satisfied Miss T 
refers to her partner being unable to work due to recent lock downs and relying on her 
savings. So here while Miss T was seeking temporary support for one month as matters 
were improving, its fair to say Miss T had explained to Sainsburys that her financial 
difficulties stemmed from the Covid pandemic. In fact from the transcript of that call, the 
Sainsburys advisor says but you would need to call us back to see how you wish to repay 
the arrears either in one go or over a period of time, which is an option, generally only 
available when Covid support is provided, suggesting it had been perhaps considered as an option but not offered. 
As the investigator has pointed out, there was no reason why Sainsburys couldnt have 
provided additional Covid support to Miss T under the guidance given by the Financial 
Conduct Authority at that time, even if it thought it couldnt. Afterall Sainsburys are the 
financial experts here and I would expect them to provide the most appropriate support 
available to Miss T at that time, but Im not convinced it did that here. I says this because if 
Covid support had been provided to Miss T in March 2021 any missed payment could have 
been spread over the remaining term of the loan, which is what she needed. 
Its also worth mentioning, Miss T raised a complaint in April 2021, about the repayment of 
the agreed missed March 2021 loan payment. What is clear is further issues were caused, 
through no fault of Miss T, as she wasnt able to pass the security questions posed by 
Sainsburys when she tried to contact them to discuss the repayment of the missed loan 
payment - it appears this issue arose because Sainsburys changed its back office systems, 
but I cant say Miss T can be held responsible for that. In addition, Sainsburys failed to 
correctly log Miss Ts complaint which meant the issue over the missed payment wasnt 
being dealt with, contributing to further missed loan payments as Miss T was waiting to hear 
back about her complaint, as she was told to. 
Taking all these points into account, its reasonable to say if Sainsburys had provided a 
Covid payment holiday, while perhaps not being the sole reason behind Miss Ts future 
financial problems, it would have given her some breathing space at that time. While Miss T 
was made aware in writing she was in arrears, and arguably she could have reinstated her 
direct debit for her contractual monthly loan payments, its fair to say she was waiting to hear 
the outcome of her complaint from April 2021, and that took longer to resolve than it should, 
for the reasons I have already given. 
With that in mind, its for me to decide what is a fair and reasonable outcome here. Given 
Miss T has an agreed payment plan through a debt charity, and wants to continue with that, 
like the investigator I agree it wouldnt be of any benefit to her to have the default registered 
in August 2021 removed, as her new payment plan would mean her credit file would still be 
marked, just at a later date.
While Sainsburys offered Miss T £100 in compensation for the errors it made over her 
complaint not being logged correctly and its failure to send her the needed security code, I 
dont think this goes far enough given the trouble and upset this has caused. In addition, I 
am satisfied for the reasons I have already explained Sainsburys should have offered Miss 
T a further Covid payment holiday in March 2021, which was the forbearance she actually 
needed at that time. So, like the investigator, I feel a more appropriate level of redress here 
would be for Sainsburys to pay Miss T £350 by way of compensation given the trouble and 
upset this has caused her. In addition, Sainsburys should refund any late payment charges 
from March 2021 to time of settlement. 
While Sainsburys will be disappointed with my decision, I am satisfied this is a fair outcome 
here. 
Putting things right
I instruct Sainsburys Bank plc to pay Miss T £350 for the trouble and upset caused to her 
and in addition refund any late payment charges from March 2021 to time of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.I instruct Sainsburys Bank plc to pay Miss T £350 for the trouble and upset caused to her 
and in addition refund any late payment charges from March 2021 to time of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman