DRN-3703501
The complaint
Miss Y complains about an electronic bike she purchased using credit provided by Klarna 
Bank AB (publ) Klarna.
What happened
Miss Y purchased the bike for £1,271 using a fixed sum loan agreement from Klarna in 
October 2020. However, she is unhappy with the quality of the item and points to many 
issues she has had with it including:
 the battery not performing as expected
 brakes squealing
 problems with the pedal bracket and top box
 walk mode not working as expected
 speedometer not accurate
 issues with the indicator light
 chain rusting
Miss Y is also unhappy with how the supplier handled things when she raised issues. She 
says their customer service was poor and they made inaccurate claims against her 
character. She also says they unfairly withdrew a maintenance contract she had already 
purchased.  Miss Y adds that the bike is very difficult to get serviced anywhere and parts are 
hard to source. Had she known this she would not have bought it.
Because Miss Y could not get satisfaction from the supplier she approached Klarna who 
considered the matter in light of Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). 
However, it concluded that the bike was not faulty and any issues with the bike are down to 
customer damage / lack of maintenance. 
Our investigator looked into the matter. She upheld the complaint and recommended a full 
refund plus additional compensation for distress and inconvenience. In summary, she felt 
Miss Y had been complaining about issues from an early stage  and that the evidence 
pointed to manufacturing issues with the battery, walk mode and pedal bar in particular. 
Klarna disagreed, in summary it says:
 Miss Y had an accident in the bike on 10th December 2020 and it is difficult for it to 
say what faults mentioned after this point were connected to this event; and 
 the battery life will be reduced if Miss Y has increased the speed limit of the bike and 
the quality of the battery should not be compared to more expensive high end 
products  the new battery offer was made on a goodwill basis so Miss Y could try 
out the new range.
Miss Y did not fully agree with the proposed redress either  as she wants to claim other 
costs too.
So the matter has come to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this matter. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 allows Miss Y to make a claim against Klarna in respect of the bike which she 
bought using its credit. However, for Section 75 to apply certain criteria needs to be satisfied 
relating to things like the parties to the transaction, the way the payment was made and the 
cost of the goods. I am satisfied this is met and Section 75 applies here.
Breach of contract
Any Section 75 claim against Klarna is limited to any breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by the supplier in relation to the agreement to supply the goods. That is the extent of its 
liability. That is particularly important for me to note here because Miss Y has mentioned 
several after sales matters which do not appear to be covered by the original agreement to 
supply the goods and therefore I consider are not covered by her Section 75 claim in relation 
to breach of contract against Klarna. This includes her complaint about the general customer 
service of the supplier and any allegations she has made against it (or it has made against 
her) in relation to matters such as discrimination or defamation. It also includes matters 
relating to aftersales servicing (including a service and rebuild she says she did not 
authorise) parts availability and the withdrawal of a separately purchased aftermarket 
warranty. 
I am focused on the agreement for the sale of the bike as financed by Klarna and whether 
the quality issues which Miss Y has identified amount to a breach of said supply contract. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is of particular relevance to this complaint. It says 
that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods 
is satisfactory.
The CRA says the quality of goods are satisfactory if they meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
The CRA says the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and other 
things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, 
safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of goods.
Miss Y has put forward a detailed account of several failings with the bike. However, there 
are particular challenges in determining that the bike is inherently defective here particularly 
in light of the following:
on 10 December soon after taking delivery of the bike (Miss Y says she took delivery 
in November 2020) Miss Y was in an accident on the bike which slipped on wet leaves causing damage  Miss Y reported this to the supplier as she needed a spare 
part;
shortly after this accident on 22 December 2020 Miss Y reported that the bike fell 
over in the wind with more damage as a result; 
in February 2021 a report was carried out on the bike by an engineer sent by the 
supplier identifying extensive damage (forks bent/handlebars bent/slightly bent 
wheel/broken mudguard) and maintenance issues; 
a second engineers report was carried out later on noting the bike had covered 
4446kms and pointed out a puncture, damage mudguards, missing chain, cut wires 
and missing bolts. The engineer tested the walk mode and battery and did not find 
any abnormalities. The report concluded the bike was overdue a major service and 
the work done on it by a third party was of a poor standard.  
Klarna, like the supplier has focused on the reports of the accidental damage to the bike and 
the maintenance issues identified by the engineer and does not accept that the bike is 
inherently faulty. 
accidental damage 
I am not an expert  but I can see that most of the issues with the bike appear to have been 
identified after it was involved in an accident which was reported on 10 Dec 2020. I know 
Miss Y says she thinks the accident damage was restricted to the brake and controller unit 
she ordered  but there isnt anything persuasive to support that. And from the engineers 
report carried out in February 21 it appears likely the damage to the bike was more 
extensive (it refers to the bike being bent in several places). I also note that in the fault report 
Miss Y provided at the time she states that the accident has resulted in an intermittent loss 
of power. Overall the evidence indicates that the accident could be a source of damage to 
the physical parts and electrical systems on the bike including some of the issues Miss Y 
reported soon afterwards. 
I also note that Miss Y reported that the bike was damaged again shortly after this incident 
when it fell over and the back box was broken. Miss Y appears to indicate that the back box 
fell off and this caused the bike to fall. But she also mentions a gust of wind blowing it over. I 
am unclear what she means but I dont see how the back box would have caused the whole 
bike to fall over or how (as shown in the picture of the damage) the fixtures on the back box 
had sheared off like that without having been forcefully hit by something. It seems more 
likely that the box was damaged when the bike fell over in the wind.
I also note that Miss Y has continued to make reference to the bike being blown over by the 
wind as she has nowhere to properly store it. Recently she says wind damaged the brake 
and mirror. Although these are more recent events they appear to indicate that the way the 
bike is stored has left it vulnerable to damage from the elements  which makes it even 
harder for me to determine that issues she has raised are likely due to manufacturing 
defects.
Miss Y has also said that she skidded on ice recently and fell but that this did not damage 
certain parts she thinks Klarna is attributing to her previous accident. However, while I 
acknowledge that accidents are not all the same there is a possibility that any accident can 
cause damage to parts  so that cant fairly be ruled out here. And accidental damage to 
goods is not something that would render goods of unsatisfactory quality under the CRA. wear and tear/maintenance
The two expert reports (while admittedly not independent) show that the bike has suffered 
from extensive user wear and tear. This would appear to be in line with the use of the bike 
which Miss Y describes. Miss Y at one point refers to the bike getting dirty from riding to 
work along muddy country roads in significant rainfall. She says that the bike is used daily 
for commuting 50 min each way and subject to extreme weather conditions along these 
routes. So it appears (and noting she started using it in the winter) that the bike was subject 
to significant opportunity for wear and tear. This would explain a lot of the issues identified. 
Particularly issues with consumables like tyres/chains and any rust/corrosion.
Both of the expert engineer reports indicate that there has been a lack of/poor maintenance 
of the bike. I note that when Miss Y initially bought the bike she opted not to purchase a 
service plan and was having repairs carried out by her local bike shop. The supplier states:
Each bike does come with a pack which explains what you need to do on a daily, weekly, 
monthly and annual basis. Adhering to this will prevent early wear and tear on the bike 
and its components. 
However, from the evidence I have seen I am not persuaded the bike was being cleaned and 
maintained as it should have been. Miss Y by her own admission says due to the time she 
returns from work and how dark and cold it is she is not always able to clean it despite the 
muddy conditions it is subjected to on country lanes. Furthermore I can see that Miss Y 
emails the supplier in February 2021 with some queries about the basic operation of the bike 
and some information she has seen in the owners manual about maintenance. This 
communication indicates she hasnt been maintaining the bike as instructed in the manual. 
She says the manual says to oil and grease some areas but she has not been doing this as 
she was told not to when she first got the bike. The supplier appears surprised by this and 
confirms that she does need to maintain the bike in this way. 
Furthermore, from about April 2021 I can see email correspondence where Miss Y appears 
to act as a middle person between the supplier and the bike store she was having maintain 
the bike. This whole series of emails indicates that the original bike store was not confident 
with servicing the bike, didnt have the tools they needed and had done certain things they 
should not have. I can see that in June 21 Miss Y emails the supplier to ask about their own 
servicing costs. But by then it appears too late to have prevented some of the issues that 
have occurred. Miss Y appears to have since changed to another bike store for servicing.
I know Miss Y is unhappy with what she sees as limited places to get the bike repaired and 
serviced  but that doesnt appear to be a breach of an agreed term in the supply contract 
here. The key thing here in regard to Klarnas potential liability is whether the goods as 
supplied were of satisfactory quality. And here it does appear there were significant issues 
with the way the bike had been maintained and repaired which has likely exacerbated or 
caused problems with loose/damaged and rusting parts as opposed to manufacturing 
issues.
The significant issues discussed above and the absence of any persuasive evidence to the 
contrary (Miss Ys original mechanic refused to comment further or confirm any original 
manufacturing defects and the recent report she has got from another bike shop does not do 
this either) make it difficult for me to conclude that many of the issues Miss Y had had with 
the bike are manufacturing defects.I do acknowledge that Miss Y raised squeaking brakes at an early stage and before any 
accident. However, from what I can see this appears to be quite normal in new bikes and 
can also occur from contamination and dirt rather than inherent defects  I think there isnt 
persuasive evidence that this is a manufacturing issue. Although Miss Y has continued to 
say they squeak considering the other evidence around the use and maintenance of the bike 
it is difficult for me to say this is an inherent defect.
Miss Y has indicated that she has maintained the bike and Klarna needs to prove how the 
bike fell to show what damage was caused and that there was no inspection when it fell or 
shortly after. However, I am unable to ignore accidents which appear to have caused 
damage to the bike. And I think when combined with the persuasive evidence indicating 
wear and tear damage/lack of or poor maintenance it is fair to say that there are many things 
that have occurred which are not manufacturing defects.
However, with that said based on the evidence I have I do think there are some things which 
could be put down to inherent defects:
walk mode
Miss Y has made particular reference to the walk mode feature self-activating since supply. 
But I dont see any persuasive evidence this was raised before January 2021. I think it is 
likely if Miss Y was having issues with this at an early stage I would have seen it included in 
her fault reports prior to this. I also note the supplier says it did not appear to find a fault with 
this when it carried out its first inspection and suggested Miss Y was pressing the button 
without realising. So I am not persuaded there was an issue with the walk mode self-
activating.
Miss Y made a different complaint at the end of February 2021 about a problem with the 
walk mode working only with the kickstand down. Here the supplier appears to acknowledge 
there might be a fault with the kickstand sensor. I also note it happened not long after the 
supplier checked the bike and found no issues with walk mode. So this appears to be a more 
recently developed manufacturing fault rather than something pre-existing and less likely to 
be caused by accident or misuse.  I note the supplier sent out a new sensor kit which Miss Y 
says fixed the issue, so it does appear there was some kind of issue with this sensor. I also 
note that despite offering a repair of sorts the supplier didnt pay for Miss Y to have it fitted. I 
will come back to this point later.
the battery 
I note that Miss Y reported concerns with the battery straight away. So if I was satisfied the 
battery was faulty then it might be fair to conclude this was an inherent defect rather than 
due to wear and tear/ lack of maintenance or accident damage.
Despite offering to swap the battery as a goodwill gesture (and eventually doing so) the 
supplier does not appear to accept there is anything wrong with it. It suggests that speed, 
terrain, incline and weather conditions will all impact the range of the battery and that what 
Miss Y has told them is normal. It eventually said it tested the battery and it is fine.
This is a difficult matter because there are several accepted variables with batteries. I note 
the website refers to battery range as being approx. 40-50 miles on a single 7-hour charge 
and that battery range will be an average and subject to conditions/gradient and ride weight. 
At one-point Miss Y says she gets about 30 miles from a 7-hour charge and more recently 
less than that. But from what she has said about her journey on country lanes in particular weather  and the damage and maintenance issues with the bike I think it isnt unexpected 
that she would get less than the optimum possible miles. There is also a suggestion that the 
particular setting Miss Y has been using has meant her battery life is heavily reduced. This 
would make sense  although I am not entirely sure she is using this setting.
However, I do note Miss Y has maintained that the battery she originally received always 
required a full 7-hour charge or would fail prematurely - even if it had some partial charge 
already. This is despite contrary claims in the manual and from support that indicated the 
battery could be fully charged in about 90 mins as long as 20% power remained  a top up 
charge of sorts. In an early email to the supplier Miss Y explains how she ended up getting 
stranded on her usual commute and having to walk after only carrying out a 4 hour top up 
charge because the display was on 3 of 5 bars. She has since maintained that anything 
other than a 7-hour charge results in the battery failing prematurely  and that the concept of 
the quick top up charge has never worked for her. 
The battery charging issue has given me pause for thought as Miss Y did raise this at an 
early stage so it is difficult to put down to accident or wear and tear damage. She has also 
been consistently raising the same matter around the top up charge feature not working as it 
should. Furthermore, while the supplier said there was no issue with the battery it isnt clear 
to me how they have tested it or whether they have looked into Miss Ys specific concerns 
with the top up charging. So on balance I think Miss Y likely did have a faulty battery from 
the point of supply. I note Miss Y was offered and eventually supplied a replacement  but I 
also have to consider that in context of any other issues  which I discuss below.
Misrepresentation
Miss Y has indicated she was mis-sold the bike in regard to ongoing repairs and 
maintenance required. In order to show misrepresentation I would need to be satisfied that a 
false statement of fact was made by the supplier at the time of sale which induced her to 
make a purchase she otherwise would not have made. While I understand Miss Y is 
disappointed with the cost of spare parts and official servicing  from the information I have I 
am not persuaded she was given false information about this by the supplier at the point of 
sale. And her claim that she was told not to lubricate anything with oil when she first got the 
bike is not persuasive based on the evidence I have seen.
Conclusion
Klarna points to Miss Ys use as the cause of all the issues with the bike and Miss Y appears 
to indicate the opposite  that they are all due to the poor quality of the bike. But I think the 
answer is likely something in between. 
As I have already explained I think based on the evidence available many of the problems 
can fairly be put down to damage and maintenance failings. But there are issues which have 
required repairs/replacement (particularly the battery and kick stand sensor) which I think are 
not likely down to these things. I now need to decide what a fair way of putting that right is.
I note that Miss Y required a replacement battery very early on and then another repair was 
required around March 2021 to a sensor fault with the kickstand. The battery was not 
provided immediately, and the sensor was not fitted for her. So on both occasions the issues 
were not resolved without causing delay or inconvenience to her. With the provisions of the 
CRA in mind (including the suppliers one attempt at repair/replacement) I think Miss Y 
should have been allowed the remedy of rejecting the bike around March 2021 when the 
sensor issue occurred. So I think it is fair that Klarna now take back the bike.I am sorry to hear about the stress and anxiety this issue has caused Miss Y. But I think it is 
difficult based on the evidence here to conclude that it would be fair for Klarna to pay a full 
refund and provide the additional compensation for the consequential losses she is claiming. 
I also note that Klarnas liability under Section 75 is restricted to the like claim against the 
supplier in court  and for this type of contract it is unlikely a court would award for distress 
and inconvenience in any event. So I wont be making an award of this nature here.
In deciding what is fair I have noted:
Miss Y has been using the bike and has covered significant mileage with it to date so 
any redress should reflect this use she has had
The bike has suffered recent accidental damage and been subject to additional wear 
and tear due to lack of maintenance  which is not the fault of the supplier or Klarna . 
I appreciate Miss Y has indicated that had she given back the bike earlier it would not 
have been subject to further damage. But I think it is reasonable for the bike to have 
been stored, maintained and used in a way that would have mitigated this. I think any 
refund needs to reflect this.
This is not a science but all things considered I think Miss Y should be able to return the bike 
and get a refund equivalent to about 70% of the purchase price. Miss Y also says she has 
paid to have the new sensor fitted. I think this wasnt something she should have paid for as 
I think this was likely a manufacturing fault. So she is out of pocket for this. Klarna should 
also pay for this on production of an invoice and proof of payment for the fitting costs already 
incurred (up a to a maximum of £150 as I currently dont see how it could reasonably cost 
more).
I understand the finance agreement would now have ended and I make this decision based 
on Miss Y having made all her payments to date. Klarna can make further submissions if this 
is not the case.
My provisional decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Klarna Bank AB (publ) to: 
Collect the bike at no extra cost to Miss Y;
Refund her £900 representing a partial refund for the bike;
Refund Miss Y the cost incurred to have a new sensor fitted on production of an 
invoice and proof of payment for this (up to £150); and
Pay interest at 8% simple per year on all refunds from the date it declined Miss Ys 
Section 75 claim to the date of settlement.
I asked the parties for their comments:
Klarna accepted the decision.
Miss Y said that she felt the provisional decision was fair considering the use she has had of 
the bike. However, she does not agree with all my outcomes. In summary, she says:
the supplier did not want to carry out repairs and caused unnecessary delays which 
meant she had to pay for alternative transport costs  which she thinks should have 
been reimbursed 
the walk mode was self-activating from November 2020 causing her to have accidents and injure herself  she continues to suffer symptoms as a result  
the expert reports are not independent and in some cases she thinks are irrelevant
what she has stated in certain correspondence cannot be used as evidence as it is 
her opinion
she has been unable to store the bike inside because her housing association told 
her she cannot do this it is also too heavy to be carried upstairs  there was also 
only one incident where it fell independently (and she thinks this was due to the top 
box)  the other times the bike fell on her
the incident when she skidded on ice and fell on the bike recently is irrelevant as it 
was mentioned to highlight the point that bracket damage isnt caused by falls
she has been maintaining the bike and any conclusions that she hasnt been are not 
based on evidence
at the point of buying the bike the supplier did not tell her she could not buy a service 
plan after
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Y clearly feels strongly about this matter and has emphasised that she has been 
truthful throughout. I acknowledge what she has said and I want to say that my conclusions 
are not meant to infer that she hasnt been. My decision is simply made based on the 
balance of probabilities in the face of the sometimes limited and conflicting evidence which is 
available. 
Miss Y has responded to my provisional decision to say she thinks it is a fair outcome overall 
and has also largely repeated evidence I have already read and considered. None of which 
changes my provisional findings. As a result I dont consider it necessary to go into detail 
about Miss Ys recent submissions particularly as all parties now accept it fair that the bike 
can be returned for a refund. 
However, I will deal briefly with a few key points (some particularly relevant to the proposed 
compensation) as follows:
Miss Y has disputed that she hasnt maintained the bike and questioned whether certain 
damage was caused by accidents she had. She has also questioned evidence I have relied 
on (such as the expert reports) and also said certain evidence (such as her admission of a 
recent fall on the bike) is irrelevant. 
I have carefully considered what she has said however it is for me as ombudsman to decide 
what is relevant and what isnt. The fact that the bike has suffered multiple accidents 
(including more recently) is a credible explanation for some damage that has resulted. The 
expert reports which support my findings around accident damage and lack of maintenance 
while not independent are persuasive when read with the other evidence available. 
Furthermore, it is my view that Miss Ys own past correspondence (along with the expert 
evidence) indicates the bike is subject to hostile riding conditions, was not cleaned each day, 
and was not maintained in accordance with the service schedule. Miss Y has also not provided persuasive evidence to support her current position that the bike was maintained 
as it should have been.
I note Miss Y has explained why the bike has been stored exposed to the elements (causing 
it to suffer damage) and why it wasnt serviced at certain times. But I think the storage and 
care of the bike is something fairly down to Miss Y so I dont think Klarna (via Section 75) is 
responsible for this.
I do accept there are a couple of things which are likely inherent faults (as explained in my 
provisional decision). And as a result I am directing Klarna to take the bike back. However, 
the times Miss Y was without the bike appear primarily down to the issues related to her own 
use of it rather than inherent faults. So I dont agree that she is due further compensation for 
alternative transport costs. I also still consider it fair (as detailed in my provisional decision) 
that Miss Y receives a reduced refund to reflect her use of the bike to date and its current 
condition. 
Miss Y has mentioned that servicing she paid for separately wasnt done properly  but this 
wouldnt be part of her Section 75 claim against Klarna as it did not finance this.
Miss Y has also again mentioned the service plan she purchased which was cancelled by 
the supplier. As I have previously said, as this wasnt funded by the Klarna loan the dispute 
over its withdrawal is not something fairly covered by the Section 75 claim in question. I note 
Miss Y has also said she was not told the plan had to be bought at the time the bike was 
purchased. However, following on from the conclusion in my provisional decision I still dont 
think there is persuasive evidence of a misrepresentation at the time of sale. Nor do I think 
this would likely make a difference to my award here in any event.
A note about personal injury and other claims
I note that Miss Y has said she was having issues with the walk mode prior to her accident in 
December. I still think there isnt persuasive evidence of there being inherent faults with the 
walk mode self-activating (while the relevance of this now is lessened as I have agreed that 
the bike can be rejected). However, I also note Miss Y has claimed this issue caused her 
personal injury which has had a lasting impact on her health. However, to be clear, even if I 
was able to conclude that faults with the walk mode likely caused Miss Y personal injury this 
service is not able to make awards for loss of amenity. So while I am very sorry to hear 
about the symptoms Miss Y has described it is unlikely this service would be able to 
compensate for this in any event.
Miss Y should also be aware that choosing to accept my final decision on this matter might 
have an impact on any other claims she wishes to make in relation to personal injury or other 
losses against any party in the future in connection with this matter. If she is concerned 
about the implications of accepting my decision she should seek independent legal advice.Miss Y says she has been unable to locate the receipt for the kickstand sensor fitting. She 
says it likely cost £25. I think it is highly unlikely to have cost any less. So if Miss Y is unable 
to produce the documentation I think it fair that Klarna pay her the £25 in any event.
Miss Y has also asked if the third party back box which she bought separately can be taken 
off when the bike is collected. However, considering the circumstances here around the 
original damage to the back box I dont consider it fair and reasonable to direct Klarna to do 
this in the circumstances. Miss Y will have to arrange for this at her own cost prior to 
collection.
To conclude  I still think my provisional decision is fair and reasonable so I will be directing 
Klarna to settle on that basis.
Putting things right
For the reasons specified above (incorporating my provisional findings) Klarna should put 
things right as detailed below. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Klarna Bank AB (publ) to: 
 Collect the bike at no extra cost to Miss Y;
 Refund her £900 representing a partial refund for the bike;
 Refund Miss Y the cost incurred to have a new sensor fitted on production of an 
invoice and proof of payment for this (up to £150) or £25 if she is unable to provide 
this information; and
 Pay interest at 8% simple per year on all refunds from the date it declined Miss Ys 
Section 75 claim to the date of settlement.
Klarna should provide a certificate of any tax it has deemed necessary to deduct from my 
interest award so that Miss Y can claim a refund from HMRC (if applicable).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman