DRN-3420913
The complaint
Mr M complains about a mortgage account he has with Nationwide Building Society. Hes 
unhappy that Nationwide allowed his ex-partner to obtain a five-year fixed rate product on 
their mortgage account without his consent. Mr M says he has been trying to come off the 
mortgage and if the mortgage is now settled in that period early repayment fees will be 
applied.
Mr M is also unhappy that Nationwide wrote to him at the property address, as he is no 
longer at that address. And Mr M believes Nationwide made it difficult for him to raise his 
complaint.
What happened
Mr M has a joint mortgage with Nationwide on a property with his ex-partner. Mr M no longer 
lives at the property and is separated from his ex-partner. Mr M has explained that a 
previous application for his ex-partner to take over the mortgage on her own was declined, 
but the intention is still for him to come off the mortgage. 
A previous mortgage rate product had come to an end and the mortgage account switched 
to Nationwides standard variable rate (SVR). Mr M says that his ex-partner applied for a 
five-year fixed rate for their mortgage without his consent. He says that he was not party to 
the application, fraud has taken place and he believes Nationwide should have done more to 
prevent this.  
Mr M is concerned as there are early repayment charges associated with the new 5 year 
fixed rate product and as he is trying to come off the mortgage, or arrange for the house to 
be sold and mortgage settled, he will incur costs through the early settlement. 
Mr M is also unhappy with the way he was able to raise a complaint when he initially raised 
this with Nationwide. He believes this was a difficult process and is unhappy as no phone 
number was provided for him to use. When acknowledging his complaint Nationwide sent a 
letter to the mortgaged property and that letter was opened by Mr Ms ex-partner. Mr M is 
unhappy that Nationwide wrote to that address and disclosed personal information. 
As Mr M was unhappy with Nationwides response he referred his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered what Mr M and Nationwide had said and presented. 
Ultimately, the investigator didnt uphold the complaint and explained that she didnt consider 
Nationwide had acted unreasonably when arranging and agreeing the new five-year fixed 
rate product. Nor did she consider Mr M was treated unfairly when looking to raise his 
complaint or when Nationwide wrote to him at the mortgaged property. 
Mr M remained unhappy with the investigators conclusions and as the complaint could not 
be resolved informally it has been referred to me for consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, for broadly 
the same reasons. Ive not upheld Mr Ms complaint and Ive set out below my reasons for 
this. 
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend 
any discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I want to assure 
Mr M that Ive reviewed everything on file and if I dont comment on something, its not 
because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key 
issues. Our powers allow me to do this.
Mr M has a joint mortgage on a property that I understand he shared with his partner until 
they separated. Mr M no longer lives at the property and is separated from his partner. At the 
time of the new product application it is my understanding that Nationwide had not been 
informed about Mr M and his partner separating or that Mr M was no longer living at the 
mortgaged address. I havent seen anything to indicate that Mr M had informed Nationwide 
of his new address prior to the application. 
A new 5-year fixed rate mortgage product was applied for online and Mr M says that this was 
done by his ex-partner without his knowledge. As part of the application it asks if the person 
completing the application has the consent of the other mortgage account holder. A tick box 
was completed, confirming both account holders consent to the application. Emails were 
sent to both account holders once the application was completed referring to the product 
switch. 
I have considered what Mr M has said about the application process and the adequacy of 
Nationwides checks, but Im not persuaded Nationwide acted unreasonably or unfairly here. 
Nationwide had no prior knowledge of Mr Ms separation from his partner, or that he was no 
longer living at the mortgaged property. Nationwide therefore had no reason to suspect Mr M 
had not consented to the application, as indicated during the application process. Mr M 
believes that a wet signature should have been provided, rather than an electronic tick box, 
but I dont consider there to be any requirement for this and Im satisfied in the 
circumstances here the electronic tick box was reasonable. 
An email was sent to Mr M and this did refer to the new product that had been applied for 
and agreed. I appreciate Mr M says this was an old email address and it was some time 
before he noticed the email. Even if Nationwide had written out through the post instead of 
emailing, this would have been sent to Mr Ms address on file, which was the mortgaged 
property that he was no longer living at. So its more likely than not that this would not have 
changed anything in this instance. I have noted that Mr M feels that the checks Nationwide 
had in place were inadequate but for the reasons explained here Im not persuaded they 
were. 
I would also add that even if I had found that Nationwide had acted unreasonably here by 
agreeing the application, any redress would consider any loss suffered and look to put Mr M 
back into the position he would have been in. The redress would not therefore, as Mr M has 
requested, result in Nationwide having to terminate the mortgage and/or force the sale of the 
property. 
Mr M is also unhappy about the complaints process of Nationwide and that in responding to 
his complaint it wrote to the mortgaged address. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets 
out rules and guidance relating to complaint handling and Nationwide would need to have 
regard to these when considering Mr Ms complaint. Mr M is unhappy about several aspects of the process and while I accept things could have 
gone more smoothly, Im not persuaded Nationwide failed to meet the requirements set out 
by the FCA, or treat Mr M unreasonably. Nationwide was under no obligation to provide a 
telephone number for Mr M to call to complain and Mr M was able to submit his complaint. I 
appreciate Mr M was unable to log the complaint through the complaint portal but I havent 
seen anything to indicate this was more than a temporary technical issue. The complaint 
response was issued within a reasonable time. I note Mr Ms concerns about how other 
people may find the complaint process but my consideration here is limited to Mr Ms 
interaction alone and not a more general concern about the process or how others might find 
it. I again accept Mr Ms experience could have been better but Im not persuaded Mr M was 
treated unfairly or unreasonably in this instance. 
Finally, Mr M is unhappy that Nationwide wrote to the mortgaged address acknowledging his 
complaint. Mr M says he made Nationwide aware that he was not at that address any longer 
and is unhappy that his ex-partner opened the letter. 
Although Mr M says he explained he was no longer at the address I havent seen anything to 
indicate that Mr M provided an alternative address or explained that no mail should be sent 
to the mortgaged address. The letter was addressed to Mr M and should therefore have only 
been opened by Mr M. Nationwide had nothing to suggest that Mr Ms ex-partner would 
open the letter. The letter only acknowledged that Mr M had made a complaint and didnt 
divulge any personal information. 
I appreciate Mr M is unhappy about the letter being sent but I dont think this is particularly 
unreasonable in the circumstances.
I realise Mr M will likely remain unhappy with the decision I have come to here and I 
acknowledge the position he is in with his ex-partner and the mortgage. But ultimately, I 
dont consider Nationwide has acted unreasonably here and it is for these reasons, and 
those set out above, that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman