DRN-2158727
The complaint
Ms Bs complaint is that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) has not paid her 
compensation for a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 2020 Ms B complained to M&S about a PPI policy sold to her with an M&S credit card in 
2004.
M&S replied to Ms B in February 2020. In its letter M&S said Ms B had previously 
complained about the same PPI policy in 2007. M&S said it upheld the complaint in 2007 
and paid Ms B £377.97 in compensation at the time.
Ms B says she never received the compensation and wasnt ever made aware that M&S had 
previously upheld her complaint.
An adjudicator from this service thought it most likely M&S had settled the complaint in 2007.
Ms B disagreed with the adjudicators findings so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B says she didnt receive any payment from M&S in 2007.
Ive thought carefully about this but M&S has shown us screenshots of its internal systems 
and records which show a payment of £377.97 was made in 2007.
M&S has not retained full records which isnt surprising given the time that has passed. For 
instance M&S has not retained copies of the correspondence from 2007.
But M&S says that according to its records Ms B used a claims management company 
(CMC) to represent her in 2007. And M&S says it would therefore have communicated 
directly with the CMC as her appointed representative.
Ive seen records which show a payment of £377.97 having been sent to Ms Bs account on 
5 October 2007, the same amount was then paid from that account to Ms Bs credit card 
account. 
Ms B has no recollection of this payment but I dont think it is likely the record of that 
payment would be on M&S internal systems if it hadnt taken place.
As Ms B used a CMC to represent her it could be that there was some breakdown of 
communication between Ms B, her CMC and M&S. But ultimately the evidence Ive seen 
persuades me that it is most likely M&S investigated Ms Bs complaint in 2007 and fully 
compensated her for the mis-sold PPI.
It follows that it wouldnt be fair for me to direct M&S to make any further payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman