DRN-3585536
The complaint
A company who Ill refer to as S have complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly turned 
down its business interruption insurance claim. 
Mr G, a director of S, has brought the complaint on Ss behalf through a representative. For 
ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and comments as being those of S.
 
What happened
S held a business interruption insurance policy with AXA. S claimed on its policy after its
business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. S 
said it wasnt required to close by the Government Regulations but couldnt comply with 
social distancing measures so closed on 25 March 2020. 
AXA turned down Ss claim as they didnt think the policy provided cover. 
Unhappy with AXAs response, S brought its complaint to us. It thought its claim should be
covered under different sections of the policy.
Damage
S said the core business interruption section of the policy covers accidental damage and that 
this should be interpreted to provide cover for Ss claim. S has referred to the case of MDS 
Inc. v Factory Mutual Insurance Company (2020) in support of why its claim should be paid.
Denial of access
S said given this clause should be triggered if there was a case of Covid-19 at property in 
the vicinity of its premises. 
Disease
S said it was more likely than not that there was a case of Covid-19 at its premises and as 
the proximate cause of its closure was Covid-19 its claim should be covered. S said that four 
members of staff were told to self-isolate in April 2020 after displaying symptoms of Covid-
19. S said its employees were unable to get tested, but in any event they didnt need a 
positive test result, only to have displayed symptoms at work. S also said there was most 
likely a case of Covid-19 at its premises due to the number of people in the local area who 
most likely had the disease. 
Sanitary arrangements
S said the definition of sanitary is relating to health, cleanliness and protection against 
disease. It said it needed to close its business because it couldnt maintain social distancing 
measures and therefore this part of its policy should provide cover. 
Other factors
S referred to a statement made by the Government towards the start of the pandemic and 
added that it wasnt fair and just for the policy not to provide cover as there wasnt a specific 
exclusion for Covid-19 or pandemics. 
Initial investigation
Our investigator looked into Ss claim but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt think
the policy provided cover for the circumstances of its claim.
S disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. S said it was difficult to provide further 
evidence of Covid-19 occurring at its premises due to the amount of time that had passed. S 
said that while it didnt agree its claim wouldnt be covered under the core business 
interruption section of the policy, it didnt require a decision on this point. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
S has made a number of detailed points. While Ive considered them all, Im not going to
address them all in this decision and will instead focus on what I see as the central issues to
this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ss business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if AXA have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ss claim. I wont comment on the core business interruption damage cover 
under the policy as S has confirmed it doesnt require a decision on this point. 
Denial of access
The cover under the policy is extended through various extensions. This extension requires 
the interruption to Ss business to be as a result of: 
DAMAGE to property in the vicinity of the PREMISES which prevents or hinders 
the use or access to the PREMISES
The policy defines damage as Physical loss destruction or damage.
For this to provide cover, the interruption to Ss business would need to be due to physical 
loss, destruction or damage to premises in Ss vicinity. I havent seen anything to persuade 
me that Covid-19 caused damage to property in Ss vicinity which prevented or hindered the 
use of or access to its premises. Therefore, I dont think this extension covers Ss claim.
Disease
This extension covers business interruption or interference due to the occurrence of:Contagious and/or Infectious Diseases occurring at the PREMISES excluding 
acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) or an AIDS related condition
Covid-19 is a contagious and/or infectious disease. So for this extension to provide cover for 
Ss claim, the interruption to Ss business would need to be as a result of a case of Covid-19 
occurring at its premises. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-
19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a 
positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a 
case occurring at the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that Covid-19 
occurred at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the burden 
of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its policy 
covers.
S has referred to four members of staff who were advised to self-isolate in April 2020 after 
displaying symptoms of Covid-19. While its not clear exactly when the staff displayed 
symptoms, I dont think that makes a difference to my decision. I say that because I only 
have Ss testimony that the staff displayed symptoms of Covid-19 and were told to self-
isolate. While I recognise that some time has passed since March 2020 in this particular 
case Ss testimony isnt enough on its own to persuade me that S has shown its most likely 
that there was a case of Covid-19 at its premises. 
S also thinks its more likely than not that Covid-19 occurred at its premises because of the 
number of cases within the local area. However, I have to bear in mind that most people at 
that time didnt have Covid-19 and dont think the general prevalence of Covid-19 in the 
community is sufficient to show that there was most likely a case at Ss premises. Therefore, 
Im satisfied AXA have acted fairly and reasonably in saying Ss claim wasnt covered under 
this extension. 
Sanitary arrangements
The same extension also covers business interruption or interference as a result of:
Closing of the whole or part of the PREMISES on the order or advice of any 
Local or Government Authority consequent ondefects in the drains or other 
sanitary arrangements at the PREMISES.
S said that its premises closed because safe social distancing couldnt be maintained and
Therefore, the closure was due to health and sanitation issues. I understand that S wasnt 
required to close by the Government Regulations. But even if it had been, I dont think the
inability to social distance would reasonably be considered a defect in Ss sanitary
arrangements.
I consider that a defect would involve some deficiency or fault. I havent seen anything to 
persuade me there was any deficiency or fault in Ss sanitary arrangements. Im not 
persuaded that the normal operation of a business can be called a defect, and certainly not a 
defect specific to Ss premises which led to its closure. I also I havent been provided with 
any evidence to persuade me that it was the circumstances at Ss premises in particular that led to the Governments decision to introduce the restrictions it did. For these reasons, I 
dont think this extension covers Ss claim.
Other factors
S has referred to a Government announcement at the start of the pandemic, but whether the 
claim should be paid depends on the wording within its specific policy. And in this case, I 
dont think Ss policy provides cover for its claim.
I dont think it matters that Covid-19 or pandemics arent specifically excluded as there isnt a 
clause in the policy that provides cover.
I understand this isnt the outcome S was hoping for but, having considered the matter very
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require AXA to pay Ss claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman