DRN-1839807
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) unfairly 
declined a claim made under their term assurance policy. As most of our contact has been 
with Mr W, my decision will mostly refer only to him.
What happened
In 2005 Mr and Mrs W took out a level term assurance policy with L&G. The cover provided 
by the policy included life, critical illness, and total and permanent disability (TPD).
In 2007 Mr W was diagnosed with a progressive neurological condition. And Mr Ws 
employer made reasonable adjustments to his role as his condition progressed. But in 2018 
it decided there were no further reasonable adjustments it could make to keep Mr W in that 
role, which had particular duties. So in April 2019, Mr Ws employer moved him to a new role 
within the same department, at the same grade and salary. 
Mr W made a claim under the TPD part of his policy. But L&G declined the claim, as it said 
Mr W hadnt met the policys TPD definition, which was If either of the Lives Assured is 
engaged in a gainful occupation immediately before the onset of disability and is by reason 
of sickness or accident, totally unable to follow his/her own occupation and in the opinion of 
Legal & General is likely to remain so permanently. Such decision will be based on all the 
medical evidence available. 
Mr W complained to L&G about this. It said it had correctly declined the claim and that own 
occupation was not specific to a particular job but rather meant profession, trade or type of 
work. And that while Mr W had changed roles, his new role was within the same department 
and based on his professional skills and experience. So he was continuing to work within his 
own profession. L&G also said that with reasonable accommodations Mr W could still have 
undertaken his old role.
Mr W brought his complaint to our service. He said hed studied for many years to become 
qualified in his profession, and his new role wasnt based on those qualifications and didnt 
involve any of his previous duties, particularly the statutory duties. Mr W said his new role 
was broader and involved working for many different departments, and could be done for 
many employers, whilst his old role was specialist and restricted to certain employers. 
Our investigator thought L&G wasnt unreasonable to conclude Mr W hadnt met the TPD 
definition, because she thought that while some of the duties differed between his old role 
and his new role, both roles required similar qualifications and key competencies. But she 
said L&G was incorrect to say Mr W could still have undertaken his old role, as evidence 
from his employer showed no further reasonable adjustments could be made in that role.
Mr W disagreed. In his further comments he said L&G hadnt defined own occupation in the 
policy. And it was unfair of L&G to decline his claim because he had transferable skills, 
which wasnt defined in the policy either - he pointed out that his other policy with a different 
insurer defined his occupation as his exact job title. Mr W said there were far more 
differences than similarities between his old and new roles, and that he was no longer able 
to carry out the statutory duties of his profession. 
As Mr W disagreed, his complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I realise this will be a great disappointment to Mr W, but 
Ill explain why. But before I do, Id like to clarify that while I have considered all the 
comments and evidence provided to me, my decision will concentrate on what I think is 
relevant. So if I dont address a specific point, its not because I havent thought about it but 
rather because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is the fair outcome.
The key issue I need to decide here is whether L&G acted fairly and reasonably when it 
decided Mr W hadnt met his policys TPD definition. To consider this, Ive looked at that 
definition. It says that for a TPD claim to be payable under the policy, Mr W would need to be 
completely unable to do any part of his own occupation ever again. 
Mr W says the policy doesnt define own occupation. And hes provided evidence that 
another insurer, in a separate policy, has defined his occupation as the job title of his old 
role. But thats another insurer regarding a separate policy, so it doesnt affect my 
consideration of how own occupation can reasonably be defined in this policy and this 
complaint against L&G.
Looking at Mr Ws policy with L&G, Ive seen it doesnt define own occupation, either as 
Mr Ws old job title or anything else. So in the absence of a specific definition, I think its 
reasonable to interpret own occupation as Mr Ws general occupation or trade, rather than 
the exact and specific job role he worked in. 
Ive also looked at the job description and person specification for both Mr Ws old role and 
his new role. And I can see there are differences in the specific responsibilities of each role - 
in particular the new role doesnt have the statutory duties Mr W has told us about. But 
I think the job description and person specification for Mr Ws new role shows he is 
continuing to work in the same general trade or occupation as his old role.
I say that because Mr Ws new role is based within the same occupational department and 
section, and reports to the same senior occupational officer role, as his old role. Also, the 
key objectives of his new role are about contributing to the enforcement of the full range of 
[own occupation] legislation. And the new role says its essential that the post holder has a 
Diploma in [own occupation] or equivalent and In-depth knowledge of the legislative and 
regulatory framework relating to [own occupation]. And while most of the responsibilities of 
Mr Ws new role are broader and dont specify they relate to his own occupation, two of them 
do specify that they relate his own occupation.
I acknowledge Mr W is no longer carrying out all the same duties he used to, particularly the 
statutory duties he used to perform. And that his new role is less specialist than his old role, 
and involves working more broadly and with other departments. Nonetheless, I think its fair 
to say he is continuing to work in his own occupation, as his new roles key objective is 
centred on that occupation, it requires qualifications and knowledge relating specifically to 
that occupation, and two of its specific responsibilities directly relate to that occupation. 
Based on this, I dont think it was unreasonable of L&G to conclude that Mr W wasnt totally 
unable to follow his own occupation, and so hadnt met the policys TPD definition.
But I do think L&G was incorrect to say that with reasonable accommodations Mr W could 
still have undertaken his old role. Thats because Ive seen that the evidence from Mr Ws employers shows that by 2018 it decided no more reasonable adjustments could be made in 
Mr Ws old role. But I dont think that changes the outcome here, or warrants an award of 
compensation.
If in the future either Mr Ws health or his employment situation changes so that he feels he 
meets this policys TPD criteria, then Mr W could ask L&G to reconsider his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman