DRN-3568387
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the advice he received from Portal Financial Services LLP 
(Portal) to transfer his personal pension to a self-invested personal pension in 2014. He 
says the advice was unsuitable, not least because Portal also advised him to invest his 
transfer proceeds in a portfolio that he says was too high risk for him. Some of the portfolios 
investments have subsequently run into trouble. Mr M holds Portal responsible for his 
losses.
What happened
On 6 February 2014, a fact-find of Mr Ms circumstances and needs was completed. On 
10 February, Portal sent Mr M its suitability report. It recommended he transfer one of his 
two personal pensions to a SIPP with Novia and invest in a portfolio consisting of a mix of 
multi-asset funds, secured bonds and cash. Portal advised Mr M against transferring his 
other personal pension. Mr M also had a final salary pension which Portal didnt advise on. 
Mr M was introduced to Portal by another organisation. He says this followed an unsolicited 
approach.
Mr M accepted Portals recommendation and transferred his personal pension and invested 
in the recommended portfolio. He says some of the secured bonds have since failed and he 
has lost out financially as a result.
In 2018 Mr M complained to Portal. He said, in brief, that the transfer was unsuitable 
because the recommended investment portfolio was too high risk for him. He also said the 
charges he incurred following the transfer were too high. The complaint was referred on to 
us and our investigator agreed with Mr M. He upheld the complaint. As Portal didnt agree, 
the matter is with me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ms complaint.
There were several failures on Portals part. For a start, the answers Mr M gave to the risk 
attitude profiling questionnaire he completed suggest he had a more cautious attitude to risk 
than Portal thought. The suitability report said Mr M had a balanced attitude to risk. But the 
answers to the questionnaire (which I repeat in its entirety) were as follows:
1. People who know me would describe me as a cautious person (Mr Ms answer: Agree)
2. I feel comfortable about investing in the stockmarket (Disagree)
3. I generally look for safer investments, even if that means lower returns (Disagree)
4. Usually it takes me a long time to make up my mind on investment matters (Agree)
5. I associate the word risk with the idea of opportunity (Disagree)
6. I generally prefer bank deposits to riskier investments (Agree)
7. I find investment matters easy to understand (Disagree)
8. I am willing to take substantial investment risk to earn substantial returns (Disagree)
9. I have little experience of investing in stocks and shares (Agree)
10. I tend to be anxious about the investment decisions Ive made (Agree)
11. Id rather take my chances with high risk investments than increase the amount Im 
saving (Disagree)
12. Im concerned by the volatility of stockmarket investments (Agree)
13a  I feel comfortable about investing in property (Disagree)
14a  I have little experience of investing in property (Agree)
15a  I prefer alternative investments which are considered to be less volatile, even if it 
reduces liquidity (Agree)
Except for question 3, all the answers point to Mr M being a cautious investor; not the 
balanced investor Portal assessed him as. And even by Portals own definition, Mr M 
wasnt a balanced investor. In its suitability report it said a balanced investor typically has 
moderate levels of financial knowledge, makes up their mind on financial matters relatively 
quickly, keeps up to date with financial matters, has experience of riskier assets like equities 
and bonds and understands risks have to be taken in order to meet long term goals. Mr Ms 
answers dont fit this profile. 
I consider this to be a breach of COBS 9.2, which says (amongst other things) that a firm 
must take reasonable steps to ensure a recommendation is suitable. Its difficult to argue 
that Portal took reasonable steps here if it has, essentially, overlooked Mr Ms answers to his 
risk questionnaire or been careless in how it analysed his answers. The fact that a third party 
was involved in the assessment doesnt negate Portals responsibilities in this area. And, for 
the avoidance of doubt, attitude to risk is a key consideration in an advice process such as 
this  something COBS 9.2 makes clear. 
The lack of a robust process to assess Mr Ms attitude to risk is also a breach of at least one 
of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Principles for Businesses, specifically Principle 2 (A 
firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence), as well as COBS 2.1.1R 
(A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of 
its client).
Similarly, another failure was Portals assessment of Mr Ms capacity for loss. Mr M says he 
had a low capacity for loss. Ive seen no reason to disbelieve Mr M on this, especially as this 
would be in keeping with his circumstances at the time. According to the fact-find completed 
ahead of the suitability report, Mr M was 53 and planning to take his pension at the age of 
65. He was working as a warehouse manager with a basic annual salary of £11,000. He was 
living with his mother and didnt own a house or have any other financial assets other than 
his two personal pensions and one final salary pension. He had some unsecured debt.Taking all this into consideration, it seems to me that Mr Ms financial wealth would have 
been significantly affected by investment losses in his pensions. And I think any losses 
would likely have materially harmed his retirement income given the relatively short time he 
would have had to make back his losses before retirement, his lack of other assets to rely on 
and the limited capacity he would have had to increase pension contributions given his 
relatively modest salary. The fact-find also had a hand-written note saying that Mr M 
preferred stability. 
In this light, I think Mr Ms capacity for loss was low. However, in the suitability report Portal 
doesnt give a particular clear steer on Mr Ms capacity for loss  a problem in itself  but 
instead says his capacity for loss was suitable for the recommendation it was giving. This 
seems to me to be looking at things the wrong way around; far better to start with the 
capacity for loss and then recommend a portfolio based on that assessment. But even 
putting that reservation to one side, for reasons that I will come on to my view is that Portals 
recommendation wasnt suitable for someone with a low capacity for loss. 
To recap, the recommendation was for Mr M to transfer one of his personal pensions to a 
SIPP and invest the transfer proceeds in six bonds backed by various assets, four multi-
asset funds, and cash. The bonds that were recommended, and the percentage of the 
portfolio to be invested in each one, were as follows (although the actual proportions 
invested were slightly different to what was recommended because of a slight change in 
transfer value and the rounding of the amounts invested to the nearest £100):
Lakeview UK Investments: 8.49% of the transferred portfolio
Marbella Resort & Spa: 7.92%
Real Estate Investments USA: 8.49%
Motion Picture Global Investments: 7.92%
Strategic Residential Developments: 8.49%
Tambaba Developments: 7.92%
These bonds were high risk. I say this because the suitability report refers to funds from the 
bonds financing, and being secured on, the building of new holiday villas, the completion of a 
new hotel, rights to films not yet made and plots of land with development potential. In other 
words, the underlying assets werent known quantities that were already generating a 
predictable income stream but were rather more speculative in nature. Most of the bonds 
also carried exchange rate risk. And they were illiquid, something the suitability report 
pointed out. 
A lot can go wrong with this type of investment and the potential for significant losses is far 
higher than would be the case for pooled funds investing in a wide range of quoted 
securities. This is the case even if (as Portal asserts) due diligence had been done on the 
bonds. The high interest rates being offered (double-digit in some cases) bears this out. And 
yet Mr M was advised to invest approximately 49% of his transfer proceeds in these six 
bonds despite being a relatively cautious investor and having a low capacity for loss. In the 
circumstances, I dont consider this to have been a suitable recommendation. This should, 
reasonably, have been apparent to Portal at the time given what it knew (or should 
reasonably have known) about the bonds and about Mr M. 
I recognise that Mr M had other pension assets. After accounting for fees, the pension Mr M 
transferred had a value of just under £36,000. The personal pension he didnt transfer had a value of around £47,000 according to a valuation received just before the advice was given. 
It was invested in managed funds. And the fact-find recorded a transfer value of just over 
£9,000 for Mr Ms final salary pension, which he also didnt transfer. This takes Mr Ms 
exposure to the secured bonds down to around 19% of his total pension assets, with the 
remainder invested in more traditional pooled funds, cash or in his final salary pension.
My view is that investing just under one-fifth of Mr Ms total pension (and entire financial 
wealth) in this way was too high a proportion given his relatively cautious attitude to risk and 
low capacity for loss. I would likely have thought the same even if Mr M was less cautious 
and had more capacity to withstand losses  for instance, even if he was truly a balanced 
investor as Portal maintains.
In coming to this conclusion, I have taken into consideration the regulators comments on 
unregulated investments, specifically its Good and poor practice report and Project 
Findings from July 2010. I think its comments are relevant to Mr Ms situation because his 
secured bonds share many of the same characteristics as the investment schemes the 
regulator was warning about: illiquidity, foreign currency risk and valuation difficulties for 
instance. The regulator said an example of good practice in this area was where a firm 
limited client exposure to unregulated funds to 3% to 5% of their portfolios. In this light, 
Mr Ms exposure to the bonds in question was far too high  especially given his limited 
capacity for loss and cautious attitude to risk. 
Its also worth noting that in the risk attitude questionnaire Mr M said he wasnt comfortable 
about investing in property (question 13a) and had little experience of doing so (question 
14a). In this light, recommending some of the secured bonds  without any further 
substantive evidence of why Mr M might have come around to property-based investment  
seems incongruous.
Of course, Mr M would, likely, have had an idea that some of the bonds had a property 
element to them. But the test here is whether Portal took reasonable steps to ensure its 
recommendation was suitable. And, given the available evidence, property-based 
investments wouldnt appear to have been a suitable option for Mr M to the extent 
recommended here. On a similar note, Mr M signed a declaration to say he understood that 
the secured bonds were illiquid and other risk warnings were also provided; useful 
information for Mr M to have known, no doubt, but of limited relevance when looking at the 
more fundamental issue of whether the bonds should have been recommended in the first 
place.
I recognise Portals role here was to advise Mr M and that doing so properly can lead to 
recommendations that are, legitimately, outside someones comfort zone. Mr Ms answers to 
the risk attitude questionnaire are a case in point. They point to someone who didnt want to 
take on any risk. Questions 2, 6 and 12, for instance, suggest Mr M would have preferred to 
have invested in cash than in shares. I dont think that would have been a sensible 
investment strategy even for someone a little over 10 years from retirement, especially as 
one of Mr Ms objectives (if taken at face value) was to improve the performance of his 
pension. So there was a balance to be struck here between recommending riskier assets 
than perhaps Mr M would otherwise have considered whilst recognising his caution and 
limited capacity to withstand losses. For the reasons given above, Portal hasnt struck this 
balance.
With all the above in mind, Im satisfied there were a number of failures in Portals advice 
process. Not coincidently, Portals recommendation to Mr M wasnt suitable. I think this 
should, reasonably, have been apparent to Portal at the time. As such I think Portal failed to 
meet its regulatory requirements, in particular in relation to COBS 2.1.1R and COBS 9.2. It 
has also breached a number of the regulators principles, including Principle 2 (A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence), Principle 6 (A firm must pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly) and Principle 9 (A firm must 
take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and discretionary decisions for 
any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment).
Mr M has also complained about the charges that followed his transfer. I dont need to 
address these concerns because of the failings Ive commented on above. These are 
enough in themselves for me to uphold the complaint and ask Portal to put Mr M back (as far 
as possible) in the position he would have been in but for Portals advice. I set out how it 
should do this below.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr M should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice. I take the view that Mr M would have 
invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he would have done differently. 
But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr M's 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Portal do?
To compensate Mr M fairly, Portal must:
Compare the performance of Mr M's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable. If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable.
Portal should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Portal should pay into Mr M's pension plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not 
be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If Portal is unable to pay the total amount into Mr M's pension, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr M wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr M's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume that 
Mr M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the 
reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr M would have been able to take a tax 
free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, 
resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay Mr M £200 for the distress and inconvenience he would have experienced 
when he became aware that some of his recommended investments had run into 
trouble and his retirement income had potentially been compromised as a result.Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr M how much has been taken off. Portal should give Mr M a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr M asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Novia SIPP Still exists 
but some 
illiquid assetsFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
transferDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where assets 
are illiquid (meaning they could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. 
Portal should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value acceptable 
to the pension provider. The amount Portal pays should be included in the actual value 
before compensation is calculated.
If Portal is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for the 
purpose of calculating the actual value. Portal may require that Mr M provides an 
undertaking to pay Portal any amount he may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. 
That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Portal should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal from the Novia SIPP 
should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it 
ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number 
of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Portal totals all those 
payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of 
deducting periodically.The Novia SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the SIPP to be closed 
and further fees that are charged to be prevented, those assets need to be removed. Ive 
set out above how this might be achieved by Portal taking over the illiquid assets, or this is 
something that Mr M can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont know how long that 
will take. Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. 
If Portal is unable to purchase the illiquid assets, to provide certainty to all parties I think its 
fair that it pays Mr M an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees 
(calculated using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable 
period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr M wanted growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different assets, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr M's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr M into that position. It does not mean that 
Mr M would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some 
kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr M could have obtained from investments 
suited to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above. Portal Financial Services LLP should provide details of 
its calculation to Mr M in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Christian Wood
Ombudsman