The complaint
Mr A has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr A took out the PPI during the same meeting in branch in which he applied for the credit 
card in 1995. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr A says he wasnt aware that PPI had been added to the credit card account  meaning 
that Barclays added it without his knowledge or consent.
Ive seen a copy of the application form that Mr A completed. Looking at the form, there is a 
separate section for PPI with yes and no options to either request or decline the PPI. The 
yes option has ticked to agree to PPI. Mr A could have chosen to tick the no box if he 
hadnt wanted the policy. Mr A has signed and dated the form at the bottom to confirm that 
the details on the form are correct. Im satisfied that, from the wording and layout of the form, 
Mr A would have known that he had a choice about buying the PPI.
Ive no doubt that Mr A has provided his honest recollection of events. But the sale 
happened a very long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr As memory has faded. 
Based on the available evidence, I think it is more likely than not that Mr A decided to buy 
the PPI, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
Barclays advised Mr A to take out the PPI. That means that, in recommending it to him, it 
needed to ensure that it met his needs. And from what I know of Mr As circumstances at the 
time, the policy was suitable for him
Mr As employer would have given him three months full pay, followed by three months half 
pay, if he was off work sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition to this and 
potentially for longer than Mr A would have received full pay for. And he didnt have any 
other means, such as savings, to fall back on. Overall, I consider that Mr A had a need for 
DRN-1420155the policy and that it could have provided a useful benefit at what would have been a difficult 
time. So I consider it was reasonable of Barclays to advise Mr A to buy it.
Barclays also needed to provide Mr A with enough information for him to make an informed 
choice about whether or not it was right for him. I think that Mr A would have known 
something about the policy  that it would cover his repayments if he was unable to work 
due to accident, sickness or unemployment  because I dont think hed have decided to buy 
it without knowing anything at all about it. 
Its possible that Barclays didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr A wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think that Mr A had an interest in the cover and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that further information would have caused him to change his mind. So he is no worse 
off as a result of anything that Barclays may have done wrong, so there is nothing that 
Barclays needs to do to put things right.
Mr A has said that another bank has upheld two of his complaints and so he cant see why 
this case should be any different. I dont know the particular details of those cases and so 
cant tell why that bank might have upheld them. But looking at the evidence of this case, I 
havent seen anything to persuade me that Barclays mis-sold the PPI to Mr A. It follows that I 
do not uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman