DRN-3650604
The complaint
Mr Gs representative has complained, on his behalf, that he was unsuitably advised by 
Friends Provident  now Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited  to transfer defined benefits 
from a previous occupational pension scheme period of membership to a personal pension 
plan (PPP).
What happened
At the time of the transfer in August 1994, Mr G was employed by Friends Provident as a 
company representative, and had been since October 1993. He was 24, single, and had 
deferred pension benefits from a previous period of employment. This represented just 
over two years of service with that employer, and around £2,500 was transferred into the 
PPP.
Mr G left Friends Provident in January 1998 and began working for a different firm of 
financial advisers. In January 1999, Friends Provident contacted Mr G as part of the 
industry wide pension review, and Mr G completed the information request form.
In June 1999, Friends Provident wrote to him to say that, having assessed the transfer, it 
had determined that Mr G had acted as his own financial adviser and had been 
responsible for the decision to transfer.
It said that, as Mr G was authorised and competent to give such advice, and therefore 
understand the issues involved, it wouldnt be proceeding further with a review of the 
transfer and would be closing its file on the matter.
Mr G was provided with the option of reverting to Friends Provident if he disagreed with 
the outcome, and it informed him that if he was dissatisfied with any further response, he 
could refer the matter to the Personal Investment Authority Ombudsman Bureau 
(PIAOB).
Mr G didnt respond to that letter, but then complained to Aviva in July 2020 through his 
representative. It said that Mr G had been approached at an event held by Friends 
Provident, and that hed been advised to transfer his deferred benefits.
Aviva declined to uphold the complaint, saying that Mr G hadnt received any advice from
Friends Provident and hadnt wished to do so. Mr G had decided to transfer in his own 
capacity as a financial adviser, Aviva said.
Dissatisfied with the delay in that response, Mr Gs representative had already referred 
the matter to this service.
Once it had received Avivas response, the representative said that Mr G rejected the 
statement that he had been a qualified financial adviser at the time of the transfer. He said 
that hed been a Friends Provident employee for fewer than 12 months, and he hadnt 
acted in his own capacity.
It also said that Mr G was coerced into transferring by his superiors to meet sales targets 
 and that he would experience higher fund growth by doing so. Although there may 
have been an execution only declaration, this hadnt been drafted in his own words and 
he was told to sign this to generate the business.
The representative maintained that Friends Provident hadnt made Mr G aware of the 
benefits he was relinquishing through the transfer  if he had, he wouldnt have 
proceeded.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he noted the representatives comments in the complaint submissions, but also 
took into account the available documentation from the time of the transfer, including the 
declaration signed by Mr G saying that he didnt need, and hadnt requested or received, 
any advice in relation to the transfer.
He further noted the execution only document, which Mr G had signed as both investor 
and company representative and in which he accepted full responsibility for his decision 
to transfer. Friends Provident had also produced a transfer analysis which recorded Mr G 
both as investor and his own client.
Further, there was an internal record of Mr G being paid full commission in respect of 
the transfer to his Friends Provident agency number, the investigator said.
The investigator concluded that these documents indicated that the transfer was 
conducted on an own sale basis and that no advice had been provided by Friends 
Provident.
The investigator also noted that Mr G had been invited to participate in the pension review 
at a time when he was employed by another firm of financial advisers, but once hed 
received the outcome letter, hadnt contested Friends Providents decision.
In conclusion, the investigator said that, based on the available evidence, it was his view 
that Friends Provident hadnt advised Mr G on the transfer and therefore had no case to 
answer.
Responding to this, Mr Gs representative said that he wasnt a regulated financial adviser 
at the time of the transfer and so wasnt aware of the implications of this for his retirement. 
This was endorsed by the fact that hed been employed by Friends Provident for less than 
a year.
It reiterated Mr Gs assertion that hed been pressured into the transfer, and that hed 
also said that he didnt receive any commission. The representative also requested 
evidence of the commission payment and a copy of the pension review outcome letter 
from 1999.
The investigator duly obliged, but having reviewed the documents, the representative said 
that its stance remained the same. It said that Mr G maintained that he hadnt received the 
commission, and it said that the memorandum provided by Aviva setting out the 
commission payment was a word document which, as it could easily be amended, it 
wouldnt consider as evidence.
As agreement wasnt reached on the matter, it was referred to me for review.I issued a provisional decision dated 20 July 2022, in which I set out my reasoning as to 
why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. The following is an extract from that 
decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a preliminary point, Ive noted the commentary about Mr G having advised himself in 
his own capacity, but I dont think this is quite right. Its certainly a somewhat anomalous 
situation when an individual is both adviser and their own client, but the fact remains that 
Mr G was employed by Friends Provident as a company representative. And therefore, 
when advising himself, it must reasonably be the case that he was effectively acting on 
behalf of Friends Provident.
This is lent further credence by the fact that commission for the transfer was paid into Mr 
Gs Friends Provident account. Mr G may have benefited from it  although Ive noted his 
assertion that he didnt, which I address further below  but it was nevertheless paid by 
Friends Provident into the agency account of one of its own representatives.
So Im satisfied that a decision, if not a documented recommendation, was made by a 
Friends Provident representative  Mr G - for his own deferred benefits to be transferred.
And ordinarily I might then proceed to consider whether that decision had been suitable in 
the context of Mr Gs circumstances and objectives at the time. But this is a very specific 
set of circumstances, and one which I think requires a slightly more holistic approach in 
determining what would be a fair and reasonable outcome.
Ive firstly noted several of Mr Gs assertions, or those made on his behalf by his 
representative, relating to the transfer, these being that he wasnt a qualified adviser and 
that he didnt receive any commission.
I think the documentary evidence runs somewhat contrary to the issue relating to the 
commission payment, and I dont think the available evidence supports the representatives 
position that this record might have subsequently been altered. I also think that, had Mr G 
not been qualified to consider the suitability of such a transfer, he might reasonably have 
taken issue with the comment in the outcome letter from 1999 that he was authorised and 
competent to give such advice and hence to understand all the issues involved. This was, 
after all, at a time when he was employed by a different firm of financial advisers, and so 
ought to have been aware of the meaning and purpose of that outcome letter. Ive also 
noted that Mr G was recorded as having been employed by Eagle Star prior to Friends 
Provident.
Nevertheless, as Ive said above, the documentation does indicate that the transfer 
proceeded under the direction of a Friends Provident representative, albeit the client and 
representative were the same person.
But even if I were to conclude that the transfer had been unsuitable for Mr G, which is far 
from clear given his age at the time, the small number of years benefits which had been 
transferred, and the potential of those pension benefits to enjoy enhanced growth over a 
30 to 40 year period until retirement, along with the likelihood of Mr G accumulating further 
pension benefits, Id need to determine two further aspects, both relating to whether 
alternative advice, even from himself, would have made a difference to the outcome here.
The first is relatively straightforward - whether advice to not transfer, perhaps from
colleague or superior, would in any case have made a difference to the outcome.The very specific circumstances very much come into play here. Mr G was, according to 
the pension review outcome letter (the content of which as Ive said above, he hadnt 
objected to), authorised and competent to provide this kind of advice. That Mr G declined 
to accept advice on the transfer is, in my view, in itself a strong indication that he had 
decided to transfer. But even if a colleague or superior had intervened and advised 
against the transfer, I think its more likely than not that Mr G would have considered 
himself to be capable of making his own ultimate decision, and that this would more likely 
than not have been to transfer.
But as Ive said above, theres the further aspect of Mr G, having neither sought nor 
received advice, acting in his own advisory capacity on behalf of Friends Provident. He 
may have been authorised and competent, but he was nevertheless deemed to be so by 
Friends Provident, and was acting on its behalf. And so I think it could reasonably be 
argued that Mr Gs decision was a product of either the training provided by Friends 
Provident, or its general position on whether such a transfer proposition would have been 
suitable.
And despite the declaration indicating that Mr G was neither seeking, nor had received 
advice, Aviva has confirmed that Friends Provident didnt undertake execution only 
transfers at the time. Its said that the business was accepted as Mr G was a regulated 
adviser, and this is further emphasized by commission being paid to Mr Gs Friends 
Provident adviser account.
Therefore, Mr G was acting as Friends Providents adviser, and on the basis of 
perhaps different training or a different position on defined benefits transfers, had Mr G 
concluded that the transfer wasnt suitable for him, I think, ordinarily, that he wouldnt 
have done so.
But I also cant ignore the comment  repeated several times by Mr Gs representative - 
that Mr G proceeded with the transfer to meet sales targets. Its clearly impossible for me 
to know whether this was the case, and again, if it was, it might reasonably be expected 
that Mr G would have mentioned this when he was sent the pension review outcome letter 
in 1999.
However, on the basis of what Mr G has said about this, I do think that this means that, 
even if he had concluded that a transfer might not be in his best interests, he would 
nevertheless have proceeded with the transfer. The mention of adherence to sales targets 
suggests to me that Mr G may have been concerned about his employment prospects at 
Friends Provident, especially as hed been employed there for less than a year. And this 
may well have subjugated considerations around the two years deferred benefits, and 
whether they ought to be retained in the scheme.
Ive noted the reference to Mr G being pressured by superiors in this regard, but whilst I 
dont doubt that there will have been targets to meet, I think it would be difficult for me to 
reasonably conclude on the basis of the available evidence that this amounted to 
coercion, or other type of situation in which Mr G would have felt that he had been denied 
the capacity or opportunity to make reasoned decisions.
And so, my current view is that, even with the possibility of a different view at the time on 
whether the transfer was suitable, other considerations which Mr G deemed to be more 
important would more likely than not have meant that he would in any case have 
proceeded.Aviva had no further comment to make in response to the provisional decision. Mr Gs 
representative said that Mr G wished to clarify that, when he worked for Eagle Star, he was 
a credit consulter. He didnt work in the pensions department, nor did he have knowledge of 
final salary transfers.
The representative further said that, when Mr G was employed by Friends Provident, he 
was regulated, but this wasnt the case in respect of advice to transfer final salary pension 
benefits.
He wasnt authorised nor competent to advise on such transfers and Friends Provident 
would have been aware of this, the representative added. It wouldnt have allowed its 
employees to act outside their remit for regulatory purposes.
Mr G had further said that he would have retained his occupation pension scheme benefits if 
hes been appropriately advised.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge what Mr G has said about his previous period of employment with Eagle Star 
and what hes also said about not being regulated to advise on final salary pension transfers 
when he worked for Friends Provident.
But the latter comment is at odds with the situation that Mr G received commission into his 
adviser account in respect of the transfer. Also, as the representative has pointed out, its 
unlikely that Friends Provident would have allowed an adviser to recommend or facilitate, 
even on their own behalf, as was the case here, a final salary transfer if they werent 
authorised and competent to do so.
This position also runs somewhat contrary to the assertion that Mr G was under pressure to 
meet sales targets, which has been described as a contributory factor behind the transfer. 
Its unclear to me how or why Mr G would have transferred his own final salary benefits to 
meet a sales target if he wasnt the authorised adviser who would receive the credit for that 
transfer.
Theres also the matter of the pension review outcome letter having made it clear that 
Friends Provident considered Mr G to be a competent and authorised adviser. And if this 
wasnt the case, then it might reasonably be expected that Mr G would have challenged this 
at the time.
Nevertheless, my position remains that Mr G effectively advised himself to transfer as a 
representative of Friends Provident, and as such, as I said in the provisional decision, I 
might ordinarily go on to consider whether such advice was suitable.
But the comments in response to the provisional decision havent persuaded me to change 
my view on the wider circumstances of this case, in that I think that, even if Mr G had formed 
a different view as to the suitability of the transfer, or a colleague had intervened to 
recommend that he not do so, he would still have proceeded with the transfer. And the 
reasons remain the same as those outlined in the provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman