DRN-3131367
The complaint
Mr J complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited failed to warn him of the risk of scams 
when transferring his personal pension to a qualifying recognised overseas pension 
(QROPS). 
What happened
Mr Js complaint was made by a professional representative, but for ease I will only refer to 
Mr J throughout this decision. 
In 2014, Mr J says he was cold called by a company offering to review his pension 
arrangements. From that call, Mr J was introduced to a financial adviser from a firm based in 
Ireland. I will refer to them as Firm A.
Mr J gave Firm A permission to approach Standard Life with whom he held two personal 
pensions. Firm A asked Standard Life for information about the policies and their values. 
They also asked for a transfer pack and discharge forms including QROPS transfer 
paperwork.
In June 2014 Standard Life sent Firm A information about Mr Js pensions and an overseas 
transfer pack. They say they included a risk warning leaflet from the scorpion campaign 
which warned against the dangers of pension liberation. 
The information from Standard Life showed Mr J had one policy with a value of around 
£33,000 and a second policy with a value of around £121,000.
Mr J says Firm A recommended that he transfer his smaller policy into a QROPS based in 
Malta. They further recommended he invest around £20,000 into a German based 
investment - Dolphin Capital. The remainder of his funds were held in either cash or in an 
investment platform holding smaller investments.  
In July 2014 Mr J signed application forms to transfer his pension from Standard Life to the 
QROPS. 
Standard Life say they received the application on 14 August 2014 and processed it. In early 
September 2014, around £33,000 was sent to the QROPS based in Malta. 
Mr J subsequently invested his funds as Firm A had suggested. The investment in Dolphin 
Capital later failed, causing a financial loss. 
In March 2020 Mr J complained to Standard Life. He said theyd failed to assess his transfer 
request carefully and identify any warning signs. Had they done so, they would have seen 
warning signs that the transfer could have been a scam. Mr J says Standard Life should 
have alerted him to the warning signs and contacted him to establish his understanding of 
the proposed scheme and any advice hed been given. He says if Standard Life had done 
those things, he wouldnt have transferred his pension.  
In their response Standard Life said theyd received all of the required documentation from 
the QROPS at the time to comply with the requirements of a statutory right to transfer. 
So, they processed the transfer. They said they were satisfied the appropriate level of due 
diligence applicable at the time was exercised when processing the transfer. 
Mr J disagreed and so brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator concluded that 
Standard Life should have sent the scorpion leaflet directly to Mr J, not his adviser. And 
while Standard Life called Mr J after the first transfer - to check whether he had also wanted 
to transfer the larger pension  they could have called him before any money was actually 
sent. But overall, our investigator didnt think even if Standard Life had done more, it would 
have made Mr J change his mind about transferring his funds.
Mr J disagreed with our investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J, via his representatives, provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which
Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus
on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by Mr J and Standard Life, and reach what I think is an independent,
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
Standard Life were a regulated firm and as such, they had to adhere to various principles 
and rules which were contained within the regulators handbook. These include, but arent 
limited to, the conduct of business sourcebook (COBS) and the principles of business 
(PRIN).
The most relevant parts of these rules and guidance relating to this complaint said that 
businesses needed to act honestly and fairly. They had to pay due regard to the interest of 
their customers, their communication needs and act with due care, skill and diligence. 
In February 2013 The Pensions Regulator also issued guidance to raise awareness of
pension liberation activity under the scorpion campaign. Pension liberation is a term
generally used when consumers attempt to access their pension early or in unauthorised
ways.
The campaign introduced scheme administrators to an action pack which highlighted the
warning signs of pension liberation. If warning signs applied, the pack provided a checklist
schemes could use to better establish the risk of liberation. The campaign also asked that
schemes sent a scorpion leaflet to their members following a transfer request. Which could 
be followed up by a more in-depth leaflet including case studies if required.
The regulator updated this guidance on 24 July 2014, issuing a new leaflet and action pack. 
The guidance in July 2014 not only warned of pension liberation but also included risks of 
pensions scams more generally. 
Standard Life say they would have included the scorpion leaflet in the transfer pack theyd 
sent Firm A in June 2014. The regulators concerns around pension liberation were born 
from consumers receiving poor, and often unregulated advice from advisers and introducers. So, I dont think it was in Mr Js best interest for Standard Life to send the warning leaflet to 
Mr Js adviser in the hope that theyd share that information with him. While Im not looking 
at the advice Firm A gave Mr J, if he was receiving poor advice or was the victim of some 
form of scam, its unlikely the warning leaflet would have been shared with him. 
Standard Life should have sent the leaflet directly to Mr J. And when they didnt, they failed 
to act with due care and skill. 
Mr J says he didnt receive the leaflet Standard Life sent his adviser in June 2014. And on 
balance, I think thats likely. Mr J says if hed received a warning that red flagged the 
transfer, he might have changed his mind about it. But on balance I dont think the leaflet 
alone would have caused Mr J to re-think the transfer. 
I say that because the leaflet Standard Life would have sent was geared towards preventing 
pension liberation. And theres no indication Mr J was attempting to access his benefits early 
or had been told he could do so. 
Mr J says he was originally cold called by someone offering a pension review and was 
introduced to Firm A who provided him with advice. And cold calling is one of the points
the leaflet highlights for people to watch out for. But the leaflet up until that point, and after,
was focused on pension liberation  which didnt apply to Mr J. So, I dont think pointing out
cold calling as a warning sign alone would have given him cause for concern more generally 
about the suitability of the advice hed been given.
However, sending the scorpion leaflet wasnt the only action a business needed to take. 
They also needed to follow the guidance contained within the action pack.
I think its important to note here the timings of Mr Js transfer. Standard Life say they 
received the application pack back from Harbour on 14 August 2014. And I can see they 
asked Harbour for one more piece of information on 20 August, which they responded to the 
following day. I havent seen any evidence that Standard Life were following the July 2014 
guidance at that time. Which, given how close it was to the change in guidance, wasnt 
unreasonable. 
As Ive said, I cant reasonably say that Standard Life had to be following the guidance in the 
July 2014 Action Pack so soon after it was published. Which means that, at the very least, 
they should have had processes imbedded that followed the guidance that was published in 
February 2013 when they received the application to transfer from Harbour.
The action pack didnt definitively say Standard Life must contact their customers in
every case. It asked businesses to contact customers if they had concerns. So, I think its
fair to say businesses had to find a balance between delaying every transfer or exercising
reasonable judgement on transfers which seemed to be at risk of liberation. 
Mr J says Standard Life should have made further contact with him and pointed out some of 
the risks of his transfer. But it wasnt until the renewed action pack in July 2014, the 
guidance warned against pension scams more generally. At the time of receiving Mr Js 
application, its likely Standard Life would have only contacted Mr J if they had concerns that 
his funds were being liberated. Standard Life say they were satisfied Harbour were on the 
QROPS list provided by the HMRC and I havent seen any evidence that they had any other 
concerns Mr Js pension was at risk of liberation.  
Even if Standard Life had contacted Mr J to ask further questions about the transfer, their 
objective would have been to establish if he was in danger of liberating his funds. 
Simply asking Mr J if hed been told he could access his pension early or if he was receiving any incentives from transferring, could have been enough to satisfy any concerns. But none 
of those things were relevant in Mr Js circumstances. And, I dont think that would have 
caused him to look more generally at the advice he was receiving. 
The purpose of the Scorpion campaign wasnt to ask pension providers to consider the
suitability of any advice consumers had been given. And Mr J had a statutory right to
transfer his pension. 
For the reasons Ive given, I dont think that even if Standard Life had contacted Mr J about 
his pension transfer or sent the scorpion leaflet directly to him, it would have caused him to 
change his mind and stop the transfer going ahead. So, I think Mr J would have still 
transferred his funds to the QROPS on the advice hed been given.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman