DRN-4518630
The complaint
Ms N and Mr H complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined their 
claim for subsidence on their home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms N and Mr H bought a property in 2021. They took out home insurance thats underwritten 
by RSA.
In 2022 they noticed cracking to their conservatory and made a claim for subsidence. RSA 
sent an expert to inspect the damage but subsequently declined the claim. It said the 
conservatory had insufficient foundations for the soil type and proximity to vegetation. It said 
building regulations stated the foundations should be 1,000mm deep and the conservatory 
only had them built to 600mm. It said that the policy contained an exclusion for faulty design 
and this would apply here.
Ms N and Mr H didnt think this was fair. They said they had a survey carried out before they 
bought the property and this showed no issues with the conservatory. They also said as the 
conservatory was built between 2005 and 2007, it had stood for at least 15 years without 
issue, so it seemed unlikely the foundations were insufficient. They brought their complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said while the conservatory 
may not be bound to follow building regulations, these represent industry best practice. And 
those in place at the time required structures to have foundations to a depth of 1,000mm. As 
the foundations were only 60% of this, he said RSA had acted fairly by relying on the faulty 
design exclusion to decline the claim.
Unhappy with this, Ms N and Mr H asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an
ombudsman.
In October 2023 I issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
It is not known the exact year the conservatory was built, however both sides are in
agreement that it was most likely between 2005 and 2007. As the subsidence was first
discovered in 2022, that means that the structure was in place at least 15 years, possibly up
to 17 years before problems arose. I therefore dont think its fair to say the foundations were
defective if theyve stood for such a period of time without issue.
Further, while not all conservatories are required to meet building regulations this service
considers the regulations that are in place at the time of the build to represent good industry
practice. So wed expect builders to take regard of them when building a new structure.
The relevant regulations at the time the extension was built in around 2005 state the
foundations should be 1,000mm in high shrinkage clay soils. As the foundations have been
shown to be built to 600mm, I agree that the foundations didnt meet these requirements.
However, when deciding if a business was fair to apply an exclusion for defective
foundations, wed expect it to not only show that the foundations didnt meet the building
regulation requirements at the time, but also that if they had done then this would have
prevented the subsidence.
Here, RSA has said that it found roots at a depth of 1,100mm. That means that even if the
foundations had met the building regulations and been built to a depth of 1,000mm, then the
subsidence would still have happened. As even the depth required under the regulations
wouldnt have been deep enough to prevent the tree roots growth.
Im therefore not persuaded that the depth of the foundations is the cause of the subsidence
and think it would have happened even if they were sufficient.
For these reasons, I dont think RSA has acted fairly by relying on the exclusion for faulty
design to decline Ms N and Mr Hs claim. The structure has stood for at least 15 years
without issue, and Id expect the foundations to fail much sooner if they were defective.
Further as the roots found were deeper than the requirement stated in the relevant building
regulations, RSA hasnt shown that not meeting these was the reason for the subsidence.
Im therefore minded to require RSA to accept Ms N and Mr Hs claim for subsidence and
settle it in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions without applying the exclusion
for faulty design.
By originally unfairly declining Ms N and Mr Hs claim, RSA has caused them some distress
and inconvenience. Im therefore also minded to also ask it to pay them £100 compensation
to apologise for this.
Response to my provisional decision
Ms N and Mr H responded to accept my provisional decision.
RSA didnt accept the findings. It responded with a number of objections, in summary it said:
The 1,000mm depth of the foundations is a minimum in the building regulations, and 
it explains that this should be increased based on soil type and proximity of 
vegetation. So the foundations likely should have been deeper than 1,000mm. It said 
it calculated the necessary depth to be 2,400mm based on a nearby oak tree.
As the foundations were so shallow, the structure was doomed to fail so it doesnt 
matter how long it stood for as it would eventually cause issues.
The house itself had foundations of around 2,000mm and itd expect the 
conservatory foundations to have been built at the same depth. 
As the house hasnt suffered subsidence, this shows that had the conservatory been 
built with suitable foundations, it wouldnt have failed either. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what RSA has submitted in response to my provisional findings, but it hasnt 
changed my position on the complaint. 
RSA has said that 1,000mm is a minimum depth for the foundations and that further 
considerations such as soil type and nearby vegetation increase the required depth. Its 
provided reference to various guidance to support this and says the foundations should have 
been 2,400mm. Its not clear where this calculation has come from, but it seems its from guidance for new build homes. 
Ms N and Mr Hs claim relates to a conservatory added to their property. So the builders 
werent required to consider this guidance for new builds. For this reason, it wouldnt be fair 
to apply it here. I said in my provisional decision that this service would expect the builder of 
a conservatory to take regard of the building regulations at the time to ensure good practice. 
And as these stipulate a minimum of 1,000mm depth I think this is a fair benchmark.
I appreciate RSA has said this is a minimum that should be increased when theres nearby 
vegetation, but its done nothing to show how it reached its calculations of what the depth 
should be. And while its referenced the main house having a foundation depth of 2,000mm 
at one juncture, from what Ive seen there are other areas of the main property that has 
foundations at a depth of 1,000mm. So I dont find this evidence persuasive.
But regardless of the correct depth for the foundations based on guidance, RSA originally 
declined the claim due to faulty design. And had the structure been built poorly, with 
insufficient foundations, Id have expected it to have failed a lot earlier than it did. The fact it 
stood for at least 15 years without issue persuades me that the foundations were sufficient. 
And RSA hasnt done enough to persuade me otherwise.
Based on this, I see no reason to depart from the outcome I came to in my provisional 
findings. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Ms N and Mr Hs complaint and require Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Limited to:
Accept Ms N and Mr Hs claim for subsidence and settle it in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy, without applying the exclusion for faulty design.
Pay Ms N and Mr H £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Ms N to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman