DRN-3794314
The complaint
Ms L complains that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd declined a claim 
for the cost of her dogs treatment for forelimb lameness, on the basis that it was a pre-
existing condition. And shes unhappy about the exclusion added to her policy in respect of 
treatment for degenerative joint disease and associated conditions. 
What happened
Ms L has insurance cover for her dog with C&G. Her cover started on 18 October 2021. In 
March 2022 Ms L noticed that her dog was limping. Ms L was away from home at the time 
and visited a local vet. Her dog was seen by her usual vet on 14 March 2022 and Ms L gave 
a history of the dog being lame for about three weeks. 
X-rays were taken under sedation of the dogs front limbs, elbows and shoulders. No 
obvious bony abnormalities were noted, and the joint surfaces were said to clean and 
smooth. Ms L was told that the diagnosis was unclear. It might be a soft tissue injury, but her 
vet suggested having the x-rays reviewed at the veterinary school for a second opinion. And 
she was told a CT scan might be required, as there was a suspicion of elbow disease. 
Ms L submitted a claim for the cost of her dogs treatment which was declined by C&G as 
they said the dog had pre-existing problems with lameness in his front limbs, and pre-
existing conditions werent covered by her policy. And they added an exclusion to her policy 
effective from 18 October 2021 in respect of degenerative elbow disease and associated 
conditions.
In declining her claim C&G referred to an entry in her dogs veterinary records dated 19 
October 2021. This entry says O reports occasionally limping on front leg when walking on 
harness. Did not bring harness today. Curious about hip and elbow scores.
Ms L was advised to bring the harness on her next visit so they could assess further and to 
call them if she noticed any further lameness. She was also told that hip scores were 
generally taken from one year of age. Ms L has told us that she wanted to check her dogs 
hip and elbow scores as she was thinking of breeding from him, when he was older.
Ms L raised a complaint with C&G about her claim being declined as she said the limping 
shed mentioned in October 2021 was due to her dogs harness rubbing. She said she was 
only at the vets for routine flea and worming treatment with a veterinary nurse. And theyd 
been no problems with her dog being lame before March 2022.
She also provided a letter from her vets dated 19 May 2022 which said her dog hadnt been 
examined by a vet on 19 October 2021, he was seen by a student veterinary nurse who is 
legally not allowed to diagnose. Forelimb lameness was mentioned which was thought to be 
due to the dogs harness rubbing. And despite several appointments with vets in the five 
months to March 2022, there was no mention of lameness. But C&G maintained that Ms Ls 
dog had a pre-existing condition and didnt uphold her complaint.
Ms L wasnt happy with C&Gs response and complained to our service. Our investigator 
considered the case and recommended her complaint be upheld. Having reviewed the 
veterinary records, including the vets letter, she said the dog wasnt seen by a vet or 
diagnosed with lameness before March 2022. She thought it was reasonable to say that the 
occasional limping Ms L had mentioned in October 2021 was due to a poorly fitting harness, 
which resolved when the harness was changed. 
Our investigator didnt think it was reasonable to expect Ms L to have declared the dog had 
been limping due to an uncomfortable harness, when she purchased her policy. So she said 
C&G should pay the claim for Ms Ls dogs treatment in March 2022 and remove the 
exclusion added to her policy 
Ms L accepted our investigators opinion, but C&G didnt.
The case has now come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Ms L purchased her policy with C&G, in September 2021, she was asked Are you 
looking for cover for a pre-existing condition. She answered no to this question. I think this 
was reasonable as theres nothing in her dogs veterinary records to this date to suggest he 
had any health issues. 
Ms Ls cover started on 18 October 2021. C&G say Ms Ls dog had shown signs or 
symptoms of lameness before her policy commenced and refer to a visit to her vets on 18 
October 2021. She visited her vets on 19 October 2021, not 18 October 2021, for routine 
parasite treatment and saw a nurse, not a vet. Her vet has confirmed that no diagnosis of 
lameness was made at this appointment, and she believes the limping was related to a 
poorly fitting harness. And despite Ms Ls dog seeing a vet on a number of occasions, 
lameness wasnt mentioned until March 2022.
Ms L has told us that her dogs limping in October 2021 was related to an ill-fitting harness 
and I accept this. And this isnt something Id expect her to notify her insurers of. I also 
accept that she asked about hip and elbow scores in October 2021 as she was thinking of 
using her dog for breeding when he was older. She was told these would normally be 
checked when the dog was one, and its not referred to again in his records.
C&G have said Ms Ls vets didnt see the harness so cant say it was the cause of the cause 
of the lameness she reported in October 2021. Ive said that I accept what Ms L has told us 
about the harness. I think its clear that her dog is well cared for, and I think if the occasional 
limping she mentioned to the veterinary nurse had continued shed have made sure her dog 
was seen by a vet. But theres no mention of limping or lameness in his records, after the 
October 2021 appointment, until March 2022.
Having considered the dogs veterinary records, and the letter from the Ms Ls vet dated 19 
May 2022, Im satisfied that her dog didnt have a pre-existing medical condition, or signs 
and symptoms of a condition that she should have declared to C&G when she purchased 
her policy. And C&G havent provided any evidence that persuades me otherwise.
So I dont think it was fair and reasonable for C&G to decline Ms Ls claim for her dogs 
treatment in March 2022, or to add an exclusion to her policy from inception relating to any 
degenerative joint disease or associated conditions.To put things right I require C&G to pay Ms Ls claim for her dogs treatment in March 2022, 
subject to the terms and conditions of her policy, but ignoring the exclusion added in respect 
of degenerative joint disease and associated conditions. And to remove the exclusion they 
added from her policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I uphold Ms Ls complaint about 
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd.
To put things right I require them to pay her claim for her dogs March 2022 treatment in line 
with the policy limit and any applicable policy excess but ignoring the exclusion in respect of 
degenerative joint disease and associated conditions. And to remove that exclusion from her 
policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2022.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman