DRN-1984215
The complaint
Mr R complains about the way Zurich Insurance PLC has dealt with a claim on his marine 
insurance policy for damage to woodwork and an inflatable toy.
What happened
Mr R made a claim in April 2019 concerning damage to his boat equipment. The damage 
occurred after a fire in the area next to where his equipment was stored. There were initial 
disagreements with the settlement of damaged upholstery but Zurich eventually agreed a 
payment with Mr R and compensated him £200 for its initial shortcomings.
The outstanding issues weve been asked to look at concern damaged woodwork and an 
inflatable toy.
Zurich considered some quotes for repairs for the damaged woodwork but thought the 
amounts quoted were excessive. It has offered Mr R three options for settlement of this  he 
can:
accept the original cash settlement offered by Zurich;
obtain further quotes; or
ask Zurich to obtain further quotes from reputable suppliers and proceed with any of 
the quotes approved by Zurich.
Mr R doesnt think the options provided by Zurich for the woodwork are fair. He says the 
quote from the manufacturer is sufficient to agree a settlement. He also says Zurich didnt 
inform him he needed to provide any further information or evidence for the inflatable toy.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said Zurichs proposal for the woodwork 
claim was fair and it wouldnt be fair to ask Zurich to make a payment based on the 
manufacturers quote. She also thought it was for Mr R to have provided evidence of 
ownership when he submitted the claim for the inflatable toy. 
Mr R didnt agree with our investigator, so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
Zurich says Mr R only asked if the inflatable toy could be added to the claim while it was 
dealing with his complaint. Zurich says it agreed to look into this and noted in the final 
decision letter that the claims team would consider it, but Mr R hasnt provided any 
information since then in relation to this. It says any delay since the final response would be 
a fresh complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a Yacht and Motorboat policy that covers damage to the insured property, including 
the boating equipment. Theres no dispute over whether there is cover, so Ive focused on 
what the terms say about how Zurich will handle a valid claim.
The terms say Zurich will pay the reasonable cost of replacement or repair (less the excess), 
but importantly, they also say Zurich can decide where the repairs are carried out and may 
request a number of quotations in order to make this decision.
Mr R objects to having anyone other than the manufacturer carry out the work needed to 
replace the damaged woodwork. He says only the manufacturer can create a suitable like for 
like replacement and if anyone else is used the replacement wont be as good.
The starting point is that Zurich should ensure a lasting and effective repair. This doesnt 
mean Zurich is limited to having work done by the original manufacturer. Mr R says only the 
manufacturer can do a suitable replacement but Ive not seen enough evidence to draw this 
conclusion. In fact, having seen quotes from specialist boat carpenters, Im satisfied its 
possible for other companies to provide suitable replacements. And if the work is carried out 
by a company chosen or recommended by Zurich, it will be responsible for ensuring the 
work is carried out to a suitable standard. 
Mr R has given the example of a car and it being unfair to replace the leather interior with a 
cheap replica. Even so, it doesnt necessary follow that only the manufacturer should be 
allowed to attempt the repair, if other repairers can do this. With this in mind, I consider the 
three options presented by Zurich to be fair. Mr R is free to agree to any of the options given.
The inflatable toy was raised as part of the claim with Zurich in July 2019, while it was 
looking into the complaint about how the claim had been dealt with up to then. In its final 
response in August 2019 Zurich said the claim team was considering this. Zurich recently 
told us it was waiting for Mr R to provide evidence in support of this aspect of the claim. I 
agree its reasonable for Mr R to have provided evidence of ownership to support his claim 
for the inflatable toy. At that point there hadnt been any delay in relation this, and it wasnt 
part of the complaint. If he says there has been delay since the final response, that would be 
a new matter. Zurich says if Mr R would like to complain about delays since then it would 
happy to consider that. If hes still unhappy after Zurich has considered this, he may bring a 
fresh complaint to us.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020. 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman