DRN-3282129
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed her bank account and applied a fraud 
marker against her name. Shes also unhappy it wont return payments to her that she says 
she was coerced into making.
What happened
In September 2020, Miss M had £22,400 transferred to her account which she says was 
repayment for a loan to her friend. 
Miss M says that as the friend was close to her, they had her online banking details. After 
making the transfers into her account, the friend then accessed her online banking and 
transferred the amount theyd paid her out of the account. Miss M says that her friend told 
her that theyd done this as theyd owed other people money and would repay her the 
amount owed in a separate transaction. 
The bank stopped the payments as it deemed them to be suspicious. Miss M was instructed 
to attend the bank with identification to release the funds, which she did. Miss M never 
received the money her friend owed her back.
Later, Barclays received a report from the bank thatd sent the original £22,400 to Miss Ms 
account informing it that the funds had originated from fraud. Barclays placed blocks on 
Miss Ms account and looked into the account activity. Having done so, it deemed her to be a 
risk to the bank and closed her account with immediate effect. It also loaded a fraud marker 
against her name to the Cifas database.
Miss M was unhappy with Barclays actions and told it that she wanted the money she was 
owed repaid to her account. She admitted to attending the bank and authorising the 
payments, but said she was being coerced by her friend to do so.
Barclays reviewed Miss Ms complaint and partially upheld it. It said that the account closure 
was in line with its terms and conditions and didnt uphold this element of Miss Ms 
complaint. But it did find the loading of the Cifas marker unfair. It pointed out the Miss M had 
put it on notice that shed been coerced into accepting the money and decided to remove the 
marker and pay £200 in compensation.
Miss M remained unhappy with the way in which Barclays treated her, so she came to our 
service to look into things again. An Investigator considered the evidence provided by both 
parties but concluded that Barclays had acted fairly. They said:
Miss M had allowed a third-party to use her account which is a breach of its terms 
and conditions.
The account closure was in line with the terms and conditions and deemed fair.
The Cifas marker was removed quickly and didnt appear to have had any material 
impact on Miss M.
The £200 paid is fair when considering the above factors.
Miss M was unhappy with the Investigators assessment. She said that the money 
transferred to her account was owed to her by a friend and she wanted this money returned 
to her as she was pressured to send it back out of her account. However, the Investigator 
responded to this point informing Miss M that as the funds had originated from a victim of 
fraud, it wasnt appropriate for Barclays to reimburse them to her.
Miss M continued to disagree with this point and said that the Cifas marker had a severe 
impact on her health and ability to obtain any other financial products.
As Miss M was unhappy with the Investigators response, the matter has now been passed 
to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has decided to remove the Cifas marker it placed against Miss M, so I dont think it 
necessary to comment on this point further. However, I will comment on the outstanding 
issues Miss M remains unhappy with.
Account closure
Businesses have the right to terminate an account held by a consumer, as long as it has 
done so in a fair and reasonable way. The reasons for this may include, but are not limited 
to, a breakdown in relationship or a breach of the accounts terms and conditions.
Here, Barclays has highlighted that Miss M represented a risk to the bank. It had received a 
report from a third-party bank that the funds entering her account had originated from fraud. 
This presented a risk to the bank in that the account was being used to receive the proceeds 
of crime and that it could be furthering the facilitation of money laundering had it allowed the 
account to continue operating.
Barclays has also provided our service with the terms and conditions associated with 
Miss Ms account, which she agreed to when opening the account. In these terms, it sets out 
that the bank can terminate the account with immediate effect if, amongst other things, its 
used to commit fraud against Barclays or someone else. As Ive already highlighted, 
Barclays were informed that money entering the account originated from an alleged fraud. 
And so it follows, in line with the terms of conditions of the account, and the risk Miss M 
presented, I find it fair that Barclays terminated the account with immediate effect in these 
circumstances.
Disputed payments
Miss M has asked that Barclays repay her the money she transferred out of her account as 
she was entitled to these funds and was coerced into transferring them.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss M, but I dont think its fair for Barclays to do this. The funds that 
shed transferred out of her account originated from the £22,400 alleged to have originated 
from fraud.
Miss M says that she was legally entitled to these funds as they were repayment for a loan 
shed provided to a friend. But as Ive already highlighted, the account holder from where 
these funds originated has alleged that they didnt make these transfers and that they were 
in fact fraudulent. This means that Miss M wasnt entitled to the money sent to her account and may have been duped by her friend into receiving them. 
For the above reasons, it wouldnt be appropriate for Barclays to reimburse Miss M funds 
that have allegedly originated from fraud. And if any decision was made to reimburse or 
recover funds resulting from the above transaction, this would likely be returned to the 
original victim of fraud.
Compensation for the impact of the Cifas loading
Barclays has already awarded Miss M £200 for the impact caused from the Cifas loading it 
placed against her name. While Miss M hasnt asked for more, she had mentioned on a 
number of occasions that she suffered stress and was rejected from a number of 
applications for bank accounts and credit.
Cifas markers can have a detrimental impact on a persons financial accounts and prevent 
further products being obtained. They can also have a wider impact on employment, 
physical and mental health. Here, Miss M has pointed out that the Cifas marker caused her 
stress; and I have no reason to disbelieve this. But shes been unable to evidence or 
specifically highlight any other detrimental impact causedsuch as impact on her finances. 
I must also consider the fact that Barclays removed the marker promptly after being made 
aware of Miss Ms concerns meaning that it wasnt held on her file for a prolonged period of 
time.
The above factors combined lead me to find that the £200 paid is in line with what Id expect 
for the impact caused in these circumstances. For these reasons, I wont be asking Barclays 
to pay Miss M any further compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman