DRN-1558746
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N have complained about U K Insurance Limited (UKI). They are not happy 
about the way it settled a claim under their car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr N was involved in an accident on a roundabout and made a claim under the car 
insurance policy. The claim was eventually settled on a split liability basis (50/50).
Mr and Mrs N werent happy about this. And about the various delays they encountered 
advancing the claim. UKI acknowledged some delays and offered £100 compensation. But it 
felt it had looked at the claim fairly. 
As they remained unhappy, they complained to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things and partly upheld the complaint. She thought UKI hadnt done anything wrong when it 
settled the claim. But she thought that it should increase the level of compensation to £200.
UKI agreed. But Mr and Mrs N didnt so the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I think the complaint 
should be partly upheld. Ill explain why.
As the investigator has already explained UKI has the right to take over the settlement 
of any claim. This gives it the right to decide whether to take the third party to court or settle 
a claim. Legal proceedings are time-consuming, expensive and the outcome can be very 
uncertain. So, it will not always be commercially sensible to take legal action against a third 
party. 
But this services general approach is to look to ensure insurers have acted fairly in deciding 
to settle a claim. We expect insurers to make a reasonable assessment, based on a clear 
understanding of the evidence and the circumstances of the accident. 
I have carefully considered how UKI has handled this claim. And I am satisfied that it carried 
out a reasonable investigation. I say this as it looked to take account of all the available 
evidence. 
I am mindful that there wasnt any independent evidence (such as CCTV, dashcam footage 
or independent witnesses) to support Mr Ns position. And it is difficult to say who was fully 
to blame when both sides blame each other. Plus, although it is clear UKI considered the 
layout of the road at the time of the accident, it is very difficult to apportion blame on a 
roundabout when both sides blame each other.As such, I think it would be very difficult for UKI to fully defend Mr N in court. So, I cant say it 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in settling the claim on a split liability basis.
Finally, I note UKI offered £100 compensation as it delayed settlement of the claim. And 
because it failed to communicate with Mr and Mrs N about the claim. But I agree with our 
investigator that £200 is more appropriate. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I partly uphold this complaint. I require U K 
Insurance Limited (UKI) to pay Mr and Mrs N £200 compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman