DRN-4506111
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Vitality Health Limited (Vitality) hasnt found an alternative provider to 
perform his surgery.
What happened
Mr M has a private medical insurance policy, underwritten by Vitality. He contacted Vitality 
about surgery he wanted and when he became eligible for it, Vitality provided its 
authorisation and referred him to its partnered provider.
The provider refused to carry out the surgery due to the high risk involved, although it had 
initially agreed to perform it. 
Mr M complained to Vitality and said he had been discriminated against. He asked it to fund 
another provider. Vitality said it couldnt fund another provider but did send further medical 
reports from Mr M to its partnered provider to see if it would change its mind, but it didnt. 
Vitality explained that it had to be guided by the medical opinion.  
Mr M referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Vitality had acted unfairly as it had 
authorised the surgery but couldnt force the provider to perform it. It also didnt have any 
further providers for Mr M to use. 
Mr M disagreed and said he had bought the policy specifically for this surgery and if he 
couldnt have the surgery under the terms of his policy, he wanted a refund of all his 
premiums. 
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Firstly, as set out by our investigator, I only have jurisdiction to comment on Vitalitys 
actions. This means I will consider whether Vitality has acted reasonably and fairly, in 
line with the policy terms and conditions. I understand Mr M has raised a complaint 
directly with the provider. I cannot comment on the providers actions or its decision 
not to perform the surgery. 
The background has been set out in some detail by our investigator and is well 
known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here. And I have fully considered 
everything Mr M has said. But in my decision, I will focus on what I consider to be key 
to my conclusions.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Mr M enquired about surgery he wanted which Vitality authorised. And it passed the 
details over to its partnered medical provider. Initially, the provider agreed to 
complete the surgery and booked a date for Mr M but following a further assessment, 
cancelled the surgery.
I dont think Vitality acted unfairly or unreasonably as it agreed to fund the surgery 
with the provider it had a contract with, in line with the policy terms. But the provider 
later decided the surgery was too risky. I dont think it is unreasonable for Vitality to 
be guided by medical opinion and it isnt responsible for the providers decision not to 
carry out the surgery. 
Mr M provided further information to Vitality to show why he didnt think the surgery 
was risky. And Vitality forwarded this to the provider and asked it to reconsider. But 
the provider maintained its position. I dont think there is anything different Vitality 
could reasonably be expected to do in this scenario. I think it acted reasonably and 
Ive seen no evidence that it discriminated against Mr M.
Vitality has also explained that it wont fund an alternative provider as it only works 
with its nominated provider for the type of surgery involved. The terms confirm this so 
I dont think Vitality is doing anything wrong. And I cant fairly ask it to fund the 
surgery through another provider. 
Mr M has said that he would like his premiums refunded if Vitality will not fund the 
surgery through an alternative provider. But I dont think this is fair or reasonable as 
Vitality has been on risk for any eligible claims for the whole time Mr M has held his 
policy. So whilst I am sorry to disappoint Mr M, I wont be asking Vitality to return his 
premiums. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman