DRN-2507688
The complaint
Mrs Ms complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold to her in 2004 
alongside a store card.
I cant consider this complaint against the policy seller directly because the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, accepted that the seller was 
acting as its agent at the time  so it accepted responsibility for the sale. Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA) has taken on that responsibility. 
To keep things simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
Although AXA  has taken responsibility for the sale of the policy, it has agreed that the lender 
investigates and deals with the administration of PPI complaints
What happened
In 2019 Mrs M complained to AXA about the sale of the PPI.
On 3 January 2020 the lender dealing with the complaint wrote to Mrs M stating it had 
upheld her complaint that the policy was mis-sold. However it said that according to its 
records Mrs M had only ever been charged £8.70 in PPI premiums. And it said that in 2005 
Mrs M had made a successful claim on the PPI policy and received £229.80.
So the lender said Mrs M had not suffered any financial loss due to the sale of the PPI and 
offered no compensation.
Mrs M could not recall making a claim on the policy and she could not find any record in her 
old bank statements of having received £229.80.
Mrs M contacted the lender to dispute having made a claim. According to records Ive seen 
Mrs M telephoned nine times between January and May 2020 asking for evidence of a claim 
having been made.
On 14 May 2020 Mrs M asked this service to step in.
Our adjudicator wrote to AXA , and I can see that on 19 May 2020 the lender wrote to Mrs M 
telling her shed have to contact the policy insurer, AXA, for evidence of the claim.
In August 2020 this service received evidence of the claim in the form of a transaction 
history of Mrs Ms account. The transaction history showed that on 5 October 2005 an 
insurance payment of £229.80 was credited to Mrs Ms account. 
Our adjudicator wrote to Mrs M and AXA. In his letter the adjudicator said he was satisfied 
Mrs M had made a successful claim in 2005 and that it was fair for AXA to deduct this 
amount from any compensation she was due for the mis-sale of the policy. As a result the 
adjudicator found that no compensation for the mis-sale was due to Mrs M. 
But the adjudicator said that AXA should pay Mrs M £75 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience shed experienced due to not having been given information about the 
disputed claim and not being told until 19 May 2020 that shed need to contact the insurer for 
information about the claim.
AXA replied to the adjudicator to say that although it took responsibility for the mis-sale of 
the policy any complaint about customer service during the handling of the complaint should 
be directed to the insurer. So AXA declined to pay Mrs M the £75 suggested by the 
adjudicator.
The complaint has now been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first looked at whether it is fair for AXA to deduct £229.80 from the compensation due to 
Mrs M for the mis-sale of the PPI.
Ive seen a copy of the transaction history of Mrs Ms store card account. And I can see a 
payment of £229.80 for insurance was credited to the account on 5 October 2005. I accept 
Mrs M cant recall making a claim on the PPI but taking everything into account I think it is 
most likely this was for a PPI claim.
And I think it is fair for AXA to deduct the claim from any compensation due for the mis-sale. 
Thats because the purpose of any compensation is to put Mrs M in the position shed be in if 
the PPI had not been sold. And if the PPI had not been sold she wouldnt have been able to 
make the claim.
So I think it is fair for AXA to use the claim money to reduce the compensation for the       
mis-sale that it owes Mrs M. As the claim far exceeds the premiums paid by Mrs M she has 
not suffered a financial loss.
Ive next considered whether I should award compensation for the way Mrs Ms complaint 
was handled.
I can see Mrs M made numerous calls disputing the insurance claim between January and 
May 2020, in particular she asked to see evidence of the claim. It wasnt until 19 May 2020 
that Mrs M was told she  would have to approach the policy insurer for the information.
I cant see any reason why Mrs M could not have been given this information earlier, or even 
told to contact the insurer sooner. It must have been very frustrating for Mrs M to have to 
make these calls only to be told after four and a half months that the information couldnt be 
supplied by the lender and that shed need to contact the insurer. Particularly in view of the 
fact that Mrs M lives abroad and these were overseas calls she needed to make. I note the 
information was able to be located and provided to our adjudicator who passed it to Mrs M. 
Taking everything into account I think £100 is fair compensation for the trouble and upset 
experienced by Mrs M.
AXA has said it shouldnt be liable for compensation due to the poor customer service Mrs M 
experienced.But I disagree. AXA is responsible for the mis-sale complaint. And in my view that includes 
the way the complaint was investigated and dealt with. AXA agreed that the lender would 
should deal with PPI mis-sale complaints on its behalf but in my view it still remains 
responsible for compensation related to the mis-sale including any resulting from mis-
handing of the complaint. 
  
Putting things right
AXA should make payment of £100 to Mrs M as compensation for the way her complaint 
about the mis-sale of the policy was handled.  
 
My final decision
My final decision is that its fair for AXA to use the claim money of £229.80 to offset against 
compensation due to Mrs M for the mis-sale of the PPI policy.
Separately, I direct AXA to pay Mrs M £100 for the poor customer service she received while 
her complaint was investigated. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman