DRN-3672267
The complaint
Miss F has complained that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) has declined her claim for
treatment costs for her dog on the ground that the treatment was for a pre-existing condition 
and therefore excluded from cover.
What happened
Miss F s dog, who Ill refer to as B, has been insured by Covea since 7 September 2018.
In November 2021 B developed an anal gland infection which required surgery. In December 
2021, Miss F submitted a claim to Covea for the cost of Bs treatment. Covea rejected the 
claim on the ground that Bs veterinary records showed that hed previously had his anal 
glands emptied in May and September 2017, before the inception of the policy.
Miss F says that the emptying of Bs anal glands was not connected to a condition and was 
not an injury or illness but was a regular procedure which a lot of dogs have and which 
doesnt need to be carried out by a vet. B now has this done regularly by his groomer.
Covea asked Miss F to provide a letter from Bs vet to confirm that the reference to Bs anal 
glands in his records wasnt connected with the infection she was claiming for. Bs vet 
provided such confirmation. 
Covea maintained its rejection of Miss Fs claim on the basis that B displayed the same or 
similar symptoms prior to the policys inception. It referred to the following policy wording:
Meaning of words in this policy:
27. Pre-existing condition:
a) An injury that happened or an illness that first showed clinical signs before your 
pet's cover started, or
b) An injury or illness that is the same as, or has the same diagnosis or clinical signs 
as an injury, illness or clinical sign your pet had before its cover started, or
c) An injury or illness that is caused by, relates to, or results from, an injury, incident, 
illness or clinical sign your pet had before its cover started. No matter where the 
injury, illness or clinical signs are noticed or happen in, or on, your pet's body. This 
is in addition to any exclusion(s) stated on your Certificate of Insurance.
Covea also stated that if Bs glands had not been emptied promptly (sic) on the first occasion 
then it is likely an infection wouldve followed. It maintains that Miss Fs claim was declined 
within the terms and conditions of the policy.
Miss F wasnt happy with Coveas rejection of her claim and brought her complaint to this 
service. Our investigators view was that B shouldnt decline Miss Fs claim as pre-existing 
simply because Bs symptoms were the same or similar to those previously presented. She 
was satisfied that Miss F had no reasonable knowledge of something wrong with B when the 
policy was taken out.
Covea doesnt agree with our investigators view. It maintains that there was clearly a 
problem with Bs anal glands before the inception of the policy, which Miss F was aware of. It 
disagrees that the previous appointments were routine as Bs glands were inflamed on 30 
May 2017 and an injection of anti-inflammatories had been given.
As Covea doesnt agree with our investigators view, Miss Fs complaint has been referred to 
me for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im in agreement with our investigator that Covea has not acted fairly in 
relation to Miss Fs claim and Ill explain why.
What the vet described as Bs scooting is a common indication of anal glands that need 
emptying. In my view, the emptying of Bs anal glands in May and September 2017 was a 
routine procedure and cant reasonably be described as an injury or an illness. It doesnt 
therefore fall within the policys definition of a pre-existing condition. 
I also dont accept Coveas argument that theres a connection between the infection that 
was first identified in September 2021 and a procedure carried out over four years 
previously. Bs veterinary notes dont indicate any intermediate issues with Bs anal glands.
 Bs vet has also confirmed that:  
[Bs] scooting behaviour and expression of anal glands in May and September of 2017 is 
not an indication of Infection. Therefore, it is not related to the anal gland infection he had 
in November 2021.
I therefore dont consider that Covea has acted fairly or reasonably in rejecting Miss Fs 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Miss Fs complaint.
I require Covea Insurance plc to address Miss Fs claim subject to the other terms and 
conditions of her policy.
I also require Covea Insurance plc to pay interest on any sum payable at the simple rate of 
8% from the date Miss F made her claim to the date that payment is made to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman