DRN-3445723
The complaint
Mr C complains that Tandem Bank Limited treated him unfairly by changing the interest rate 
on his savings account. Mr C also complains that Tandem closed his savings account.
What happened
Mr C had a variable interest rate savings account with Tandem. The interest rate he had to 
begin with was 0.75% AER (annual equivalent rate). But this was reduced to 0.40% AER for 
a while.
Mr C then received an increase to 0.65% AER which he considered to be a preferential rate 
as it was better than the rate offered to new customers. Tandem later increased the rate for 
new customers (and existing customers on a lower rate) to 0.65% AER. This upset Mr C due 
to him no longer getting a better rate than other customers.
Tandem then reduced the rate available to new customers, but decided not to reduce the 
rate for existing customers.
Mr C says this is all very confusing and so he complained to Tandem about it. He said he 
could get a better rate elsewhere if he wanted to.
Tandem did not uphold Mr Cs complaint. They explained that it is a variable interest rate 
savings account so the rate may go up and down on occasion. They also said they gave 
adequate notice of the changes. Following that, Tandem took a commercial decision to close 
Mr Cs account.
An investigator here looked into the matter. They explained that, according to the account 
terms and conditions, Tandem was entitled to alter the interest rate and that they were also 
entitled to close Mr Cs account  provided, for both matters, they gave adequate notice.
Mr C remained unhappy so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be upholding Mr Cs complaint because I dont think Tandem have done anything 
wrong. Mr C may be unhappy that the interest rate fluctuates, because hes very sensitive to 
such things and always wants the best rate possible. But this is a variable rate account and 
therefore that can happen. If Mr C wants a fixed rate account, he would be better off looking 
for one of those that suits his needs.
Ive not seen anything to make me think Mr C wasnt given adequate notice of the change in 
interest rate. I note hes said he was on a preferential rate but lost that benefit when others 
were brought up to the same rate as him. But that was of no detriment to him, it was simply 
of benefit to others  a benefit he had already enjoyed for some time.
I agree, it could be seen as unfair if other customers, in the same circumstances as Mr C, 
had been on better terms than he was, but Ive not seen anything to suggest that was ever 
the case.
Overall, I think Tandem acted reasonably and Mr C has not been treated unfairly by their 
actions. I appreciate he may see a rate reduction as unfair treatment but that alone is not the 
case, provided it is done so in line with the account terms.
Turning to the account closure, I think that was carried out in an acceptable manner. 
Tandems terms say they will provide 30 days-notice. Tandem wrote to Mr C on
7 January 2022 to tell him his account would be closed on 7 February 2022, so I think that 
was fine for them to do.
I also note, in any event, that Mr C decided to take his business elsewhere because of his 
unhappiness with Tandem. So I dont think the account closure really made any difference to 
him  and its telling that Mr C said he wouldve left them anyway.
From what Ive seen of Mr Cs complaint, it seems he expects to be rewarded for his time 
and effort spent in his dealings with Tandem. But that isnt how things work. Sometimes a 
financial services provider will ask reasonable questions of their customers and, in my view, 
those customers cant expect to be rewarded for answering questions or for providing details 
of their circumstances.
If Mr C doesnt like the service hes being provided  or feels a financial service provider is 
asking too much of him  then hes entitled to take his business elsewhere. And thats what 
hes done. But that doesnt mean the financial service provider has done anything wrong.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman