DRN-3550397
The complaint
Mr S complains HSBC UK Bank Plc lent to him when it shouldnt have, thereby contributing 
to his financial difficulties.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S applied to HSBC in April 2017 for a loan for a car. He was approved for a £10,500 loan, 
to be repaid over 60 months at about £220 a month, but with the first repayment being 
deferred for three months. Mr S says when he began making the repayments he had to use 
credit cards to help maintain them, and to cut down on other spending. He says that over the 
years, as his circumstances changed, it became more unsustainable to maintain the loan 
repayments. He feels HSBC should have done more to ensure the loan was affordable for 
him  and that it would continue to be affordable for him should his circumstances change 
over the term of the loan.
Lenders should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any lending application. 
The level of those checks will vary depending on the type and amount of the lending. Mr S 
was taking out a loan for a relatively large amount, so I would expect HSBC to have carried 
out relatively thorough checks. 
In summary, HSBC based its lending decision on information from the credit reference 
agencies and on information Mr S gave it about his income and expenditure at the time. And 
the information HSBC received indicated that Mr S was able to afford the loan repayments. 
But given the size of the loan Mr S was applying for, Im not satisfied that the evidence weve 
seen shows HSBC did carry out thorough enough checks to ensure that the loan was 
affordable. Specifically, I cant see that HSBC took steps to verify the information Mr S had 
given it about his income and expenditure, and I think that would have been a sensible step 
to take given the size of the loan and the information Mr S had provided.
I must now consider whether if HSBC had done more checks, it would have changed its 
decision to lend to Mr S. So I have reviewed Mr Ss bank statements from the months prior 
to him taking out the loan and have also looked in more detail at the information on his credit 
file. I am not saying HSBC had to do exactly this, but it is one way for me to recreate what a 
fuller financial review would most likely have shown. And with what Ive seen, I dont think 
further verification of Mr Ss income and outgoings would have changed HSBCs decision. I 
say this because Mr Ss bank statements suggest that the figures he gave HSBC when 
applying for the loan were largely accurate for both his income and outgoings. And that after 
meeting his essential expenditure, existing credit card repayments, and the new loan 
repayments he would still have some available income left.
Mr S also had no adverse information recorded on his credit file at the time, and limited 
borrowing with other lenders. I appreciate that he was using almost the full available balance 
of his existing credit card, but in the months prior to his application his spending on that card 
was limited and he was maintaining the required payments. Mr S was also using the 
overdraft on his current account, but was able to repay a significant proportion of that 
overdraft each month when his wages were paid in. And the fact that someone is using their 
credit card and overdraft limits does not, in itself, mean that they might be struggling with 
their finances. So with all of this in mind, I dont think the overall picture regarding Mr Ss 
finances here would have caused HSBC any concern.
Mr S was then able to maintain his loan payments for several years, and he didnt show any 
clear signs of struggling with the loan until his work was impacted by the Coronavirus 
pandemic in 2020. And this also suggests to me that the loan was affordable at the time it 
was given to Mr S. Mr S has said he was only able to maintain the loan repayments because 
he and his family went without in other areas of spending, such as on clothes and holidays. 
But I wouldnt say this is necessarily a sign of affordability issues, as Mr S suggests. It could 
also be considered good money management.
Mr S has also said he used credit cards and another loan to cover the repayments on his 
HSBC loan. But from looking at Mr Ss credit file I can see that he didnt take out any new 
credit card until a year after his HSBC loan was approved, and didnt take out another loan 
until nearly two years after he took out the HSBC loan. I can see that after taking out the 
loan Mr C repaid his existing credit card account, and that he did then go on to spend 
significantly on that card, but the type of spending on that account does not suggest that it 
was largely being used for essential expenditure to cover any shortfall in Mr Ss income. So 
overall, this doesnt suggest that he was immediately struggling with the repayments.
I also note Mr Ss comment about another case hes referred to us about a credit card, 
where we found that there had been unaffordable lending, but our findings on that case were 
around a credit limit increase that happened after Mr S took out this loan, so it doesnt 
change my findings here. And any other cases referred to us have also been about events 
from after this loan was approved.
I accept Mr S was struggling financially from 2020 onwards and ultimately entered a Covid-
related payment plan with HSBC. But in my view, this is the result of either general 
increased costs for Mr S  and he has acknowledged that his costs have increased over the 
years  or of Mr S being out of work as a result of the pandemic. So Id say both of these 
issues would be classed as a change in circumstances rather than HSBC providing 
unaffordable lending. I appreciate that Mr S thinks HSBC should have done more to ensure 
the loan would continue to be affordable for the entire 60 month term, but I can see it did 
clearly ask him in the loan application if he could foresee any change in his circumstances 
that might mean he could struggle to repay the loan, and gave examples of what those 
circumstances might be, and Mr S ticked to say No. So I dont think HSBC needed to do 
anything more at that stage.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr S, but with everything Ive seen Im not 
persuaded it was wrong for HSBC to lend to him. It follows that this complaint is not one that 
I should uphold.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman