DRN-3871701
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Lloyds Bank Plc has made mistakes with the administration of 
their mortgage account and provided incorrect information.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A have questioned whether Lloyds is treating them fairly with how payments 
have been applied to their mortgage. Their concerns were prompted after the balance of 
their mortgage changed when checking it online and noticing the balance discrepancies on 
statements against the information theyd seen online. Theyve also raised concerns about 
the following:
- Whether a lump sum payment for £2500.00 was applied to the mortgage as quickly 
as it should have been.
- Why their mortgage balance on their mortgage offer is lower than what was stated on 
the completion letter.
- The service received from Lloyds was poor with incorrect information being shared 
when Mr and Mrs A called to clarify the above.
Lloyds looked at Mr and Mrs As complaint and felt it had done something wrong. It accepted 
the service provided when Mr and Mrs A spoke with it to answer the questions they had was 
not good enough and misinformation was provided. To apologies for this, it made a payment 
of £80.00. But Lloyds didnt think the way the balance was being displayed or how payments 
were applied was wrong and the lump sum payment made was applied to the mortgage the 
next working day as it should have been.
Mr and Mrs A provided this service with spreadsheet information they produced which they 
feel demonstrates the mortgage account is not working as it should be. In short they think it 
shows wrong information and increases to the balance at points without explanation.
Our investigator asked Lloyds to comment on this spreadsheet when the complaint was 
raised and investigated but she didnt receive a direct response on this point. Lloyds had 
though previously provided information which our investigator felt was sufficient to allow her 
to answer the complaint points without needing to add further delay and wait on the 
information request. 
The investigator thought the payment made by Lloyds for the poor service and wrong 
information provided when Mr and Mrs A attempted to understand what was happening with 
their mortgage account was fair. She also didnt think it needed to do anything else in 
relation to the balance showing on the account or with how the lump sum overpayment was 
applied. 
With the balance of the mortgage and what the statements showed compared to the 
summary information, our investigator said that Lloyds had explained why the balance on the 
mortgage could change up as well as down, depending on when the account is viewed. This 
is because of how the account operates with when the interest is charged and when it is 
applied against the balance and the date the payment is made on the account. Shed been 
provided with the mortgage statements for the last 10 years and was satisfied that these 
demonstrated the payments made had been applied correctly. It showed from 2021 when 
the mortgage was transferred from an interest only to a repayment, that the balance of the 
mortgage reduced as it should have. 
Mr and Mrs A disagreed; they didnt think it was fair to accept what was said in relation to the 
balance of the account. They believed there is discrepancys when the balance of the 
account is crossed referenced against what is given on specific dates and later dates and 
the fact Lloyds failed to respond on this point indicates something must be wrong.  
Our investigator explained her opinion remained unchanged and she felt the outcome 
reached by Lloyds previously was fair. Because Mr and Mrs A disagreed, the complaint has 
been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator.
There is a number of elements to Mr and Mrs As complaint, with the customer service 
issues and then the questions around whether the account is operating as it should. Ive 
focused on each in turn.
Balance discrepancy
Our investigator said shed requested information that hadnt been received in relation to the 
mortgage balances, but that she felt she had enough information to answer the complaint 
without this. I agree the information provided in the file gave a good level of information 
about how the payments had been applied, but I asked that the information requested 
previously, be requested. This included the spreadsheet information Mr and Mrs A have 
produced being shared with Lloyds for its comments.
The information was re-sent by Lloyds  it said this was sent earlier when first requested but 
hadnt been received. Lloyds explanation didnt differ to any real degree to what was 
provided by it before. It maintained that because interest is added at one point in the month 
and payments deducted at other points, the balance will fluctuate depending on whether a 
payment is being deducted or because interest is added. This is how the account is 
expected to work and once interest is added and the monthly payment is deducted, the 
balance will settle on the correct amount.
Lloyds said it sends out annual statements which meet its regulatory requirements and these 
can be relied on to give accurate information on the balance of the account. If Mr and Mrs A 
wanted to obtain a redemption figure to repay their mortgage, Lloyds could provide this on 
request and interest can be calculated daily up to the date requested. But the summary 
information online will only give an indication of the balance and should be taken as a guide 
only as figures can differ for the reasons Ive explained above.
Ive not seen anything to suggest Lloyds is doing anything wrong with how it applies the 
payments to Mr and Mrs As mortgage and the sub accounts. The information displayed as 
the balance can fluctuate as it has indicated, but this is because of the mortgage applying 
the debits and credits applicable to it. I appreciate it could be worrying if the balance appears to change without reason, but this has been explained and the annual mortgage statements 
show the balance is correct based on the payments made and the interest charged. So I 
cant say Lloyds has made a mistake with the balance displayed.
Difference in the mortgage balance on the offer letter and completion letter
As our investigator explained, calculating a mortgage balance is complex as interest is 
added on a daily basis. As a result, the balance will change from one date to another and 
when an offer is produced with interest calculated to a certain date, it will be different to a 
completion balance if the date is different.
As the mortgage completed later than the date of the mortgage offer, the balance increased 
to reflect the additional interest accrued. Ive not seen anything to show there is an error 
here and this is expected for the reasons Ive explained above.
The lump sum payment 
Lloyds has explained why the lump sum payment made for £2500.00 wasnt applied to the 
account until the following working day. It said this is because it was made outside of 
working hours and because of this, it couldnt be applied on the day. It said the process for 
irregular/lump sum payments is different to direct debit payments and can take some time to 
be processed manually. But Lloyds doesnt delay the point in time when the payment is 
applied. And providing it is made during working hours, it is applied to the balance on the 
day made or if later, on the following day.
When Mr and Mrs A made the payment it wasnt showing on the mortgage for 37 hours. Mr 
and Mrs A have questioned why this was and why the balance didnt show the payment 
straightaway. I understand why not seeing a payment made (especially when it is a large 
overpayment) would be alarming. And it is fair to expect that Lloyds explains why there might 
be a delay in payments being applied or being visible and not sharing this would add to the 
distress. But the payment did show soon after it was made and it has been applied as it 
should have been, the first working day after it was made. So I dont see any reason to ask 
Lloyds to anything differently in response to this point.
Customer service issues 
It isnt disputed by Lloyds that the service it provided when Mr and Mrs A called to discuss 
their mortgage account wasnt good enough. And its made a payment of £80.00 to 
apologise for this and any distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr and Mrs A were told their mortgage wasnt with Lloyds when they called to enquire about 
the balance and were incorrectly told it was with another bank owned by Lloyds. Being given 
this incorrect information would clearly be distressing and confusing. But it was clarified soon 
after when the complaint was raised that this was an error. Lloyds apologised for its member 
of staff providing the wrong information and I think this, together with the £80.00 is fair.
Overall, I understand why Mr and Mrs A have had concerns about their mortgage and if this 
is operating as it should. These havent been helped by the misinformation Lloyds provided 
when they called and when it was unable to explain where their payment was. But I think the 
compensation is fair for these failings and Im not persuaded Lloyds is doing anything wrong 
with how balance is displayed and monthly payments are added.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman