DRN-4428834
The complaint
Mr S complains that Phoenix Life Limited gave him incorrect information about the value of 
his pension. He was also unhappy about the length of time it took Phoenix to rectify the 
error.
What happened
In August 2022, Mr S received a pension statement from Phoenix, which showed the 
Guaranteed Fund Value of his non-protected rights (NPR) as £81,949, and former protected 
rights of £43,377. In October 2022, Mr S telephoned Phoenix and asked them to check the 
figures that hed been sent in the letter. Phoenixs representative confirmed to him that the 
information that theyd sent him was correct.
In January 2023, Mr S discovered that the information that hed been sent in August 2022, 
which Phoenix explained was correct, was in fact inaccurate. Thats because, in April 2022, 
the NPR element of his Phoenix pension had been switched to a new provider.
Unhappy, Mr S decided to complain to Phoenix, explaining that he was unhappy with the 
mistake that theyd made. Immediately after his complaint was lodged, Phoenix 
subsequently corrected the error from the August 2022 letter and sent Mr S a corrected 
value. In the plan update he received in March 2023, the correct details of his plan were 
reflected.
After reviewing Mr Ss complaint, Phoenix concluded that theyd given Mr S the wrong 
information, both in the letter they sent him in August 2022 and during their telephone call of 
October 2022. Phoenix went on to say that, as they were upholding his complaint, they were 
offering to pay him £310 for the trouble that they caused.
Mr S was unhappy with Phoenixs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. In 
summary, he said that he was unhappy with Phoenixs response and that it was indicative of 
the wider issues that hed experienced when dealing with them. He initially explained that 
hed like Phoenix to honour the incorrect information that theyd given him, but then 
explained that he would consider a larger distress and inconvenience payment above the 
£310 instead, given the extent of trouble that he felt that Phoenix had caused.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. He concluded that, whilst 
Phoenix had given incorrect information to Mr S, the resolution that theyd set out was fair 
and reasonable.
Mr S, however, disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, he raised a number 
of further points about the interactions that hed had with Phoenix. Specifically, those related 
to the retirement age that had been set out on the plan, where his funds were invested, the 
fact that he subsequently decided to move part of his pension to an alternate provider 
because of Phoenix, and concerns that hed not been able to benefit from their with-profits 
fund. 
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change his view as he didnt believe that Mr S had 
presented any new arguments that hed not already considered or responded to. He went on 
to explain that he felt the further points that Mr S has raised are new complaint points, and 
as such, he should complain directly to Phoenix on those issues to give them an opportunity 
to respond, before this service would be able to consider them. Unhappy, Mr S then asked 
the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr S and Phoenix to reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and 
reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice, but it is 
for me to decide, based on the available information that I've been given, what's more likely 
than not to have happened. And, having done so, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint and its 
largely for the same reasons as our Investigator, but importantly, I wont be asking Phoenix 
to take any further action beyond what theyve already proposed. Whilst I appreciate that 
Mr S will likely be disappointed by my decision, Ill explain why below.
To be clear, this complaint is about Mr Ss interaction with Phoenix in October 2022, when 
he telephoned their helpline, asking them to check the figures that hed been sent in their 
August 2022 letter. Ive listened to the call that our Investigator had with the consumer on 11 
September 2023 - Mr S raised further points with our Investigator about the decision he 
made to move part of his pension away and the impact that then had on him, along with 
wider concerns about where his monies were invested. I should be very clear in that Im not 
considering those points or the further concerns that Mr S set out in his email to our 
Investigator following the receipt of his initial view (on 31 July 2023), because before I could 
do, Phoenix would need to be given the opportunity to first consider those new concerns and 
decide what action, if any, they would wish to take.
It seems to me that theres no doubt that in the October 2022 telephone discussion that Mr S 
had with Phoenix, their representative confirmed to him that the information hed been sent 
was correct. Phoenix have admitted as much and apologised for their mistake. Theyve also 
gone on to offer Mr S £310 for the trouble that theyve caused. So, it seems my decision only 
needs to focus on whether the £310 that Phoenix set out in settlement of this complaint point 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Using financial services wont always be hassle free and when mistakes occur, wed 
ordinarily expect businesses to place the consumer back in to the same, or as close as 
possible to the same position, that they wouldve been in had the error not occurred. In short, 
what this means is that wed ask them to work out what the consumers pension pot 
wouldve been worth had it not been for the mistake and then instruct the firm to put that 
right. Importantly though, Phoenix have already put the mistake right  they identified the 
error that they made (which was informing Mr S of the incorrect value) and then advised him 
of the correct fund value. However, as Mr S had already transferred part of his pension away 
at the point that he was given the incorrect information, I wouldnt expect Phoenix to 
recompense him for something that he no longer held with them.
Importantly though, part of Mr Ss pension pot had already been switched away to a new 
provider in April 2022, so I think its more likely than not that Mr S partly suspected the amount shown on the August 2022 letter was incorrect, given that he was telephoning to 
query the amount  he said as much in his initial discussion with our Investigator when his 
complaint was set up with us.
Ive seen no evidence that Mr S has suffered a financial consequence of being given 
incorrect information by Phoenix in October 2022. So, Ive then thought about the £310 that 
they have offered to Mr S to put things right for him. Phoenix have said that part of the 
payment is to recognise the length of time that it took them to respond to his complaint, £10 
is to cover the costs of Mr Ss telephone calls and £150 is for the trouble that they caused to 
him. Whilst Mr S says that hes reluctant to accept the £310 because he feels it may impact 
his case if he were to raise further complaint points about his other concerns with Phoenix, 
thats not the case. Thats because, as Ive already explained, the focus of this decision is 
purely on the incorrect information that he received. His wider complaint points will need to 
be submitted to Phoenix, who will make a decision on those as and when he raises them. 
And, if those concerns are subsequently escalated to this service, theyll then be considered 
independently. So, thinking about the impact that this error has had on Mr S, Im satisfied 
that £310 is reasonable and fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
Phoenix Life Limited has made an offer to pay Mr S £310 to settle the complaint, and I think 
that this offer is fair in all of the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Phoenix Life Limited should pay Mr S £310 if theyve not already 
done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman