DRN-3722015
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that CB Payments Ltd wont refund money he lost as a result of a scam. 
What happened
In October 2020, Mr T fell victim to an investment scam. As part of the scam he opened a 
CB Payments electronic money account and deposited funds into it from his bank account. 
He used those funds to purchase cryptocurrency from a separate business  Coinbase UK. 
He then sent cryptocurrency from his Coinbase UK account to the fraudster. 
On 16 November 2020, some Coinbase customers based in the European Economic Area, 
including Mr T, were asked to enter into a new agreement with two different businesses  
Coinbase Ireland (which provided the electronic money services previously provided by CB 
Payments) and Coinbase Europe (which provided the cryptocurrency services previously 
provided by Coinbase UK). Between 28 October 2020 and 30 November 2020, Mr T lost 
over €160,000. 
When it became clear hed been the victim of a scam, Mr T complained to Coinbase. It 
responded on behalf of CB Payments/Coinbase Ireland and Coinbase UK/Europe and said 
that it had no relationship with the recipient of his cryptocurrency, couldnt recover it and as 
hed carried out all of the activity himself, it wasnt responsible for his loss. 
Mr T referred the matter to our service. CB Payments argued that we had no power to 
consider the complaint as it didnt relate to the electronic money activities carried out by CB 
Payments, but rather the unregulated cryptocurrency activities carried out by Coinbase 
UK/Europe. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. Initially they were of the view that we 
didnt have the power to consider it. But, after further consideration, they thought there were 
aspects of it that we could consider  specifically those which related to whether CB 
Payments had carried out adequate checks when Mr T opened his account and whether it 
had properly monitored his account for unusual or out of character activity. The investigator 
reviewed those aspects of the complaint but didnt think that CB Payments had made an 
error. 
CB Payments didnt provide any further submissions, but Mr T asked for an ombudsman to 
review his complaint. In summary, he said:
- CB Payments hadnt adhered to good industry practice and, given the volume, 
frequency and nature of the transactions he carried out, it should have found them to 
be suspicious and recognised the possibility that he was at risk of financial harm from 
fraud. 
- It also hadnt adhered to anti-money laundering (AML) regulations, including 
guidance that specifically addresses the particular dangers of cryptocurrency.
- Overall, he thought that CB Payments had breached its duty of care to him  a 
vulnerable customer who lost his life savings as a result of fraud. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that our service cannot consider the actions of 
Coinbase UK or Coinbase Europe, so I dont need to comment on this further. 
Im very sorry to hear about whats happened to Mr T. Hes lost a significant amount of 
money to a cruel scam and I can only imagine the impact this has had on him. But, 
unfortunately for Mr T, Im unable to ask CB Payments to refund his loss. Ill explain why.
As already mentioned, its also important to point out that after 16 November 2020, Mr T was 
no longer a customer of CB Payments. It follows that I can only consider the activity between 
28 October 2020 (when Mr T opened the account) and 16 November 2020 (up to the point 
he entered into a new agreement with Coinbase Ireland). Its important to note that the vast 
majority of Mr Ts loss came after 16 November 2020.
It isnt in dispute that Mr T made the purchases of cryptocurrency from his CB Payments 
account himself. So, the starting point is that he, rather than CB Payments, is responsible for 
the loss.
However, in line with good industry practice, I agree with Mr T that CB Payments should 
monitor its customers accounts for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of 
financial harm. This should include monitoring account activity for transactions that are 
unusual or out of character. In some circumstances, it should take additional steps, or carry 
out additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a 
payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud. 
I understand the fraudsters encouraged Mr T to open his CB Payments account. Mr T wasnt 
a customer of it prior to the fraud and it wasnt in a position to understand what his normal 
account usage looked like. In any case, CB Payments provide a specialised account  
offering only the ability to buy and, receive the proceeds of sale from, cryptocurrency  so 
the activity carried out by Mr T would be unlikely to stand out as being unusual  particularly 
as the purchase of cryptocurrency was, in effect, a transfer between his own accounts. I also 
havent seen anything to suggest that Mr T was particularly vulnerable to this type of scam or 
that CB Payments would have known about any vulnerability when Mr T opened his account. 
Theres also no dispute that it was Mr T who opened his account and that all the money 
deposited was his own, legitimate, funds. While I accept AML obligations extend beyond the 
opening of an account and the origins of the funds deposited into it, those obligations are not 
always aligned with preventing financial harm from fraud. They are primarily aimed at 
preventing criminals laundering money. That means that even if CB Payments had found the 
activity on Mr Ts account to be suspicious from an AML perspective (though I dont agree 
there was any reason for it to be suspicious here), it doesnt necessarily follow that the scam 
would have been uncovered. 
For that to happen, I think CB Payments would have had to have had a fairly detailed 
conversation with Mr T and discussed the wider circumstances surrounding the payment. It 
then might have been in a position to provide a warning about the dangers of falling victim to 
cryptocurrency scams. But, I think it would be onerous to expect CB Payments to do that for 
every customer. Instead, I think it was only obliged to do this where it had cause to be concerned about the risk of fraud. And, though I accept Mr T made a substantial deposit, I 
dont think that was the case here for the reasons Ive explained. As Mr T didnt contact or 
speak to CB Payments during the scam, I also cant see any other reason for it to have 
suspected fraud. 
Finally, Im satisfied that Mr Ts funds could not be recovered as it is accepted they were 
sent off the Coinbase platform, in cryptocurrency, to a third party.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman