DRN-2278396
The complaint
Miss F complains Unum Ltd unfairly declined her income protection claim when she was 
unable to work.
What happened
Miss F has an income protection policy with Unum through her employers group scheme. 
And following a period of absence starting in October 2018, her employer made a claim. 
Miss F said she had been unwell and listed various symptoms including being in constant 
pain and having palpitations, tiredness, headaches, poor concentration and memory loss. 
The policy has a 26 week deferred period. This means theres a waiting period of around six 
months before Miss F could receive any benefits.
Unum requested Miss Fs medical records in order to assess her claim and to decide 
whether or not she met the policys definition of incapacity, which is as follows. 
If a member is not required by his terms of employment or by his partnership 
agreement to hold a licence or certificate which is issued only when the member 
meets certain medical standards, and
(a) Unum is satisfied that the member is unable, by reason of illness or injury, to 
perform the material and substantial duties of his insured occupation, and
(b)the member is not following any occupation, except as provided under 
paragraph 5.3, 
then the member is incapacitated
Unum turned down the claim. It said it didnt think Miss F had met the policy definition of 
incapacity throughout the deferred period. 
Miss F complained to Unum and provided further evidence about her claim, including 
a report from her treating surgeon. This showed that in May 2019, she underwent surgery to 
remove a gallstone.
Unum responded to Miss Fs complaint. It said it wasnt satisfied that the medical evidence 
showed Miss F had met the policy definition of incapacity for the entirety of the deferred 
period, which started on 9 October 2018. And it maintained its decision to turn down the 
claim.
Unhappy with Unums response, Miss F brought her complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened. She said she didnt think the medical 
evidence showed Miss F met the policy definition of incapacity between 9 October and 22 
November 2018. However, she thought she met the definition from 22 November 2018 
onwards, when Miss F was referred for surgery in relation to her gallstones and abdominal 
pain. She said she thought Unum should pay the claim based on the deferred period starting 
on 22 November 2018 and Miss F having returned to work in July 2019. And she said Unum 
should pay 8% interest on the backdated payments. 
Miss F accepted the investigators view. 
Unum disagreed with the view. It said it had assessed the claim based on the incapacity 
start date of 9 October 2018, stated by Miss Fs employer when it made the claim. It said it 
accepted Miss F met the definition of incapacity from 22 November 2018, but disagreed it 
should have considered a later deferred period start date when assessing the claim. It said if 
the policyholder (Miss Fs employer) had asked it to assess the claim again with a later 
incapacity start date, it would have done so. 
Ultimately Unum didnt accept the investigators view, and asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. And so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers have a responsibility to settle claims promptly and fairly, and shouldnt decline 
a claim unreasonably. And in this case, I dont think Unum has acted entirely fairly. Ill 
explain why.
Period up to 22 November 2018 
The medical evidence shows Miss F visited her GP with a variety of different symptoms. 
These included instances of tiredness, shortness of breath and minor infections. However 
Im not persuaded this evidence supports the constant pain Miss F said she was 
experiencing. Or sustained and severe symptoms throughout the period, which would likely 
cause her to be unable to perform her job role. 
Because of this, I dont think it was unfair for Unum to say Miss F didnt meet the definition of 
incapacity during the period from 9 October to 22 November 2018. 
Period from 22 November 2018 onwards 
Miss Fs medical records show evidence of her experiencing regular abdominal discomfort 
from 22 November onwards. And she was referred for gallbladder surgery and to a pain 
clinic. The records also show her surgery was delayed due to complications with her 
diabetes.
The report from Miss Fs treating surgeon, Dr E (although retrospectively provided in June 
2019) states she would have been unable to work whilst awaiting surgery. And Im 
sufficiently persuaded that Dr Es report, together with the wider medical records, show 
Miss F met the policy definition of incapacity from 22 November 2018 onwards. 
Considering Dr E is a surgeon who had treated Miss F, I think it would have been fair for 
Unum to place a significant amount of reliance on this evidence. However after receiving the 
report, Unum maintained that the claim was declined. 
Miss Fs employer stated the incapacity start date to be the first day Miss F was absent from 
work over a prolonged period  9 October 2018. And using that date as the start of the 
deferred period, Unum found Miss F didnt meet the definition of incapacity over the whole 26 week period. However, Ive found the medical evidence shows Miss F met the definition 
of incapacity from a later date  22 November 2018. Accounting for the 26 week deferred 
period, this would still have allowed Miss F to receive policy benefits before her return to 
work in July 2019. 
Whilst I appreciate Unum has said it based its claim assessment on the claim date given by 
Miss Fs employer, I dont think this produced a fair outcome for Miss F. Its clear to me from 
reviewing the medical evidence in the round, that she had a valid claim starting at a later 
date. And as Unum had access to that medical information when it responded to Miss Fs 
complaint, and had full knowledge of the mechanics of its policies, I dont think its decision to 
maintain the declination of her claim was fair. So I think Unum should pay the claim from 30 
August 2019, which was when it turned down the claim for the second time.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. And I direct 
Unum Ltd to pay Miss Fs claim based on the deferred period starting on 22 November 2018. 
Interest on the payments should be paid at 8% simple from 30 August 2019, to the date of 
settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman