DRN-3825944
The complaint
Mrs T complains about The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential). Shes 
unhappy with the transfer value Prudential paid when she transferred her Stakeholder 
Pension Plan to another pension provider. She considers that shes suffered a financial loss 
and shed like to be compensated. 
What happened
On 3 February 2022, Mrs T accessed information about her plan using Prudentials online 
portal, which said her total plan value was £78,421.92. Mrs T contacted Prudential on the 
same day, advising that she intended to transfer to another provider Ill refer to as, Provider 
B. Following this, Provider B sent Prudential an electronic transfer request.
Prudential requested information from Mrs T about Provider Bs pension scheme on 9 
February 2022. Provider B sent Prudential the information it required on 2 March 2022.
On 8 March 2022 Prudential wrote to Mrs T, confirming that her plan had been transferred to 
Provider B and the amount paid was £77,927.01. It said the transfer had been calculated 
using an effective date of 3 February 2022, which was when it had everything it needed to 
make the transfer payment. 
As there was a difference of almost £500 between the transfer value payment and the plan 
value provided via the online portal, Mrs T contacted Prudential, complaining about the 
discrepancy.
Having received no response, Mrs T chased Prudential for an update. Prudential later 
replied, saying the value Mrs T had seen online was her plan value, not her transfer value. It 
explained that a transfer value reflected any charges due, and a final bonus being added, 
while a plan value didnt. It said that any values provided could go up or down and werent 
guaranteed.
Mrs T responded, saying there werent any charges due on her plan and that no final bonus 
had been applied prior to the transfer. Because of this, she maintained that the difference in 
the plan value quoted, and the transfer value paid hadnt been explained, so she repeated 
her request for clarification. Having received no response, Mrs T chased Prudential by email 
and later called it when her email went unanswered. She was advised that shed receive a 
response within seven working days, however, having heard nothing, Mrs T said shed be 
referring the matter to our service.
Several days later, Prudential sent its final response to Mrs Ts complaint. It apologised for 
the poor service shed received and said it would send her a payment of £125 for distress 
and inconvenience caused. It advised that its servicing team would respond to Mrs Ts query 
within ten working days. 
A month passed and Mrs T still hadnt received a reply to her query, so she asked for this to 
be treated as a further complaint. Prudential responded, saying it had already responded, 
however this was later discovered to be incorrect.
Soon after this, Mrs T referred her complaint to our service. During this time, Prudential sent 
a further final response, acknowledging that it had taken too long to answer Mrs Ts query. 
For this, it said it had arranged for a payment of £200 to be sent. Prudential also explained 
that the value of Mrs Ts plan online wouldnt always be the same as her transfer value. It 
said there were various reasons for this, such as contributions still needing to be applied, 
changes to fund prices, and charges needing to be amended  these things werent always 
reflected in the information shown on its portal. 
Mrs T accepted Prudentials apology and compensation but said its response remained 
inadequate. She said thered been no outstanding contributions, final bonuses or charges 
applicable to her plan prior to transfer. So, based on Prudentials explanation, this suggested 
the difference in her plan value and transfer value had arisen from changes to fund prices. 
But Mrs T said this still didnt make sense as the portal had said the plan value shown was 
the amount Prudential would pay if Mrs T claimed her investments that day. Because of 
this, she said she was still seeking payment of the almost £500 difference between the 
amount Prudential transferred and the amount it quoted via the portal.
One of our investigators considered the matter and, in summary, concluded that:
It had been made clear on Prudentials online portal that the plan value shown wasnt 
guaranteed, so it wasnt reasonable to expect Prudential to pay Mrs T the difference 
between it and the transfer value.
Prudential had explained that the plan value and transfer value differed due to 
changes in fund prices and there was nothing to suggest this was because of any 
mistake it had made.
Although no mistake had been made in the amount transferred to Provider B, she 
agreed that Prudential hadnt responded to Mrs Ts responses in a timely manner, 
and she agreed that the £325 compensation it had paid in recognition of this was fair. 
Mrs T disagreed, in short, saying that:
Prudentials online portal clearly said the amount shown was what would be received 
if investments were cashed in that same day. Its explanation that the true plan value 
related to where money was invested and the price of units when they were bought 
and sold wasnt reflected on the portal.
Prudentials online portal was clearly wrong and needed to be changed.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mrs Ts complaint. Ill explain why. But before I do, I 
should emphasise that while Ive taken note of all the arguments made by both parties, Ive 
limited my response to the issue I consider to be central to this complaint. Thats to say:
Whether Prudential sent Provider B the correct transfer value payment when Mrs T 
transferred her plan.
Its understandable that having decided she wanted to transfer, Mrs T wanted to know what 
the value of her plan was before the transfer instruction was submitted by Provider B. 
Prudentials online portal allowed Mrs T to access information about her plan, but under the 
heading, Important Information, it was also made clear that the portal wasnt providing real-time information. Specifically, Prudential said:
Your plan value above is based on the latest unit prices where applicable. Its the amount 
wed pay if you were to claim your investments today, excluding all contributions still to be 
invested. 
But this value is only an estimate and is not guaranteed. On the date you take your money, it 
may be higher or lower than whats shown. For more detailed information, refer to 
investments.
So, the plan value shown on Prudentials portal reflected the most recent unit prices for    
Mrs Ts investments, but not necessarily the final unit prices which would apply when the 
proceeds of Mrs Ts plan were transferred. 
Given what Prudential said on the portal, I can understand why Mrs T may, at first, have 
thought the plan value quoted was the amount shed receive if she transferred that day. But 
Prudential immediately went on to qualify this statement, saying that the figure quoted was 
an estimate, not guaranteed, and which could be higher or lower than the amount shown.
Because of this I dont think Mrs T could reasonably have read the first part of Prudentials 
Important Information statement and ignored what followed. Taken in its entirety, I think 
Prudential was sufficiently clear about the nature of the information it was providing via the 
portal. 
I do accept that there may be the potential for some misinterpretation of the plan value 
quoted on Prudentials portal, but not to the extent that Id be persuaded that this indicated 
that Prudentials explanation which accompanies the figure quoted is ambiguous or 
misleading. 
While I appreciate that Mrs T feels strongly that Prudentials website is wrong and should be 
changed, Im afraid Im unable to agree. Its not this services role to tell a business how to 
operate; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. My role is to decide if Prudential 
has done anything wrong and, where appropriate, provide a direction as to how it can put 
things right.
As I understand it, Mrs Ts plan was invested in several funds where, due to the time they 
took to sell, there was normally a delay  usually up to four days  in the final price coming 
through. Because of this, the plan value Mrs T saw on 3 February 2022 (£78,421.92) 
reflected the pricing for some of her investments on 31 January 2022 and not on 3 February 
2022  the effective date for the calculation of her transfer value (£77,927.01). Put another 
way, Mrs Ts plan value was indicative and not a guarantee of any potential cash-in or 
transfer value. Unfortunately, the final pricing for some of Mrs Ts investments fell between 
31 January and 3 February 2022, and this is why the plan value and transfer value ultimately 
differed. 
I understand the drop in value will have been disappointing to Mrs T, especially if she 
genuinely believed that the value transferred would be almost £500 higher than it was. 
However, while I have sympathy for Mrs T, Im satisfied that the amount Prudential paid to 
Provider B as part of the transfer, was the value she was entitled to, based on the proceeds 
of her plan. 
While I havent found in Mrs Ts favour, in that I dont think Prudential should pay her the 
compensation shes seeking (i.e., the difference between her plan value and transfer value), 
I should say that I do think its entirely reasonable for her to have expected Prudential to 
respond to her queries about her transfer value with more care than it did. And its unfortunate that this didnt happen. I agree that Prudentials handling of Mrs Ts queries 
caused her avoidable distress and convenience, and Im pleased to see that Prudential 
recognised this, apologised and paid Mrs T a total of £325 in compensation. I consider this 
to be fair and reasonable bearing in mind the impact of Prudentials actions and what it 
couldve done better. So, I wont be asking Prudential to do anything further to put things 
right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Chillel Bailey
Ombudsman