DRN-2541332
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Lloyds provided information to a government agency without 
his consent.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B received a letter from a government agency which stated that they had been 
provided financial information about Mr B by Lloyds and that this information differed from 
the information that Mr B had provided the government agency himself. 
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy that Lloyds had provided this information to the government 
agency without their consent, and also because the information provided by Lloyds relates to 
a joint Lloyds bank account that Mr and Mrs B hold together. This means that the financial 
information that Lloyds reported as being accountable to Mr B includes money that is 
brought into the household by Mrs B, such as her employment income, and so shouldnt be 
considered as being Mr Bs. 
Lloyds said that they havent breached data protection rules by passing on this information. 
Lloyds also noted that because the information was requested by a government agency, 
Lloyds have an obligation to provide the information that the agency asked for. Lloyds also 
said that their policy and obligations in this regard are clearly stated on their website. So, 
they didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Mr and Mrs B werent satisfied with Lloyds response, so they referred the matter to our 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they accepted that Lloyds had 
to provide the information that was requested because it was asked of them by a 
government agency. Our investigator also noted that, because the terms of a joint account 
allow both Mr and Mrs B full access to all the funds in the account, regardless of who had 
initially brought the money into the account, it had been appropriate for Lloyds to provide the 
information that they had. So, they didnt uphold the complaint either.
Mr and Mrs B remained dissatisfied and so the complaint was escalated to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr and Mrs B feel strongly that Lloyds shouldnt have provided the information 
that they did to the government agency. But, having considered this complaint, I find that I 
have reached the same outcome as our investigator, and for the same reasons.
Given that the request for information received by Lloyds came from a government agency, 
Lloyds were obliged to provide that information and couldnt rightfully have done otherwise. 
While I can appreciate that Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that the information that Lloyds 
provided related to their joint bank account, it was appropriate for Lloyds to provide that 
information for the reasons already explained by our investigator detailed above. Its also 
notable that the government agency specifically asked Lloyds for information about any joint 
accounts held by Mr B and any other party.
So, while I can understand Mr and Mrs Bs dissatisfaction, I cant fairly conclude that Lloyds 
have done anything wrong here. Ultimately, Lloyds did have an obligation to provide the 
information that was requested from them by the government agency. 
I understand that this may not be the outcome that Mr and Mrs B had wanted, but I hope 
they can understand why I am unable to uphold their complaint in this instance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman