DRN-2049741
 
The complaint
This complaints about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in or around 
1989. Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them the PPI.
What happened
The PPI provided cover in the event of disability or unemployment. It also included life cover.
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy because they took out a secured loan in both names but were 
only sold PPI covering Mrs S. They believed theyd lost out since Mr S was forced to 
medically retire from work in 1993 and was denied the opportunity to claim. 
In response, Halifax held that the PPI had been mis-sold and offered to return Mr and Mrs S 
to the position theyd have been in had they not been sold the policy.
Mr and Mrs remained unhappy and so referred a complaint to us. Our adjudicator looked into 
the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. Because Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the 
adjudicator, the case was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs S case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
There are some gaps in the information thats still available in this case. But I dont find that 
surprising given the sale took place over 30 years ago.
That said, certain issues arent in dispute. For example, that Mr and Mrs S took out a joint 
loan alongside a PPI policy covering their repayments and that Mrs S was the first named on 
the agreement. Halifax points out that it only sold PPI at the time that covered the primary 
account holder.
Ive checked the applicable policy terms and conditions and they say they provide cover for 
the insured customer. Thats defined as a customer whos the first named in the 
Agreement. So, it seems to me that Mrs S was covered by the PPI and that Mr S wasnt.
In the event that Mr and Mrs S didnt need to claim on the policy, the above wouldnt have 
presented a problem for them. However, theyve argued theyve lost out on the opportunity 
to claim for his disablement in the early 1990s. 
I cant say for sure, after all this time, what happened. But, even if I was satisfied that Halifax 
failed to make clear to Mr and Mrs S that Mr S wasnt covered, in order to find in their favour, 
Id also need to satisfy myself that Halifaxs failing made a difference to them. Id want to see 
evidence showing they actively wanted cover for Mr S (as well as for Mrs S) and were 
prepared to seek it out and pay for it. 
As Halifax has said, it wasnt able to offer Mr and Mrs S the option of joint cover. That meant 
theyd have needed to turn down the PPI that it did offer and find an alternative insurance 
elsewhere. Further, theyd have needed to pay the premium associated with such cover.
Ive read very carefully Mr and Mrs S account of the sale. And, while I appreciate theyve 
given an open and honest account, Im mindful that its been provided with the benefit of 
hindsight and in the light of Mr S subsequent illness and ultimate retirement on medical 
grounds. 
Nevertheless, Mr and Mrs S have said in their letter to Halifax of September 2019, among 
other things, that there was no discussion or explanation of the PPI that had been added 
and that It was a surprise to us that we had PPI on the loan. None of this strikes me as 
suggesting they were keen to ensure they had PPI on the loan, let alone that they wanted 
PPI that covered them both. 
On the balance of what Ive seen, I cant fairly say that in or around 1989 Mr and Mrs S 
would have sought out and paid for alternative PPI that would have covered them both. As 
such, I dont think theyd have done anything differently had they been made aware of who 
the PPI covered (if they werent already).
Halifax has already upheld their mis-sale complaint and offered to put things right for them 
by returning the premium they paid plus interest. This decision doesnt affect that offer, 
which I understand has already been paid.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman