DRN-2401875
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mis-sold him a fee-paying 
Current Account Plus (CAP) in August 2010.
Amongst other reasons, Mr K says that he was sold the CAP on the basis that by agreeing 
to it, he would qualify for loans and overdrafts. Specifically Mr K says he was told the 
account provided an interest free overdraft, but says he never qualified for it. Mr K has also 
complained that the benefits werent made clear to him.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and he didnt think the CAP had been mis-
sold. Mr K did not agree with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint.
I think it might help at this point to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is 
missing, as is the case here, I must base my decision on what I think was most likely to have 
happened, based on everything that is available  including Mr Ks recollections of the sale.
PPI and being charged for the account
Before I get into the complaint, I can see throughout this complaint Mr K has, when referring 
to his packaged account, frequently used the term PPI (which stands for Payment Protection 
Insurance). And I can see the adjudicator repeatedly explained that if Mr K also wants to 
complain about PPI, hell have to raise a separate complaint. It seems this has caused some 
confusion for Mr K.
Just to clarify matters for Mr K, PPI is a type of insurance that can be added to lending 
(usually loans, credit cards or mortgages). The purpose of such insurance is to cover the 
repayments on that borrowing, should the borrower be unable to work due to sickness or 
unemployment. Whereas a packaged bank account (also referred to as a PBA) is a type of 
current account that has a monthly fee and in return, provides a range of insurance (for 
example, mobile phone insurance) and non-insurance (for example lower rates on loans etc) 
products. In this case Mr Ks PBA was called a Current Account Plus (or CAP, for short). 
Therefore, although Mr K has referred to his account having PPI, I would like to make it 
clear that in this complaint, we are looking specifically at whether the CAP (which is not PPI 
and had never contained PPI) was mis-sold. For the sake of consistency, I will refer to the 
packaged account throughout this decision as CAP.
I can also see that Mr K has also repeatedly insisted that he was charged £5 per month for 
his CAP. Mr K seems to be under the impression that the adjudicator didnt believe him, and 
that the adjudicator thought the CAP was free. However, just to clarify matters again, it is not 
in dispute (nor has it ever been) that Mr K was charged £5 per month for the duration that he 
held the CAP.
Finally, I note that Mr K was initially unsure whether he still had the CAP. Having checked 
the account statements, I can see the CAP was removed from Mr Ks account, with the last 
account fee taken on 1 November 2011. Any fees applied to the account since then have 
been due to the account going overdrawn (or a charge for Direct Debits being returned 
unpaid as Mr K didnt have enough money in his account when they were due to be paid).
Was the CAP mis-sold?
Mr K says the CAP was mis-sold because he says he was led to believe that by having it he 
would qualify for loans and overdrafts and says he agreed to it specifically to get an interest 
free overdraft facility  but never got one. 
At the time the CAP was sold to Mr K, one of the benefits it provided was a £300 interest 
free overdraft, and lower interest rates (compared to standard fee-free account) on any 
agree overdraft limit above this amount. However this was subject to application.
So based on Mr Ks recollections and what I know about the account at the time, I think its 
more likely that Mr K was told about the overdraft benefit and this was why he agreed to the 
account - rather than because he thought he had no choice but to get the account as his 
only way of obtaining an overdraft. So overall, I think Mr K was given a fair choice, and he 
agreed to the account knowing it was optional.
Mr K says that he agreed to the account to obtain an interest free overdraft, but never got 
one. He says he was told that he didnt qualify for one. However, Barclays has provided us 
with its system records, and it has no record of Mr K ever applying (either successfully or 
unsuccessfully) for an overdraft or a loan. And as the interest free overdraft was subject to 
application, I cant say that Barclays acted unfairly by not giving him a £300 interest free 
overdraft facility, if he wasnt guaranteed one and there are no records of him applying for 
one either.
Mr K has said that Barclays recommended the account to him. However, although I dont 
doubt that the account cost and benefits were discussed with him, I cant see that Barclays 
assessed his insurance needs, or recommended he take out the account because it would 
meet his insurance needs. As such, I think the account was sold on a non-advised basis. 
This means Barclays was not required to check if the account was right for him. But it was 
required to give him enough information about the account so he could decide for himself 
whether it was worth taking out.
I cant be sure what exactly was discussed during the sale. But Mr K has said that he was 
made aware that it would cost him £5 per month. And Mr K has provided photos of welcome 
letters sent to him shortly after the sale that refer to the mobile phone insurance, card 
protection and extended warranty insurance that were included as benefits with the account. 
And Mr K was clearly told about the £300 interest free overdraft benefit that was included 
with the account too. So I think he was, at the very least, made aware of what the account 
included and the cost. 
I appreciate that Mr K may not have been made aware of all the details of the account during 
the sale. But Ive not seen anything about his circumstances that makes me think that he 
wouldve been put off from agreeing to it, had he been given more information about it.So taking everything into account, I dont think the CAP was mis-sold. On the contrary, I 
think Mr K was more likely told about the cost and benefits it provided and was attracted to 
the overdraft benefit in particular. But, for whatever reason, he never formally applied for an 
overdraft facility on his account, so was unfortunately not able to make use of the interest 
free benefit that it offered. So overall, I dont think the CAP was mis-sold. And even if it was 
the case that he was informally told, sometime after the sale, that he would not be able to 
add an overdraft facility on his account, it wouldve been up to Mr K to then downgrade his 
account if he no longer wanted it. 
Because of the above, I am unable to say that Barclays has acted unreasonably or unfairly 
in this matter.
I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Mr K, as I can see he feels very strongly about 
this matter. But I hope I have been able to explain the reasons why I am unable to find in his 
favour on this occasion.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman