DRN-1430541
 
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that following a theft from his home, AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) hasnt 
paid his contents insurance claim in full. 
What happened
In January 2019 Mr Ws home was broken into, and a number of items were stolen. AXA 
asked for various documents and information in order to assess the claim.
Ultimately the majority of the claim has been settled, and the only item outstanding is a Tag 
Heuer watch. AXA hasnt paid for the watch as they say Mr W hasnt provided sufficient 
proof of ownership in order for it to validate the item. Mr W says he is unable to as the watch 
was a gift.
Mr W complained to AXA who said the claim decision was correct, but they accepted there 
had been delays and poor service in handling the claim. They offered Mr W £200 
compensation for this. As Mr W was unhappy with the answer from AXA, he approached this 
service to investigate.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that although Mr W hadnt provided much 
proof of ownership for the watch, as the rest of the claim had been validated, AXA should 
pay the claim in full.
AXA responded and said that they would have expected Mr W to provide more information, 
even if the watch was a gift, such as serial numbers.
Our investigator considered AXAs additional comments, but this didnt change his opinion. 
He said that some of the proof of ownership AXA had asked for wasnt listed as a 
requirement in the policy. And whilst Mr W wasnt able to provide everything that was listed, 
he felt enough had been sent to prove ownership.
AXA disagreed with our investigator and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
Because I disagreed with our investigators view about the claim, I decided to issue a 
provisional decision before I make my final decision. This allowed both parties to comment 
on my thinking before I make my final decision  which is the Financial Ombudsman 
Services last word on the case.
 What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As the majority of the claim has been settled, except for the Tag watch, I dont need to 
consider the settlement of the other items specifically. But Im also aware there were 
service issues and delays experienced by Mr W during the handling and settlement of 
the rest of the claim. AXA offered Mr W £200 for this.
The claim was reported in early January, and the final settlement (excluding the watch 
in dispute) wasnt paid until the end of March 2019. During this time it does appear 
there were some problems in arranging the initial loss adjuster visit, and Mr W was 
asked for various documents, boxes and other evidence to enable AXA to validate the 
claim. Whilst the claim did take some time overall, I think the £200 AXA gave for this is 
reasonable.
I need to decide whether AXA should pay for the Tag watch based on the information 
Mr W has provided them.
I understand the value of the Tag watch is £5,530. Mr W says he received this as a gift 
and this is the reason he doesnt have proof of purchase such as a receipt.
Mr W has provided a photo in which he says he is wearing the watch, but having seen 
this, whilst Mr W is wearing a watch, its too far away and unclear to see whether its 
the Tag watch as described.
Mr W has sent AXA a box for a Tag watch. However he hasnt been able to provide 
any serial numbers, warranty cards or documentation. So whilst Mr W has been able 
to give a description of the watch and a box, there isnt any other proof of ownership.
I acknowledge Mr W has had another watch (an Omega) paid under his claim. But he 
was able to provide a lot more information, such as receipt from purchase, photos of it 
specifically, the original documents, box and photo messages where he is showing it 
to a friend. AXA were also able to speak to the original retailer of this watch. So with 
this watch, I think Mr W was able to provide sufficient proof of ownership.
Whilst the claim for the Omega watch has been settled, I dont think its unreasonable 
for AXA not to settle the claim for the Tag watch based on the limited substantiation Mr 
W has provided.
I agree that some of the proof being asked for by AXA isnt specifically listed in the 
policy, such as copies of serial numbers or servicing documents. But I dont think the 
list is exhaustive. Even if it was, I dont think this disadvantages Mr W. Asking for 
alternative proof puts Mr W in a better position as it gives him additional and further 
opportunity to substantiate the watch.
Therefore based on the above, I dont think AXA has been unreasonable in declining 
the claim for the Tag watch, based on the limited substantiation Mr W has been able to 
provide to show proof of ownership.
On that basis, I said I was minded not to uphold the complaint.
The responses to my provisional decision
AXA responded and accepted my provisional decision. They reiterated they would consider 
the claim further if Mr W could provide further information to evidence ownership and value.Mr W didnt agree with the provisional decision. He said why he thinks he has provided 
sufficient proof, and that every time he has provided what has been asked for, AXA has 
moved the goalposts.
Mr W also said that asking for proof not specifically listed in the policy is unlawful, and 
disagrees that this puts him potentially in a better position. He also said he doesnt think the 
compensation already offered by AXA should be taken into account in relation to refusing to 
pay this part of his claim. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And Ive thought again about the 
conclusions I came to in my provisional decision. Having done so, I havent changed my 
mind.
Firstly I should clarify that the compensation AXA has offered Mr W hasnt influenced me 
deciding whether Mr Ws claim should be paid. The compensation was given for the service 
Mr W received, and in my view this is reasonable. This is separate to the claim decision, and 
not in lieu of a claim payment for the Tag watch.
Mr W has questioned why AXA wont accept the box for the Tag watch when it has accepted 
boxes for other items such as electrical equipment. It is up to AXA which evidence it accepts 
as proof and if it wants to pay for lower value items based on boxes alone without any 
receipts or other documents. But given the value of the Tag watch, I dont think AXA has 
acted unreasonably by asking for additional proof aside from a box and an unclear photo.
On one hand Mr W is saying that AXA cant ask for proof outside that listed in the policy, but 
equally much of the claim has been settled on this basis (boxes arent listed). So, Mr W is 
willing to accept being asked for proof outside the list in the documents for some of his claim, 
but has raised concerns about this when AXA has said he hasnt provided enough proof for 
the higher value watch.
As I said before, I dont think the list in the policy is exhaustive and asking for other proof 
puts Mr W potentially in a better position. Whilst Mr W disagrees with this, I maintain my view 
on this and I will explain why.
If Mr W was able to provide the listed documents in the policy  receipts, invoices, bank or 
credit card statements, instruction booklets, photographs  then it might be unreasonable for 
AXA to ask for more than this. But the fact of the matter here is that from the list, Mr W 
hasnt been able to provide these  aside from a photo in which the watch cant be seen. 
Mr W has said that AXAs own independent jewellery expert said the photo he provided was 
of the Tag watch. Whilst AXA may ask third parties for their view, ultimately AXA is the 
insurer, so it is up to them whether they accept a photo alone as sufficient proof of 
ownership  even if it was clear. But having reviewed the communication between AXA and 
the jewellery specialist, they have said that as the image is unclear, they are unable to 
confirm if it is a Tag watch, but they can confirm it isnt the Omega. 
So it isnt the case here that Mr W has provided everything listed and AXA is asking beyond 
this. Rather, because he cant provide this, AXA is giving further options for Mr W to attempt 
to substantiate the loss. If AXA stuck to the list alone, then Mr W still wouldnt be able to 
meet this.As mentioned in my provisional decision, AXA has settled the claim for the Omega watch, 
but Mr W was able to provide considerably more proof of ownership for this watch, including 
clear photos of the watch, box, instruction manual and the purchase receipt. This is very 
different to the position with the Tag watch.
So, based on the above and my provisional decision, I dont think AXA has acted 
unreasonably by declining the claim for the Tag watch based on the limited substantiation 
Mr W has been able to provide.
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2020.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman