DRN-3901430
The complaint
Mr N complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard was irresponsible in its 
lending to him. 
What happened
Mr N applied for a Barclaycard in September 2017 and was provided with an account with a 
£6,000 credit limit. The credit limit was increased to £9,000 in August 2018 and then reduced 
to £5,950 in June 2019.
Mr N says he was making the minimum payments on his card before the credit limit increase 
and at that time he was utilising his overdraft and had recently applied for another credit 
card. He says Barclaycard should have realised that increasing his credit limit wasnt 
responsible given his increasing levels of debt. He said that Barclaycard had accepted that 
the limit was too high in a letter sent in December 2021 in which it offered him £75 
compensation.
Barclaycard said that before providing the credit card it carried out a credit check and asked 
Mr N about his income. It said that the credit check didnt raise concerns. Mr N was recorded 
as working with an annual income of £28,000 (around £1,850 monthly). Before the credit 
limit increase it said it carried out internal checks and assessed credit reference agency 
data.
Barclaycard sent Mr N a letter in November 2021 following a review of how it had set credit 
limits. In this letter it said Mr Ns limit may have been set too high at the time and it said it 
would provide a refund of £32.53 and pay him £75 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. In its final response letter dated December 2021, Barclaycard said that although the 
credit limit might have been slightly higher than intended it didnt think in Mr Ns case this 
was irresponsible. It said Mr N had used his credit card for promotional rate balance 
transfers which would likely have been financially beneficial to him. And he had managed his 
account well, maintaining payments and not incurring any significant charges.
Our adjudicator considered the information provided by Mr N and Barclaycard. She didnt 
think that it was reasonable for the credit card to have been provided with a £6,000 limit and 
so she upheld this complaint. 
Barclaycard didnt agree with our adjudicators view. It said that even taking into account the 
figures our adjudicator had included the lending wouldnt have been unaffordable. It said that 
while our adjudicator had noted Mr Ns overdraft, it didnt have access to Mr Ns account 
information.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Before providing the credit card, I thought Barclaycard carried out reasonable checks 
to assess Mr Ns income and credit commitments. I said this because it carried out a 
credit check and gathered information about Mr Ns employment and income. The 
credit check showed that Mr N had an outstanding loan with a balance of just over 
£300 and monthly repayments of £28. He had another credit card with a balance at 
the time of £1,143 and a bank account with a balance of £745. His credit history 
didnt raise concerns and I do not find his credit report suggested he was struggling 
financially. 
Mr N declared an annual income of £28,000 giving a monthly income of £1,850. This 
monthly earnings figure was then sent to a credit reference agency for validation and 
was returned with a high confidence factor. Based on the credit report and the other 
information provided I didnt find it unreasonable that this information was relied on.
Barclaycard also carried out an assessment of Mr Ns expenses. It modelled Mr Ns 
rent, utilities and other essential spending. While this gave an indication of Mr Ns 
living expenses, given the size of the credit limit provided, I thought it would have 
been reasonable to have asked Mr N about his actual expenses to ensure that the 
lending was affordable.
I placed significant weight on the information contained in Mr Ns statements as an 
indication of what would most likely have been disclosed had he been asked about 
his expenses. These showed that Mr Ns rent was higher than Barclaycard had 
assessed, at £595. Looking at his other committed expenses, Mr N was paying more 
to his credit card than Barclaycard had factored in but overall, his living expenses 
(including costs such as utilities, food, travel and payments for his credit 
commitments) were similar to the amount Barclaycard included in its assessment. 
Taking the increased rent into account reduced Mr Ns disposable income to around 
£500 a month. Taking these figures into account, I didnt find I could say that had 
further questions been asked about Mr Ns expenses, Barclaycard would have found 
the credit limit of £6,000 to be unaffordable. 
Around a year after the credit card was provided, Barclaycard increased the credit 
limit to £9,000. It has said that internal checks were carried out before the limit was 
increased and credit reference agency information was assessed. I looked at Mr Ns 
credit card statements for the months leading up to the credit limit increase and I saw 
that he was staying within his limit and making payments. The payments were for the 
minimum required amount and so while he was managing his account within the 
terms, only making the minimum payment amounts could suggest that Mr N was 
struggling to managing his existing borrowing and this, combined with the size of the 
credit limit increase, I thought meant that Barclaycard should have carried out further 
checks and verified Mr Ns income and expenditure to ensure the additional lending 
would be affordable.
I reviewed three months of bank statements prior to the credit limit increase. These 
showed that Mr Ns average monthly income was around £1,770. His regular 
committed monthly expenditure at the time for his credit commitments (excluding his 
Barclaycard) and costs such as utilities, insurance food, travel and payments was 
around £850 a month. Additional to this his rent was £644 giving him total monthly 
expenses of around £1,500. Considering the payments that would be required on the 
increased credit limit of £9,000, I didnt find that these should have been considered 
affordable. I also noted that Mr N was gambling at the time and was spending 
significant portions of each month in his overdraft.
I thought that had further checks taken place before the credit limit was increased to 
£9,000, Barclaycard would have realised this wasnt sustainably affordable for Mr N. 
Therefore, I partially upheld his complaint.Following a review of Mr Ns account in June 2019, Barclaycard decided to reduce 
his credit limit. It explained that this was due to information from the review showing 
that Mr N had a high level of borrowing along with low repayments to his debts. It 
said the review showed the amount of credit it could offer at the time was £5,950 and 
that it took the decision to reduce Mr Ns credit limit to this amount when this became 
possible. It noted that this couldnt happen until Mr N had been able to reduce his 
balance to an amount under the new credit limit. Having considered the information 
available, I found this reasonable. I accepted that it wouldnt be in Mr Ns interest to 
have a limit reduced to an amount lower than his outstanding balance and accepted 
that Barclaycard wasnt acting unfairly or reasonably by reducing the limit when 
possible given the results of its review.
Mr N responded to my provisional decision. He said that when his credit limit was increased 
his financial situation deteriorated as he was paying more to Barclaycard and other 
payments were not met meaning he was taking out more debt. He said he took out a loan 
from another bank and paid this to Barclaycard to reduce his balance. Shortly after this his 
credit limit was reduced. He said following the limit decrease his account was defaulted. He 
thought that any adverse credit information should be removed from his credit file from the 
point of his credit limit increase and not just for the period in which the higher credit limit 
applied. He said the decision to increase his credit limit resulted in ongoing issues even after 
the limit was reduced. 
Barclaycard didnt provide any new information in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycard will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
As I set out in my provisional decision, I think further checks should have taken place before 
Barclaycard provided Mr N with a credit card with the initial credit limit of £6,000. However, 
having looked at the evidence provided, I do not find that had this happened, Barclaycard 
would have found the lending unaffordable. Therefore, I do not find that Barclaycard was 
wrong to provide Mr N with the credit card in September 2017.
I do not think that the credit limit on Mr Ns credit card should have been increased in August 
2018 to £9,000. As I said in my provisional decision, I think further checks should have been 
carried out before the credit limit was increased and had these happened, I think 
Barclaycard would have realised the additional lending wasnt affordable.
Mr Ns credit limit was reduced in June 2019 following a review which Barclaycard has said 
showed, based on its lending criteria the limit it could offer was £5,950. I have looked at the 
information provided from around this time and can see that Mr N paid £6,000 towards his 
Barclaycard account in June 2019 reducing the balance to just below £3,000. While I note 
Mr Ns comments about borrowing from elsewhere, his balance at that time was significantly 
below the reduced credit limit applied. I find it reasonable that his credit limit was reduced at 
a time when this didnt put Mr N into financial difficulties and noting that he kept his balance 
at around £3,000, making the minimum repayments, for the next few months before making 
a further substantial payment, I do not find I can say that the limit at that time was 
unaffordable for him. Mr N exceeded his credit limit in February 2020 but as this was a number of months since 
the limit reduction, which, on balance I find reasonable. So, I do not find I can say that 
Barclaycard is required to refund interest for balances beyond the credit limit reduction or to 
remove any adverse information from Mr Ns credit file for this period. 
While I understand that this isnt the outcome Mr N wants, I find that Barclaycard is only 
required to take action in regard to the period of the unaffordable lending which I consider to 
be from the credit limit increase in August 2018 to the credit limit reduction in June 2019. 
Putting things right
As I dont think Barclaycard should have increased Mr Ns credit limit from £6,000, I dont 
think its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded that 
limit. However, Mr N has had the benefit of all the money he spent on the account so I think 
he should pay this back. Therefore, Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard should:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (which have 
not already been refunded) that have been applied to balances above £6,000.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr N along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement.
As Mr Ns credit limit was reduced to £5,950 in June 2019, there should be no 
balance amount over the £6,000 noted above and so any adverse information 
recorded after August 2018 until the limit reduction in June 2019 in relation to the 
account should be removed from Mr Ns credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclaycard to deduct tax from any award of interest. It 
must give Mr N a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should take the 
actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman