DRN-2966680
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt reimburse her after she 
said she was the victim of fraud. 
What happened
Miss H has disputed over 30 transactions that left her NatWest current account in 
March 2015, totalling more than £2,500. Miss H told NatWest that she didnt make the 
transactions and asked it to refund the money. 
NatWest investigated Miss Hs claim for the first time in 2015 and then again in 2020, but 
refused to refund the payment on both occasions. In its most recent correspondence, the 
bank said it believed the disputed transactions were either made or authorised by Miss H, 
and in either scenario, it didnt have to refund the money.
 
Unhappy with NatWests response, Miss H brought her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she felt Miss H authorised the transactions. 
Miss H remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally speaking, NatWest can hold Miss H responsible for the disputed transactions if the 
evidence suggests its more likely than not she made, or otherwise authorised, them. 
Due to the time thats passed since the disputed transactions occurred, NatWest no longer 
holds the audit trail Id usually expect to see which would show how the transactions were 
made. However, from the evidence we do have, it seems more likely they were all card not 
present transactions made to an online merchant. This means Miss Hs card details were 
provided in order for the payment to be processed  this usually includes the 16 digit card 
number, expiry date and CVV number.
But that alone isnt enough for NatWest to hold Miss H liable. I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests its more likely than not that she actually consented to the 
transactions being made. Having carefully considered all evidence available for this 
complaint, Im satisfied that its more likely than not she did. I say this because:
Miss Hs main concern seems to be that she hasnt been able to find out where the 
disputed transactions ended up. She, and we, have contacted some online gambling 
companies who have been unable to locate either the transactions or an account held in 
Miss Hs name. But thats not surprising considering the transactions took place a 
number of years ago. And the lack of evidence from the gambling companies isnt 
enough for me to conclude that the disputed transactions werent authorised by Miss H. 
The name that appears on her bank statements for these particular transactions seems 
to be for an internet transactions processor that acts for a number of gambling websites 
and its not now possible to ascertain where the money ended up, given the time that has 
passed.. But I note the disputed transactions took place over several days and I think its 
highly unlikely whoever was paying the money via the internet transactions processor 
would have kept sending money (30 plus transactions in all) if the payments hadnt been 
arriving at their intended destination.
Miss H was in frequent contact with NatWest, before and after she disputed this 
particular set of transactions, to raise a number of other fraud claims for transactions of a 
similar nature. I think this suggests Miss H was regularly monitoring her account. Her 
bank statements from the time also show a regular payment to a debt collections 
company. I think this suggests Miss H was experiencing, or still recovering from, some 
financial difficulties. With both these things in mind, I find it difficult to understand why 
Miss H didnt notice over £2,500 leaving her account without her authority, and/or report 
this set of disputed transactions for six months. 
NatWests records suggest it issued Miss H with a replacement debit card every time she 
reported fraudulent activity on her account. For someone who had so many concerns 
about unauthorised transactions debiting her account, over a number of cards, I wouldve 
expected Miss H to be extra vigilant when it came to using her debit card for online 
payments and also monitoring her account activity. Again, this makes me wonder why 
she didnt report this set of disputed transactions sooner.
Most of Miss Hs other fraud claims related to transactions of a similar nature  to online 
gambling companies. I think its unlikely an opportunistic third party would use Miss Hs 
card details in this way, as and there was no guarantee the bets would win and any 
winnings would be paid back to the card details used to place the bets. 
Miss H told our investigator that she never allowed a third party to use her card details. 
And shes offered no point of compromise to explain how someone else was able to 
obtain her card details in order to carry out the transactions. I accept its possible an 
unknown third party couldve obtained Miss Hs card details without her knowledge, for 
example through online hacking. But when I consider the number of cards Miss H has 
said were compromised and taking everything else into account, I dont think this is the 
most likely scenario. 
On balance, taking all of the available evidence into account, and for the reasons mentioned 
above, I consider its more likely than not the transactions were carried out by Miss H. It 
follows that NatWest is entitled to hold her responsible and I cannot fairly instruct the bank to 
refund any of the money.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman