DRN-2530586
The complaint
Miss W complains about the service she received from Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax 
(Halifax).
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a summary of some key events here. 
In October 2019 Miss W contacted Halifax to dispute certain debit card payments from her 
account between May and September 2019 which she said shouldnt have been taken. 
These payments went to another regulated business S that Miss W had a loan with. 
Halifax asked Miss W for some further information to enable them to raise a chargeback. 
Halifax say that once they had the information they needed, they promptly raised the 
chargeback and that this happened in November 2019. 
On 10 December 2019, Miss Ws Halifax account was credited with around £157 which was 
the sum of the disputed transactions. Miss W wasnt happy with the service shed received 
both prior to and during the chargeback process. She says her messages were ignored or 
not responded to and she was generally unhappy with the service provided. 
Halifax responded to the complaint, overall, they didnt think theyd provided particularly poor 
service. They explained the timescales involved in raising a chargeback and also that their 
mobile messaging service wasnt an instant method of communication. They suggested that 
Miss W could call or go into branch if she needed an immediate response. But they did 
acknowledge that one of their staff should have recorded a complaint slightly sooner than 
they did. They didnt think this had had a significant impact as Miss W registered the 
complaint herself later the same day. They offered £30 compensation for the impact of this. 
Halifax then mistakenly paid the £30 compensation payment into Miss Ws account with 
another bank that is part of the same overall banking group. To put this right, they then made 
the payment a second time (this time into her Halifax account) without debiting the initial 
payment made in error. 
Miss W wasnt happy and referred her complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
considered it but didnt think it should be upheld. She concluded Halifax had done enough to 
put things right and didnt recommend that they needed to do more. As she still disagrees, 
Miss W has asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for essentially the same reasons. I know 
this will be disappointing for Miss W, so Ill explain why. 
I can see that Miss W found Halifaxs messaging system frustrating. But as Halifax have 
explained, there are a number of ways to contact them and I dont think the fact that Miss W 
was unhappy with the time taken for responses means that further compensation needs to 
be paid. The systems a business puts in place to communicate with their customers are 
operational decisions that I wouldnt want to interfere with unless there were evidence of 
unfairness. It might be that prior to Halifaxs explanation Miss W misunderstood the expected 
timescales involved with their messaging system. But in any case, there were a number of 
ways in which Miss W could have communicated with Halifax. 
In relation to a chargeback, Halifax are bound by the card scheme (Visa in this case) rules. 
There are set timescales for each party to the dispute to provide evidence. Miss W first 
raised the issue with Halifax on 10 October 2019. Halifax asked for further evidence from her 
which ultimately wasnt provided until 29 October 2019. When Miss W was having difficulty 
either using Halifaxs systems or knowing what specifically they required, they emailed her 
on 24 October 2019 asking that she either call or attend a branch so they could better assist 
her. I think this was fair. By 5 November 2019 Halifax confirmed the dispute had been raised 
and a few days later explained the timeframe that S had to provide their response. By 10 
December 2019, the disputed funds were back in Miss Ws account. 
I dont think Halifax are responsible for unreasonable delays or poor service in these 
circumstances. And even if they could have made the timescales involved clearer to 
Miss W earlier than they did, I think the compensation they have already paid is fair to 
compensate for the impact of this. Ive seen the communication between Miss W and Halifax 
within this time period and I dont agree that Halifaxs staff were unprofessional. As Halifax 
themselves pointed out, one agent could have recorded a complaint slightly sooner than 
they did. But Im not persuaded this had a significant impact on Miss W. 
Ultimately Miss W provided Halifax with the information required to enable them to raise a 
chargeback at the end of October 2019 and by 10 December 2019 had received her funds 
back. I dont think that the service Halifax provided was so poor that the £60 compensation 
which theyve already paid needs to be increased.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman