DRN-4162518
The complaint
Mr N complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc did not fairly compensate him after it mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI).  
Just to be clear that this decision is about the borrowing taken out only by Mr N in 2004.  
What happened
PPI was sold to Mr N alongside a loan he took out in November 2004. HSBC sold a single 
premium policy to him. That means he had to borrow extra on top of his loan to pay for the 
PPI policy. He also had to pay interest on the cost of the PPI. The original term of Mr Ns 
loan was for 60 months. However, the borrowing was repaid early in July 2006 and the PPI 
policy was cancelled. 
After Mr N complained to this service, HSBC offered to pay £1.357.85 to Mr N as 
compensation for mis-selling PPI. Mr N did not accept HSBCs offer. He said that he thought 
HSBC had not correctly calculated how much he had paid for PPI. He also said that he had 
incurred overdraft charges and other debts partly because of the mis-sold PPI. Mr N did not 
think HSBC had returned him to the position he would have been in if PPI had not been sold. 
Our adjudicator considered the complaint. She thought the way HSBC had calculated its 
offer was fair. She didnt think that HSBC should make an additional payment for overdraft 
charges. 
Mr N did not accept that view. He said the extra cost of the PPI contributed to him exceeding 
his overdraft limit at the relevant time. He said that without PPI, he wouldnt have gone 
overdrawn as often or by as much. Mr N said that if PPI was not 100% responsible for his 
overdraft and fees, then I should assess a percentage of liability. In a further email to our 
adjudicator, Mr N said he thought the 8% simple interest HSBC had offered should be 
updated. 
As Mr N did not agree with our adjudicators view, the matter has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decision is that HSBCs offer of compensation is fair. However, it will need to update its 
offer of 8% simple interest to be calculated up to the date Mr N is paid the compensation. Ill 
explain the reasons for my decision below. 
The parties agree that PPI was mis-sold, so I dont have to look at what happened at the 
point of sale. My role is to consider whether HSBC fairly compensated Mr N for the mis-sale. 
As Mr N says, where PPI has been mis-sold, insofar as is possible to do so, Id expect 
HSBC to return him to the position hed have been in if PPI had never been sold in the first 
place. 
To do this, the first step Id expect HSBC to undertake would be to work out and pay Mr N 
the difference between what he actually paid each month on his loan and what he would 
have paid without PPI. It would also need to refund the difference between what it cost to 
pay off the loan early and what it would have cost if PPI hadnt been added. 
When Mr N took the loan out in 2004, the upfront cost of the PPI was £816.62. This is the 
amount that was added to the loan before interest. However, when the loan was repaid 
early, I can see that HSBC refunded £348.07. HSBC has provided an extract from Mr Ns 
bank statements and I can see that this amount was paid into his bank account on 26 July 
2006. 
With that in mind, HSBC worked out that Mr N had paid an extra £664.46 in total because of 
the PPI policy, which is likely to be the cost of some of the premium and interest. 
Id also expect HSBC to pay 8% interest on the extra Mr N paid every month because of the 
PPI policy from the date he made each payment up to the date he got that money back. It 
looks as though HSBC calculated that it owed £866.75 in simple interest before tax up to 4 
April 2022. However, as Mr N has not yet been paid compensation, HSBC will need to 
update its offer of 8% simple interest to be paid up to the date Mr N gets that money back. 
Ive next looked at whether I should tell HSBC to refund all or some of Mr Ns overdraft and 
bank charges. Mr Ns argument seems to be that if he hadnt paid for PPI, he wouldnt have 
incurred as many fees or paid as much interest on his overdraft. Effectively, it appears Mr N 
thinks HSBC should reconstruct his current account on a month by month basis to work out 
how much hed have had if the PPI hadnt been paid each month.
Ive carefully considered Mr Ns arguments here, but I dont think HSBC needs to pay any 
compensation for this. Ill explain why. 
As I said above, HSBC worked out that Mr N had paid £664.46 for the PPI that was attached 
to this loan. It has also offered to refund this and pay 8% simple interest per year on top of 
that. 
Simple interest is paid to compensate Mr N for being kept out of money he would have been 
able to access if PPI hadnt been mis-sold. The rate used is a standard rate. It is to reflect 
the fact that there may have been additional costs and losses incurred by Mr N because of 
the PPI mis-sale. So if I were to tell HSBC to reconstruct the current account and work out 
how much extra Mr N may have been charged on his overdraft because of PPI, it would 
mean that HSBC would not have to pay 8% simple interest as well. 
From the limited information I have seen in respect of Mr Ns account, and as our adjudicator 
said, it seems unlikely that the extra Mr N paid for the PPI would have been the sole reason 
he tipped into his overdraft or exceeded his overdraft limit. It looks as though the Mr N would 
have incurred fees and charges irrespective of what he paid for PPI. 
Mr N suggested that I apportion a percentage of the fees and charges he incurred as being 
caused by PPI. But it seems to me that this would essentially involve embarking upon a 
speculative and open-ended inquiry into Mr Ns financial circumstances, looking at what he 
did and whether there were any additional indirect costs. It seems to me that such an inquiry 
would be unlikely to result in definitive answers. And as I said above, this would be instead 
of HSBC paying 8% interest and not in addition to that simple interest. It may well even leave 
Mr N worse off, particularly as I understand HSBC has offered to refund some overdraft 
charges outside this complaint. 
Mr N made told our adjudicator that he was unhappy the service he received from HSBC 
when he ran into financial difficulties. And although HSBC had offered to refund some 
overdraft charges in 2021, Mr N had not received any such payments. These matters are 
beyond the scope of this complaint as to whether Mr N has been fairly compensated for mis-
sold PPI and so I have not considered them further. Overall, Im satisfied the way HSBC has calculated Mr Ns compensation is fair. That said, 
HSBC will need to update its offer of 8% simple interest to be paid up to the date Mr N gets 
the money back. 
Putting things right
HSBC will need to recalculate its offer of compensation to Mr N to include compensation of 
8% simple interest* per year to be paid up until the date Mr N gets that money back. 
*HM Revenue and Customs may require HSBC to deduct income tax from this amount. 
HSBC will need to give Mr N a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if Mr N 
requests this. 
My final decision
I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to put things right as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman