DRN-3302028
The complaint
Mr D has complained about the service he received from Nationwide Building Society when 
he wanted to apply to remortgage his existing lifetime mortgage. He is also unhappy with 
how Nationwide handled things after his wife died.
Mr D has been assisted in bringing this complaint by his daughter, who Ill refer to as Ms D1.
What happened
I wont detail every contact between the parties, but I can reassure both sides that I have 
read and understood everything that has been provided. In summary:
Mr and Mrs D had a lifetime mortgage with Nationwide (formally Portman) which was 
on a fixed interest rate for the life of the mortgage.
In early 2019 they asked about remortgaging to obtain a lower interest rate.
In June 2019 a Nationwide adviser spoke to Mr D on the phone about the options.
The adviser then said that a remortgage couldnt go ahead at that time due to the 
maximum age limit for the product.
At the end of August 2019 Nationwide changed its criteria on the maximum age limit 
so an application could now be considered, and when Mr D contacted the adviser he 
was told that.
An appointment was booked for 19 September 2019 for Mr and Mrs D to attend a 
branch.
The meeting was rearranged to 15 October 2019, and then rearranged again to 
25 February 2020 due to Mrs Ds ill-health.
Mr and Mrs D  along with their daughter Ms D1  attended the meeting on 
25 February 2020 and a recommendation was made.
A follow up appointment took place on 3 March 2020, this time just with Mr D and 
Ms D1 (it had been agreed that Mrs D could just discuss things going forward on the 
phone due to her health).
Mrs D died on 23 March 2020 and in May 2020 Mr D and Ms D1 contacted Nationwide to 
notify it, providing a copy of the death certificate. On 30 October 2020 Ms D1 asked for the 
information they needed for probate but there were various issues with Nationwides 
Bereavement Service that led to matters being delayed, and it wasnt until 10 February 2021 
that it provided the information to Mr D.
A complaint was raised with Nationwide and it said it hadnt done anything wrong in respect 
of the remortgage. But it accepted it had failed Mr D after Mrs D died as it said the service 
hed received from its Bereavement Team was poor, with incorrect information being given 
and delays. For that it offered £750 compensation and said it would consider redressing any 
costs that were incurred due to the late filing with HMRC in respect of inheritance tax. It said 
if the information was provided, it would review that.
Our investigator felt that was a fair offer and didnt recommend Nationwide do any more. Ms 
D1 didnt agree and so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust the parties wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed this complaint in the way 
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill 
keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its 
not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order 
to reach the right outcome. 
I understand our investigators findings were disappointing. Its the nature of what we do that 
we generally have to find in favour of one party or the other. Our findings are based on 
consideration of all the facts and all the submissions made by both parties. We look at what 
happened and decide whether, bearing in mind any relevant law, regulations, and good 
industry practice, the lender acted fairly and reasonably. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr D1 has said that an email the Nationwide adviser sent to Mr and Mrs D on 13 June 2019 
constituted a formal offer, but I dont agree. The email needs to be considered in the context 
of it was a follow up to a phone call between the adviser and Mr D, and that it was clear both 
sides accepted there would be next steps. Theres nothing in that email that constitutes a 
formal offer to proceed with the new rate at the time without the need for a mortgage 
application and all the other steps to be completed that would always be needed.
It is unfortunate that the adviser overlooked Mrs Ds age and didnt notice she was over the 
maximum age limit that Nationwide had at the time for applications like this one. The adviser 
tried to get an agreement for it to proceed as an exception, but that wasnt agreed, albeit he 
was told the policy would be changing at the end of August and he notified Mr D of that on 
24 July 2019.
Nationwides policy changed on 14 August 2019 and Mr D was told that on 2 September 
2019 after he made contact with the adviser. I agree that it would have been good service for 
Nationwide to have made contact with Mr D sooner, rather than waiting for him to be in 
contact, but I dont think that maximum 12 working day delay caused any financial detriment. 
I say that because, for other reasons, Mr and Mrs D were unable to attend an appointment 
until February 2020. So even if Mr D had been told 12 days earlier, I dont find it likely they 
would have been able to proceed any sooner.
Ms D1 has commented on the fact Nationwide insisted her mother attend the first 
appointment in person but was able to just speak to her on the phone for the second appointment. Nationwide has a strict sales process for lifetime mortgages like this, and part 
of that is that all applicants have to attend a branch appointment in person. Thats an 
understandable stance for it to have taken, bearing in mind the possibility it could otherwise 
later be claimed a person didnt understand the nature of the (long term) contract. As it had 
already seen Mrs D in person and she was present for the first appointment Nationwide 
agreed, as an exception, that after that it could just speak to Mrs D on the phone. That 
doesnt mean it was wrong to insist she attend a branch in person for the first meeting.
Ms D1 has said that Mr and Mrs D would have applied elsewhere if theyd been told how 
long it would take. Ive considered this point very carefully, but I cant hold Nationwide liable 
for their choice to wait.
Im satisfied from the emails and the contact notes that Mr D understood at the time that 
there was a process he and Mrs D needed to go through, and it wasnt just a matter of a 
transfer taking place.
Nationwide couldnt proceed before its policy changed about the maximum age. Ms D1 says 
Mr and Mrs D didnt go elsewhere as they were assured it wouldnt take long. But I cant see 
they were told that. Shes also said that the advisers email of 20 June left Mr and Mrs D with 
the impression that it was likely theyd be able to move ahead, and that they would hear 
back quickly. She said:
On that basis they decided to wait to hear back, rather than immediately looking 
elsewhere. And,
Despite the promise to report back quickly, [Mr and Mrs D] did not hear back from 
[the adviser] for over a month. This was why [Mr D] sent a chasing email on July 
22nd 2019.
What is missing from the email trail was a call that took place on 27 June. 
The emails show:
On 20 June the adviser said an application couldnt proceed due to the age issue, he 
was looking to make an exception and that hed get back in touch soon. 
Mr D then emailed the adviser on 22 July to ask further to their phone call whether 
there was any news about the Later Life mortgages.
The phone call Mr D was referencing in his email of 22 July shows in Nationwides contact 
notes as taking place on 27 June and lasting just under 7 minutes. The notes say the call 
was Waiting on increase to upper age limit. Would be in contact.
It seems from this that contrary to Ms D1s submission that Mr and Mrs D didnt hear back 
for over a month, didnt proceed elsewhere because theyd been told theyd hear back in a 
couple of days and were left with the impression theyd be able to proceed, that instead 
Mr and Mrs D had been contacted within a week and had been told that they would need to 
wait for Nationwides policy to change.
 The advisers email of 24 July said:
Ive been told that we will be able to accept your application by the end of August. I will 
make sure you are contacted once this has taken effect to start your application journey. So at that time Mr D was told that nothing could happen for a month, and then they could 
start your application journey rather than the product would just be put in force.
When Nationwide was ready to proceed, and it gave Mr and Mrs D the information about the 
next steps, I would have expected Mr and Mrs D to comment at that time if they werent 
expecting to go through a full mortgage application (with the time that takes) and instead 
thought this was a done deal that just needed to be put in force. Theres nothing that either 
side has provided that makes me think Mr and Mrs D werent aware that, once Nationwide 
was able to proceed, that this would be anything other than a normal full mortgage 
application process.
Nationwide was ready to proceed at the end of August 2019, but unfortunately Mr and Mrs D 
werent able to attend a meeting until February 2020. Nationwide needed to meet with both 
Mr D and Mrs D and it couldnt proceed until after that happened, so I cant hold it liable for 
things not proceeding in August 2019.
Having considered everything Im satisfied that Nationwide couldnt proceed before August 
2019, and that the delays after that date werent due to it doing anything wrong. I also dont 
think it misled Mr and Mrs D into thinking they were better off to wait for Nationwide, rather 
than look elsewhere to remortgage if thats what they truly wanted to do.
For all the reasons given I dont uphold this part of the complaint. 
Nationwide has accepted it didnt handle things at all well after Mrs D died. It has apologised 
for that and offered £750 compensation. It also offered to cover any potential financial loss 
that came about due to the delays.
As Nationwide has already accepted fault I dont need to make a finding on that, and so I 
wont detail what happened and what went wrong. I also wont deal with the issue of any 
potential financial loss as Nationwide has already offered to consider that upon receipt of the 
relevant information from Mr D. Suffice to say, Im satisfied that is a fair offer for Nationwide 
to have made, and as our investigator explained it would only be any additional costs that 
were incurred solely due to Nationwides delay, not costs that would have been incurred 
anyway or for any other reason.
I then turn to the offer of £750 compensation. Ms D1 asked Nationwide for the information 
she and Mr D needed for probate on 30 October 2020, but Nationwide didnt provide it until 
10 February 2021. In that time Ms D1 and Mr D were given incorrect information and passed 
back and forth in their attempts to get what they needed. 
The award of compensation for inconvenience is fairly subjective  theres no exact scale as 
it were. We have some fairly broad bandings, which we publish on our website at 
www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/expect/compensation-for-distress-or-
inconvenience.
Having considered our guidance on such awards, and the awards weve made in other 
cases Im satisfied Nationwides offer of £750 is fair and is in line with what I would have 
awarded had the case come to me without that offer already having been made.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense Im satisfied Nationwide Building Societys offer 
was fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman