DRN-3678105
The complaint
Ms H says Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) has unfairly declined her claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Below, Ive summarised the material facts in this case:
In May 2019, Ms H had cosmetic surgery overseas. The procedure involved the 
transfer of fat from one part of her body to another. In this decision, Ill refer to it as 
the first surgery. In total, Ms H paid £7,671.31. She used her Nationwide credit card 
account to pay for it.
Ms H says the pre-op consultation and post-op care were inadequate, and the 
procedure was rushed. She says the surgeon removed too much fat from one area of 
her body, which wasnt what she wanted, and injected the fat in a way that caused a 
noticeable asymmetry in another area of her body.
In September 2019, Ms H had remedial surgery with the same surgeon. Ill refer to 
this as the second surgery. She didnt pay for it  but she had to pay for flights and 
incurred other costs. Ms H says she was told the surgeon would remove some of the 
transferred fat to correct the asymmetry, and inject it back into the area from which it 
was taken to restore her shape. However, she says that on arrival, the surgeon 
refused to remove any of the transferred fat, and instead convinced her to transfer fat 
from a different part of her body to try to restore her shape. Ms H says the second 
surgery didnt restore her shape and, to make matters worse, disfigured the area 
from which the fat was taken.
Ms H asked the surgeon for a full refund. When he refused, Ms H contacted 
Nationwide to try to get her money back.
In August 2020, Nationwide wrote to Ms H to say it couldnt raise a chargeback 
because it had been more than 120 days since the first surgery. But it said it would 
consider her claim under section 75 of the CCA.
In a letter dated 20 January 2021  the contents of which were purportedly sent to 
Ms H in an earlier email  Nationwide declined her claim under section 75. It referred 
to the consent form Ms H had signed, which said the surgeon could remove fat from 
specified areas of the body. Nationwide said this meant he could take fat from most 
of [her] body as he saw fit during the operation and it hadnt seen any evidence that 
Ms H had asked the surgeon, or that the surgeon had agreed, not to remove fat from 
a specific area of her body. Nationwide also said the consent form included several 
clauses that set out the risks involved. As a result, it didnt think there had been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the surgeon.
Ms H didnt think this was fair and complained to Nationwide. When its position 
remained the same, she referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators didnt think it was unfair for Nationwide to decline the claim: 
essentially, she said there wasnt sufficient evidence to conclude that there had been 
a misrepresentation or breach of contract by the surgeon.
Again, Ms H doesnt think this is fair and has asked that an ombudsman make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case, Im required by DISP 3.6.3R of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook to 
take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The chargeback
I appreciate that Ms Hs main complaint point is that Nationwide declined her claim under 
section 75. However, for completeness, Ive also considered whether it was right to say it 
couldnt initiate a chargeback when she first got in touch.
A chargeback is a way for a credit card provider to reclaim money from the suppliers bank 
when the consumer doesnt get the goods or services she paid for. It isnt a legal right and 
theres no guarantee the card provider will be able to recover the money this way. The 
process is subject to the rules of the scheme  which, in this case, are set by Visa  and a 
strict criteria and time limits apply. To be clear, Nationwide doesnt set the rules and I cant 
change them.
Visas rules say a chargeback must be initiated within 120 days of the transaction date or the 
date the service was provided. It looks like Ms H first contacted Nationwide in May 2020. As 
it had been more than 120 days since the first surgery, I think Nationwide was right when it 
said it couldnt initiate a chargeback.
The section 75 claim
Section 75 of the CCA protects consumers who buy goods and services on credit. It says, in 
certain circumstances, that the finance provider is legally answerable for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
Although the invoice and paperwork Ive seen dont say what law applies to the contract, 
when a medical procedure takes place in another country, I think its only fair to assume its 
the law of that country, state or territory that applies.
In the UK, the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says certain terms are to be treated as 
included in consumer contracts. Section 49 says any service provided must be performed 
with reasonable care and skill. Reasonable care and skill isnt defined in the CRA. However, it has generally been held to mean the degree of care and skill to be expected of 
someone who provides those services of ordinary competence and experience.
I dont know if the applicable law includes something similar. But even if I assume it does for 
the purpose of this decision, I dont think it was unfair for Nationwide to decline Ms Hs claim 
given the available evidence.
Before I explain why, Id first like to say how very sorry I am for all that Ms H has been 
through. And I want to assure her that Ive carefully considered all the evidence shes 
provided, and everything shes said. Ms H has explained in some detail whats happened 
and the effect its had on her. Its heart-rending and Im truly sorry.
Its also clear to me that Ms H has gone to enormous lengths to try to show why she doesnt 
think the surgeon exercised reasonable care and skill. Shes provided photos, and whatever 
reports or assessments she has from medical practitioners, including:
a one-page report from the surgeon who performed surgery on Ms H after shed had 
the second surgery;
a short video of another surgeon being interviewed in some sort of public forum, who 
is briefly shown photos of Ms H on a handheld device; and,
brief comments from several surgeons who have reviewed a handful of photos that 
Ms H posted online.
Unfortunately, the one-page report from the surgeon who examined Ms H in person and who 
would therefore have been well-placed to comment on the previous surgeries doesnt 
comment on them.
The other surgeons havent examined Ms H in person  theyve only seen the photos she 
provided. Even then, although Ms H has highlighted one or two words theyve used, their 
comments are largely limited to what sort of surgery Ms H could have to achieve the results 
she wants. They dont come close to saying that the earlier surgeries werent performed with 
reasonable care and skill.
Similarly, while I appreciate that Ms H has spoken to other patients who are also unhappy 
with the care they received from the same surgeon, and referred me to some online reviews, 
they dont tell me anything about the care Ms H received.
Ms H has explained that she had several preliminary consultations with different surgeons 
after the second surgery. She says that although, in person, the surgeons would talk more 
freely about the quality of the first and second surgeries, they didnt provide any written 
reports. And she says, no reasonable surgeon is going to comment on a previous surgeons 
work on letter headed paper. While I appreciate Ms Hs frustration, this is precisely the sort 
of evidence thats required in most medical negligence and malpractice claims. Expert 
evidence is obtainable, and I think it was necessary in this case.
I know Ms H will be very disappointed and will strongly disagree, but in the absence of 
evidence from a suitably qualified medical practitioner that specifically addresses the 
allegations made, and states clearly that Ms Hs care fell below acceptable standards, I dont 
think it was unfair for Nationwide to decline her claim.
Ms H also says the surgeon (and his staff) made several misrepresentations.
However, a misrepresentation in the legal sense is a statement of fact by one party to a 
contract, which isnt true, and which persuades the other party to enter into the contract.So, for example, showing a patient real but selective photos of former patients isnt a 
misrepresentation. Similarly, whatever concerns Ms H has about the pre-op procedure, she 
doesnt allege that a false statement was made.
Ms H has referred me to an email she received from the surgeons team, which she says 
downplays the risks involved. But I havent seen any evidence that a false statement was 
made, or that it persuaded Ms H to enter into the contract.
Ms H has made it clear that she was disappointed that the surgeon didnt attempt to correct 
the asymmetry when she returned for the second surgery, but this all happened after shed 
entered into the relevant contract, which was the first surgery.
I appreciate that Ms H believes that many of the online reviews about the surgeon are false. 
She says she successfully had one removed that she says was written by one of the 
surgeons team. This, on its own, however, is not enough to substantiate her claim that 
many of the online reviews are false.
Finally, Ms H says it was agreed during the pre-op consultation that the surgeon would only 
remove fat from certain areas of her body, but the consent form used language that allowed 
him to remove fat from other areas too  and this wasnt made clear to Ms H. Unfortunately, I 
dont know want was discussed and agreed during the pre-op consultation. And Ms H has 
signed the consent form. In the circumstances, I dont think it was unfair for Nationwide to 
conclude that there was insufficient evidence to show that there had been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract on this point  or that there had been a 
misrepresentation in some other way.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman