DRN-3844384
The complaint
Company I complain Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) restricted, and then closed its 
account. It also complains Barclays made an error by wrongly accusing it of carrying out 
business activities with a mistaken firm which led to a freezing order being issued against it  
and its funds being withheld. Company I say this has caused it to lose substantive revenue.  
To put things right, Company I want Barclays to compensate it for the loss of income, 
reputational damage and any stress and inconvenience caused.   
What happened
In August 2020, Company I opened a business account with Barclays. In September 2020, 
Barclays restricted the account after carrying out a review. Later that month, Barclays 
decided to close the account with immediate effect and sent Company I notice of this. 
The Police initiated a freezing order against Company I, which was granted by the courts. As 
a result, Barclays withheld around £45,000 from Company Is account. As part of its 
investigation, Company Is director was asked to provide information to the Police about his 
business activities. 
In early February 2021, a court set aside Company Is freezing order. A few days later 
Barclays wrote to Company I and explained the director would need to go into one of its 
branches with proof of identity to withdraw the previously withheld funds. The following day, 
Company I withdrew the funds from a Barclays branch. 
Company I complained to Barclays and said that as it had wrongly accused it of doing 
business with a fraudulent company, this led to the account being frozen by the Police whilst 
they investigated the matter. It adds because of this, it lost the work it had been partly paid 
for and on future income from work that was in the pipeline. Company I also say its 
reputation has been substantively impacted by Barclays actions. 
Barclays did not uphold Company Is complaint. In short it said as a regulated firm it has 
certain regulatory obligations to meet which can mean it needs to withhold transactions and 
at times block accounts. It added that it had made no error, and so doesnt need to 
compensate Company I for any loss of income. 
Unhappy with what Barclays said, Company I referred its complaint to this service. One of 
our Investigators looked into the complaint. In summary they found: 
- Barclays reviewed the account in line with its obligations and the terms of the 
account. And its not obligated to provide any notice or an explanation. Nor did 
Barclays cause any undue delay in doing so
- Barclays were entitled to close the account and it doesnt need to provide an 
explanation why it did so. This was done in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account
- When Barclays were notified of the court order setting aside the freezing order, it 
acted immediately to make the funds available to Company I. The funds were 
promptly withdrawn by Company I, Barclays did nothing wrong here as it followed the 
courts instructions
Company I did not agree with what our Investigator said. Id like to assure Company I that 
Ive carefully reviewed everything its said, even if I dont expressly list out all the points here. 
Some of the key points Company I make are: 
- It hasnt carried out any illegitimate or illegal activities, and genuinely bought and sold 
goods from another legitimate business 
- Our Investigator was trying to justify Barclays actions and failed to identify its 
mistake 
- It provided all the information that it was required to which shows it was acting in 
good faith. It was buying and selling essential goods in high demand during the 
pandemic  it was engaged in genuine and not any illegal activities
- The Polices investigation was based on wrong information being provided by 
Barclays about a mistaken business it though Company I was doing business with. 
Because of Barclays incompetency, it has faced severe stress and loss. Barclays 
should have properly carried out its due diligence, and its failure to do so has caused 
financial loss and reputational damage 
As Company I didnt agree with what our Investigator said, its complaint has now been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint 
Company I, so Ill explain why. 
Banks in the UK, like Barclays, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Having seen the reasons Barclays had concerns, Im satisfied Barclays acted in line with 
obligations placed upon it, and in line with the terms of the account when reviewing 
Company Is account. 
Barclays is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before Barclays closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms 
and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which Barclays and Company I had to comply with, 
say that it could close the account by giving them at least two months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice. 
Having looked at the information given to me by Barclays, Im satisfied it was entitled to 
close the account in the way that it has done. I know Company I would like a proper explanation of its reasons to do so. But neither Barclays, nor I, are under any obligation, that 
Im aware of to do so. 
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information Barclays 
has provided is information that we considered should be kept confidential.
Company I say Barclays reported the wrong business entity to the Police, which in turn led to 
the freezing order being issued, and its funds being withheld. From the information Ive seen, 
Im satisfied Barclays had legitimate concerns. So Im satisfied it did nothing wrong in the 
actions it took. In passing, I note Company I has sent us information relating to the Police 
investigation and subsequent outcome based on its financial activities. 
To be clear I am not finding there was any correlation between the actions Barclays took and 
the subsequent Police investigation. Only that Barclays have not acted improperly in carrying 
out its review and closing Company Is account. 
I have seen the order setting aside the freezing order. And Im satisfied Barclays acted in a 
timely manner once this was brought to its attention. That meant Company I was also able to 
withdraw the previously withheld funds without undue delay. So, Im satisfied Barclays did 
not cause any avoidable delay. 
Company I say this matter has caused it financial loss, and reputational damage. It also says 
its caused trouble and upset. I do appreciate that this matter wouldve caused it difficulty. 
But having looked at whats happened in this particular case, I can see no basis on which I 
might make an award against Barclays given that I dont think it failed to properly follow its 
own procedures when it closed Company Is account  and in following court orders.  
So Im not going to ask Barclays to compensate Company I for any financial loss, loss of 
reputation and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Company I to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman