DRN-3781908
The complaint
Ms E and Mr W complain about Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva), declining a claim under 
their property insurance policy for damage to a barn. 
Aviva use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to Aviva includes 
these agents.
What happened
Ms E and Mr W had a listed barn they were renovating and turning into a residential 
property. Part of the work involved raising the barn to create sufficient space for first floor 
bedrooms. A block wall was constructed under the barn (which was also supported by 
props).
In July 2021, around the time of Storm Evert, there was bad weather in the area that caused 
the barn to become detached from the block wall, damaging both structures. Ms E and Mr W 
contacted Aviva to tell them about the damage and lodge a claim.
Aviva appointed a firm (C) to assess the claim, and a surveyor inspected the site. The 
surveyor said the weather conditions at the time of the incident werent such as to constitute 
a storm. Aviva then declined the claim. They did so on several grounds. First, with respect to 
the damage to the barn, the damage wasnt due to an insured peril, because there werent 
storm conditions at the time of the incident. They said weather report data from a nationally 
recognised source for the area showed even peak gusts were below the generally accepted 
level to qualify as a storm. Aviva also said (even had there been storm conditions) the policy 
contained an exclusion from cover for buildings that werent watertight (which they said the 
barn wasnt).
Second, with respect to the block wall, Aviva said the damage was due to defective design 
or workmanship (which was an exclusion from cover for the contract works section of Ms E 
and Mr Ws policy). Aviva said at the time of the incident the barn was not tied to the block 
wall, so the barn lacked lateral support. Aviva considered this to be defective design and/or 
workmanship. 
Ms E and Mr W challenged Avivas decision, who treated it as a complaint. But they didnt 
uphold the complaint, maintaining their decision to decline the claim. They restated their 
view there werent storm conditions in the area at the time of the incident, referring to the 
weather reports theyd previously cited. They also didnt agree that information on weather 
conditions provided by Ms E and Mr W showed there were storm conditions. 
Aviva also referred to the conclusions of a forensic engineer (EF) who theyd commissioned 
after their initial decline of the claim (and Ms E and Mr Ws challenge of the decline) to 
inspect the damage to the barn and wall. Aviva noted EFs findings and conclusions about 
the construction of the barn and the block wall, that it offered little resistance to wind and the 
barn moved due to ordinary (non-storm) wind loading. Also, mortar hadnt adhered to the 
blocks (of the wall). Aviva also referred again to policy exclusions for buildings that werent 
watertight and for defective design, plan, specification and/or workmanship.
Ms E and Mr W then complained to this service. They disagreed with Aviva about whether 
there were storm conditions at the time of the incident, referring to Storm Evert. They also 
referred to the conditions at their property on the date the damage occurred, saying they felt 
similar to previous occasions of higher wind speeds and there could have been gusts at the 
property higher than those recorded at the nearest weather station. They also referred to 
local media reports about bad weather in the area.
They also challenged Avivas use of the watertight policy exclusion, as they thought the 
barn not being watertight wasnt relevant to the damage to the barn in the incident. They 
werent claiming for water damage - rather the damage was due to wind, so the damage 
would have occurred whether the barn was watertight or not.
They also challenged some of the findings in EFs report. They said all the damage was 
caused by the barn falling and that the mortar had adhered to the blocks (of the wall). They 
also questioned findings about the degree to which the barns location meant it was 
sheltered from wind. They also thought the barn could have been lifted by wind, and given its 
weight, this would indicate a higher wind speed than that recorded in weather data. Taking 
these points together, they thought it showed the damage was caused by storm conditions 
(which they maintain were present at the time of the incident).
They also challenged Aviva declining the claim under the contract works section of the 
policy, as they thought the block wall was constructed as it should have been (and didnt 
require lateral support). The wall was damaged by the storm and the impact of the barn  it 
wasnt because of a defect in its design or construction.
As the damage to the barn meant it had to be dismantled, Ms E and Mr W said theyd 
suffered financially as the work carried out before the incident had been lost. Theyd had to 
restart all works above the foundation level of the barn and reconstruct it as close as 
possible to its original design. They estimated this would cost over £100,000. Theyd also 
been affected by delays while Aviva assessed (and then declined) their claim. This had been 
very stressful for them. They wanted Aviva to pay the claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Aviva didnt need to take any action. 
She thought the information and evidence available on weather conditions in the area 
indicated there werent storm conditions at the time of the incident. Having reached this 
conclusion, the investigator thought Aviva had acted reasonably in declining the claim on the 
grounds there wasnt an insured event that caused damage. On the damage to the block 
wall, she thought the reports from Avivas surveyor and from EF showed the wall hadnt 
been bonded together either chemically or mechanically, which supported their decline of 
that element of the claim because of the exclusion for defective design or workmanship.
Ms E and Mr W disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman 
review the complaint. They made several points. First, they thought there should be a wider 
consideration of the evidence on the weather conditions at the time of the incident, not just 
wind speeds (including their own experience of conditions at the time of the incident). They 
provided further information, including from media and other public sources, to support their 
view. And the nature of the damage indicated higher wind speeds at the time of the incident 
which would (together with a broader interpretation of what constituted a storm) mean the 
damage was caused by a storm. 
Second, they didnt agree with some of the findings and conclusions in EFs report. Including 
the pillars supporting the barn at the time of the incident; the adherence of mortar to the wall 
blocks; the position (sheltering) of the barn; and the simulation of what happened. 
Third, they questioned Avivas use of the exclusion for buildings not being watertight. Fourth, they said the block wall was constructed as it should have been (and didnt require 
lateral support). The damage to the wall was caused by the barn impact and the storm  it 
wasnt due to a defect in its design or construction. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to say that Ive considered carefully all the information and evidence available in 
this case, both from Ms E and Mr W and from Aviva (including the report from EF and the 
various photographs). Ive also considered all the detailed points made by Ms E and Mr W 
when making their complaint to this service and subsequently when responding to our 
investigators view. Ive borne this in mind when forming my findings and conclusions. 
My role here is to decide whether Aviva has acted fairly towards Ms E and Mr W.
The main element of Ms E and Mr Ws complaint is that Aviva unfairly declined their claim, 
on the grounds that there werent storm conditions at the time of the incident, so there wasnt 
an insured peril. Ms E and Mr W say there were storm conditions (on a broad understanding 
of the term, not just recorded wind speeds) and have provided a range of information to 
support their view. Aviva say the weather reports indicate there werent storm conditions and 
dont agree the information provided by Ms E and Mr W show there were. Based on these 
views, Ms E and Mr W say the damage (to both the barn and the block wall) was caused by 
a storm (so their claim should be accepted) while Aviva say there werent storm conditions , 
so there was no insured peril and so they acted reasonably in declining the claim.
In considering cases where the issue is whether damage has resulted from a storm, there 
are three key issues we consider:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
Given the views of Ms E and Mr W and Aviva, the first question is central in this case. If 
there werent storm conditions, then the second and third questions arent relevant.
 
Before considering the specific evidence and information available in this case, Ive 
considered Ms E and Mr Ws point about considering a broader view on what constitutes a 
storm, and not simply considering wind speeds. As a service, we would consider wind 
speeds as one aspect, including those wind speeds generally considered to be strong 
enough to cause light structural damage. But we also consider all the evidence and 
information available. This will include weather reports from various sources (including the 
source we use) but also other evidence of the weather conditions locally, including media 
reports and whether there was a named storm affecting the area where the incident 
occurred. Id want to reassure Ms E and Mr W this is what Ive done in this case.
Looking at the evidence available, Ive first looked at the reports from recognised weather 
sources for the area of Ms E and Mr Ws property, around the time of the incident. In 
declining the claim, Aviva referred to weather reports from a nationally recognised weather 
source for the date the incident took place (including the time of day the damage was 
reported to have happened) and the relevant postcode sector. This shows a maximum gust 
of 30 mph (at the time of day the incident occurred). Using the weather service we use, for the date in question, the peak gust for the nearest station was 36 mph (again at the time the 
incident is said to have occurred). Both figures are significantly below the level where light 
structural damage may occur. 
However, I recognise the data necessarily is derived from weather stations that collect it, 
which are some distance from the barn (though the data provided from Aviva is based on a 
postcode sector, which will be nearer). Ms E and Mr W have said they thought the wind 
speed at the barn was higher, based on their experience there. While I dont doubt their 
view, it isnt objective evidence that shows, persuasively, the wind speed was higher than 
that from the weather reports. 
But given the approach I outlined above, Ive also considered the other information about 
weather conditions locally provided by Ms E and Mr W. At least some of this information was 
also provided to Aviva as part of the claim process, so Ive also considered the points about 
it theyve made. This includes local news reports for the area and a warning for Storm Evert. 
There are also forecasts of high winds in the area of the barn (and a reduced speed limit on 
a bridge in the area). Ive borne in mind these are (in most cases) forecasts of weather, 
rather than recorded data of weather for the date in question.
Ive also thought about the points made by Ms E and Mr W (and by Aviva) about the specific 
location of the barn and whether this may have meant it was sheltered from wind (as Aviva 
and EF say) or more exposed (as Ms E and Mr W say). 
Ive also considered Ms E and Mr Ws point that the nature of the damage to the barn (and 
its weight) indicates the wind speed at the time of the incident would have been higher (and 
so able to dislodge the barn). However, Ms E and Mr W havent provided any expert (or 
other) evidence to support this view. And Ive also considered EFs opinion that the barn 
wasnt secured to the supporting block wall or pedestals, so lacked lateral support (and 
made it susceptible to being moved by ordinary wind loading action).
Taking all these points together, Im not persuaded it indicates what could reasonably be 
concluded to be storm conditions in the area of the barn. 
As a general principle, where a policyholder makes a claim for damage or loss under a 
policy, the onus is on them to show there was an insured event that caused the damage or 
loss. In this case, given my conclusions there werent storm conditions at the time of the 
incident, I think its reasonable to conclude there wasnt an insured event (storm). 
Given this conclusion, I havent gone on to consider the second and third questions set out 
above. As Ive concluded there werent storm conditions, then I think Aviva have acted 
reasonably in declining the claim because of the absence of an insured peril. 
As Ive concluded the absence of an insured peril means Aviva have fairly declined the claim 
for damage to the barn, I dont think the issue about the exclusion for the barn not being 
watertight is relevant. So, Ive not considered it further.
While Ive reached this conclusion, I have considered the other points raised by Ms E and Mr 
W, including the points theyve raised about (in particular) EFs report and its findings and 
conclusions. However, Im not persuaded they change my conclusion there werent storm 
conditions in the area at the time of the incident. And I havent seen anything to suggest the 
barn moved because of something other than wind loading  the disagreement between Ms 
E and Mr W and Aviva (and EF) is the strength of the wind (the presence of storm conditions 
or otherwise). And while there is disagreement about the need for lateral support (its not 
disputed the pedestals werent adhered, mechanically or chemically bonded and that it was 
planned for the barn to be anchored to the wall by pins  but this wasnt in place at the time 
of the incident) Im persuaded by EFs overall conclusions that:c. The barn was not anchored to either the pedestals nor the wall and so had little in 
the way of lateral restraint and so resistance to wind loading action
e. Overall, the barn moved to ordinary wind loading action.
Having reached these conclusions, Ive considered Ms E and Mr Ws fourth point, that the 
block wall was constructed as it should have been (and didnt require lateral support). The 
damage to the wall was caused by the barn impact and the storm  it wasnt due to a defect 
in its design or construction. Aviva say at the time of the incident the barn was not tied to the 
block wall. Also, mortar hadnt adhered to the blocks (of the wall) and the pedestals werent 
adhered, mechanically or chemically bonded. Aviva considered this to be defective design 
and/or workmanship. 
Ive considered both views carefully, but on balance I agree with Aviva (based on EFs 
report). As previously noted, its not disputed the pedestals werent adhered, mechanically or 
chemically bonded and that it was planned for the barn to be anchored to the wall by pins  
but this wasnt in place at the time of the incident. And from what Ive seen, at least part of 
the wall had been constructed just before the incident, which EF says means the mortar 
wouldnt have had time to be fully cured. Ms E and Mr W dont think all of the blocks in the 
wall lacked adhesion, though accept the possibility some of them would have lacked 
adhesion. 
Taking these points together, Ive concluded Aviva acted reasonably in applying the 
exclusion for defective design, plan, specification and/or workmanship
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Ms E and Mr Ws 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman