DRN-1593894
Complaint
Mrs A, who is represented by a third party, says Tesco Personal Finance PLC mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in September 1999 with a credit card. 
Background
The PPI included cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. It also included life cover. 
Mrs A cancelled the PPI in February 2007.
Mrs A says she didnt need the PPI and it wasnt properly explained to her.
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs A still 
thinks she was mis-sold the PPI and has asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint.
Mrs A cant remember much about the sale but Tescos records show she bought the PPI 
whilst applying, by post, for a new credit card in October 1999. Mrs A says she never agreed 
to PPI and didnt need it.
These events are now over 20 years ago but Tesco has managed to provide me with the 
card and PPI application form. From that, I can see the application form gave Mrs A the 
option of choosing to buy PPI with her new credit card under a large heading that reads 
Cardholder Payment Protection. So I can see that Mrs A made a definite choice about PPI. 
Plus she would also have needed to sign the application form again at the bottom to agree to 
the credit terms.
I think Tesco properly obtained her consent. I note this was a postal application and not an 
advised sale. So Tesco didnt need to make sure the policy was suitable for her. The 
decision about buying the cover was for Mrs A to make and she would have made her way 
through the postal form without any intervention from Tesco.  
My experience of these types of sale is that the application was part of a wider leaflet-based 
form which would have also included some brief details about the policy, including the cost. 
So I think Mrs A would have had enough information on which to make an informed decision. 
I can certainly see ways in which the form could have been set out more clearly but I dont 
think theres enough evidence to say this would have changed what Mrs A went on to do. 
This is because Ive looked at Mrs As situation and I think she was eligible for the cover and 
not caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. The cost 
of the PPI was 70p per £100 of the outstanding card balance so I think this was affordable 
for her.Looking at the work she did, I understand Mrs had some sickness protection from her 
employer, being 6 months at full pay followed by 6 months at half pay. But this doesnt 
necessarily mean the PPI cover wasnt of value to her. It would have paid out 10% of her 
outstanding credit card balance for up to a year if shed needed to claim. This wouldve been 
in addition to any other means she had at that time. So I think this policy was of use.
I dont find that PPI was mis-sold. Having said that, Tesco paid back some of the cost of the 
PPI to Mrs A because it got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should have told her about that. Because it didnt tell Mrs A, that 
was unfair. To put that right, Tesco paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal Finance PLC does not have to pay back 
anything to Mrs A.But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does have to pay back to Mrs A any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman