DRN-3034368
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as B has complained that Society of Lloyd's unfairly turned down its 
claims for business interruption and rent payable after it was impacted by the Covid-19 
pandemic. 
Mr B, a director of B, has brought the complaint on Bs behalf. 
For ease of reading, reference to Lloyds will also include anything done by the underwriters.
What happened
B held a business interruption insurance policy with Lloyds. It claimed on its policy in March 
2020 after its business was impacted by a reduction in custom from abroad and then forced 
to close by the Government Act in response to the national pandemic.  
Lloyds appointed loss adjusters to look into Bs claim but ultimately turned it down. They 
said Covid-19 hadnt caused physical damage to Bs premises and there hadnt been an 
occurrence of Covid-19 at its premises either. 
In June 2020, B submitted a further claim for the same period due to a loss of footfall in the 
area and for rates payable. Lloyds said Bs policy didnt provide cover for these either, for 
the reasons already given. 
B complained to Lloyds as it thought its claim should be covered. It said it relied on trade 
from abroad and restrictions to international travel combined with social distancing measures 
meant its business had been impacted before being forced to close by the Government Act 
in response to the pandemic. B thought that the Government had specified that insurance 
claims should be covered in these circumstances. 
B said that Covid-19 was a notifiable disease and the nature of its customers and the 
location of its premises meant it was most likely that there had been a case of Covid-19 at its 
premises. However, B didnt think Covid-19 needed to be at its premises for the policy to 
provide cover and added that the definition of the word occurrence could be interpreted to 
mean the likelihood of there being a case of Covid-19 given Bs business and surrounding 
environment. 
Lloyds said the policy required Bs closure to have been due to an occurrence of a notifiable 
disease at the premises. And while Covid-19 was a notifiable disease, they thought Bs 
business had been impacted by the measures put in place by the Government, rather than 
by someone at the premises having Covid-19. 
Unhappy with Lloyds response, B brought its complaint to our service. It said it was likely 
someone at its premises had Covid-19 but there wasnt testing available at that time. Our 
investigator looked into Bs complaint. He found that the policy would only provide cover if B 
had closed due to an occurrence of a notifiable disease at the premises. As he didnt think B 
had demonstrated that there was most likely a case of Covid-19 at its premises he didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. 
B disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said the word occurrence should 
include the likelihood of a case being at its premises and it was impossible to establish 
whether any of its customers had Covid-19. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
B has made a number of detailed points. Due to the informal nature of our service, I dont 
intend to address every point hes made but will instead focus my decision on what I see as 
the central issues to this complaint.
B has also complained about the renewal of its policy in 2020 however, that is being dealt 
with separately. 
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
B. However, Im not going to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.   
  
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to 
see if Lloyds has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Bs claim. 
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that Covid-19 didnt cause damage to property. So, Im going 
to focus on the extension in Bs policy for disease, infestation and defective sanitation which 
covers loss resulting from:
The occurrence at the premises of
(a) murder, suicide or food or drink poisoning
(b) a notifiable human infectious or contagious disease excluding acquired 
immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) or an AIDS related condition
(c) vermin, pests or defective sanitation
 
In order for this extension to provide cover, there would need to be a loss resulting from the 
occurrence of a notifiable human infectious or contagious disease at Bs premises. Ive 
thought about Bs point that the word occurrence could be interpreted to mean the 
likelihood of the disease being at its premises. I think its clear from the wording of the 
extension that the disease needs to have occurred at the premises, so Ive considered the 
information I have to decide if B has demonstrated there was most likely a case at its 
premises.
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a positive 
test result from that period. To treat that as a minimum requirement would, in my view, be 
unfair.  
 
Therefore, its necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on balance, that Covid-19 occurred at the insured premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder 
to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its policy covers.  
Ive considered that B is located in a busy area and that B thinks some of its customers 
would have likely had Covid-19. However, to uphold Bs complaint Id need to decide that it 
was more likely than not that someone at its premises had Covid-19. I have to bear in mind 
that most people at that time didnt have Covid-19 and in this case, I havent seen sufficient 
evidence to indicate that there was a case of Covid-19 at Bs premises. So, this extension 
doesnt provide cover for the circumstances of its claims. 
I understand that B thought the Governments comments at the beginning of the pandemic 
meant that claims such as this should be paid, but that was still dependant on the specific 
terms in the policy providing cover for the circumstances of the claim. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome that Mr B was hoping for, but having considered the 
matter very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Lloyds to pay Bs claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman