DRN-4422208
The complaint
Miss C complains that Barclays Bank Plc gave her poor customer service regarding a Cash 
Individual Savings Account (ISA) she tried to transfer to them.
What happened
Miss C says that she opened up an ISA with Barclays on 5 January 2023 and made a 
transfer into the ISA from a third party ISA she held elsewhere on 6 January 2023, but she 
says the transfer did not go through. She says she was using their chat service for some 
time trying to find out what happened to the transfer. Miss C made a complaint to Barclays. 
Barclays did not uphold Miss Cs complaint, but they credited her account with £25 as a 
gesture of goodwill. They said with regards to the chat service, whilst they appreciate this 
was slow, it is not a live chat, and the chat agent took the time to contact the ISA team to 
gain as much information as he could. They said the correct process was followed by the 
ISA team, and it was found the ISA request had been rejected as the incorrect third party 
provider had been entered as the provider. 
Barclays said that Miss C called them, and they were able to address the issue and set up a 
new transfer in request for the correct provider. They said the first rejection date was 12 
January 2023 and the funds were transferred on 23 January 2023. Miss C brought her 
complaint to our service. She also complained about the service from the complaint handler 
as Miss C felt like the complaint handler needed to be educated, and Miss C didnt feel she 
grasped the issues well. 
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Cs complaint. She said when transferring a cash ISA, 
the industry standard is 15 working days as set by the government guidelines. She said the 
request was made on 6 January 2023 and the ISA was transferred on 23 January 2023 
which was within the deadline. She said once the transfer was rejected, Barclays sent Miss 
C a letter informing her of this, they submitted the new request on 18 January 2023, and the 
transfer was completed within two working days. Our investigator said that in the chat on 11 
January 2023, the information Barclays gave Miss C was broadly correct, and Barclays 
hadnt made an error. Miss C asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Miss Cs complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by her. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome.  
I must make Miss C aware that I can only look at the impact that Barclays actions have had 
on her personally as she is the only eligible complainant. Ive listened to calls where her 
father has spoken on her behalf, but our rules only allow us to consider compensation for 
eligible complainants here. So I would not be able to consider any awards for any 
inconvenience or distress for her father as part of this complaint. Miss C has also said that 
Barclays have since closed her account. But Im unable to address this complaint point as 
part of this decision, and my understanding is that she has raised a separate complaint 
which will be looked at independently of this complaint.
I can see that the original ISA transfer request was rejected as the account details did not 
match with the third party ISA provider. I can see that Barclays told Miss C her transfer was 
rejected in her chat with them on 11 January 2023, and they wrote to Miss C on 12 January 
2023 to inform her that her third party provider was unable to locate an account with the 
details given. As Barclays have an automated process in place which uses the information 
which Miss C entered, then I cant fairly say they were responsible for this transfer rejecting. 
I know Miss C had to take action to try and get the ISA resubmitted, but as the transfer 
wasnt rejected due to Barclays actions, then I cant fairly hold them responsible for this.
It appears the ISA transfer was successfully completed on 24 January 2023, and Barclays 
wrote to Miss C on 26 January 2023 confirming that the transfer was complete. The deadline 
for ISA transfers is that they should take no longer than 15 working days for transfers 
between cash ISAs. So even though Miss Cs initial request was rejected, the funds were 
transferred within the standard timeframe for cash ISA transfers. So Im satisfied that 
Barclays acted fairly here to ensure the deadline was met.
Ive considered what Miss C has said about the service she received on the chats and phone 
calls she had with Barclays. Ive listened to the relevant calls, and Ive read the relevant chat 
transcripts. I can see that the chat agent on 11 January 2023 tells Miss C that she can leave 
the application (app) and they will send her a notification when they reply, so I wouldnt 
expect Miss C to spend all of the time on the app from the start to the end of the 
conversation  which was over several hours.
But there were times where the chat agent could have handled things better. I say this 
because the chat agent doesnt respond directly to some the questions that Miss C asked 
them, and they refer to the third party provider by an incorrect name. This would be 
frustrating for Miss C, especially when she found out the original ISA transfer request was 
rejected for an incorrect third party provider name. And while Barclays werent responsible 
for this, it could place doubt in Miss Cs mind that it could be Barclayss entering an incorrect 
provider name in the request.
Im also aware from the complaint calls that call backs were arranged, the complaint handler 
had to contact other departments to find out information, there were voicemails left and 
general confusion about what was happening and when she was ringing Miss C. Due to the 
phone only ringing three times this led to Miss C missing a call she had to ring Barclays, so 
what happened wasnt as seamless as it should have been.
So Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. While Im not persuaded 
that Barclays were at fault for the rejection of the original ISA transfer request, and they 
acted within industry standard deadlines to complete the transfer, they could have provided 
better service.
From reading the chat transcript on 11 January 2023, the chat agent paid Miss C £20 
compensation for her experience that she had on the chat. A screenshot of the Barclays 
account shows a £20 goodwill gesture was paid on this date. The final response letter to Miss C also pays her an additional £25 gesture of goodwill payment, which I can see was 
credited on 23 January 2023. So Barclays paid a total of £45 for what happened here.
Im persuaded that a total of £45 is proportionate for the service provided here. It is in line 
with our awards for what happened here. Im not persuaded that the impact directly on Miss 
C for what happened here warrants higher compensation to be paid. So it follows I dont 
require Barclays to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman