DRN-2401535
The complaint
Mr Bs holding of 350,000 shares in Defenx Plc  the holding  was in his custody-based 
account with HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC), through its InvestDirect service. He says failures 
by HSBC deprived him of the opportunity to sell the holding as part of an exit opportunity 
offer that was available to him in December 2019.
What happened
A summary of events (including Mr B submissions) is as follows:
HSBC has referred to a letter it sent to accountholders on 12 December 2019. A 
copy of the contents of this letter has been shared with this service. Within its 
contents, notice is given about the delisting, from the Alternative Investment Market 
(AIM), of Defenx Plc shares by 7 January 2020; that the holding would no longer 
qualify for the InvestDirect account after the delisting; that accountholders could 
either transfer their holdings of the shares to another provider or instruct the sale of 
their holdings by the deadline of 5pm on 30 December 2019; and that holdings which 
remained as of 7 January 2020 would be re-registered and delivered to the relevant 
accountholders in the form of share certificates in their names. Mr B confirms that he 
did not receive this letter.
HSBC sent another letter dated 16 December 2020. Mr B confirms that he received it 
and a copy has been shared with this service. It gave notice of an exit opportunity 
offered by Defenx Plc whereby shareholders could sell their holdings of its shares  
to a purchasing firm that had been instructed for this purpose  at the price of £0.03 
per share; that the closing date for the exit opportunity was 6 January 2020; that 
those who wished to use the offer were required to take two steps  remove their 
holdings from HSBCs custody and contact the third party Link Corporate Dealing 
Team (Link) directly (through the contact details provided); and that the shares were 
to be delisted from the AIM from 7 January 2020.
Mr B says he responded to the 16 December letter by calling Link and that Link 
referred him back to HSBC, so he called HSBC on the same day. HSBC confirms 
that this call was received on 30 December. Mr B says he referred to the letter of 16 
December and to his conversation with Link and that he confirmed to HSBC his wish 
to accept the exit offer and to sell his holding at the offer price of £0.03 per share. In 
response, he says the HSBC official was unaware of the exit opportunity offer, was 
unaware of HSBCs letter of 16 December, was unable to find information about the 
matter and provided no information to him about the matter. He says what followed 
was a succession of chasing calls he made, from then and over a period of days, to 
HSBC and its broken promises to call him back  until the call on 6 January 2020 in 
which HSBC said it was too late for him to use the exit opportunity.
Mr B complained about the matter. He was unhappy about the loss of value in the holding 
and the exit opportunity he considered that he had been deprived, he held HSBC 
responsible for this and he sought compensation on the terms of the exit opportunity offer. 
HSBCs response contained the following:
It referred to its letters of 12 and 16 December. In terms of its letter of 16 December  
and with specific regard to the task of removing the holding from HSBCs custody  it 
conceded that the letter  shouldve also explained, however, how customers could 
request a share certificate or how long this may take.
It noted that during Mr Bs call on 30 December the official did mention to him that the 
shares were still trading at the time and that he could instruct their sale, but that he 
declined to do so and confirmed that he wished to use the exit opportunity offer (at 
the price within that offer) instead. 
It accepted that, during the call, the details of the letter about the exit opportunity 
were not available, so it needed to refer to its Corporate Actions Team for more 
information.
It mentioned another call from Mr B the following day  on 31 December  after 
which it began the process of issuing a share certificate for the holding. It accepted 
that it  shouldve processed this instruction as quickly as possible but, due to an 
administrative error  [it] didnt send this to [Mr B] until 15 January. It also confirmed 
that it contacted Link and had established that  they were accepting electronic 
sale instructions via email, provided customers were able to email them a copy of 
their share certificates by 1pm on 6 January. They could place this trade and then 
wait to receive the original certificate before settling the trade.
It accepted that if it had started the process on 30 December it  couldve 
transferred the shares into [Mr Bs] name by 6 January, however, the certificate 
wouldve still been with [HSBC]. As such, it concluded that even if it had not 
committed its administrative error/delay, because of the time needed to draft a 
covering letter and send the certificate to Mr B it would not have reached him before 
the deadline for the exit opportunity offer.
However, it said, because its letter of 16 December  shouldve been clearer and 
this information shouldve been available for [its] Contact Centre to view when [Mr B] 
called on 30 December and because of its delay in sending the share certificate 
(and in acknowledging the complaint), it wished to offer Mr B £300 alongside its 
apology for the inconvenience and frustration he experienced.
Mr B did not accept this outcome and referred the matter to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into it and was persuaded by HSBCs concluding position. Mr B 
disagreed and the matter was referred to an ombudsman (me).
I too looked into the matter and, with the investigators assistance, my preliminary view 
(below) was shared with both parties.
In a nutshell, and irrespective of whether (or not) HSBCs 12 December 2019 letter was 
sent to/received by Mr B, the letter of 16 December (which he received) is key  and I think it 
provides more meaningful information than that of 12 December; I also appreciate HSBCs 
points that it is not responsible for LINK or for advice but both points are irrelevant; the fact 
remains that it was responsible for executing any request to sell under the exit opportunity 
and it asked shareholders to make such requests by 30 December, which Mr B did; HSBC 
was at fault for not actioning Mr Bs request on this date, for the delay in issuing his share 
certificate and for the ongoing lack of communication and delay from 30 December and up to 
6 January 2020 (during which Mr B kept chasing) on the issue; when the matter became too 
late to action on 6 January that, overall, was HSBCs fault and I cannot see what more Mr B 
could have done; I understand he could have sold the holding on 30 December at a lower 
price but it  was fair for him to stick to the exit opportunity (and price) that HSBC had 
offered/conveyed to him and he was within time to do so, so there is no real fault on his part 
here.I am not persuaded by HSBCs argument that even if no delays had happened the share 
certificate would not have been ready by 6 January as required, so Mr B would not have 
been able to use the exit opportunity. First, I havent seen evidence of such a probability. 
The second point to note it that unless it is suggested, or admitted, that the exit opportunity 
notice was a sham, it would be fair to conclude that it meant something and that what it 
meant was what HSBCs letter of 16 December describe; it is HSBCs own case that 
customers had to give sale notices by 30 December in order to use the exit opportunity and 
Mr B gave his notice on this date so he was in time; it is implicit that HSBC undertook to 
complete all the necessary steps/processing by 6 January for all customer notices received 
by the deadline; it cannot fairly be the customers responsibility if HSBC could not do so. 
I am more inclined to conclude that, but for the delays, and had HSBC acted upon Mr Bs 
notice on 30 December  and in the absence of the administrative error that delayed the 
issuing of the share certificate (with that error also being HSBCs responsibility)  it is more 
likely (than not) that his holding would have been in the requisite state by 6 January in order 
to benefit from the exit opportunity. My preliminary conclusion is that the complaint should be 
upheld and that this should be on the basis of both the £300 D&I thats been offered to Mr B 
and redress for the shareholding at the £0.03/share price offered to Mr B in the exit 
opportunity.
Mr B accepted this view. HSBC did not, in response;
It corrected a part of my preliminary view by distinguishing between the letters of 12 
and 16 December. It said the former (and the deadline of 30 December within it) 
related to an ordinary/business as usual sale instruction and was not connected to 
the exit opportunity offer conveyed in the latter.
It said, in the context of its non-advisory execution only service, if Mr B was not clear 
on the process of removing his holding from HSBCs custody he should have sought 
information about that through the resources that were available to him, including 
information on how to do so within the letter of 16 December.
It provided email evidence from Link affirming that Link did refer customers (with 
shares held in custody) back to their Custodian and that Link did accept scanned 
copies of share certificates during the offer; but it argued that for security reasons it 
could not have scanned and emailed Mr Bs share certificate to Link at the time.
It argued that it was (and is) not possible to say how long it would have taken to 
action Mr Bs request of 30 December, given the number of different functions 
involved and the postal service, but six working days was thought reasonable.
It said it does not dispute that information on timescales and deadlines would have 
been helpful to its customers, but such information is not always possible; and it 
would be unfair to hold it responsible in the complaint given that the exit opportunity 
process was one over which it did not have sole or full control.
Overall, it retained the position that, based on his first contact on 30 December, Mr B 
would have missed the deadline for the exit opportunity offer even if his instruction 
had been actioned on that date and even if its errors had not happened, because the 
share certificate would not have reached him in time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept HSBCs distinction between the letters of 12 and 16 December and its corrective 
effect upon reference in my preliminary view to the deadline of 30 December applying to the 
exit opportunity offer. That does not appear to have been the case. However, having considered HSBCs responses to the preliminary view and with the exception of this 
correction (and its relevance to the preliminary view), I am not persuaded to depart from the 
overall reasoning and conclusion within what I said. 
For the reasons I address below  and in response to HSBCs points  I do not consider that 
the above correction nullifies the overall reasoning and conclusion in the preliminary view; 
and I incorporate its un-corrected parts into my findings. On balance, I am persuaded that 
but for HSBCs inaction on 30 December (which it concedes) and its administrative errors 
and delay (which it also concedes), it is more likely (than not) that Mr B would not have 
missed the exit opportunity.
HSBCs complaint response accepts that Mr B called on 30 December, that he instructed the 
sale of the holding as part of the exit opportunity but received no information in return; and it 
accepts that it took no action on this date. This defeats its more recent argument about      
Mr Bs responsibility to inform himself about the process for removing his holding from 
HSBCs custody. He did that. He took action in this respect by calling HSBC on 30 
December and it is HSBC that failed to provide him with information about the offer or about 
removing the holding from its custody. The letter of 16 December required him to do two 
things and he did them both on this date  he called Link and he gave instructions to HSBC, 
unfortunately HSBC did not act on those instructions. To its credit, HSBC acknowledges it 
should have done so. 
HSBC might argue that Mr B bears responsibility for contacting it on 30 December, 14 days 
after the letter of 16 December was sent. However, the letter only provided notice of the 
offers closing date of 6 January 2020. It gave no deadline for contacting HSBC in order to 
instruct removal of the holding from its custody. The letter should, reasonably, have given 
either such a deadline or guidance with regards to time. Otherwise the purpose of informing 
customers about the offer was defeated by the lack of information about when they needed 
to make contact to ensure they would benefit from the offer. HSBCs recent argument that 
such information is not always possible is also defeated, somewhat, by its earlier concession 
(as quoted above) that the information should have been included in its letter of 16 
December. 
In the absence of such information Mr B was guided by the closing date of 6 January, so in 
this context I do not consider his call on 30 December to have been unreasonable.
There appears to be further conflict between HSBCs earlier response and its recent 
comments with regards to what would have happened if Mr Bs instruction was actioned on 
30 December. Despite claiming, now, that it is not possible to say how long such action 
would have taken to complete, it previously said something partly different. It confirmed that 
the transfer of the shares into a share certificate in Mr Bs name would have been concluded 
by 6 January, that the share certificate itself would have been with HSBC on this date and 
that the only uncertainties were when a covering letter would have been drafted and when 
the certificate would have been sent to and received by Mr B.
I consider HSBCs previous statement to be more reliable. I doubt it would have made that 
statement if it was not satisfied that the process would have been completed to the 
described extent by 6 January. This means, if the process had begun on 30 December as it 
should have and if HSBC had not committed any administrative error/delay, Mr B (or HSBC 
on his behalf) would have been in the position to scan and email the share certificate to Link 
by the deadline. It is not disputed that Link was prepared to receive the share certificate in 
this manner. Links email says so and HSBCs initial complaint response said Link would 
have thereafter awaited the original.HSBC does not appear to have previously mentioned its security concerns about scanning 
and emailing the share certificate. It seems to be a recent comment. It has not been well 
reasoned  or, arguably, reasoned at all  and I do not wish to undermine the notion of 
HSBC safeguarding a customers asset, but the comments merit (or otherwise) should be 
addressed. On balance and given the existence of secure messaging and of encrypted 
methods of safely sending email correspondence, I am not satisfied that the share certificate 
HSBC says would have been available by 6 January could not have been emailed securely 
to Link by the same date  in order to ensure Mr B did not miss the exit opportunity. 
Overall, on balance and for the reasons addressed in this decision I am persuaded that, but 
for HSBCs inaction on 30 December 2019, had Mr Bs instruction of that date been actioned 
immediately as it should have been and in the absence of HSBCs administrative error in the 
execution of his instruction, he would not have missed the exit opportunity or the offer 
deadline of 6 January 2020.
Putting things right
I endorse HSBCs offer of £300 compensation to Mr B for the trouble and upset the matter 
has caused him. I consider it a reasonable figure and his acceptance of my preliminary view 
suggests that Mr B agrees. If this payment has not already been made to him, I order HSBC 
to pay Mr B £300 to compensate for the trouble and upset caused to him by his experience 
in the Defenx Plc exit opportunity matter.
Mr B claims that the holding is presently worthless. I do not make a finding on this, but I 
agree with his claim that redress should include compensation for what the holding would 
have been sold for under the exit opportunity offer. I order the parties to do as follows:
Mr B must sell to HSBC and HSBC must buy from Mr B his holding of Defenx Plc 
shares  that is the 350,000 shares, and no more, that was held in his InvestDirect 
account; if any part of the holding has already been sold then HSBC must buy the 
remainder. [the purchase]
HSBC must perform the purchase at the price of £0.03 per share. 
HSBC must conclude the purchase within 28 days of the date on which it is notified 
that Mr B has accepted this decision. Unless Mr B causes a delay to the purchase, 
HSBC must pay, to Mr B, interest on the total purchase amount if the purchase is not 
completed within this 28 days period. This interest must be paid at the rate of 8% 
simple per year from the date of this decision to the date the purchase is concluded, 
and it is to compensate Mr B for any delay caused by HSBC in concluding the 
purchase.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint and I order HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
compensate him as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman