DRN-4271454
The complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct wont refund money he lost 
when he fell victim to an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have also been previously 
set out by the investigator in their view. So, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
The complaint concerns four payments totalling £12,500 which were made from Mr Ts first 
direct account between February and December 2020 in connection to an investment 
opportunity that turned out to be a scam. These were cross-border transactions, with the first 
one going through an account in the UK. Mr T was also able to make three withdrawals 
totalling £5,000 during that time. Therefore, the loss being claimed for is £7,500.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Under regulations and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, 
banks should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The 
starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even 
where they are duped into making that payment. Theres no dispute that Mr T made 
the payments using his security credentials, and so they are authorised. 
The Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code), 
which requires signatories such as first direct to reimburse customers who are 
victims of scams like this one in all but a limited number of circumstances, doesnt 
apply here. This is because international payments arent covered by the Code. 
Although the initial payment of £500 went to a UK based account first, I understand 
the account belonged to an international payment service provider who facilitated the 
transfer to an overseas account. Under the circumstances, the payment isnt covered 
by the Code.  
While I find the CRM Code doesnt apply here, that code is not the full extent of the 
relevant obligations that could apply in cases such as this. In accordance with the 
law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a duty to protect its 
customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably possible. If, in 
breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably to alert 
a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for losses 
incurred by its customer as a result. 
Ive looked at the operation of Mr Ts account. I dont consider the disputed 
transaction amounts  which ranged from £500 to £5,000  were particularly unusual 
or suspicious such that I think first direct ought to have challenged the payments. 
Just in the month prior to the first disputed transaction, Mr T made payments for 
£30,000.00 and £95,572.85 from his first direct account. Therefore, I dont think any 
of the disputed transaction amounts ought to have flagged as unusual. 
Mr T says the disputed transactions went to non-standard foreign accounts, so first 
direct ought to have picked them up. I understand the point hes trying to make. But I 
dont consider that an international payment in and of itself ought to flag as 
suspicious. Mr Ts account offers the facility to make international payments. So, it 
isnt unusual to expect the customer to make international payments. Also, the 
payments were spread across several months. So, its not the case that there was a 
sudden increase in international payments in a short period of time, which I might 
have considered as being unusual for Mr Ts account.      
Ive also thought about the recovery of funds once first direct became aware of the 
situation. Banks are expected to contact the beneficiary bank and attempt to recall 
the payment as soon as theyre notified of a scam. I can see first direct took that 
action when the matter was reported to it. Unfortunately, no funds remained in the 
beneficiary accounts. This isnt surprising given the length of time that had passed 
between when the payments were made and when first direct was notified. 
In summary, despite my natural sympathy for the situation in which Mr T finds himself, I dont 
find that first direct has acted unfairly or unreasonably. So, I wont be making an award 
against it.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman