DRN-3989287
The complaint
Miss C and Mr W complain that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) unfairly declined a claim under their 
legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy.
Any reference to QIC includes respective agents and representatives. Ill also largely refer to 
Mr W as he has led this claim.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties. So, Ill summarise events.
In 2017 Mr W received a cochlear implant (manufactured by Company A). Mr W says 
around July 2019 issues with the implant began. And on 12 March 2020 Mr W 
received a letter from Company A notifying him of a potential failure with the device. 
Following this Mr W had various appointments and testing to try to resolve these 
issues. On 25 January 2021 he says his implant was diagnosed as failed. In May 
2021 Mr W underwent a procedure  the recovery he has described as very 
challenging and which impacted all aspects of his day-to-day life for some time.
Around October 2021 Mr W contacted Company A to discuss compensation. Mr W 
then instructed a solicitor (Company I) who in turn, contacted QIC on 27 May 2022.
Miss C and Mr W had held LEI cover with QIC since 10 March 2020. QIC declined to 
cover the claim. It said the policy required policyholders to tell QIC of any event or 
circumstance which may lead to a claim under the policy within a reasonable time of 
it happening, and always within 180 days. And here, QIC had been notified of the 
claim long after the 180 days had passed.
One of our Investigators looked into what happened and upheld the complaint. He 
agreed that strictly, Mr W had failed to comply with the 180-day timeframe. But he 
said ICOBS outlines that insurers should not reject a claim for breach of condition or 
warranty unless it can show the breach (late notification in this case) had caused 
prejudice to the claim. And here, he thought QIC had failed to demonstrate the 
impact of this delay. So, he directed QIC to progress the claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms.
QIC disagreed. It reiterated the delay, said the notification period was a condition 
precedent to liability  quoting a court case that discussed how a condition precedent 
could exist due to conditional links between terms  and QIC referenced its own 
terms. QIC also argued the first year of the policy was sold on a claims made basis 
which meant the claim would need to be made within the timeframe of that policy  
and it wasnt. It said the policies that were taken in March 2021 and 2022 differed as 
they were on a claims occurring basis meaning the incident itself needed to take 
place during the life of the policy. So, the incident or circumstance pre-dated the 
policies.
The Investigator stood by his position, so the complaint was passed to me for an 
Ombudsmans decision. I issued my provisional thoughts on 23 February 2023. Ive 
summarised these below.
oThe claim: I was satisfied the claim was made late and outside of the 180 
days specified by the policy terms. But QIC had failed to evidence this breach 
had prejudiced its position so I didnt think it was fair for it to rely on this term.
oClaims made/claims occurring: I was satisfied Miss C and Mr W had 
continuous cover, and given the claims made/occurring terms it appeared on 
its face neither policy would cover the claim. But in line with the FCA principle 
of treating customers fairly, this Service does not consider it fair for a 
customer to fall between two stools where there is no gap in cover. So, I 
didnt think it would be fair for QIC to decline the claim on this basis.
oCondition precedent: I was satisfied the terms of the policy did not reflect the 
180-day requirement as a condition precedent. I discussed the case law it 
quoted and potential conditional links of terms but said even if I was satisfied 
such a link existed, I would need to be satisfied that a consumer understood 
this amounted to a condition precedent, and that this was clear and drawn to 
a customers attention  which it wasnt here. 
I also explained the scope of my role requires me to consider the law, but also 
requires me to determine what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
each complaint. And here I wouldnt be satisfied it would be fair for QIC to rely 
on the 180-day requirement as a condition precedent as I wasnt persuaded 
this had been made clear to Miss C or Mr W.
QIC said it did not agree fully with my findings, but it would reconsider the claim in 
line with the remaining policy terms. Miss C and Mr W responded to agree.
So, the matter has been passed back to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint.
Following my provisional decision, QIC and Miss C and Mr W have responded to agree to 
the outcome I proposed. For this reason, I see no reason in reiterating or discussing my 
findings any further. And I issue this decision only for completeness for Miss C and Mr W.
My final decision
For the above reasons and those stated in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint 
and direct QIC Europe Ltd to reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms of the 
policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman