The complaint
Miss B says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to her. Miss B says MYJAR didnt look into or 
consider per personal circumstances before it lent to her. She had to take out more 
borrowing to repay her loans. As a result, Miss B says is still in debt due to this borrowing 
and borrowing from other short-term credit providers.        
What happened
This complaint is about four instalment loans MYJAR provided to Miss B between June 2017 
and July 2017. Miss Bs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 27/06/2017 01/07/2017 12 £325.00 £49.14
2 11/07/2017 12/07/2017 12 £275.00 £41.62
3 14/07/2017 21/07/2017 12 £275.00 £43.51
4 23/07/2017 27/07/2017 12 £325.00 £49.72
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Bs complaint and thought the loans from loan two 
onwards shouldnt have been given because if MYJAR had carried out checks proportionate 
to the borrowing, it would have seen Miss B was having problems managing her money. 
MYJAR disagreed with the adjudicator. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss B 
DRN-1506674could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Miss B could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Miss B didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loan one shouldnt be upheld. 
Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about this loan. So, I wont 
be making a decision about this lending. But the loan was part of the borrowing relationship 
Miss B had with MYJAR. So, it is something I will take into account when considering the 
other loans she took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint. After doings so, Ive decided to 
partially uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
When Miss B returned for further borrowing at loan two, it was just over a week after loan 
one had been repaid. And loan one had been repaid less than a week after it had been 
taken out, compared to the term agreed at the outset of 12 months. Loan two was also for a 
12-month term.This borrowing behaviour could have suggested that Miss B may have been have problems 
managing her money. Bearing in mind the nature of this type of credit, I would question why 
a consumer would take out one loan for a 12-month term only to repay it a few days later but 
then to replace it with a further loan very shortly afterwards for a similar amount and the 
same term. 
I think at this point MYJAR should have been looking to build a bigger picture about       
Miss Bs financial circumstances. It could have sought further information and evidence from 
Miss B  such as, but not limited to, asking for copies of her pay slips, evidence of her 
outgoings by requesting copies of bills or bank statements  as examples. 
If it had done so, I think MYJAR would have seen that Miss B was making a regular number 
of transactions on on-line gambling websites. And I note that for the month prior to the 
borrowing Miss B gambled well in excess of her monthly net income. I think MYJAR would 
have concluded Miss B was having problems managing her money and there was a very 
real risk that she wouldnt be in the position to sustainably make the loan repayments. And 
this is one of Miss Bs complaint point so I think its likely. 
So, and like the adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about loans two to four and 
MYJAR should put things right.
Putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
refund all interest and charges Miss B paid on loans two to four;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans two to four from Miss Bs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Miss Bs complaint. MYJAR Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman