DRN-3661465
The complaint
Miss K is unhappy with the amount Leasys UK Ltd says she owes under a hire agreement. 
And she says its unfair the situation has affected her credit file.
What happened
In September 2017 Miss K acquired a van under a hire agreement with Leasys. She was 
due to pay £1,909.22 on delivery of the van and then 23 monthly repayments of £212.14.
Towards the end of the two year hire period, Leasys wrote to Miss K about her contract. She 
asked to keep the van under hire and the agreement was informally extended for five 
months in September 2019.
In January 2020 it appears the van was due to be collected, but this wasnt completed. In 
March 2020 the agreement was rescheduled until September 2020 for monthly payments of 
£191.60.
In September 2020 the contract was automatically extended for a month as Leasys couldnt 
contact Miss K to collect the van. Later in the month, Miss K asked to informally extend the 
agreement but was told this wasnt possible. 
In October 2020 Leasys were trying to contact Miss K to arrange the return of the van but 
couldnt get hold of her. The account was passed to its collections department and in 
November 2020 the agreement was extended again as collection couldnt be arranged.
In March 2021 Miss K contacted Leasys and asked to informally extend the agreement 
again. Leasys explained it couldnt informally extend anymore as this had already been done 
too many times. It said if the contract was formally extended the cost would be backdated to 
the contract end date in September 2020.
In October 2021 Miss K signed a new hire agreement for the van. This had a term of 24 
months from September 2020 at a monthly cost of £336.41. In November 2020 Leasys 
charged Miss K £2,212.86. Miss K stopped this payment at her bank and complained to 
Leasys.
Leasys issued its final response in May 2022. This said, in summary, that it couldnt contact 
Miss K when the agreement ended in September 2020. It said that it sent Miss K a quotation 
to modify the agreement in September 2021 when it explained to her it was trying to collect 
the van. Leasys said the quote explained this would cost £2,212.86. Leasys said this was 
the correct amount which had later been charged.
Miss K remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service. She said she shouldnt 
owe the money and her credit file had been impacted.
Our investigator issued a view. He explained, in summary, that he thought Miss K had 
agreed to the payments being backdated and the figures Leasys charged her looked correct. 
He also explained he could understand why Leasys had recorded information on Miss Ks 
credit file.
Miss K disagreed. She said Leasys had specifically told her when renewing the agreement 
that she wouldnt be charged anything extra and it was only for the purposes of the 
paperwork that the hire period was backdated.
The case has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Miss K complains about a hire agreement. Entering into regulated consumer credit contracts 
like this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Miss Ks complaint against 
Leasys.
Ive considered whether it was reasonable for Leasys to charge Miss K for the backdated 
payments when the agreement was rearranged in October 2021.
Leasys explained the repayments were backdated to reflect that it hadnt been able to 
contact Miss K. It said if the agreement was rearranged when it expired in September 2020 
these wouldve been the amounts due. It said the amount charged was the difference 
between the new payments Miss K agreed to and the amount she had previously been 
paying.
Ive looked at the agreement Miss K signed in October 2021. Under New Agreement 
Details it says, From Date 02/09/2020 and that the repayments due are £336.41 per 
month. 
I can see prior to this in March 2021 Leasys explained to Miss K that if the agreement was 
rearranged it would apply from September 2020 and the cost would be backdated. And 
Leasys in its final response pointed to a quote it provided in September 2021 explaining this 
cost to Miss K.
Looking at the account history, Miss K had been paying the lower amount due under the 
agreement from September 2020 until it was rearranged. 
Miss K says she was told on the phone the payments wouldnt be backdated. Unfortunately, 
call recordings arent available. But, Ive reviewed the contact notes from Leasys and I cant 
see anything that suggests this was the case.
Thinking about all of this, I think Miss K agreed to make the higher repayments from 
September 2020 when she rearranged the agreement. Im satisfied Miss K hadnt been 
making the higher payments prior to the agreement being rearranged. And on balance I 
dont think its most likely she was told the payments wouldnt be backdated as she says.
It follows all of this that I dont think its unreasonable Leasys charged Miss K for the back 
payments when the agreement was rearranged. And I havent seen enough to make me 
think the amount was calculated incorrectly.
I also havent seen anything to suggest that Miss K couldnt have just returned the van if she 
wasnt happy with the terms.Miss K complains this situation has affected her credit record. But it isnt in dispute she didnt 
pay the amount due. So, I havent seen that Leasys has acted inappropriately here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman