DRN-3319742
The complaint
Mrs R complains about the suitability of the advice provided by PrisWM Limited (PWM) in 
November 2017 to transfer the value of her safeguarded benefits in the British Steel
Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP).
Mrs R is represented in this complaint by a law firm (Representative).
What happened
The events leading up to this complaint were set out in detail by our investigator in his
assessment which was provided to both the Representative and PWM. I dont intend to 
repeat here what our investigator stated but will instead provide a summary.
In March 2016, Mrs Rs employer, Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata Steel), announced that it would 
be examining options to restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the 
company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
safeguarded benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  
the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to members of defined 
benefits (DB) pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. Tata Steel closed 
the BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
had been agreed  this was approved by The Pensions Regulator in August 2017. Under the 
announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new DB pension scheme, the 
BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied.
In October 2017, these changes were communicated to BSPS members, including Mrs R, 
under the Time to Choose exercise. This explained that BSPS members had three options 
regarding their safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a SIPP.
Members had to decide which option they wanted by 22 December 2017  those
that didnt choose an option remained in the BSPS and were ultimately transferred to the
PPF. 
The details of Mrs Rs safeguarded benefits in the BSPS were as follows:
She had accrued 23 years and 6 months qualifying service between                                    
November 1992 and May 2016;
The scheme pension provided was a safeguarded benefit defined by reference to her 
final salary, pensionable service and benefit accrual rate  as at the date of leaving 
the scheme in May 2016, her annual scheme pension was £11,484;
The scheme pension comprised several elements, each part of which would be 
revalued by a prescribed amount over the term to the scheme normal retirement age 
of 65 and, once in payment, would escalate annually by a prescribed amount;
The revaluation and escalation rates were guaranteed in line with the BSPS rules;
Payment of benefits before 65 would be subject to an early retirement reduction on a 
sliding scale  in simple terms, the earlier benefits were taken, the greater the 
reduction applied to the scheme pension. Broadly, this meant a 30% reduction would 
apply to the scheme pension if benefits were taken at 55 and a 18% reduction at 60;
On death before retirement, a refund of contributions of £38,127 plus interest at 3% 
per year compound and a 50% spouses pension would be provided  after 
retirement, a potential lump sum equivalent to her remaining annual pension between 
the date of death and five years after the date of retirement and a 50% spouses 
pension thereafter calculated as if no tax-free cash was taken by Mrs R at retirement; 
The provision of a dependants allowance for any qualifying dependants calculated 
as five sixths of the spouse's pension with this amount being shared between 
dependants; and
The cash equivalent transfer value of her safeguarded benefits was £322,018.76 
Mrs R was concerned about what the announcement by Tata Steel meant for the security of 
her preserved benefits in the BSPS. She approached PWM for advice and met one of its 
advisers in October 2017 for a meeting. A fact find and attitude to risk questionnaire were 
completed which recorded the following information about Mrs R and her family:
She and her husband were both 42 and had three financially dependent children 
aged between 5 and 11;
She was in good health but was concerned about her future health as auto immune 
disease ran through the female side of her family;
She was employed by Tata Steel on a gross annual salary of about £30,000; 
She didnt have any savings or investments and would rely on help from her father if 
money was needed in an emergency;
Her liabilities comprised a mortgage on the marital home which was on course to be 
repaid in five years time at about age 47;
The household income exceeded the monthly household expenditure;
She planned to retire at 57, although this could change. Her State pension age was 
67;
Her husband was employed in the public sector and was due retire from his role at 
55;
She was a member of a defined contribution (DC) pension scheme through her 
employment with Tata Steel   her plan was then valued at about £11,000; and
Her risk profile was determined to be 7 on a scale of 1 to 10, where 1 was lowest risk 
and 10 highest risk. The rating of 7 was described as Highest Medium risk.
PWM recorded that Mrs R had several objectives and needs, summarised as follows:
Control: She was concerned about the financial security of the BSPS and the 
prospect that the value of her benefits could be reduced in the future following a 
transfer to either the BSPS2 or PPF. As a result, she wanted to transfer away from 
the BSPS as soon as possible to remove the risk of reduced benefits;Flexibility: She wanted the ability to draw benefits flexibly from 57 onwards so that 
she could choose when and how to take these. She didnt want her pension income 
to be paid on a prescribed basis by either the BSPS2 or PPF and spread out over her 
lifetime, preferring the ability to take flexible income and lump sums in the early years 
of retirement to provide luxuries items and reduce withdrawals once her State 
pension started. It was noted that her husband was a member of a public sector 
pension scheme and was projected to receive a tax-free lump sum of about £96,000 
and annual pension income of about £20,000 from 55 which would cover their 
expected living costs in retirement of £1,900 per month net, meaning that she could 
relinquish the guarantees attached to her safeguarded benefits;
Death benefits: She wanted to maximise the level of death benefits payable to her
family in the event of her early death and to provide them with flexibility in how they
would be paid. She wasnt interested in the prescribed death benefits offered by 
either the BSPS2 or PPF, especially since she was concerned about her future 
health.
In November 2017, PWM issued its suitability report recommending that Mrs R transfer the 
value of her safeguarded benefits in the BSPS to a SIPP and invest it to align with her 
Highest Medium risk profile to provide long term capital growth, as follows: 
48.5% Premier Multi Asset Global Growth C Acc
48.5% Vanguard Lifestrategy100% Equity Acc
3% cash
PWM stated that its recommended asset allocation led to an average risk score of 7 out of 
10. The costs associated with its recommendation were set out in the suitability report. 
These were deducted from Mrs Rs SIPP, summarised as follows:
Initial charges
£5,000  initial adviser charge payable to PWM. This was for the provision of the 
suitability report and implementation of the pension transfer.
Ongoing annual charges based on SIPP fund value
0.75% adviser charge  payable to PWM to provide ongoing advice to Mrs R which 
was estimated to be £2,377.64 in the first year
0.25% product charge  payable to SIPP product provider
1.81% investment charge  Premier Multi Asset Global Growth fund, pro-rated based 
on proportion of SIPP invested in this fund
0.22% investment charge  Vanguard Life strategy 100% Equity fund, pro-rated 
based on proportion of SIPP invested in this fund
This complaint
In 2020, the Representative, on behalf of Mrs R, complained to PWM about the suitability of 
its pension transfer advice. PWM didnt uphold this complaint and so the Representative 
referred it to this service.
One of our investigators considered this complaint and recommended that it be upheld. This 
was because he thought that PWMs recommendation to transfer wasnt in Mrs Rs best 
interests and was therefore unsuitable. To put things right, our investigator recommended 
that PWM carry out a redress calculation in line with the FCAs Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers on the 
basis that Mrs R opted for the BSPS2 and would be a 20% income tax payer in retirement. 
In addition, he recommended that PWM pay Mrs R £200 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused by its unsuitable recommendation.
Mrs R accepted our investigators assessment and recommended remedy. PWM didnt 
accept the outcome and provided additional comments in response and requested that the 
matter be referred to an ombudsman for review.
While waiting for this complaint to be allocated to an ombudsman, our investigator contacted
the parties in connection with the FCAs consultation launched on 2 August 2022 regarding
new pension transfer redress guidance. The investigator asked the Representative to 
confirm with Mrs R that in the event this complaint is ultimately upheld, whether she 
preferred redress to be calculated on the current methodology or the updated guidance 
expected to be implemented in early 2023. The investigator told the Representative that if 
we didnt receive an answer that well assume Mrs R would prefer redress on the current 
methodology set out in Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate 
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. As at the date of this final decision, the 
Representative didnt confirm which option Mrs R preferred. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards,
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Id like to clarify that the purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single
point raised by the Representative on behalf of Mrs R and PWM. If I havent commented on 
any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance
PWM was authorised and regulated by the FCA at the time it provided the recommendation 
to Mrs R. This meant that when it advised her it was required to adhere to the suitability rules 
and guidance in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) section in the FCAs 
Handbook. In assessing the suitability of PWMs recommendation, its necessary for me to 
have due regard to these rules and guidance.
Primarily, PWM was required under COBS 2.1.1R to act honestly, fairly and professionally 
in accordance with the best interests of its client in its dealings with Mrs R. The suitability 
rules and guidance that applied when PWM provided its recommendation to Mrs R were set 
out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance are to ensure that businesses take 
reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their clients needs and to ensure 
theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond their investment objectives and 
risk profile. To ensure that this is the case, and in line with the requirements in COBS 
9.2.2R, the business must gather the necessary information for it to be confident its
advice is suitable. Broadly speaking, this section of COBS 9 sets out the requirement for a
regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process.
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to pension transfers involvingsafeguarded benefits, as was applicable to Mrs Rs case  these were contained in                    
COBS 19.
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits
with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension
scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client
to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with
safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able
to make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the
factors that do and do not support the firms advice, in good time, and in any case no
later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6G set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the clients
best interests. [my emphasis added]
COBS 19.1.7G also stated:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved
to replicate the benefits being given up.
And COBS 19.1.8G stated that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Businesses are required to adhere to these rules and guidance because the FCA considers
safeguarded benefits to be valuable. Based on the above regulatory rules and guidance,
businesses advising on pension transfers should start by assuming that the existing DBpension scheme is suitable and only recommend a transfer, which converts safeguarded
benefits into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients best interests.
Mrs Rs situation
The situation for Mrs R wasnt normal because the existing DB scheme, the BSPS, was 
closing. So she was essentially forced to transfer the value of her safeguarded benefits to a 
new scheme. She had three options:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a SIPP.
Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mrs R to retain guaranteed pension income, albeit at a 
lower level than provided by the BSPS. There were differences between the PPF and the 
BSPS2. For deferred members below the scheme normal retirement age, like Mrs R, the 
PPF would provide compensation based on 90% of their accrued pension at the scheme 
normal retirement age (in effect a 10% reduction in benefits). The BSPS2 didnt apply such a
reduction. The BSPS2 also provided the potential for discretionary increases to the accrued
pension, a higher level of spouses pension and the option to transfer to an alternative
pension to convert to flexible benefits at a later date when needs could be determined with
greater accuracy than at 42  the PPF didnt offer these additional features.
So while the situation was somewhat unusual, Mrs R still had the option to retain guaranteed 
benefits in either the PPF or BSPS2. Due to her age and circumstances, its my view Mrs R
wouldve been better off choosing the BSPS2 instead of the PPF based on what was known 
at that time. Given the FCAs view on safeguarded benefits, its my fair and reasonable 
opinion that PWM shouldve started its advice process by assuming the BSPS2 was suitable 
for Mrs R and to only recommend a transfer to the SIPP if it could clearly demonstrate it was 
in her best interests.
Was PWMs recommendation suitable?
The transfer value analysis system (TVAS) rules applied at the time PWM advised
Mrs R. This required it to carry out a transfer value analysis to calculate the critical yield
applicable to the proposed transfer. The critical yield is the annual rate of investment return
required on the invested transfer value, after charges, to match the capitalised value of the
benefits offered by the DB pension scheme on the assumption that the value of the
alternative pension is used to secure a lifetime annuity at the scheme normal retirement age
 the higher the critical yield, the less likely that the alternative pension will achieve sufficient
investment growth to match the pension payable by the DB pension scheme.
PWM calculated the following critical yield figures:
At age 57 based
on a full pensionAt age 57 based
on a reduced
pension and
maximum tax-
free cashAt age 65 based
on a full pensionAt age 65 based
on a reduced
pension and
maximum tax-
free cash
BSPS 9.5% 8.0% 6.7% 5.7%
PPF 6.8% 6.6% 4.7% 4.5%
The critical yield figures for the BSPS2 werent calculated. But it was known at the time 
PWM advised Mrs R that the BSPS2 would pay a higher level of benefits than the PPF but lower than the BSPS, so the critical yield figures for the BSPS2 likely fell somewhere in 
between the figures above assuming the same transfer value was offered by the BSPS2.
PWMs recommendation to Mrs was provided to her after the FCA gave instructions in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable
DB pension transfers as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss
assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to
October 2017 similar rates were published on our website. Whilst businesses weren't
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they
provide a useful indication of what growth rates wouldve been considered reasonably
achievable when the advice was given in this case. The closest discount rate which I'm able
to refer to and published by this service for the period before October 2017 is 4.5% based on
Mrs R taking benefits at the BSPS normal retirement age of 65, and 4.2% based on her 
taking benefits at 57. Furthermore, the FCA's projection rate for pensions at the time was 8% 
per year for the upper rate, 5% per year for the middle rate and 2% per year for the lower 
rate. 
PWM recorded that Mrs R wanted to take benefits from 57. In my view, the discount rate and 
FCA projection rates imply that the financial viability of the pension transfer required Mrs R 
to accept a high-risk investment approach to provide the potential for the sort of investment 
returns required over the investment timeframe to age 57. But that would only come with 
accepting the risk of significant investment loss. This is because the relationship between 
risk and reward is closely related. 
I note that Mrs R was recorded as having a Highest Medium risk profile. The evidence Ive 
seen indicates that she had very limited investment knowledge and experience before this 
pension transfer. At the time of PWMs advice, she had no existing savings or investments 
other than her Tata Steel DC pension plan which was then valued at about £11,000 and 
invested in a fund which could be described as having a low to medium risk profile. Theres 
no evidence that Mrs R had experience of investing significant sums of money. This doesnt 
necessarily mean that it was unsuitable for her to invest the value of her safeguarded 
benefits on a higher risk basis as recommended by PWM, but it does concern me whether it 
was appropriate for an individual in Mrs Rs circumstances to take on the significant risks 
associated with the transaction. Given the critical yields applicable in this case, I think that 
there was limited scope for the SIPP to provide benefits that matched the relinquished 
benefits, let alone exceed them.
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving pension transfer advice,
as was set out in COBS 19.1.7B (G). A reasonable prospect of the critical yield being met or
exceeded wouldnt necessarily mean that the transfer was suitable, and conversely, there
might be other considerations which mean a pension transfer is suitable, despite providing
overall lower benefits. Ill now go on to consider this.
Control of pension benefits
PWM recorded that Mrs R was concerned about the financial security of the BSPS and
the prospect that the value of her benefits could be reduced in the future or transferred to the
PPF. As a result, she wanted to transfer away from the BSPS as soon as possible to remove 
the risk of reduced benefits and to have control over her safeguarded benefits.
The PPF was introduced by the government in 2005 as a lifeboat scheme to protect
members of DB pension schemes with the promise of providing a minimum level of benefits.
The revaluation and escalation rates are set by law. Depending on her age on transfer to the
PPF, Mrs R could expect to receive a minimum of 90% of her scheme pension, although this
would be affected by the revaluation and escalation rates under the PPF. This contrastedwith the recommended SIPP where theres no promise of a minimum level of benefits
payable. In its 2016/17 annual report, publicly available at the time of PWMs 
recommendation, the PPF stated that its overall financial position as at 31 March 2017
remained robust, with an increase in its surplus funds to £6.1bn. There wasnt any reason at
that time to question the financial viability of the PPF to provide benefits in the future.
Had PWM advised Mrs R to transfer to the BSPS2 she wouldve maintained safeguarded
benefits and retained the option to transfer to a SIPP at a later date, if then deemed suitable,
when she could immediately access benefits and, crucially, determine her retirement income
and lump sum needs with greater accuracy than at 42. I think this is a key point.
A transfer to the BSPS2 wouldve also removed any immediate concerns Mrs R had about 
the PPF. After all, the whole reason the BSPS2 was conceived was to provide a new long-
term DB pension scheme for former members of the BSPS. And if it was the case, in the 
future, that the BSPS2 was at risk of being transferred to the PPF, then I think it likely that, 
similarly to the BSPS, members would be given the opportunity to transfer out to a private 
pension plan before any transfer to the PPF occurred. So I dont think that there was any 
immediate concern about options disappearing for Mrs R or that there was an urgency to 
transfer to a SIPP at that time to avoid a transfer to the PPF. In my view, Mrs R was reliant 
on PWM to provide a fair and balanced assessment of the BSPS2 and PPF and to act in her 
best interests in this regard. This ought to have involved discussing with Mrs R the features, 
risks and benefits of those alternative options and allaying her misapprehensions. 
If Mrs R was apparently concerned about her safeguarded benefits being transferred to the
PPF which would result in her losing 10% of her scheme pension, then I question why she 
would accept the risk of transferring to a SIPP which exposed her to unlimited downside 
risks where the loss could be significantly greater than 10%. It seems odd to me that Mrs R 
wasnt prepared to accept the potential 10% reduction of her benefits under the PPF yet
was apparently content to accept the unlimited downside risks with investing the value of her 
safeguarded benefits on a higher risk basis over a substantial investment time horizon as 
recommended by PWM. That simply doesnt make sense to me and suggests that she didnt 
have the knowledge and experience to understand the features, risks and benefits of the 
PPF compared to the pension transfer. She was relying on PWM to provide expert advice on 
this point, but I think it failed to do this. Its therefore my view that PWM failed to adequately 
allay Mrs Rs misapprehensions and that she therefore made the decision to transfer from an 
uninformed position regarding the BSPS2 and PPF.
Flexibility of pension benefits
PWM calculated the estimated revalued benefits payable by the BSPS as follows:
Scheme At age 57 based on a reduced 
pension and maximum tax-free 
cashAt age 65 based on a reduced 
pension and maximum tax-free 
cash
BSPS £10,947 annual pension 
plus tax-free cash of £72,981£14,021 annual pension 
plus tax-free cash of £93,473
The figures for the BSPS2 wouldve been lower than illustrated above but I think this 
provides a very rough indication of the level of benefits that couldve been payable to Mrs R 
at 57 or 65 had she retained her safeguarded benefits. 
PWM recorded that Mrs R wanted the ability to draw benefits flexibly from 57 onwards to 
provide luxuries such as holidays and other items such as a recreational vehicle that could 
cost about £40,000. A key component of this objective was linked to Mrs Rs husband being 
a member of a public sector pension scheme and expecting to receive a tax-free lump sum of about £96,000 and annual pension income of about £20,000 from 55 which was expected 
to cover their estimated living costs in retirement of £1,900 per month net, meaning that she 
could relinquish her safeguarded benefits to obtain the flexibility she desired.
Mrs R had accrued 23 years and 6 months qualifying service in the BSPS. So I think its fair 
to say that when the time came to retire that shed be heavily reliant on the value of these 
benefits to fund any capital or income needs in retirement. I think its clear that Mrs R was 
attracted to a flexible arrangement. However, she was 42 at the time and so 15 years away 
from taking benefits at her preferred retirement age of 57. It was noted that she wanted to 
retire at 57 but that things could change, meaning she could retire at a later date. So I think 
its fair to say that there was some uncertainty  at age 42  regarding exactly when she 
would retire. And I think it wouldve also been difficult to predict with any reasonable degree 
of certainty what her expected living costs would be 15 years in the future. So Im not 
convinced it was reasonable for PWM to conclude that Mrs R wouldnt be reliant on the 
value her safeguarded benefits to meet her income needs in retirement. 
While I dont doubt Mrs R wouldve liked the flexibility to draw any level of benefit she wanted 
from 57 onwards, plans can change over such a long period of time. In my view, there were 
alternative options available to Mrs R which wouldve provided access to capital to provide 
luxuries such as holidays and other items, meaning that she didnt need to relinquish her 
safeguarded benefits. Ill explain why:
At the time of the advice, PWM recorded that household bills were adequately 
covered by her husbands employed income and that her income was essentially 
surplus to their needs  in my view, this surplus income couldve been reinvested 
over the 15 year timeframe to 57 to build up funds for future use for when Mrs R 
came to retire;
Mrs Rs mortgage was on course to be repaid in five years time at age 47, meaning 
that the £800 monthly repayments being paid at that time would be free to be 
reinvested over the 10 year timeframe to 57 to build up additional funds for 
retirement;
Mrs R was 42 and an active member of the Tata Steel DC pension scheme and had 
been since June 2016. I cannot see in the contemporaneous evidence what Mrs Rs 
plans were for her future employment. But while she remained employed by Tata 
Steel she was building up additional pension benefits in the DC scheme. And in the 
event she left the employment of Tata Steel, I think its likely that shed find 
alternative employment, albeit perhaps outside of the steel industry, and, with the 
legal requirements of auto-enrolment, would build up additional DC benefits 
elsewhere over the period until she retired. So I think its fair to say that over the 15 
year timeframe to age 57 that shed build up a significant DC benefits from which she 
could draw flexible benefits; and
Her husband was expecting to retire from his public sector job at 55 and receive a 
tax-free lump sum of about £96,000 which couldve been used to meet any capital 
needs to cover the cost of luxury items.
Utilising these alternative options wouldve enabled Mrs R to maintain her safeguarded 
benefits. And it probably wouldve enabled her to delay drawing those benefits until 65 
thereby reducing the impact of an early retirement reduction. But I cant see that any such 
alternative options were properly explored in a meaningful way and discounted by PWM.In response to this complaint PWM stated that Mrs R envisaged using her safeguarded 
benefits flexibly to withdraw amounts as and when she needed it, potentially using it 
alongside a part-time job, when she was able to access it, or for luxuries throughout
retirement. If that was the case then I dont think a decision to transfer ought to have been 
made at that time. The transaction resulted in all the investment, inflation and longevity risk 
being transferred from the DB scheme to Mrs R but she couldnt access any benefits until at 
least 55. So I cannot see that there was any compelling reason to transfer at that time.
In conclusion, while I understand Mrs Rs reasons and motivations for flexible benefits, I 
dont think it was in her best interests to relinquish her safeguarded benefits at that time to 
achieve her capital lump sum objectives at least 15 years in the future. I dont think the 
perceived advantage of flexibility and control of income outweighed the guaranteed benefits 
offered by the BSPS2, and Im satisfied that Mrs Rs capital and income needs likely 
couldve been met by a blended and well-planned access to her different types of accrued 
benefits by the time she came to retirement, as Ive noted above. The available evidence 
simply doesnt support the position as to why control or flexibility wouldve been sufficiently 
compelling reasons for Mrs R to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees  especially at 42. 
Death benefits 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked most people would like
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die.
The recommended SIPP offered flexible death benefits  nominated beneficiaries could
choose to convert the fund value to secure a lifetime annuity, death lump sum or income
drawdown or any combination of these. Based on the applicable tax rules, if death occurred
under 75 the benefits are paid free of income tax  after 75 the benefits are taxed at the
beneficiarys marginal rate of income tax. Its fair to say that immediately following the
transfer to the SIPP and for the period until Mrs R could draw any benefits from 55 onwards,
the death benefits available would be significant (subject to investment performance) due to
the simple fact she couldnt access and deplete the fund value for at least 13 years.
Mrs R was recorded as being in good health. So she could expect life expectancy into her 
late 70s or early 80s. I acknowledge that she was concerned about her future health as auto 
immune disease ran through the female side of her family. And because of this she believed 
that she wouldnt be well enough to enjoy retirement beyond 70 and so wanted to spend 
more money in the early years of retirement. But it doesnt seem that there were any 
immediate concerns regarding her health.
The value of Mrs Rs safeguarded benefits represented the backbone of her retirement 
provision built up by that time. It was recorded that she didnt view her preserved benefits as 
important and instead intended to use the transfer value to provide luxuries such as holidays 
and other items. But withdrawing money from the SIPP to meet these needs in the early 
years of retirement would likely mean that the size of the fund remaining in later years  
when death is more likely  could be much smaller than expected.
The BSPS2 provided valuable guarantees. Mrs Rs husband wouldve received a 
guaranteed spouses pension for life which would increase in payment and wouldve been 
valuable if Mrs R predeceased him as well as a dependants pension for their children. And I 
note that through her employment, Mrs R had generous death in service life cover. In 
addition, the value of her Tata Steel DC plan would be paid as a lump sum to her nominated 
beneficiary(ies). So her family would receive guaranteed and flexible benefits if she died.
In any event, while I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, the priority here 
was to advise Mrs R about what was best for her own retirement provisions. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. So I dont think death benefits paid in a different format justified a pension transfer at that time given that Mrs R didnt have any 
immediate health concerns.
If properly informed, would Mrs R have transferred anyway?
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded that a pension transfer was in Mrs Rs
best interests and that PWMs recommendation could therefore be regarded as suitable
in the circumstances. So I think its fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint.
In potential mitigation of PWMs advice, Ive also thought about whether Mrs R, if placed
in a fully informed position, would nevertheless have decided to transfer the value of her
safeguarded benefits to a SIPP. This was a complex transaction involving many
factors which Mrs R, as a layperson, wouldnt have been familiar. Its my view that she was
heavily reliant on PWM, as the professional party in the transaction, to take those
factors into account and provide suitable, balanced advice. Given Mrs Rs reliance on
PWM to provide expert advice, I think its unlikely, on balance, she wouldve transferred
against its advice had it advised her to opt for the BSPS2.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs R, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice she was given. My view is
aligned with that of our investigator in that, had Mrs R been properly advised, she wouldve
opted for the BSPS2 rather than the PPF. Ill explain why.
There were differences between the BSPS2 and PPF. These differences meant that the PPF 
was likely the better option for unmarried, deferred members who expected to retire early or 
take the maximum tax-free cash available even allowing for the 10% reduction in the starting 
entitlement. But the BSPS2 was likely the better option for married pensioners and deferred 
members who expected to draw benefits at or close to the scheme normal retirement age of 
65. For the reasons set out above, I think its likely that, properly advised, Mrs R wouldve 
envisaged accessing her Tata Steel DC plan (or other DC plan savings if she worked for 
another employer) and relying on her husbands pension income or a combination of both in 
the first instance to make up any income shortfall before starting to take her safeguarded 
benefits at 65. In terms of death benefits, under the BPSP2 the spouses pension would be 
set at 50% of her pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no tax-free 
cash was taken at retirement. And so its the benefits offered by the BSPS2 which should be 
used for comparison purposes.
As such, the calculation on the basis of entering the BSPS2 should be carried out using the
most recent financial assumptions at the date of the actual calculation. This should be on the
basis Mrs R takes benefits at the scheme normal retirement age of 65.
FCA consultation 
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document  CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA stated that it considers the current redress methodology in
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 remains appropriate and fundamental changes arent
necessary. However, its review identified some areas where it considers it could improve or
clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress.A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance  https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come 
into effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has stated that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 while the consultation takes place.
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked the Representative to confirm with Mrs R whether she preferred any 
redress to be calculated now in line with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance 
and rules to be published. She didnt make a choice. So, as set out previously, Ive assumed 
in this case she doesnt want to wait for any new guidance. Im satisfied that a calculation in 
line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is identified, will provide fair redress for 
Mrs R.
PWM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the FCAs pension
review guidance as updated by it in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how
to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. This calculation should be carried
out as at the date of this final decision and using the most recent financial assumptions at
the date of this decision. In accordance with the FCAs expectations, this should be
undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification
of Mrs Rs acceptance of this final decision.
PWM may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain
Mrs Rs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or 
S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, 
which will take into account the impact of leaving the BSPS on Mrs Rs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement. 
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Mrs Rs SIPP. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax
relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the SIPP if it would conflict with any existing
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the SIPP isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it should
be paid directly to Mrs R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been taxed according to her likely income tax rate 
in retirement  presumed to be 20%, as previously stated by our investigator. So making a
notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
If this complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance
or rules come into effect, Id expect PWM to carry out a calculation in line with the
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
In addition, PWM should pay Mrs R £200 for the distress and inconvenience this matter
has caused her.
The compensation amount must, where possible, be paid to Mrs R within 90 days of the date
PWM receives notification of her acceptance of this final decision. Further interest must
be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of this
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes
PWM to pay Mrs R.Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. Where I uphold
a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs
that I consider are appropriate.
Where I consider that fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed
£160,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require PrisWM Limited to pay 
Mrs R the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000. Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally 
require PrisWM Limited to pay Mrs R any interest on that amount in full, as set out above. 
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require PrisWM 
Limited to pay Mrs R any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
PrisWM Limited pays Mrs R the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mrs R. If Mrs R accepts this final 
decision, the money award becomes binding on PrisWM Limited. My recommendation would 
not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mrs R can accept my final decision and go to court 
to ask for the balance. Mrs R may want to consider getting independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept this final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman