DRN-3551323
The complaint
Mr R complains that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) caused unnecessary delays in the 
transfer of his Stakeholder Pension Plan into a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with 
another business, and there was a fall in the value of his funds as a result.
What happened
Mr R had had a Stakeholder Pension with Legal & General (L&G) since 2002. His funds 
were invested in the L&G International fund.
As a result of a business acquisition, in 2019 his pension plan was transferred from L&G to 
ReAssure.
On 13 April 2021 Mr R submitted a transfer request to ReAssure informing it he wished to 
transfer his pension in specie into a SIPP held by Interactive. On 14 April 2021 Mr R signed 
ReAssures Transfer Payment Release (TPR) form, which was then completed and signed 
by the receiving schemes trustees on 30 April 2021 and sent to ReAssure.
On 10 May 2021 ReAssure wrote to Mr R acknowledging his transfer request and asked him 
to complete a TPR. Mr R did so and signed it on 13 May 2021.
On 28 May 2021 ReAssure wrote to Mr R saying it was unable to complete the transfer as it 
required a wet signature on the TPR. Mr R queried this on the telephone and was told by 
ReAssure that it wasnt that a signature was required, but that the investment couldnt be 
transferred in specie, and had to be sold down to cash first. Mr R agreed.
Mr R chased ReAssure several times over the next two weeks, and on 18 June 2021 
complained to ReAssure about the delays.
On 22 June 2021 ReAssure wrote to Mr R with his pensions closing statement. It said it had 
valued his fund on 11 May 2021. The transfer was completed on 25 June 2021. Mr R 
queried the date used for the fund valuation and delays several times more, until he wrote a 
formal complaint to ReAssure about the delays, and the date used to value his fund. He 
thought it was unfair that ReAssure had taken the value of his fund on 11 May 2021 for the 
transfer, which was approximately £57,000 less than its value as of the closing date of 22 
June 2021. 
ReAssure sent Mr R its final response letter to his complaint on 19 July 2021. It agreed it 
had caused some unnecessary delays in the transfer, and offered him £200 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience hed been caused. It said it would investigate if Mr R had 
been caused any financial loss by the delays and would let him know the outcome.
Unhappy with this response, Mr R referred his complaint to our service. And having 
considered the circumstances our Investigator thought his complaint should be upheld. He 
thought ReAssure had caused an unnecessary delay of about one month to the transfer of 
Mr Rs pension. He agreed that £200 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
ReAssure had caused Mr R was fair and reasonable, but thought it should also undertake a 
redress calculation to establish if Mr R had suffered a loss to the value of his pension as a 
result of the delay. And he explained the calculation methodology he thought ReAssure 
should use, and if a loss was identified, how this should be paid to Mr R.
After some more explanation of the redress methodology Mr R accepted the Investigators 
view. But ReAssure did not respond, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the view of the Investigator, for broadly the same reasons. Ill 
explain.
ReAssure has agreed that it caused unnecessary delays in facilitating the transfer of Mr Rs 
funds to his new SIPP. But what is in dispute is the extent of these delays, and the impact 
these may have had on Mr R personally, and the value of his pension fund.
ReAssure initially said it calculated the transfer value on 11 May 2021 as this was the point 
in time it had all the necessary information to facilitate the transfer request. But when the 
process was reviewed, ReAssure agreed with our Investigator that the date shouldve 
actually been 13 May 2021 as this was the date that it had received the wet signatures from 
both Mr R and the receiving scheme trustees. And Im satisfied that receiving these 
signatures was a reasonable necessity in the circumstances, and as this was the point that 
ReAssure had all the required information, it is fair to use this date to obtain the transfer 
value of the pension.
The transfer wasnt completed until 25 June 2021, and I cant see any reason to justify why it 
took this long. It is impossible to say exactly how long pension transfers should take, as each 
has its own details and peculiarities, but I dont think it would be unfair to say a cash transfer 
such as Mr Rs shouldve been completed within the standard industry practice of 10 working 
days. So Im satisfied, using 13 May 2021 as the liability date, Mr Rs transfer shouldve 
been completed by around 27 May 2021. 
Mr Rs pension fund was uninvested and held in cash whilst the transfer was completed. I 
understand Mr R requested the transfer was completed in-specie, and had it been so it 
wouldve remained invested during this time. But ReAssure have explained this is not its 
business practice, so I dont think it was unreasonable to insist the investments were sold 
and held in cash. But the delay in the transfer process meant his funds remained in cash and 
uninvested for longer than necessary, and whilst uninvested were not exposed to the market 
and any market gains which occurred. So Im satisfied that Mr Rs pension fund may not 
currently reflect the value it wouldve had the delay not occurred and he had been able to 
reinvest his funds at an earlier date.
I cannot know for certain what investment choice Mr R wouldve made within his new SIPP 
had his funds been available on 27 May 2021. But given he had remained with the same 
fund since his pensions inception, and hed requested the transfer be made in-specie, I think 
it is a fair assumption to make that he wouldve most likely re-invested in the same fund he 
was in previously. And I think it most likely he wouldve done this on or very soon after 27 
May 2021. 
Im also satisfied that £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience the delay 
caused to Mr R is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I can see he had to chase 
ReAssure a number of times and was given unclear and conflicting information which wouldve likely heightened the stress that Mr R was feeling, especially given the transfer was 
exposing his retirement savings to instability and change. £200 is fair and in line with the 
approach of our Service in circumstances such as these.
Putting things right
In order to put Mr R back as closely as possible in the position he wouldve been in had the 
delays not occurred, I require ReAssure to undertake a loss calculation as set out below.
Fair compensation
I take the view that Mr R would have invested his funds into the LG International Fund 
Accumulator (series 17) earlier than he was actually able to do. Im satisfied that what Ive 
set out below is fair and reasonable and most likely reflective of his investment intentions 
when he requested the transfer of his funds.
What must ReAssure do?
To compensate Mr R fairly, ReAssure must:
Compare the performance of Mr R's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation 
is payable.
ReAssure should pay into Mr R's pension plan to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be 
paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If ReAssure is unable to pay the total amount into Mr R's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been 
paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt 
a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr R wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction 
after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr R's actual marginal rate of 
tax at his selected retirement age. Mr R is a higher-rate taxpayer, so the 
reduction would equal 40%. However, if Mr R is able to take a tax-free lump sum 
from his pension fund, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 30%.
Pay to Mr R £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the delays in the 
transfer process.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If ReAssure deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr R how much has been taken off. ReAssure should give Mr R a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr R asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Interactive 
SIPPStill exists 
and liquidLG 
International 
Fund 
Accumulator 
(series 17)27 May 2021 Date of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Im not aware that he has made any, but any withdrawal from Mr Rs Interactive SIPP 
should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it 
ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there have been a large 
number of regular payments, to keep the calculations simpler it is acceptable to total all 
those payments and deduct that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of 
deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because Mr R would have most likely invested 
in the LG International Fund Accumulator (series 17) sooner, had the delays not occurred.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. My decision is that ReAssure Limited should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above. It should provide Mr R a copy of its calculations in a clear and 
understandable format. In addition, it should pay Mr R £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience hes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman