DRN-2119953
The complaint
Mr M complains that Anglian Windows Ltd mis-sold him a finance agreement for a new door.
What happened
Mr M asked a representative of Anglian to visit his home with a view to having a new door 
installed. Mr M signed a Customer Personal Information (CPI) form which showed that the 
total amount payable would be £2061.66. This was payable over a 36-month term for 
£1861.66 after a £200 deposit was paid.
However, the finance agreement provided by the lender was subsequently drawn up for a 
60-month term. That said, it allowed for higher monthly payments to shorten the term. Mr M 
complained and he was visited by a representative who offered to forgo the difference 
between the amount shown on the CPI form and the finance agreement which would mean 
that it would be interest free. Mr M also had concerns about the quality of the work and didnt 
accept the offer.
He brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators 
who considered Anglians offer to be fair. Anglian submitted its view and said that its 
representative had felt the need to make the offer to placate Mr Ms mother-in-law. It had 
explained to Mr M how he could increase his payments so the agreement could be reduced 
to three years.
Our investigator suggested that Anglian pay Mr M £485 which it had already offered and 
would mean give Mr M an interest free credit facility. Anglian referred us to its original 
submission without adding any comment and Mr M said he agreed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 In this matter Anglian was acting as the credit broker and has a responsibility to make clear 
the terms under which the finance agreement is made. It is clear there was some confusion 
as to what was being offered to Mr M. He has set out the history of events in some detail. I 
believe the CPI form to be somewhat misleading. It states that if Mr M pays £59.76 for 36 
months and pays a deposit of £200, he will pay £1861.00 in total. That is wrong. The total 
payable with these payments would be £2,351.36.
The finance agreement was set up for 60 months with payments of £39.08 plus a deposit of 
£200 which meant that the total sum payable would be £2,544.80. I appreciate that Mr M 
had the option of increasing his monthly payments such that he could clear the balance 
within 36 months, but that still doesnt tie in with the CPI form which was the one he was 
given initially.
Mr M says the sales representative told him the price was £2,061 and he would have nothing 
more to pay. When he got the finance agreement, he spoke with both the lender and Anglian 
and thought initially that the matter had been resolved. He says that he didnt receive details 
of his rights to cancel until the cancellation period had expired. 
Overall, I think Mr M was led to believe that he would only have to pay £1,861 after the 
deposit was paid and that Anglian should ensure this happens. I asked Mr M for details of 
his payments to date and I note he has been making regular monthly payments of £39.08. 
I can see that it has been suggested that he should pay the higher monthly sum of £59.76 to 
shorten the term and it may be that Mr M could choose to clear the debt earlier, but in any 
event, I think the total he should pay is £2,061 including the deposit. I believe the simplest 
way of ensuring Mr M doesnt pay interest is for Anglian to pay him £485 which would mean 
he pays no more than he was originally led to believe. For the avoidance of doubt if Mr M 
were to fail to make any future payments it would be open to the lender to take any 
appropriate action to obtain payment.
Putting things right
 I consider Anglian should compensate Mr M.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Anglian Windows Ltd to pay Mr 
M £485.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman