DRN-3840900
The complaint
Mr K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund money he lost when he was the victim of 
a scam. 
Mr K is represented by a firm that Ill refer to as C.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In May 2021 Mr K was the victim of a cryptocurrency scam. After being told he could receive 
15-30% returns on his investment within an hour, Mr K sent £320 to an individual to 
purchase cryptocurrency for use on a trading platform. Mr K says he could see the funds on 
the trading platform and the profits made on the initial trades. He then received £367.37 
back the same day. 
Because of this, Mr K trusted the scammer and decided to invest more. He made two further 
payments but these were sent to an account in Mr Ks own name with a cryptocurrency 
exchange firm (A), before being sent to a cloned trading platform used by the scammers. 
The relevant payments are:
Date Type Amount
13 May 2021 Faster payment £2,546
17 May 2021 Faster payment £2,029
Total: £4,575
The second of these payments was made as the scammer enticed Mr K into signing up to a 
VIP account  which he thought would lead to greater returns  but, upon doing so, his 
account was frozen unless further funds were provided. After sending the funds, the 
scammer told Mr K he would need to pay over £1,000 more. At this point, Mr K realised hed 
been scammed.
Mr K contacted Lloyds about the scam. He said, while the two payments he made to A were 
genuine, the platform it subsequently moved to wasnt  which he downloaded from a link 
provided to him by the scammer. Lloyds told Mr K that, as the money was lost from A and 
not them, hed need to speak to A directly about it. Mr K was unhappy with this and the 
options given to him but a complaint wasnt registered at the time.
C complained to Lloyds, in August 2022, on behalf of Mr S about what happened. In short, 
they said:
Mr K didnt recall the payments being questioned by Lloyds, nor does he recall any 
warning messages. He only recalls being asked are you sure you want to do this 
transaction?. Lloyds therefore failed to provide Mr K with an effective warning, which 
led to his payments being processed.
The payments were made to a new payee and were of a higher value compared to 
how Mr K typically used his account. Lloyds ought to have identified this unusual 
activity and intervened  speaking with Mr K and carrying out further checks before 
processing the payments. 
Lloyds didnt handle the matter appropriately or offer him adequate help and support. 
They also failed to inform Mr K of his right to complain (including referring the matter 
to the Financial Ombudsman). 
Mr K was more vulnerable to being scammed as English isnt his first language. 
Because of this, he may have found it difficult to identify red flags in the same way as 
others - where English is their first language - have done. 
To settle this complaint, Mr K wanted the reimbursement of the money he lost.
Lloyds didnt think they were responsible for Mr Ks loss but they acknowledged the poor 
service he received when he contacted them in May 2021. In short, Lloyds said:
The payments arent covered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) 
code as they were made to an account held in Mr Ks name. 
When a customer makes an online payment to a new payee, they provide an on-
screen warning tailored to the reason for the payment (as declared by the customer). 
Mr K says he received one at the time but it wasnt relevant to him. Unfortunately, 
due to the time thats since passed, they cant be sure what warning was given.
Their systems are designed to highlight payments that seem to carry a higher risk of 
being linked to scams, or other types of fraud. When they identify a risk, they stop to 
call the customer to carry our further checks. Their system didnt identify these 
payments as a high risk, so they didnt intervene.
They do not feel the payments were out of character for Mr K as hed frequently sent 
faster payments from the account to a wide variety of payees. So, they were satisfied 
they couldnt have reasonably been expected to identify the payments were linked to 
fraud. 
When theyre notified of a scam, they will generally contact the receiving bank to 
request the return of funds. In Mr Ks case however, the payments were made to an 
account in his name with a genuine third-party services provider, so they had no right 
to recover this money. 
They didnt think Mr Ks vulnerability impacted his ability to identify the risk of a scam, 
or to carry out reasonable checks to protect himself. Therefore, they didnt think it 
was influential factor in the scam.
They apologised for the service they provided in May 2021. Although the answer they 
gave was ultimately correct  that they couldnt refund the payments  they shouldve 
logged a complaint as Mr K was clearly dissatisfied. They should also have explained 
their decision and the options available to Mr K more clearly. In recognition of this, 
they arranged to pay £100 into Mr Ks account.
The complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman but our Investigator didnt think 
Lloyds had to do anything further. He said he didnt think the payments wouldve been 
particularly unusual or suspicious in appearance to Lloyds considering Mr Ks normal account and payment activity. And he referred to a payment made by Mr K on his account 
for £3,500 in December 2020, as that was larger than those in question. So, he wouldnt 
have expected Lloyds to have intervened  which meant Lloyds didnt miss an opportunity to 
discuss the payments with Mr K and identify they were being made in relation to a scam. He 
did however think that the £100 Lloyds provided for not logging the complaint in May 2021 
was reasonable. 
C didnt accept our investigators assessment and so the matter has been passed to me to 
decide. They didnt think one payment of a higher value meant the scam payments 
constituted a regular spending pattern. C also added that the payment in question was to an 
account in Mr Ks name that he holds with another firm that specialises in currency exchange 
and international payments, and that this was an established payee. They therefore thought 
the scam payments ought to have been considered unusual based on Mr Ks normal 
account activity and Lloydss fraud detection systems shouldve flagged this at the time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr K has been the victim of a scam. I realise hes lost a significant sum of 
money, some of which he borrowed from family and friends. I therefore dont underestimate 
the impact this has had on him. But, while know this isnt the outcome Mr K will be hoping 
for, I dont think Lloyds has acted unfairly by not refunding his loss for similar reasons to our 
Investigator. Ill explain why.
Ive thought about the CRM code which can offer a potential means of obtaining a refund 
following Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this one. But the CRM code only 
applies to payments made to an account held by another person. As the payments Mr K 
made were sent to an account with A that he held in his own name, theyre not covered 
under the CRM code. Ive therefore considered whether Lloyds should reimburse Mr K under 
any of their other obligations.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that their customer authorises them to make. Here, it isnt disputed that 
Mr K knowingly made the payments from his Lloyds account. I appreciate Mr K was tricked 
by the scammer as he thought it was a genuine investment opportunity. Nevertheless, Im 
satisfied the payments were authorised by Mr K. So, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 and the terms of his account, Lloyds are expected to process the 
payments and Mr K is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for HSBC to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment to 
help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, the starting point here is whether the instructions given by Mr K to Lloyds (either 
individually or collectively) were unusual in relation to his typical account activity.
Having looked at Mr Ks account usage prior to the scam occurred, it was typically used for 
relatively low value day to day spending. There were however, at times, transactions that 
Mr K made of a higher value  ranging from about £600 up to £3,500. This includes, for 
example, a purchase made for about £1,000 on 4 February 2021 as well as the £3,500 
payment referred to above. Ive noted Cs point the £3,500 payment was sent to an account in Mr Ks own name, which was set up as an existing payee, and that this alone shouldnt 
constitute a regular spending pattern. But while the scam payments were for more than 
Mr K typically spent day to day from his account, they were sent to an account in his own 
name. And I dont think they were so unusual or out of character  included the payment 
amounts - whereby Id have expected Lloyds to have intervened at the time. I also think its 
also worth noting that it isnt unusual for people to make less frequent payments from time to 
time for one off or occasional expenses. So, taking all of this into consideration, I dont think 
Lloyds ought to have done more before following the instructions Mr K gave.
Im aware C has referred to Mr K being more susceptible to being scammed due to English 
not being his first language. Although Lloyds is expected to consider vulnerability  amongst 
other factors  when assessing whether a customer might be at risk of financial harm of 
fraud, I likewise dont consider it to have been an influential factor in this scam. And, as Ive 
explained, I dont think Lloyds had reason to think that Mr K was at risk here. 
Upon being notified of the scam, Lloyds didnt contact the receiving bank to find out whether 
any funds were recoverable. Given the receiving bank was an account Mr K held in his own 
name with A that he could access, I dont think this was inappropriate in the circumstances. 
This is because, if there were any remaining funds available, Mr K wouldve been able to 
withdraw them at the time. 
On a final note, I understand Lloyds paid Mr K £100 for service issues he experienced at the 
time he reported the fraud including a complaint not being registered. While Im sympathetic 
to the trouble he experienced, this hasnt impacted Mr K financially as a result. And, after 
giving the matter careful thought, I dont think £100 is an unreasonable amount to recognise 
this.
Im sorry to hear Mr K fell victim to a scam. But in the circumstances of this complaint, I think 
Lloyds has acted fairly and so Im not going to tell them to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman