DRN-3028813
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Miss S says Lloyds Bank PLC trading as Lloyds TSB (Lloyds) mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Miss S 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought Lloyds offer to pay 
back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Miss S paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Miss S representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss S. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Miss S complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that Lloyds offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think Lloyds made it clear that Miss S didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because Lloyds has provided a copy of Miss S postal credit card 
application from 1996. Looking at this I can see Miss S ticked a box in a separate section 
of the form to agree to take out PPI. The section doesnt say or imply PPI had to be 
taken out  so if Miss S didnt want PPI she couldve left this section blank.
So taking everything into account, including the fact that Miss S completed her 
application in her own time without any interaction from a member of Lloyds staff, I think 
she chose to take out PPI and did so without undue pressure. 
As this was a postal sale, Lloyds didnt recommend the PPI to Miss S. This means it 
didnt have to check that the PPI was right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Miss 
S enough clear and timely information so she could decide for herself if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Miss S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Miss S  for example she 
was eligible for the cover and there was nothing about her employment or occupation, 
which would have made it difficult for her to claim.
Although Miss S says she had a medical condition sometime before the policy was taken 
out, I dont think better information about the existing medical exclusion wouldve caused 
her to change her minds about taking out the policy. I say this because its possible given 
what Miss S told us, that her condition happened more than 12 months before the start 
date of the policy. In which case her condition wouldnt have been caught by the medical 
condition exclusion.
But even if I accept that Miss S condition happened within 12 months of the start date, 
Im not persuaded she wouldve been put off taking out the policy. Miss S told that she 
had some treatment for her condition and had three weeks off work at the time. But 
given what she told both Lloyds and us about her condition (it appears to have been 
caused by an injury sustained in an accident ) and the fact she hasnt said or implied that 
the treatment she had failed to cure her condition and she suffered with ongoing 
problems, I dont think Miss S would have likely thought her condition would be the main 
reason shed need significant time off work and so need to claim on the policy. For this 
reason together with Miss S age and wider circumstances at the time, I dont think shed 
have declined the cover had she been told anything more. 
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back problems and an 
exclusion for mental health conditions, in light of Miss S circumstances at the time of 
sale and despite its limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for her. So I think she would have still thought she had some good reasons to 
take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Miss S would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently 
close to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Miss S representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. 
These general points include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly 
applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies 
represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of 
cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making a claim.
But Miss S representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss S individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Ss particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss S.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Lloyds offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Miss S about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Lloyds and Miss S was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Lloyds didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
I dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss S because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipIm now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Miss S representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary they have said Miss S should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: Lloyds failed to tell Miss S about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Miss S wouldnt have taken out the policy 
had they known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all the 
premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Miss 
S in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Lloyds not disclosing the high level of 
commission to her before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Miss S representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Lloydss failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Lloyds to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Miss S paid for her PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Miss S 
with the policy Ive concluded above she would still have taken out if Lloyds had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.So I consider that Lloyds offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
As I understand Lloyds has already paid Miss S compensation on this basis, I dont consider 
it should do anything further. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Miss S complaint or make any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Lloyds 
Bank PLC trading as Lloyds TSB should pay Miss S an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated 
interest where applicable.) As I understand that Lloyds Bank PLC trading as Lloyds TSB has 
already paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider that it should do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 November 2021. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman