DRN-4420076
The complaint
Miss O complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund the money she lost 
when she was the victim of a scam. 
What happened
Miss O says that she booked accommodation abroad through a well-known booking 
company. Soon after, she received a message to contact the manager of the 
accommodation via a messaging app to complete the reservation, which Miss O did. Miss O 
made a card payment of £530.67 on 27 March 2023 to the account details provided. She 
then received a message from the company that owned the accommodation to say that its 
page on the booking site had suffered a cyber attack and the previous messages she had 
received were fraudulent. Miss O was advised to contact her bank. 
Miss O raised a dispute with Santander on 28 March 2023. Santander responded and said 
that Miss Os dispute didnt meet the criteria to ask for a refund from the retailer. Miss O was 
unhappy and raised a complaint with this service. Santander then considered a fraud claim 
which it also rejected on the basis Miss O authorised the payments. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. He noted 
that Miss O had made a one-off card payment that wasnt unusual in value or otherwise. 
Miss O didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for a final decision, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to consider. Miss O said that a Santander agent told her in 
a call that she should be reimbursed because she was the victim of an impersonation scam, 
and she hadnt received what she paid for. With her response to the view Miss O also 
provided duplicate screenshots related to the scam.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
I recognise that Miss O is the victim of a scam, but this doesnt mean shes automatically 
entitled to a refund from Santander. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
Miss O made a card payment in this case, so Ive considered whether Santander ought 
reasonably to have raised a chargeback. Chargeback is a process that allows debit and 
credit card holders to reverse a transaction when theres a problem with the goods or 
services they have purchased. It is organised and run through the overarching card scheme 
(Mastercard in this case) but customers wishing to use the service must go through their 
card issuer (Santander here). The chargeback scheme is voluntary, and banks are not under 
any formal obligation to submit a chargeback claim. 
This services view is that it is good practice for a bank to make a chargeback claim where 
the right exists and there is a reasonable prospect of success. In this case I think Santander 
acted reasonably in not making a claim because there was no valid chargeback right against 
the recipient of Miss Os funds. This is because Miss O didnt send funds to the scammer 
directly, but to a money transfer service that provided the service it was meant to. 
Santander also has long-standing obligations to be on the lookout for unusual and out of 
character transactions that might indicate a customer is at risk of financial harm. As the 
investigator has pointed out though, the scam transaction was relatively low in value and 
was in line with Miss Os normal account activity so there was no reason for Santander to be 
concerned. 
The Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) that 
provides for scam victims to be reimbursed except in limited circumstances doesnt apply in 
this case. This is because the CRM Code doesnt apply to card payments.  
I understand Miss O says someone at Santander told her she would receive a refund. Even 
if this advice was given in error, it wouldnt be fair to ask Santander to reimburse Miss O. 
Overall, whilst I recognise that Miss O is the victim of a scam and that the loss of her funds 
has had a big impact on her, I cant reasonably hold Santander liable for her loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman