DRN-2325786
The complaint
Mr C complains about a lengthy delay transferring his ISA from Yorkshire Building Society
(YBS).
What happened
Mr C said ISA transfers are supposed to take a maximum of 15 working days. His ISA
transfer from YBS took 23 working days, and he had to get involved to make the transfer
happen. He said that the reason for the delay was that YBS uses both a 10-digit roll number
and an 8-digit account number to identify each of its accounts. Either of those numbers can
be used to transfer an ISA in, and the money will still find its way to the right account.
Mr C said that YBS didnt include any details on its website about ISA transfers out of the
society. So he thought it was reasonable for him to have assumed that YBS would accept
either number to make transfers out too. But it turned out that it wont accept either numbers
for transfers out, and Mr C had quoted the wrong number. That caused a delay.
Mr C said when he complained, YBS said that the software used for transfers shouldve
made clear to his new ISA provider which number it needed to make the transfer work. But
Mr C said that if hed known, he could just have given this number to the new provider. He
thought that, unless the customer knew which number was needed, it would always take
longer than 15 days to make the transfer. And he said that what YBS said didnt match up
with what his new ISA provider had said either.
Mr C said his loss of interest added up to £21 per week. Hed lost about £40 in total. And
hed spent a considerable amount of time sorting this out. Mr C said that because YBS didnt
provide the information on its website about how to make transfers out, this was just going to
keep happening to other people.
YBS said that when Mr Cs new provider sent an electronic transfer request to it, the relevant
page wouldve prompted that provider to quote a 10-digit number, not the 8-digit number it
had tried to use. YBS said that the request to transfer wouldve bounced back immediately,
and the new provider couldve contacted it to query this, but YBS said it hadnt done so.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said it wouldve been
prudent for Mr C to check which number YBS used for transfers out of the account. And if Mr
Cs new ISA provider had checked the information needed for transfers, then it wouldve
realised that the number wasnt right, and Mr Cs transfer would not have been delayed.
Mr C said his new provider got in touch relatively promptly after the initial failure, but the
transfer then had to be done on paper, which meant it took longer. And that initial failure only
happened because YBS doesnt tell its customers, through its website, which number to use.
Mr C didnt think the transfer system was relevant, as a failure of the transfer would always
cause a delay. He said that for a transfer to be prompt, the customer has to give the right
information, and YBS wasnt helping with that because it wasnt telling customers what that
right information is.
Our investigator said he hadnt seen any evidence that YBS had given Mr C wrong
information. He still thought if Mr C had been unsure of which number to use, he shouldve
asked YBS. Our investigator did think the system for transferring ISAs was relevant, and was
used to help avoid this sort of delay. That database explains what number should be used,
and if Mr Cs new provider had checked it, then the delay wouldnt have occurred.
Mr C didnt agree. He didnt think YBS was meeting the industry standard for ISA transfers,
and he said that was because it wasnt giving customers the information they needed. And it
didnt seem to think it had to do that. He wanted us to take action. This case was then
passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Mr C knows there are two numbers which identify his account, so when he was 
transferring out his ISA, he checked YBS website to see which number he should 
use. The website was silent on that. It still is. So Mr C said that he assumed it would 
be the same as transfers in  either number can be used. I think that was a 
reasonable assumption for Mr C to make.
Unfortunately, Mr C picked the wrong number. I have seen the transfer database, 
and I can see that it contains a warning, aimed at Mr Cs new provider, that it would 
need a 10-digit number, not an 8-digit number. So I think at this point, the new 
provider shouldve come back to Mr C and asked him for the 10-digit number. It 
didnt, it processed the transfer anyway, and it failed. I think that caused most of the 
delay in this case.
But what Mr C says makes me think that there would always have been a delay, 
even if Mr Cs new provider had done everything right. And thats because YBS didnt 
give Mr C a key piece of information on its website. If it had done this, then Mr Cs 
transfer wouldve happened quickly and smoothly.
If YBS will accept transfers in using either the 10-digit roll number or the 8-digit 
account number, but can only use one of these for transfers out, then I do think it 
would be helpful if that information had been available to Mr C. 
I cant require YBS to change this on its website for future customers. Our service 
only looks at whats happened in each individual complaint. 
But I can consider the impact in this case. And, as I think this contributed to Mr Cs 
loss here, So I will ask YBS to pay Mr C £50, for its part in the delay that was caused, 
the missing interest, and the inconvenience experienced by Mr C.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
YBS didnt reply. Mr C replied to accept my decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C said he was glad our service felt his complaint was justified. He said he hoped YBS 
would now amend its website to provide the appropriate information in future. 
Mr C said Id recognised that there would always have been a delay, even if his new provider 
had done everything right, because YBS didnt give Mr C a key piece of information on its 
website. 
Mr C wanted to add that the transfer then became a paper process, which meant it took 
longer still. Im not sure if the transfer needed to be a paper process. It may still have been 
possible to carry out an electronic transfer, if Mr Cs new provider had spotted the problem 
with the account number before it made its first electronic request. But whether the transfer 
needed to be paper or could (in this hypothetical situation) still have been carried out 
electronically, I still think YBS is to blame for at least some of the delay. 
So I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Yorkshire Building Society must pay Mr C £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman