DRN-1965650
 
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the way Stagemount Limited trading as Quidmarket has 
managed his account. 
What happened
Mr W was given a loan of £300 by Quidmarket in September 2019. The loan was repayable 
in three monthly instalments. The first instalment was collected successfully. When 
Quidmarket tried to collect the second instalment, its request was declined by Mr Ws bank. 
Mr W was unhappy about the communication that followed this event. Quidmarket accepted 
that something had gone wrong and offered to deduct £10.00 from Mr Ws loan balance as a 
gesture of goodwill. Mr W didnt think this was an adequate response by Quidmarket and he 
brought his complaint to this service.
Mr W's complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think that 
Quidmarket should be asked to do anything more. Mr W didn't agree with that assessment. 
So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Ive carefully considered all the evidence, arguments and information Ive seen about this 
matter, including all the telephone call recordings that I have received from Quidmarket. 
From what Ive seen, the trigger point for this matter was a misunderstanding about the 
dates when Mr Ws loan repayments would be collected. 
Mr W was under the impression that he had agreed with Quidmarket that his loan 
repayments would be made on the last working day of each month - to ensure sufficient 
funds would be available in his account to meet the repayments. The actual loan agreement 
shows that the lender was expecting to collect the first two loan repayments on the 30th of 
each month and the third repayment on the 29th of the month. So whilst Mr W might have 
understood the arrangement differently, I dont think Quidmarket did anything wrong when it 
tried to collect the second loan repayment on 30th October.
However, this misunderstanding meant that Mr Ws account was not in sufficient funds when 
Quidmarket attempted to collect the second loan repayment. The lender sent Mr W a text 
message about his account being in arrears. Mr W was concerned and he called Quidmarket 
to understand what had happened. I have listened to that call recording and it seems to me 
that the matter was resolved quickly and amicably. Mr W was told he would not be charged a 
late payment fee. He asked not to be contacted again about being in arrears. Quidmarket 
confirmed that he shouldnt be contacted but if he was, it would be as the result of an 
automated message generated by Quidmarkets system.
Mr W was then called a few minutes later by another agent from Quidmarket. This agent was 
following up on what he thought was still an outstanding loan repayment. The agent was 
unaware that the matter had already been resolved because Quidmarkets system had not 
updated. The agent apologised for his mistake in calling Mr W, but Mr W wanted to complain 
about being called in error. It seems to me from listening to the call that there was a 
breakdown of communications between Mr W and Quidmarket at this point. Mr W tried to 
raise his complaint with the agent but he found it difficult to do so. Mr W was also unhappy 
about what he felt was the abrupt way in which Quidmarket ended the call.  
Mr W called Quidmarket to complain about his poor customer experience that morning. He 
was told that a manager would call him back. He then received an email from Quidmarket 
saying that his complaint had been resolved. This upset Mr W further as he felt his complaint 
hadnt been dealt with at all.
Later that morning Quidmarket called Mr W and acknowledged that things had gone wrong. 
It apologised to Mr W and offered to deduct £10 from the balance of his loan, as a goodwill 
gesture. Mr W decided to take the matter further and complain to this service.
Mr W says that overall, he had to make several calls to Quidmarket to sort the matter out 
and he received further communications about his account being in arrears that upset him. 
He was annoyed that he had to make calls whilst he was at work and he has complained 
that the final loan repayment wasnt taken as promised. He says he had to telephone 
Quidmarket again to resolve matters and that the lender didnt investigate his complaint 
properly. 
Mr W has told us that he suffers from severe depression and panic attacks, and he has told 
Quidmarket about how this episode has impacted on him. I appreciate that he was very 
upset by what happened. I also understand why he is unhappy and disappointed about the 
level of customer service he experienced from Quidmarket. From what Ive heard from the 
telephone calls, I dont think Quidmarket fully appreciated the negative impact that this 
matter had on Mr W at the time. Or how much anxiety it inadvertently caused Mr W when it 
telephoned him in error and then appeared not to listen as well as it could have done to his 
attempts to raise a complaint. 
But Quidmarket did accept that it made an error in calling Mr W when the arrears on his 
account had in fact already been dealt with. Quidmarket also apologised for the way things 
were done and it offered a nominal amount of compensation. Whilst Mr W is unhappy about 
his subsequent dealings with Quidmarket, I think the substantive issues (the 
misunderstanding about the date of loan collection and Quidmarkets call in error) were 
largely dealt with in one day  even though Mr W was not happy about the outcome or the 
level of compensation offered.
Quidmarket has confirmed that its £10 gesture of goodwill is still open to Mr W. I think this is 
adequate to cover the likely cost of the telephone calls that Mr W made to Quidmarket. In the 
circumstances, I cannot fairly say that Quidmarket should do anything more, but I remind 
Quidmarket of its obligation to treat Mr W with forbearance and due consideration. I would 
also reasonably expect Quidmarket, as a responsible lender, to also take into account what 
Mr W has told it about the impact this matter had on his mental health and well-being.I am aware that Mr W will be disappointed, but I would like to reassure him that in reaching 
my decision, I have very carefully considered everything that both he and Quidmarket have 
told us.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Stagemount Limited trading as Quidmarket.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman