DRN-3377670
The complaint
Mr M complains about the level of service provided by Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ms car was hit by a lorry whilst it was parked, and he made a claim on his policy. But, in 
summary, Mr M was unhappy with Admirals delays in the handling of his claim, delays in 
providing him with a courtesy car, his loss of earnings as he couldnt get to work, that his 
policy excess wasnt refunded, and with the quality of repairs to his car. 
Admiral agreed there had been delays and it offered Mr M £150 compensation for this and 
£80 for eight days loss of use. It directed Mr M to his motor legal protection cover to recover 
his uninsured losses. And Admiral also tried to arrange for an independent assessor to 
inspect Mr Ms car. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought there 
had been delays in the claim. But he thought Admirals offers of compensation for this were 
fair and reasonable. He also thought Admiral had tried to contact Mr M about the repairs, 
without success. 
Mr M replied that it took Admiral two weeks to arrange for his car to be taken to its approved 
garage. He said hed never said he wanted to use his own garage. He said the 
compensation offered didnt cover the taxi fare for him to get to work. Mr M said hed asked 
the independent assessor to come to him, but this had been refused. He explained that 
being without his car had caused him losses. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr M first brought his complaint to us over two years ago. And I can 
understand that he feels frustrated that he hasnt had the outcome he wants. And also that 
hes had trouble and upset following a non-fault claim. But Im unable to uphold his complaint 
and I will now explain why Ive decided this. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably. 
And, where a business makes mistakes, as Admiral accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
So Ive considered the errors that Admiral was responsible for and their impact on Mr M. 
Mr M said the initial delays in the claim left him without a car. He was consequently unable to 
travel to work for a week and eventually he lost his job at the end of his probationary period. 
He said Admiral had agreed to reimburse his taxi costs, but it had lost the receipts provided. 
Admiral agreed it hadnt provided Mr M with a courtesy car when it should have. This, I think, 
was due to it misunderstanding the damage to Mr Ms car and its delay in appointing an 
approved repairer. Mr M has also provided evidence of Admirals website problems that 
prevented him from contacting it when he wanted to progress his claim. 
Admiral calculated that Mr M had been without a courtesy car for eight days due to its error. 
As our Investigator has explained, our approach is that loss of use is redressed at the rate of 
£10 a day. So I think Admirals offer of £80 compensation for this is fair and reasonable. 
Mr M said he needed to take a taxi to and from work because of the start time and distance. 
But I can see that Mr M has already raised this, and other losses, with his motor legal 
protection provider as uninsured losses. And if Mr M remains unhappy with its decision he 
can refer this to the legal ombudsman. So I cant say that Admiral is responsible for these 
losses. 
Admiral agreed that it hadnt provided the service Mr M should have received. And it offered 
Mr M £150 compensation for this. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our 
published guidance for the level of impact Admirals errors had on his claim. 
Mr M said that because he was unable to attend work for a week he lost his job at the end of 
his probationary period and he incurred further costs whilst unemployed. But I cant 
reasonably hold Admiral responsible for his employers decision. I cant see that his policy 
covers this. And, if Mr M thinks this is due to the loss of his car, then he could ask his legal 
protection provider for advice about how to pursue this as an uninsured loss. 
I think Mr Ms policy excess is another uninsured loss that is not Admirals responsibility. I 
can see that Mr M is adamant that he was told he would have this refunded within two weeks 
as the accident wasnt his fault. 
But I havent seen any evidence that Admiral told him this. In a call Mr M asked Admiral how 
likely it would be that he would recover his policy excess. And Admiral directed him to his 
motor legal protection provider for advice. 
Mr M was unhappy with the repairs to his car. When there is a disagreement about repairs, 
we think a reasonable step is to appoint an independent assessor to inspect the repairs. 
I can see that Admiral has tried to do this, but Mr M hasnt had the time to take his car for 
inspection and the assessor wont come to him. But I think Admiral then reasonably offered 
for Mr M to provide his own expert evidence to support his claim. I think that was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and its for Mr M to take up its offer if he so chooses.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman