DRN-1500884
The complaint
The estate of the late Mr M is represented by Mr Ms son, Mr G. 
Mr G says Phoenix Life Limited paid an incorrect sum assured for Mr Ms whole of life policy. 
He also says Phoenix has failed to keep a copy of Mr Ms policy documentation, when it 
should have retained it.
What happened
Mr M and his wife, Mrs M, both took out whole of life policies (named Senior Security Plans) 
which began on 22 February 2001. These were applied for directly with Cornhill Insurance 
Plc. Phoenix now takes responsibility for the sale of both policies. 
Mr M and Mrs M each chose a monthly premium of £20 on a form returned to Cornhill via 
post. Mr G says this premium provided an agreed sum assured of £3,181.
Mrs M sadly passed away in 2016. Phoenix paid out her policys death benefit of £3,181 in 
accordance with her policy terms. 
In October 2019, Mr M also sadly passed away. In November 2019, Mr G made a series of 
calls to Phoenix across four different days regarding claiming the death benefit under Mr Ms 
policy for his funeral expenses. Mr G says he was shocked to discover that Mr Ms sum 
assured was £2,254 and not the £3,181 he had expected.  
Mr G complained. He said Mr and Mrs Ms policies commenced on the same day, and 
Phoenix should have provided each of them the same sum assured. He also said he failed 
to understand how Phoenix could know it had correctly processed a claim if it didnt have a 
copy of Mr Ms application.
Phoenix issued a response to the complaint on 27 November 2019. It said it was satisfied Mr 
and Mrs M knew that their policies had differing sums assured, as Mr M had called to 
enquire about his policy in 2015. It also explained that the sums assured were different 
because Mr and Mrs Ms respective genders and ages were different at the time they applied 
for the policies. As women had a higher life expectancy, Mrs Ms policy provided a greater 
sum assured than Mr Ms. Phoenix said it was therefore unable to uphold Mr Gs complaint 
about the sum assured.
However, Phoenix did agree it should have retained Mr Ms policy documents, especially 
because it still had Mrs Ms. It agreed this was poor record keeping and sent Mr G £100 
compensation for his mistake. 
Mr G remained unhappy with Phoenix and lodged his complaint with this service. He said he 
believed Phoenix owes him £927 as the policies sold to his parents were identical.
An investigator reviewed the complaint, but she did not think it should succeed. She said 
though Phoenix had not retained the original paper sales documentation, it did hold a 
complete computer record of Mr Ms policy. She therefore did not think Phoenix had paid an 
incorrect policy value to Mr G. Mr G said he doesnt believe a £100 cheque was acceptable to resolve the matter. He asked 
for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. 
Phoenix said it had nothing to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I go any further, I do wish to send my best wishes and condolences to Mr G.
I dont believe this is a complaint which can succeed. I realise why Mr G feels Phoenix has 
acted unfairly but I dont agree that it should be paying a different sum assured for the late 
Mr Ms policy.
It is unfortunate that Phoenix failed to keep a copy of the paper application that Mr M 
completed with Cornhill. But, I believe £100 is appropriate compensation for an 
administrative mistake of this nature. It is certainly in line with the types of award we make 
for such errors. If Mr G has not yet cashed his cheque he should do so within six months of 
issue, or to liaise with Phoenix about that. 
In terms of the claim value, Phoenix has supplied both Mrs Ms and general application 
information to show the type of direct sale that Mr and Mrs M took out. This was a non-
advised postal application for their whole of life cover, where the applicant could tick a box to 
choose one of six premiums (ranging in increments from £8 to £30 per month) each of which 
would provide a different sum assured, providing the applicant was in reasonable health.
I can see why Mr G thinks Phoenix has been unfair because his parents each paid the same 
policy premium. But that doesnt mean the premium bought them the same amount of cover. 
Insurance policies of this nature are based on variables that the insurer will use to calculate 
the cost of providing the cover. In this case, it used calculations of life expectancy and 
gender to determine the appropriate cost.
At the time of the sale, insurers could use an applicants gender as a reason to vary the cost 
of cover. This has since been found to be unlawful, in accordance with the Gender Directive 
brought into place by the UK (following EU law). The Directive removed the ability of insurers 
to use gender as a factor in pricing and benefits from 21 December 2012. However, this only 
applies to new contracts of insurance taken out after that date. The Directive isnt 
retrospectively applied.  
Mrs M was approximately eighteen months younger than Mr M. And as a female, she had a 
greater life expectancy. It follows that a premium of £20 provided for more insurance for Mrs 
M than Mr M when they sought cover in 2001. On that basis, I have no reason to believe that 
the computer records for the two policies are incorrect. And I believe it is most likely that the 
correct sum assured has been paid to Mr G after Mr M passed away.  
My final decision
Im sorry that my decision wont be what Mr G has hoped for. But I am unable to uphold this 
complaint. I leave Mr G to consider if he wishes to accept Phoenixs cheque for £100, if he 
hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2020.
Jo Storey
Ombudsman