DRN-2184811
The complaint
Mr S says AXA France IARD mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr S bought the policy in 2002 at the same time as taking out a store card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr S says he didnt know about the PPI and wasnt aware it had been added to his 
account. Ive noted everything Mr S has said. 
But I note that the credit agreement Mr S signed was completed to show that he 
wanted the PPI. I accept its possible PPI wasnt discussed when Mr S took out his 
store card, but its equally likely that it was  although I can understand why Mr S may 
no longer remember this, given the amount of time thats passed since the policy was 
sold. 
Without anything else to support what Mr S has told me, I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to say that AXA didnt make him aware that the PPI was optional. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
him. That means it didnt have to ask about any other means Mr S might have had to 
cover his repayments.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But its unlikely Mr S would have been affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt cover. Even though he was self-employed when the policy was sold, it 
wouldnt have been any more difficult for him to make a successful unemployment 
claim on the policy than it wouldve been for someone who was employed. 
The policy was also competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI wouldve stopped Mr S buying it. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman