DRN-1921768
The complaint
Mr F complains about the end of term charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited (MBFS) asked him to pay when he returned a car he had been financing through 
an agreement with them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr F acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr F responsible for keeping the car in 
good condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in 
the correct condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
The initial inspection had to be curtailed because of the weather and a further 
inspection therefore took place 22 days later. I dont think theres anything wrong with 
that. The BVRLA guidance allows for an inspection to take place at the leasing 
companies nominated site.
Mr F now concedes much of the damage. The quarter panel charge is not one that 
MBFS are pursuing so the charges I have considered are the charges for damage to 
the bumper and to the right-hand front alloy. 
I understand Mr F is concerned some of the damage may have happened at some 
point after the car was collected and before the final inspection. Im not persuaded 
thats most likely to be the case as:
othe car was in Mr Fs possession for considerably longer than the 22 days it 
was waiting to be re-inspected;
othe damage reported is in more than one area. So, even if an accident had 
happened after the car was collected from Mr F, I dont think it would be likely 
the damage would have had an impact on the bumper and the alloy wheel. 
They are unconnected areas of the car and would most likely have required 
two separate impacts;
Mr F now contests two areas of damage. He says the damage to the bumper is so 
obvious in the inspectors report that it cant possibly have been present before the 
car left his custody, or he would have noticed it. Ive looked at the photographs, but 
the damage is very low on the panel and I dont think it would have been obvious. It 
would have required a more detailed inspection at ground level. And, for the reasons 
Ive set out above Im afraid I dont think it would be fair to suggest, on the evidence 
that I have, that the damage happened between the first and subsequent inspections.
The BVRLA guidance says that surface scratches that are larger than 25mm are not 
acceptable and the inspection shows several scratches to the bumper in excess of 
that standard. So, I agree with the investigators assessment, that the damage is 
beyond what would be considered fair wear and tear. 
Mr F also disputes the charge of £85 for refurbishment of the right-hand front alloy. 
He says its not clear in the photograph which wheel is shown. I disagree. The tread 
pattern direction shows the wheel is a right sided wheel. Whether it is the front or rear 
wheel is not so clear but, regardless, I think its fair to say the same charge would 
have applied. The BVRLA guidance says that damage to alloys should not exceed 
50mm. I think the damage evidenced in the photograph is in excess of 50mm and is 
therefore chargeable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman