DRN-3795726
The complaint
Mr D has complained Santander UK plc wont refund money he lost from his account after 
being the victim of a romance scam.
What happened
Nearly a year after a long-term relationship had come to an end, Mr D started talking to 
someone he met on a dating website. He quickly came to believe this was someone he was 
really close to and his feelings were completely reciprocated. They were talking regularly on 
the phone, on Skype and messaging each other.
Within a month of regular contact, Mr D and the woman he was talking to (who Ill call Ms C) 
were talking about a potential future together as well as sharing news of their daily lives.
From March 2020 Mr D started to send money overseas that Ms C could access  by using 
the debit card linked to his Santander account to use an international money transfer 
service. These were initially low-value payments to help her out with her household bills. In 
August after a few days without any contact, Mr D found out Ms C was in hospital. And 
speaking to her relatives  by messaging  he agreed to help out with costs for an operation 
she needed. Then after Ms C left hospital, Mr D sent more money to assist with the costs of 
her aftercare. He sent six further payments over seven weeks totalling £1,879.94.
Mr D gave Ms C further money on a monthly basis from November 2020 to March 2021.
At this stage Mr D and Ms C agreed shed come over to the UK and Mr D helped to pay for 
Ms Cs flights and visa. He looked forward to her arriving in the UK in July 2021 but was 
upset after waiting at the airport to find Ms C had been detained by customs in the country 
she was travelling through to get to the UK. Speaking again to Ms Cs relatives, Mr D agreed 
to pay as much as he could to help pay with the costs to release Ms C.
He borrowed £1,500 from his own relative and made a debit card payment of £1,501.99 on 
6 July 2021. This payment was blocked by Santander who required Mr D to call them to 
release the funds. Mr D called Santander who told him theyd identified the transaction as 
suspicious. He confirmed this was a genuine payment he wished to make. He was then able 
to make the payment.
Mr D was able to speak to Ms C within a couple of days but started to feel suspicious that 
she was obviously not coming to the UK and claimed she was in hospital after her dreadful 
ordeal. Mr D suddenly realised hed been scammed as she was unwilling to provide a copy 
of her flight confirmation. He then believed Santander should have done more to identify the 
unusual nature of the payments hed been making.
Santander didnt believe theyd done anything wrong. Mr D had made all the card payments 
himself after authorising them. As these were card payments, they explained these werent 
covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code. The one time Santander had 
blocked a payment, Mr D had been insistent this was genuine, although it appeared 
Santander had not questioned why Mr D was making this transaction.
Mr D remained unhappy and brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator felt the transactions didnt appear unusual enough to expect Santander to 
have issued any warnings to Mr D. So she didnt recommend that the bank should refund 
any of the payments.
Mr D didnt agree with this outcome. Hes asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
I dont dispute Mr D was scammed and has been left feeling desperately used and 
embarrassed about what has happened. He was also put in a position where he felt he had 
no choice but to borrow money from a close relative. So he has my sympathy about what he 
has gone through.
Theres no dispute that Mr D made and authorised the debit card payments. Mr D believed 
he was sending money to Ms C. This was someone he felt he was in a serious relationship 
with and was helping her out with household costs, hospital bills and travel to the UK.
I can see from what Santander has told us that the individual card payments, processed as 
card-not-present transactions, were subject to additional verification. One-time passcodes 
were shared with Mr D who used these to make the card payments. Im satisfied the 
transactions were authorised under the Payment Services Regulations 2017.
Its also accepted that Santander has an obligation to follow Mr Ds instructions. So in the 
first instance Mr D is presumed liable for his loss. But thats not the end of the story.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that Santander 
should:
have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
Mr D fell victim to a romance scam. These unfortunately arent particularly unusual. He was 
initially encouraged to make smaller payments to help out with the cost of household items. 
This snowballed into making payments for (non-existent) hospital costs and finally paying 
Ms Cs travel costs.It is clear from the detailed testimony Ive seen from Mr D that he believed he was in a 
genuine relationship with someone with similar tastes and interests. Hes confirmed he 
believes if hed been alerted to what was going on, hed have stopped making payments 
immediately.
I have reviewed what happened to Mr D. Ive also concentrated on whether Santander 
should have taken additional steps or made additional checks before processing any of the 
payments which might have included providing warnings to Mr D.
Santander has confirmed they do have mechanisms in place to check unusual transactions. 
I can see this is the case as they blocked the payment Mr D attempted to make on 6 July 
2021. This payment was for £1,501.99 and was by far the highest value payment hed made 
to Ms C.
Theres no evidence from the calls Santander have provided to us that they raised any 
questions with Mr D about what this payment was for. What is clear though is that Mr D was 
slightly panicked that he wouldnt be able to make the payment and told Santander that it 
was for family.
I dont believe any of the other card payments Mr D made triggered any additional warnings 
or blocks.
The first disputed payment Mr D made was for only £100 in March 2020. He then made a 
further payment for slightly more within a couple of days and then a payment for £206.99 
three months later. These were three relatively low-value payments that were sufficiently 
spaced apart that they didnt look as if they were part of a pattern or related to one another. I 
dont believe these would have looked unusual. 
Ive also looked at the set of six payments made between 23 August and 29 October 2020. 
Mr D made these, as he thought, to help with Ms Cs hospital and aftercare costs. The 
highest value payment was for £512.99 but most of the payments were for amounts around 
£300 or less. Santander didnt intervene and Im not convinced that Id have expected it to. 
These were not particularly high-value or resembled a pattern of ever-escalating, very 
frequent payments and in all cases Mr Ds account remained in credit.
Following this, Mr D only made monthly payments  generally at the end of a month  to 
Ms C. By this time, although the payments increased slightly in value, I think the payments 
had simply become part of Mr Ds normal account behaviour.
It was only as we get to April 2021 that the value of the monthly payments increased to over 
£1,000. But these payments are still made on a monthly basis so would have looked like 
Mr Ds normal usage. 
Payments are slightly bunched together as we get to the end of June where payments of 
£711.99, £701.99 and £1,501.99 are made. Its the third of these payments that Santander 
blocked. And its at that time I might have expected them to intervene as values start to 
escalate with Mr D also needing to put funds into his account to cover these.
Santander were only able to provide us with part of the calls they had with Mr D when he 
unblocked the transaction. Theres nothing in those extracts to suggest they asked why Mr D 
was making the payment. 
However I note, as mentioned above, Mr D volunteered at the start of the call he was making 
a payment to family. It seems Santander was concerned it might not have been Mr D making 
this payment, but he assured them it was. The discussion they had with Mr D was around ensuring the payment was genuine, in the context of it being made by him. Mr D had a 
history of making this type of payment and overall I dont believe Santander should have 
done anything more.
Im satisfied none of the other payments triggered intervention by Santander and neither 
would I expect them to have done so. 
Ive also considered whether Santander did enough after it was notified about the scam. 
There is a mechanism with card payments where banks can try to get money charged back. 
In Mr Ds case this wasnt possible. By the time Mr D reported the fraud to Santander in 
November, any timescale for claiming funds had expired. Id also add that it would have 
been highly unlikely for any money to have been successfully claimed back as Mr Ds card 
relationship was with the app remitting funds. As far as I can see they remitted funds in 
accordance with Mr Ds requests.
Overall I believe Santander took sufficient steps to protect Mr D and I cant fairly tell it to 
refund Mr Ds money.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ds complaint against Santander 
UK plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman