DRN-2495687
The complaint
Ms H and Mr S complain about their secured loan, now owned by Arrow Global Limited.
They say that unfair fees and charges have been added to the loan balance.
What happened
Ms H and Mr S took out a secured consumer credit loan in 2004 over a 25 year term. Arrow
wasnt their original lender, but it owns the loan now and is responsible for everything thats
happened, so for convenience Ill refer to Arrow as the lender throughout.
Ms H and Mr S have been in arrears for many years. While their loan was with a previous
lender in particular, they were charged arrears and other fees which were added to the loan
balance, attracting interest.
Ms H and Mr S now complain about the arrears fees. They say they were applied unfairly
and only worsened their financial difficulties. But Arrow says that the fees were applied in
line with the terms and conditions of the loan  and in any case most of the fees were
applied too long ago to be complained about.
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I didnt think I could consider any fees charged 
more than six years before Ms H and Mr S first complained to Arrow  that is, before 
November 2018. I said that since then, there had only been five fees charged.
I said I didnt think it was fair that Arrow had charged fees in December 2012, July 2013, 
April 2014 or August 2014. In each of those months, Ms H and Mr S had made at least their 
contractual monthly payment. And while they were in arrears, they were taking steps to get 
the loan back on track  so I didnt think it was fair to charge a fee.
However, I said that the fee charged in November 2013 was fair, as it related to work done 
when Ms H and Mr S missed their October payment.
I said that Arrow should remove the other four fees from the loan balance, together with 
interest. But I didnt think compensation for trouble and upset was necessary, since while no 
doubt their financial difficulties were stressful of themselves, Id seen no evidence that the 
fees caused them additional trouble or upset.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision  neither had any further points to make. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered again what I said in my provisional decision, but having done so I 
havent changed my mind.
Im satisfied that the part of the complaint about fees charged before November 2012 is out 
of time. Those fees were charged more than six years before the complaint was made. And 
Im satisfied  from their statements and other letters  that Ms H and Mr S would have been 
aware of them at the time. And its not been suggested that there were exceptional 
circumstances preventing them having made a complaint in time.
Of the fees that are in time, for the reasons I gave Im satisfied that Arrow should refund four 
of them, but not the fifth. I dont think it was fair that Ms H and Mr S were charged fees when 
theyd made the required payment and were doing what they could to get things back on 
track. But its not unreasonable for a fee to have been charged where they missed a 
payment and extra work needed to be done.
Putting things right
To put things right, Arrow should remove the fees Ive set out below.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Arrow Global Limited should remove the 
following fees, together with interest charged on them, from the loan balance:
December 2012
July 2013
April 2014
August 2014.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman