DRN-3293061
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Scottish Widows Bank Plc didnt explain that a reduced payment 
arrangement would result in mortgage arrears. They ask that it capitalises their arrears. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ps income was affected by the Covid-19 pandemic and related restrictions 
brought in by the UK Government. They took payment deferrals for six months. In 
accordance with guidance issued by the regulator, the arrears were capitalised and no 
adverse data was recorded on their credit files.
Mr and Mrs Ps financial situation remained difficult at the end of the payment deferrals. In 
September 2020 they agreed a reduced payment arrangement with Scottish Widows for 
three months. Mr and Mrs P say they were told their credit file would show they were in an 
arrangement. But they werent told arrears would accrue on their account due to the reduced 
payment arrangement. 
Mr and Mrs P say that if theyd known about the arrears, theyd have found a way to pay the 
full amount due, possibly by seeking help from family.
Mr and Mrs P also complain that Scottish Widows didnt contact them at the end of the 
reduced payment arrangement. They say they assumed the arrangement would continue, 
which suited them as their financial circumstances were still difficult. When Scottish Widows 
did get in contact with them, it made an appointment to go through their income and 
expenditure, but failed to call them at the agreed time. Mr and Mrs P say Scottish Widows 
didnt tell them they were accruing arrears on their mortgage account, and they didnt find 
this out until March 2021.
Scottish Widows agreed it had made errors. It offered to capitalise two months of arrears 
and pay compensation of £200. Mr and Mrs P ask that it capitalises all arrears (which 
totalled about £4,000 at the end of 2021).
Our investigator said while Scottish Widows had made errors, it had written to Mr and Mrs P 
in September 2020 when it agreed the reduced payment arrangement saying this would 
result in a shortfall. He said when Mr and Mrs P asked it to capitalise the arrears it should 
have considered this as one possible way to assist Mr and Mrs P, rather than just saying it 
was against policy. The investigator said Scottish Widows should pay another £150 for the 
upset caused by this.
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree. Mr P said Scottish Widows recently told them it can capitalise 
their arrears once theyve made six full contractual monthly payments, having previously told 
them capitalising arrears was against its policy. Mr P says theyve made three full payments, 
which means being in arrears for another three months without access to their account 
online and with a default on his credit file. Hed like the capitalisation sooner. Mr P says other 
lenders send information making the amount of arrears and the overall amount owed clear. 
However, Scottish Widows didnt tell them they were in arrears and because its blocked 
access to his account online he has no means of checking what they owe. 
Mr P said they dont want more compensation, theyre asking for the arrears to be 
capitalised which he says is the only fair way to resolve the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Scottish Widows agreed a reduced payment arrangement with Mr and Mrs P in September 
2020 for three months. During the reduced payment arrangement, Mr and Mrs P paid £650 
per month, about £300 less than their contractual monthly payment (CMP). Mr P told 
Scottish Widows this was what they could afford to pay. Mr P says he wasnt told that the 
reduced payment arrangement would result in arrears on their account. 
Scottish Widows accepts it made errors. It accepts that, during the call when it agreed the 
reduced payment arrangement with Mr P, it didnt make it clear this would result in arrears. 
Scottish Widows also accepts it didnt contact Mr and Mr P when the three-month payment 
arrangement ended in December 2020. It capitalised the arrears for January and February 
2021. 
Mr P says Scottish Widows missed opportunities to tell them the reduced payment 
arrangement would result in arrears  the initial phone call, the letter confirming the 
arrangement which he says is unclear, not mentioning the arrears on the monthly letters 
about the arrangement and failing to contact them again after three months. Mr P says 
theyd have acted differently if theyd known.
Mr P has drawn my attention to the part of the call in mid-September 2020, when there was 
a discussion about their credit files showing the arrangement and not arrears. Both parties 
agree that Mr P wasnt told during the call that the reduced payment arrangement would 
result in arrears on the account.
Scottish Widows wrote to Mr and Mrs P in mid-September 2020, to confirm the payment 
arrangement. The letter said it would review with Mr and Mrs P in mid-December 2020 how 
the shortfall would be brought up to date. Mr P says this wasnt clear enough to counter the 
misinformation given on the call. I dont think he could have expected from the letter that the 
unpaid part of the CMP would be capitalised. While Scottish Widows used the term 
shortfall rather than arrears in the letter, its clear there was to be a discussion about how 
the account would be brought up to date. When writing to customers about payment 
arrangements, Scottish Widows sends an information sheet headed payment arrangements 
 your questions answered. This says when an arrangement is agreed on this basis, your 
account will accrue arrears. I think this is clear.
Mr P says one letter giving this information isnt enough. He says Scottish Widows didnt 
send arrears letters. He says the letters they did receive each month confirming the amount 
they would pay didnt mention the arrears. Mr P says the arrears werent shown online, and 
Scottish Widows has confirmed this, saying the online banking site only shows generic 
information and not arrears. 
Scottish Widows says it doesnt send arrears letters when an arrangement is in place to 
avoid causing undue stress. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs P would have preferred to receive letters about their arrears. But I dont think I can fairly find that Scottish Widows made an 
error by following its policy. The letter it sent confirming the payment arrangement said it 
would result in arrears on the account. I dont think it needed to repeat this information in 
later letters. 
Mr and Mrs P contacted Scottish Widows in September 2020 because they were unable to 
meet their CMP. Theyve said it suited them for the arrangement to continue after December 
2020 as their financial difficulties continued. Scottish Widows says Mr and Mrs P told it in 
March 2021 that their financial position meant they needed to continue the reduced payment 
arrangement. Mr P told us in August 2021 that they couldnt afford to pay the mortgage at 
that time. He also said they were not paying due to the mis-information and had told Scottish 
Widows he wouldnt make full payments until our service had resolved the complaint.
Mr P says Scottish Widows accepted it made errors. He says the resolution it offered wasnt 
fair and didnt reflect the consequences to them. Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs P, but I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to require Scottish Widows to capitalise the arrears. 
The error here isnt that arrears accrued on Mr and Mrs Ps account. The arrears accrued 
because Mr and Mrs P didnt pay their CMP in full. It also isnt an error that the arrears 
werent capitalised automatically or immediately at Mr and Mrs Ps request. The error here is 
that Mr and Mrs P werent told in the initial call that a reduced payment arrangement would 
result in arrears. 
Mr P says if theyd known this theyd have acted differently. I think this is unlikely. First, Mr 
and Mrs P would have needed to find a means of paying the CMP in full. I dont know if 
theyd have been able to do so. More significantly though, even if Mr and Mrs P didnt 
receive or didnt fully appreciate the content of the letter confirming the reduced payment 
arrangement in September 2020, they were aware by early March 2021 that arrears were 
accruing on their account. 
The reduced payment arrangement started in October 2020. By early March it had been in 
place for five months, so the arrears would have been about £1,500, although Scottish 
Widows later capitalised the arrears for two of these months. If Mr and Mrs P were able to 
repay the arrears and/or meet the CMP, possibly with help from family, they chose not to do 
so. Mr and Mrs P continued to make reduced payments. Whether this was because they 
wouldnt afford to meet the CMP or due to their protesting Scottish Widows failure to 
capitalise the arrears doesnt change matters. Either way Mr and Mrs P continued to make 
reduced payments despite knowing it would result in arrears. In the circumstances, I think its 
unlikely theyd have acted differently in September 2020 if theyd been told during the phone 
call that arrears would accrue as a result of paying less than the CMP each month.
Scottish Widows told Mr P it no longer capitalises arrears and this is against policy. 
However, I think Scottish Widows needed to take into account the unusual circumstances 
created by the Covid-19 pandemic, and the guidance issued by the regulator. I think it would 
have been fair for Scottish Widows to consider Mr and Mrs Ps request to capitalise the 
arrears. Scottish Widows agreed to pay compensation for the upset caused by not doing so.
Mr P says hes recently been told that Scottish Widows will consider capitalising their arrears 
after they make full CMPs for six months. He says this is inconsistent with what they were 
told previously. I dont think this is fair. In its final response letter sent in April 2021, Scottish 
Widows said it no longer capitalises arrears. However, it went on to say it can offer this if 
strict criteria are met. At that time Mr and Mrs P didnt meet the criteria. But I think Scottish 
Widows did tell Mr and Mrs P that capitalising their arrears might be possible if criteria are 
met. From what Mr P has said, they are part of the way towards meeting the criteria.Putting things right
I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Scottish Widows to capitalise the arrears on 
Mr and Mrs Ps account. As Ive said, Scottish Widows wrote to Mr and Mrs P saying the 
payment arrangement would result in arrears. And I dont think Mr and Mrs P would have 
acted differently if theyd been told this on the initial call.
Scottish Widows accepts it made errors. It was unclear about the consequences of the 
reduced payment arrangement in the initial call. It didnt contact Mr and Mrs P at the end of 
the three-month arrangement, and it missed an appointment to discuss their circumstances 
in March 2021. Scottish Widows capitalised two months of the arrears, and agreed to pay 
compensation of £350. Mr and Mrs P feel strongly about this matter, and I appreciate they 
were upset when they found out about the arrears. But for the errors made, and the effect of 
those errors, I think the redress offered is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
My decision is that Scottish Widows Bank Plc should pay £350 (in total) to Mr and Mrs P (it 
can deduct any amounts it has already paid). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman