DRN-2382454
The complaint
Mrs R says Ferratum UK Ltd (Ferratum) irresponsibly lent to her. Mrs R says Ferratum 
didnt do enough to check whether the lending was affordable for her. If it had done, it would 
have seen she was borrowing from other short-term lenders. Mrs R says she got into a cycle 
of debt and her mental health has suffered as a result of the lending. 
What happened
This complaint is about five short-term loans Ferratum provided to Mrs R between March 
and August 2019. Mrs Rs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 27/03/2019 03/04/2019 4 £500.00 £209.21
2 06/04/2019 25/04/2019 1 £400.00 £457.60
3 28/04/2019 02/08/2019 4 £600.00 £251.06
4 06/08/2019 12/08/2019 3 £350.00 £177.53
5 12/08/2019 outstanding 4 £800.00 £334.74
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Rs complaint. They thought there wasnt anything in the 
information provided by Mrs R or the information Ferratum should have been aware of that 
would have meant more proportionate checks should have been carried out. And while the 
adjudicator thought Ferratum should have taken more steps to look into Mrs Rs financial 
situation before it agreed to the later loans, again, we didnt have anything to show the 
lending was unsustainable. The adjudicator gave Mrs R the opportunity to provide more 
information about her financial circumstances at the time of the lending, but we didnt hear 
back from her. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for a decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ferratum needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs R 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Ferratum should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Ferratum was required to establish 
whether Mrs R could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Rs complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ferratum has told us about the checks it carried out before approving the borrowing. It asked 
Mrs R about her monthly income which was recorded as being £2,001 for all of the loans. 
Ferratum also asked about Mrs Rs normal monthly living costs. These were recorded as 
being £900. So, this left Mrs R with a monthly disposable income of £1,101. So, in these 
circumstances I think it wasnt unreasonable of Ferratum to have lent to Mrs R. The lending 
looked affordable on a pounds and pence basis. 
Mrs R has said Ferratum should have carried out further checks about her financial 
circumstances. But I think it was reasonable for Ferratum to have relied upon the information 
it obtained, and the information Mrs R provided about her circumstances, bearing in mind the 
loans were at the fairly early stages in the lending relationship.And Mrs Rs stated monthly 
commitments werent onerous. 
Its possible that Mrs Rs financial circumstances werent correctly reflected in either the 
information she provided, or the information Ferratum obtained as a result of its own checks. 
And Mrs Rs financial position may well have been apparent if further information  such as 
bank statements or more in-depth credit checks as examples  had been obtained, 
particularly for the later loans.
But as Ive mentioned above, we did ask Mrs R for any further information for us to take into 
consideration, but we didnt hear back from her. And for the earlier stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. And 
Ferratum could only make a decision based on the information it had available at the time. In 
these circumstances  and particularly for the earlier loans in the lending relationship  I 
dont think Ferratum needed to take further steps to verify the information provided.
In these circumstances, I think the assessments Ferratum carried out the for the loans were 
proportionate. I dont think Ferratum was wrong to have provided the loans, based solely on 
the information it gathered from its checks and the information Mrs R gave it about her financial situation. Mrs R hasnt given me any alternative evidence about her financial 
circumstances at the time that would make me think that Ferratums decision to lend to her 
was unreasonable.
I know my decision will be disappointing for Mrs R as her personal circumstances have been 
difficult. But I hope Ive been able to explain to her why I have reached the decision that I 
have. 
My understanding is that loan five is still outstanding. So, Id like to remind Ferratum of its 
obligation to treat Mrs R fairly.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mrs Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman