DRN-2412635
The complaint
Miss A and Mr L complain that Thomas Oliver UK LLP, part of Openwork Limiteds network, 
gave them misleading advice when recommending a decreasing term assurance policy, and 
have wrongly charged them for cancelling it.
All references to Openwork will include Thomas Oliver UK LLP.
What happened
In April 2017 Miss A and Mr L met with an Openwork adviser who recommended they start a 
joint life assurance policy to cover the cost of any remaining mortgage, if one of them were 
to die or become critically ill. The policy matched their mortgage in terms of amount, duration 
and type  it was on a decreasing basis, so went down in line with the balance of their 
repayment mortgage. 
Miss A and Mr L cancelled the policy in August 2019. This was because they thought the 
policy was a mandatory part of the mortgage but found out this wasnt the case when they 
re-mortgaged their property. They were later pursued by the adviser for a cancellation fee of 
£1,236. This was the charge payable to the adviser if the policy was cancelled within 
48 months of its start date.
Miss A and Mr L complained to Openwork saying theyd been misled by the adviser. They 
said he told them the policy was a condition of the mortgage and this was the only reason 
they purchased it. Given the advice theyd been given, they didnt think it was fair that they 
were being pursued for the cancellation fees. Miss A and Mr L also wanted a refund of the 
premiums theyd paid to date.
Openwork didnt uphold the complaint. It said no fees were charged in connection with the 
advice about the policy and that fees were only payable if it was cancelled within a 48 month 
period. As Miss A and Mr L cancelled the policy with 22 months remaining of this 
cancellation period, Openwork didnt think the adviser had done anything wrong by pursuing 
them for payment. Openwork was also satisfied that the recommendation was suitable 
based on Miss A and Mr Ls needs at the time of the advice.
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. In brief, he thought the recommendation was 
suitable. And he didnt think there was any evidence to show the adviser misled Miss A and 
Mr L about whether the policy was a condition of the mortgage. 
Miss A and Mr L didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In summary, they 
made the following points:
They didn't want the policy and cancelled it once they realised it wasnt mandatory;
The recommendation wasnt suitable because they had access to financial support 
from their family in the event of one of them dying or becoming ill;
They have no reason to lie about what they were told;
They do remember receiving the documents but relied on the advice;
Companies should be held accountable for poor practice and undue sales techniques.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss A and Mr L have made numerous points in support of this complaint. We are an 
informal service and our rules allow me to focus on what I consider relevant. So if theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored anything  I havent. Ive just 
focused my decision on what I think impacts on the outcome of the case. I'll also mention at 
this stage that where there's a dispute about what happened, I've based my decision on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened 
in the light of the evidence.
I can see on 3 April 2017, Miss A and Mr L signed the agreement about what fees would be 
payable in relation to the policy advice. This said that fees were payable if the policy was 
cancelled within 48 months from its commencement date. Looking at this two page 
document, I think this clearly set out what fees would be payable and when. 
Although the policy details werent specified on the agreement itself, it was clear that if 
Miss A and Mr L were going to take one of the policies recommended to them, a fee would 
apply if they didnt keep it for 48 months. And its worth noting that just because the fee 
agreement had been signed, Miss A and Mr L were not obliged to take out the policy 
Openwork recommended. So all in all, I dont think the adviser was unreasonable in pursuing 
this fee when he was notified of the policy being cancelled within the 48 month period.
But Miss A and Mr L say they were specifically told by the adviser that the policy was a 
condition of the mortgage and this was the only reason they agreed to take it out. In support 
of what they say, theyve pointed to the call with the policy provider in August 2019. In this 
call, Miss A said theyd been told the policy was a condition of the mortgage and shed 
recently found out it wasnt. So she asked the provider to cancel the policy.
I understand where Miss A and Mr L are coming from here. But I need to balance what 
theyve said with the contemporaneous evidence such as the documentation they were 
given at time of the sale. They were given a mortgage key facts document and illustration on 
21 March 2017  this was when Miss A and Mr L met with the adviser to discuss their 
mortgage requirements. Both these documents said the only insurance that was a condition 
of the mortgage borrowing was buildings insurance. The application for the life assurance 
policy was made two weeks later on 3 April 2017.
Miss A and Mr L say they didnt read the documents because they relied on what they told 
by the adviser. But Im satisfied they were given sufficient information to be clear that the 
policy wasnt mandatory. Not just at the meeting but after the event. As well as the 
documents Ive already referred to, Miss A and Mr L wouldve been sent a mortgage offer  
this would have repeated, and expanded on, what they had been told in the key facts. I can 
also see that the suitability letter dated 21 April 2017, which set out the advisers reasons for 
recommending the policy, didnt include the reason that it was a condition of the mortgage. 
The documents provided to Miss A and Mr L at the point of sale, were all important and as 
such, were intended to be read by the recipients. I cant fairly hold Openwork responsible if 
Miss A and Mr L chose not to read them.
I think I need to reiterate at this stage that my findings are based on whats more likely than 
not to have happened. I recognise theres a dispute over whether or not Miss A and Mr L 
were told by the adviser they must take out life assurance to secure their mortgage. And Im not accusing any party of lying by saying that, on balance, I dont think the evidence 
supports they were led to believe this by the adviser. Its just I think its more likely than not 
in light of the available evidence, they were made reasonably aware by the adviser that the 
policy was a recommendation not a must have.
Ive also considered whether the policy was suitable. Miss A and Mr L say the policy wasn't 
suitable because they have the financial resources through their family, to pay off any 
remaining mortgage if one of them were to die. But the fact find makes no reference of this 
financial support and theres no evidence the adviser was made aware of this. But even if 
Miss A and Mr L did make the adviser aware of this financial support, I still dont think this 
makes the recommendation unsuitable. The size of the borrowing at nearly £400,000 was 
substantial  if one of them were to die or became extremely ill, the loss of one income 
would have had a significant impact on their overall financial position. 
From what I can see, the policy provided life and critical illness cover that matched the 
amount and term of the mortgage Miss A and Mr L had taken out. This would have avoided 
them having to rely on selling the house, relying on family or putting themselves under a 
significant financial burden if one of them died or became critically ill. So on balance, even 
with what Miss A and Mr L have said about their familys financial support, Im satisfied the 
recommendation was a suitable one to make.
I note Miss A and Mr L think our service should hold companies accountable for undue sales 
practices. But my role is to assess complaints on an individual basis. And for the reasons 
Ive set out above, I don't think Openwork or its adviser have done anything wrong, so I won't 
be asking it to do anything differently on this particular occasion.
My final decision
Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman