DRN-3333955
The complaint
Through his representative, Mr T complained about an instalment loan he took out with 
Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat). 
To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to the borrower Mr T in my decision. 
What happened
MoneyBoat provided a loan to Mr T as follows: 
Date taken Loan status Instalments Loan 
amountMonthly 
repayment
12/11/2020 Outstanding 3 £600.00 £264.51
Mr T mainly said that it shouldve been obvious to MoneyBoat from looking at the credit 
report it obtained as part of the loan application process that he wasnt a suitable person to 
take out credit. So MoneyBoat shouldnt have provided the loan.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr T and MoneyBoat told us about this loan. 
In summary, our adjudicator thought:
given the loan amount, what was apparent about Mr Ts circumstances at the time 
and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate to ask Mr T for the 
amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable
there wasnt anything in the information Mr T provided, or the information MoneyBoat 
shouldve been aware of, which meant that MoneyBoat shouldve taken steps to 
verify the information Mr T had declared
our adjudicator didnt think that the loan amount or the period of time Mr T was 
borrowing meant his loan history, on its own, was enough to show MoneyBoat he 
mightve been experiencing underlying financial difficulty.
Mr T disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint. He mainly said that 
the credit report MoneyBoat saw contained enough warning signs to have alerted it to the 
need to dig deeper and ask more questions about why he needed the loan and what he 
would use it for. Had that happened, he said this would have triggered enough evidence to 
show that he wasnt suitable for this type of lending.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint.
Im grateful to Mr Ts representative for his assistance in dealing with this complaint. Id like 
to reassure Mr T and his representative that I've thought carefully about everything before 
coming to my decision and taken into account all the points mentioned in support of this 
complaint and in response to our adjudicators view. Ive reviewed the complaint 
independently and having done so, I've come to the same view as our adjudicator for 
broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why I say this. 
MoneyBoat provided Mr T with a high-interest loan intended for short-term use and so it 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide the loan irresponsibly. 
In practice, this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr T could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mr Ts income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. 
Before lending to Mr T, MoneyBoat asked Mr T for information about his financial situation, 
such as his monthly income and his outgoings. It also asked about any other credit 
commitments and carried out credit checks. 
It recorded his income was around £2,300 and boosted the monthly expenditure that Mr T 
had declared as an extra measure to ensure the loan was affordable for him. 
MoneyBoat said that it agreed to lend Mr T a loan it worked out shouldve been comfortably 
affordable for him.
This was Mr Ts first (and only) loan with MoneyBoat. So I think MoneyBoat could potentially 
rely on the information Mr T provided. Looking at the monthly loan repayment amounts and 
the loan term, and taking into account all the information MoneyBoat had on record for Mr T, 
including what it appears Mr T told MoneyBoat about his monthly income and what he was 
paying out, this loan looked comfortably affordable for Mr T. 
I must be impartial and fair to both parties. Ive taken into account that Mr Ts credit report 
does show some information that is concerning. But overall, keeping in mind that borrowers 
applying for this type of high cost lending might often have other borrowing or an impaired 
credit history, this wouldnt be a bar to lending to Mr T if the loan otherwise looked affordable 
 as it did here. 
The credit history MoneyBoat saw showed that Mr T had only a very small amount of 
outstanding credit as follows :
one unsecured loan with a balance of £363 that cost him £197 per month that hed 
recently taken out
a credit card that hed had for more than four years with a nil balance and an unused 
credit limit of £1,320
a current account which was overdrawn by £158  well within the agreed overdraft 
limit of £2,000.I think its fair to say that although the credit history showed that Mr T was a habitual user of 
credit, including high cost short-term and unsecured loans, and hed had some evident 
money problems in the past, by the time he applied for this loan his record wasnt showing 
any recent defaults  none in the previous 12 months and just one during the last 3 years.
I dont think the credit checks that MoneyBoat acquired revealed enough concerning 
information for me fairly to say it should have put off a responsible lender from providing this 
relatively small loan to Mr T or that MoneyBoat ought to have been prompted to do more in-
depth checks before agreeing to lend. It was apparent that Mr T had a record of using credit 
but there werent any particular warning signs to show that he was currently in serious 
financial difficulty. There was no record of any bankruptcy, insolvency or county court 
judgements. Mr Ts total indebtedness wasnt excessive for someone earning the amount of 
income MoneyBoat had checked he received. 
All in all, I havent seen enough in the information that MoneyBoat gathered about Mr T to 
make me think it shouldve realised that Mr T was going to find it difficult to afford to pay this 
loan in a sustainable way. 
Im sorry that Mr T had a problem with debt and that repaying this loan was difficult for him. 
I accept that in reality Mr Ts actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected either in 
the information he provided, or the other information MoneyBoat obtained. 
But its fair to say that MoneyBoat was entitled to decide Mr Ts lending application based on 
the information I would reasonably expect it to have found out at the time. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for MoneyBoat to lend  especially as there wasnt anything obvious, in the 
information it had, to suggest Mr T wouldnt be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way. 
And I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required MoneyBoat to probe any more 
deeply into Mr Ts finances or ask Mr T to prove what he was declaring or check other 
information sources (like asking to see his bank statements) to verify what he had told them 
(or not said) about his financial circumstances.
In order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. And, 
in this case, I dont think that MoneyBoat did anything wrong in deciding to lend this loan to 
Mr T. 
Ive thought about what Mr T has said about the way MoneyBoat treated him when he ran 
into payment problems. I think our adjudicator was right to say that MoneyBoat only started 
debt collection activities when the outstanding balance wasnt being paid on time  as it was 
reasonably entitled to do. And this activity was halted once the lender was aware of Mr Ts 
situation when it agreed what appears to be a fair repayment plan. So I cant fairly say that 
I've seen enough to make me think that MoneyBoat acted unfairly or unreasonably towards 
Mr T in any other way.
I understand that what Ive said will come as a disappointment to Mr T. But I hope that 
setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
If Mr T is still struggling with debt and would like help to manage his finances or to talk 
to someone about his situation theres more information about how to get free advice on 
our website  or we can provide contact details if he or his representative gives us a 
call.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022. 
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman