DRN-3279383
The complaint
Mrs G complains Legal and General Assurance Society Limited unfairly declined her claim 
for critical illness benefit. 
What happened
Mrs G joined her employers group critical illness scheme, involving a Legal and General 
Policy critical illness policy (the policy) in 2013. The policy offered a £200,000 sum assured 
in the event of diagnosis of one of the listed critical illnesses. 
Mrs G was diagnosed with Dermatofibrosarcoma Protuberans (DFSP), a form of cancer, in 
September 2019. She subsequently underwent two operations to remove the tumour 
(excisions). She submitted a claim to Legal and General in July 2020, under the policy 
definition of cancer.
Legal and General considered the claim but concluded Mrs Gs diagnosis didnt meet the 
policy definition of cancer. It noted that the medical evidence confirmed the diagnosis of 
DFSP, but that there was no evidence of invasion in the lymph glands or spread to distant 
organs. It said her diagnosis therefore didnt meet the policy definition and so it declined the 
claim.  
Mrs G appealed and noted from Legal and Generals response it seemed to be classifying 
her DFSP as a skin cancer. She argued that DFSP is in fact a sarcoma and therefore the 
exclusion relating to any other skin cancer should not apply to her claim. 
Legal and General reconsidered the claim but maintained its decision that Mrs Gs diagnosis 
didnt meet the policy definition of cancer. It noted Mrs Gs consultant, who Ill refer to as 
Dr S, had confirmed there was no evidence of invasion or spread. It acknowledged DFSP 
was a sarcoma, but one that arose in the skin, making it a skin cancer. It said as it was not a 
malignant melanoma, it was excluded under the policy unless there was evidence of 
invasion in the lymph glands or spread to distant organs. But it noted metastases from DFSP 
are extremely rare.  
Mrs G disagreed and referred her complaint to our service. In summary she said: 
Medical evidence supported that DFSP was a soft tissue sarcoma, and not a skin 
cancer. She noted the main difference was where the cancer originated. While skin 
cancers developed in the upper layers of the skin and may spread downwards, 
sarcomas start in the tissue and can spread in all directions, including up to the 
surface of the skin and down to the muscles and bones.
DFSP can spread to the muscle, nerves etc if not detected early enough, and her 
excision was up to the muscle and had only just been detected in time to prevent the 
muscle being affected.  
Her treatment had been referred from the skin cancer team to the soft tissue sarcoma 
team once her diagnosis of DFSP was confirmed. 
Legal and General was not being consistent in its approach to DFSP as it had settled 
other claims relating to the same cancer. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service had also upheld a complaint concerning a claim 
relating to DFSP.
Our investigator made further enquiries about Mrs Gs diagnosis and how it related to the 
policy definition, and specifically the exclusion. Following her enquiries Legal and General 
provided a further report from a specialist in surgical pathology, who Ill refer to as 
Professor N. This report provided detailed commentary on DFSP. Referring to this 
additional report, Legal and General confirmed that it also considered Mrs Gs claim was 
excluded on the basis that DFSP had either borderline malignancy or low malignant 
potential.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She concluded that the weight of medical 
evidence supported Legal and Generals decision to say DFSP was both a sarcoma and a 
skin cancer, and as such fell within the policy exclusion relating to any other skin cancer. 
She concluded that Legal and General had acted in line with the policy terms and conditions 
when it declined her claim, and so hadnt acted unfairly. 
Mrs G disagreed and asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman for a final 
decision. In summary she said:
Legal and General hadn't previously declined her claim on the basis that DFSP had a 
low malignant potential. She said it was unfair it was being given another bite of the 
cherry to reject the claim. 
She also disagreed that DFSP has a low malignant potential, especially when you 
factored in things like her age and gender. 
Legal and General was inconsistent in the way it considered DFSP claims. She 
suggested that other claims had been accepted without Legal and General relying on 
either the skin cancer or low malignant potential exclusion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint, and for largely the same reasons as our 
investigator. I realise this will be very disappointing for Mrs G, as this was not the answer 
she was hoping for. I should stress that I dont underestimate the severity of Mrs Gs 
condition, or indeed the impact its had on her life. But in deciding this case I had to consider 
if Legal and General was fair to conclude that the policy definition hadnt been met. Having 
carefully considered everything, I think it was fair. Ill explain why. 
For a cancer claim to be paid on the policy, the following definition must be met:
Any malignant tumour positively diagnosed with histological confirmation and characterised 
by the uncontrolled growth of malignant cells and invasion of tissue.
The term malignant tumour includes leukaemia, lymphoma and sarcoma, except cutaneous 
lymphoma (lymphoma confined to the skin).
For the above definition, the following are not covered:i. All cancers which are histologically classified as any of the following:
-premalignant;
-non-invasive;
-cancer in situ;
-having either borderline malignancy; or
-having low malignant potential.
ii. All tumours of the prostate unless histologically classified as having a Gleason score 
greater than 6 or having progressed to at least clinical TNM classification T2bN0M0.
iii. Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia unless histologically classified as having progressed 
to at least Binet Stage A.
iv. Malignant melanoma unless it has been histologically classified as having caused 
invasion beyond the epidermis (outer layer of skin).
v. Any other skin cancer (including cutaneous lymphoma) unless it has been 
histologically classified as having caused invasion in the lymph glands or spread to 
distant organs.
The policy booklet provided additional explanation about the cover provided, and the 
rationale for the exclusions:
Cancer (also known as a malignant tumour) is a disease where normal cells change and 
grow in an abnormal way. If left untreated, they can destroy surrounding healthy cells and 
eventually destroy healthy cells in other parts of the body.
There are about 200 different types of cancer, varying widely in outlook and treatment.
Some cancers are not covered by this definition. These tend to be ones that have not yet 
spread or are localized and can usually be successfully treated. Examples of these include 
some skin cancers and early stage prostate cancer.
Its accepted that Mrs Gs diagnosis meets the first part of the policy definition, as DFSP is a 
malignant tumour, characterised by the uncontrolled growth of cells and invasion of tissue. 
The issue in dispute is whether Mrs Gs claim can be fairly excluded under one of more of 
the listed exclusions. Legal and General has said the claim is excluded both on the basis 
that DFSP is a skin cancer (other than malignant melanoma) and because it has either 
borderline malignancy or low malignant potential. 
I realise theres been much debate about whether DFSP should be correctly classified as a 
skin cancer, a sarcoma or both. The above definition sets out that sarcomas are expressly 
included, whereas skin cancers are excluded unless theres evidence of invasion. 
I appreciate the Financial Ombudsman Service has been asked to decide on cases involving 
diagnoses of DFSP in the past, and specifically whether claims can be fairly excluded as 
skin cancers. Its important that I explain that each case is considered, and ultimately 
decided, on its own facts and merits, and in accordance with the policy terms under which a 
claim is made. As such, considering all those different factors, the circumstances of each 
case can vary to a significant degree. I have based my conclusions on the evidence presented in this case alone. But I have also considered the relevant law, industry 
standards, regulation and relevant guidance when reaching my decision. 
In this case, as can often happen, medical opinion appears to be both evolving and 
somewhat divided in individual cases. My role is to consider whether the available medical 
evidence supports that the policy definition has been met in Mrs Gs case, or more 
specifically whether an exclusion can fairly be applied. 
Legal and General has presented persuasive evidence from Professor N which explains why 
DFSP is considered a skin cancer. Professor N explained Dermatofibrosarcoma 
protuberans (DFSP) is a locally aggressive soft tissue tumour (sarcoma) of the skin [...] 
Therefore, DFSP represents a primary skin tumour. In the absence of any contrary 
evidence, I have no reason to doubt Professor Ns professional medical conclusions. As 
such, I accept Legal and Generals decision to classify DFSP as a skin cancer for the 
purpose of its exclusion. 
Theres no evidence to suggest Mrs Gs cancer invaded her lymph nodes or spread to 
distant organs. So, it appears, on balance, that Mrs Gs claim can fairly and reasonably be 
excluded under the any other skin cancer exclusion as Legal and General has done. 
As an alternative, Legal and General has said Mrs Gs claim could be excluded on the basis 
that her cancer had a low malignant potential. This conclusion would appear to be supported 
by the evidence from Dr S. He confirmed In view of the fact that there was no evidence of 
fibrosarcomatous transformation and that the tumour was resected with adequate margins, I 
would not expect there to be a recurrence of this tumour, either locally or regionally, and 
there should be no risk of metastasis. 
When specifically asked about the malignant potential of Mrs Gs cancer, Dr S answered In 
this particular case, the reporting Pathologist made it clear that there was no evidence of 
fibrosarcomatous malignant transformation. As far as I am aware, in the absence of 
fibrosarcomatous change, it is exceedingly rare for DFSP to metastasise.
Professor N also commented more broadly on the grading of DFSP noting Most tumours 
are low-grade malignant sarcomas. He also explained the distinction between 
fibrosarcomatous DFSP (FS-DFSP) (a variant of DFSP) and DFSP, noting FS-DFSP is a 
much more aggressive tumour with local recurrence in more than 50% of patients and 
metastasis in 10% to 15% of patients and that FS-DFSPs, compared with classic DFSPs, 
had significantly higher risks of local recurrence [] metastasis [] and death from 
disease. 
The available medical evidence appears to support that Mrs Gs DFSP was not expected to 
reoccur or spread (metastasis) following its successful removal. So, I think 
Legal and General was fair to say Mrs Gs claim would also have been excluded on the 
basis that her cancer had borderline malignancy or low malignant potential. 
I consider the further policy explanation adds weight to Legal and Generals position that this 
type of cancer is not covered under the policy. It explained the policy doesnt cover cancers 
that have not yet spread or are localized and can usually be successfully treated, which 
would appear to apply to Mrs Gs cancer. 
I know Mrs G is concerned that Legal and General sought to rely on an alternative exclusion 
only after the complaint had been referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service. But I dont 
think Legal and General has been given an unfair advantage, or indeed a second bite at the 
cherry, by highlighting a second part of the exclusion that may apply. Ultimately either party to a complaint is entitled to provide evidence in support of their 
complaint up to the point the case is decided by an ombudsman. Im satisfied that Mrs G has 
been given sufficient notice of Legal and Generals intention to rely on the borderline 
malignancy or low malignant potential exclusions - and shes been given sufficient 
opportunity to provide any evidence she may wish to present to counter Legal and Generals 
position. 
Im also aware that Mrs G disagrees that her cancer has a lower malignant potential. While 
Im of course mindful of Mrs Gs knowledge and understanding of her own condition, she 
isnt a medical professional. So, I cant reasonably place more reliance on her opinion than 
that of the available medical evidence. 
In summary, Im satisfied Legal and General has provided sufficient persuasive medical 
evidence to demonstrate that its decision to exclude Mrs Gs claim from cover, either under 
the any other skin cancer exclusion or the basis that her cancer had borderline 
malignancy or low malignant potential is reasonable. So, I think it was fair and reasonable 
for Legal and General to decline Mrs Gs claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman