DRN-4430947
The complaint
Mr W complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to refund him for a £12,000 cash 
withdrawal which he said he didnt make.
What happened
Mr Ws local Barclays branch closed, so he decided to close his account. Mr W was a long-
term Barclays customer, and on 16 May 2022, he went to a Barclays branch in another town, 
and opened a new account in the branch with a deposit of £25,900.
On 23 May, there was a cash withdrawal, in the same branch, for £12,000. The cashier 
asked the person making the withdrawal some questions, to reduce the risk of the payment 
being for a scam. The person making the withdrawal told the cashier the money was to pay 
for a classic car which he was buying. He provided identification in Mr Ws name, and 
correctly answered two security questions, and signed the withdrawal form. The branch paid 
him the cash. The withdrawal showed on Mr Ws monthly statement.
Some months later, Mr W contacted Barclays. He said he hadnt made the £12,000 cash 
withdrawal. He went into the branch to discuss it. Barclays says that Mr W told the branch 
that the signature on the withdrawal authority slip was his, but he didnt know how it had got 
there.
In reply to Mr Ws complaint, Barclays said that it hadnt found any evidence of fraud, and 
that the transaction had been properly authorised. In Barclays final response letter on 8 April 
2023, it said that it was holding Mr W liable on the basis that hed withdrawn the money. 
Barclays said that it had spoken to him about the purpose of the withdrawal, and the 
possibility of it being a scam. It believed the transaction had been genuine.
Mr W wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. He said hed had a meeting at the branch 
but the outcome hadnt been satisfactory. And Barclays had told him that one of its 
employees had recognised him when the £12,000 was withdrawn, from having opened the 
account for him a week earlier. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. He said that the withdrawal had been made 
using identification, and answering two security questions. Mr W had also told our 
investigator that he had previously used cash from his account for cars, which was what the 
person making the withdrawal had told the cashier. The investigator said that he didnt see 
how a third party could have made the withdrawal, and said that he thought Mr W had made 
the withdrawal himself.
Mr W didnt agree. He told the investigator that two witnesses had been with him when hed 
paid his £25,900 deposit into the new account. He said he hadnt bought anything apart from 
models, and although he had a classic car, hed had it for many years. On a second call, Mr 
W said that hed paid his initial deposit into the account on 2 April, and had received a letter 
from Barclays the next day. He said that this meant he couldnt have gone back on the same 
day he paid money in, to make the disputed withdrawal. Mr W asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Mr W is upset about this. I accept that he genuinely cant remember making 
the withdrawal, and believes he didnt do so. But as I wasnt present, I have to consider the 
documentary evidence, and decide what I think is more likely than not to have happened in 
all the circumstances of the case.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations here are 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer 
didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. So I 
need to decide whether I think its more likely than not that it was Mr W who authorised the 
withdrawal.
The man making the withdrawal on 23 May provided identification in Mr Ws name. He also 
answered two security questions correctly, and signed the withdrawal form with a signature 
which resembled Mr Ws. During the branchs questions which were intended to check Mr W 
wasnt being scammed into making the withdrawal, the man making the withdrawal told the 
branch cashier that it was to buy a classic car. The genuine Mr W told our investigator that 
he has previously used cash to buy a classic car.
This means that if the man making the withdrawal wasnt Mr W, hed have had to have:
- had identification in Mr Ws name;
- known Mr Ws security answers;
- known Mr Ws interest in classic cars; and 
- would have been able to sign the withdrawal form in a convincing way similar to Mr 
Ws signature in his identification. 
I also note that one of the other cashiers, who had opened the account for Mr W only a week 
before, said the person making the withdrawal was the same person for whom hed opened 
the account the previous week.
In view of these factors, I dont see how a fraudulent third party could have carried out the 
£12,000 cash withdrawal.
I also note that Mr W didnt report the disputed transaction for some months after it took 
place, though hed have had statements. And at different times, Mr W told this service 
slightly different things about his complaint.  For example, he told the investigator hed 
opened the account on 2 April, but the statements show this was on 16 May. 
So I think that its most likely that what happened here is that unfortunately, Mr W genuinely 
forgot that hed withdrawn the £12,000 cash on 23 May. This means that I dont require 
Barclays to refund him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Belinda KnightOmbudsman