DRN-3124459
The complaint
Mrs P, trading as B, complains that Society of Lloyds unfairly declined a claim made under 
his commercial insurance policy following losses suffered as a result of the impact of 
COVID-19. 
What happened
Mrs P had the benefit of a Solon Gold commercial insurance policy underwritten by Society 
of Lloyds. For ease, whenever I refer to Society of Lloyds this will include anything done by 
the underwriters and its agents.
In March 2020, Mrs P had to close Bs premises due to the national government-imposed 
lockdown intended to control the spread of COVID-19. She made a claim under the business 
interruption section of her policy. 
Society of Lloyds declined the claim. It said there had been no Damage which had led to the 
closure or financial loss. It also said that although the policy provided some cover in relation 
to diseases, this was limited to a specified list of diseases which didnt include COVID-19. 
And that the Public Emergency extension related to an emergency in the vicinity of the 
premises  rather than national circumstances. Mrs P complained about this, but Society of 
Lloyds did not change its stance. So, Mrs P referred this complaint to our service.
However, our investigator felt that Society of Lloyds had acted fairly and reasonably when 
declining the claim. He agreed that the Public Emergency extension provided cover in 
relation to localised events, rather than the national pandemic that had led to Bs closure. He 
also agreed that, as COVID-19 was not included in the list of specified diseases covered by 
the policy, the Disease extension did not cover the circumstance of Mrs Ps claim. Though 
Mrs P did not have any further evidence, she remained unhappy with this outcome. As such, 
this complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact lockdown had on Mrs P and her 
business. But, largely for the same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
The type of cover Mrs P is looking to claim on is business interruption insurance. There are a 
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide 
cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add-ons. The starting 
point is to consider the specific policy Mrs P took out. 
As such Ive considered every aspect of the policy Mrs P holds with Society of Lloyds to 
determine whether there are any sections that would require Society of Lloyds to meet a 
claim like the one she is making. 
Damage
The core cover provided by the business interruption section of Mrs Ps policy provides 
cover where there has been an interruption to business as a result of Damage to Bs 
property. Several extensions to this cover also require there to have been Damage, though 
in relation to other locations  either the area around the premises or to, for example, Bs 
suppliers. 
Damage is defined in Mrs Ps policy as:
Accidental loss destruction or damage.
I understand that Mrs P closed Bs business on 23 March 2020 due to the government-
imposed lockdown. The nature of this business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed 
to stay open after this time. But this closure was not as a result of Damage  either to Bs 
property or the property of others. And whilst Mrs Ps business may have suffered a loss of 
income, this wasnt the cause of the interruption. So, there is no cover for this claim under 
the core part of the business interruption section of the extensions requiring Damage. 
Disease
A further extension to the business interruption section of the policy relates to Disease. 
However, this provides cover in relation to, in part:
the occurrence of

Acute Encephalitis Acute Poliomyelitis Anthrax Chickenpox Cholera Diptheria 
Dysentry Legionellosis Legionaires Disease Leprosy Leptospirosis Malaria Measles 
Meningococcal Infection Mumps Opthalmia Neonatorum Paratyphoid Fever Plague 
Rabies Rubella Scarlet Fever Smallpox Tetanus Tuberculosis Typhoid Fever Viral 
Hepatitus Whooping Cough or Yellow/ Fever at the Premises

Having considered this term, Im not persuaded this part of the policy would have provided 
Mrs P with cover for the circumstances of this claim. This is because, whilst there are a few 
spelling mistakes in this list, it is a list of diseases for which cover is offered and COVID-19 
isnt one of the diseases listed.
When reaching this finding Im mindful that COVID-19 is a new disease that no-one had the 
foresight to cover, and that it might not have been possible for Society of Lloyds to include it 
in the policy at the time it was written. But I dont think that changes anything. Thats 
because I dont think Society of Lloyds intended to, or suggested they would, provide cover 
for all diseases. Society of Lloyds deliberately chose to limit the cover provided by reference 
to a static list of certain diseases.
I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge.As Ive said above, a range of policies are available. And some provide cover for all 
notifiable diseases  a list of diseases updated by the Government. These policies might, 
depending on the circumstances, provide cover for a claim relating to COVID-19. But this is 
not the type of policy Mrs P had.
I think the purpose and effect of Mrs Ps policy was to provide cover in the event of the 
diseases listed in above. There are many potential illnesses and diseases that the policy 
does not cover including, for example, SARS (another type of Coronavirus). I dont think the 
policy can or should fairly be read as covering any and all diseases that fall outside of the 
defined list set out above.
So, the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can fairly 
and reasonably be read in a different way.
Mrs Ps claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. 
As cover was not provided under this area of Mrs Ps policy for losses resulting from 
business interruption caused by COVID-19, I am satisfied the decision of Society of Lloyds 
to decline the claim under this extension was in line with the policy, and in all the 
circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.
Public Emergency
The last extension to Mrs Ps policy that I will specifically refer to is the Public Emergency 
extension. This provided cover for losses resulting from:
the actions or advice of a government or local authority due to an emergency likely 
to endanger life or property in the vicinity of the Premises which prevents or hinders 
the use of or access to the Premises
Mrs P closed B, and so prevented access to and use of the premises, as a result of the 
actions or advice of the UK Government. So, I can appreciate why she considers it would be 
fair that this part of the policy provides cover for her claim. 
However, in reaching a decision, one of the things Im required to take into account is the 
relevant law. I think the High Court judgment following the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) test case (The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) v Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors 
[2020] EWHC 2448 (Comm)) is relevant to this complaint, because the High Court 
considered terms similar to those above and this part of the judgment wasnt appealed to the 
Supreme Court.
Paragraphs 466-467 of the judgment say:
we do not consider that the entire country can be described as in the vicinity of the 
insured premises on the wording of this policy. It follows that the government action 
and advice in response to the national pandemic cannot be said to be due to an 
emergency in the vicinity, in the sense of in the neighbourhood, of the insured 
premises.
There could only be cover under this wording if the insured could also demonstrate 
that it was an emergency by reason of COVID-19 in the vicinity, in that sense of the 
neighbourhood, of the insured premises, as opposed to the country as a whole, 
which led to the actions or advice of the government.
Given the similarities between the wording in Mrs Ps policy and that considered by the 
court, I see no reason to depart from the judgment in this case. And I think this extension in 
Mrs Ps policy was intended to provide cover in the event of an emergency in Bs local area. While there may well have been a number of cases of COVID-19 within the vicinity of Bs 
premises, I dont think the UK Governments response to the national pandemic was due to 
an emergency in Bs vicinity as opposed to the country as a whole. It follows that I consider 
Society of Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably when declining the claim Mrs P made for 
losses to Bs business. 
Overall, having considered things very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Society of 
Lloyds to pay this claim. I appreciate my decision will be disappointing for Mrs P, but I hope 
Ive provided her with a thorough explanation of why her policy doesnt offer cover in the 
circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman