DRN-2751154
The complaint
Mr G says that when he tried to take out a motor insurance policy with Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited, he was unfairly prevented from doing it, so that Advantage wouldnt lose 
out as a result of a cashback offer hed secured.
What happened
Mr G says he got a quote online but was unable to proceed with it once he was transferred 
to the brokers website through which the new policy could be bought. The brokers website 
showed a message that said cover couldnt be provided, but as a quote had already been 
generated, it was clear that Mr G was considered suitable for the policy with Advantage. The 
broker thought it was possible that Mr G had changed something once he was transferred to 
its website that made his request for cover unacceptable. But Mr G said he wouldnt have 
been able to change any details, as there was no edit / review button.
Advantage wasnt able to say why the application for cover wasnt accepted, but it said that a 
quote wouldnt be revoked for no reason. The broker wasnt able to show any record of the 
application, as the quote had expired. But it provided a screenshot to show that anyone 
applying for a policy who was referred to its website could change several aspects of the 
application that had already been agreed, such as the policys voluntary excess. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Gs complaint. He noted that Mr G initially said that the 
brokers website didnt have an edit button, but it was clear that it did. He said as consumers 
can change details at that stage, it was possible that any change made would affect the 
decision of an insurer (such as Advantage) on whether to provide cover.
The investigator said Mr G believed Advantage wouldnt offer him cover through the website 
as it wanted him to have to arrange it on the phone with the broker. Mr G thought that meant 
the cashback offer would be lost and the policy would cost him more. But the investigator 
thought it was more likely that Mr G had edited some information that affected the quote. He 
said Advantage didnt have to offer Mr G cover anyway  without giving him a reason.
Mr G said hed told the broker at the time that he wasnt able to edit anything on the screen, 
as the edit button wasnt working, but that the investigator hadnt considered that evidence. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Gs details must have been considered suitable for the policy with Advantage, otherwise 
he wouldnt have been given a quote and transferred to the brokers website to complete the 
purchase. So I can see why he was confused and upset to be informed at that point that he 
couldnt go ahead with it, as Advantage could no longer provide cover.
I understand why Mr G assumed that was because the broker and Advantage didnt want to 
be involved with the cashback hed secured. But theres no evidence thats the case. Mr G 
also thought at one point that there might be a technical error, which I think is possible. Apart 
from that, I think the most likely explanation is that Mr G may have used the edit button to 
change a minor detail and that the change made the application unacceptable to Advantage. 
Obviously, that wouldnt have been possible had there not been an edit button (which Mr G 
first said was the case) but he later accepted that the button was there.  
Mr G has provided evidence that he contacted the broker by email around the time he tried 
to buy the policy. In one email Mr G said that when he clicked on last price the message 
that he wasnt able to proceed with the policy came up. In the other message, Mr G said he 
wasnt able to complete the quote and add extras. He didnt mention the edit button at all, 
but he said the select button didnt work. Mr G later told us that when hed referred to the edit 
button not being there (or not working) in his complaint to us, he meant the select button. 
I think theres some confusion in Mr Gs account about the edit button and whether it was 
working, and the select button. But the select button must have worked, as when Mr G 
pressed it, the message not allowing him to proceed further came up. Theres no record or 
document showing what happened on the day  and I wouldnt expect one to be available, 
as the quote didnt proceed. As I cant be certain what happened, I can only consider whats 
most likely to have occurred. In my opinion, its likely that there was  technical error or that 
Mr G used the edit button as well as the select button. 
In my opinion, theres no evidence that Advantage acted unreasonably, and I dont think 
thats the most likely explanation for what happened. I dont think Mr G has shown that 
Advantage did anything wrong, so despite his understandable unhappiness about the 
application for insurance not proceeding as expected, I cant uphold his complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman