DRN-3767661
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) didnt make a debit card payment.
What happened
On 11 August 2021, Mrs H tried to make a debit card payment for £1,080 to an online 
holiday booking company (who I shall call X). The payment authorisation was at 1.03 am. 
The payment was withheld by Santander for fraud checks and a text message was sent to 
Mrs H to ask her if it was genuine. A few seconds later, X attempted another payment for 
£1,080 - and this was declined through lack of funds.  At 7.27 am, Mrs H texted back to 
Santander to say the payment was OK. The payment wasnt made.
Mrs H complained. She and her husband were on a walking holiday with friends and wanted 
to book a cottage for the second week of their holiday. She said she authorised the payment 
and it wasnt made. As a result, she lost her holiday booking with X. She and her friends 
couldnt find an alternative property and therefore had to travel home without having the 
benefit of the second weeks holiday. She said this caused distress and inconvenience for all 
her party. It had also affected her relationship with her two friends who couldnt understand 
why the payment hadnt been made. She said her losses totalled £6,700. This was made up 
of cancelled leave (£2,000); possible cost of renting another cottage (£2,000); return journey 
if they couldve found another property (£200); stress and anxiety and the bad feeling 
caused with her friends (£1,000); and time spent after returning to establish what had 
happened (£1,000). 
Mrs H also said that Santander had admitted theyd made a mistake regarding the payment 
when she called them about her complaint.
Santander said that on 11 August 2021, the first payment had been declined for fraud 
checks. A second payment was attempted by X one second after the first one, and this was 
declined due to insufficient funds  because it was so close to the first payment request. 
Santander then sent Mrs H a text message at 7.27 am which said Thank you for confirming 
these transactions. Some of them may not have been successful so please check your 
account and with the company you're paying before making any of them again.  Santander 
accepted that that when Mrs H first contacted them, she was told the declines were due to 
insufficient funds  this was an error as that wasnt the reason the first payment was 
stopped. For that, Santander paid compensation of £150.
Santander said their fraud system is in place to protect both banks and customers from 
fraud. They do, as part of their process, contact customers to allow them to re-attempt any 
transactions they wish to. They said they hadnt made an error and therefore declined Mrs 
Hs complaint.
Mrs H brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Santander acted reasonably. After 
Mrs H had confirmed the payment was Ok to be sent, she was sent a text to advise her to 
check her account and contact X before making the payment again. It was unfortunate that 
Mrs H assumed the payment had gone through, when it hadnt. He said there was an 
element of responsibility on the part of Mrs H to ensure the payment had been made. So, no 
error had been made by Santander. He also said Santanders payment of £150 was 
sufficient  this was due to the staff member incorrectly informing Mrs H that the payment 
had been stopped due to insufficient funds.
Mrs H asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read Mrs Hs complaint and her submissions to Santander and to us in depth. I fully 
appreciate the strength of her feelings about what happened  and I can see how frustrating 
everything must have been for her  especially as she was taking a holiday, post Covid, with 
long standing friends.
But equally, its my role to decide if, based on the evidence that Ive seen, whether 
Santander made a mistake here or acted unreasonably. As part of reviewing Mrs Hs 
complaint, I asked Santander more questions, which I reviewed, But -  and after a lot of 
thought, I dont consider that Santander made an error.
All banks, including Santander, have sophisticated fraud prevention systems in place to 
prevent fraud. That means that some payments are declined or held pending investigation, 
or authorisation by a customer. And in this case, Mrs Hs payment to X was declined for that 
reason.
The crux of Mrs Hs complaint is that she authorised the payment to X at 7.27am on 11 
August 2021. She responded to Santanders text (sent just after the payment had been 
claimed by X) to say the payment could be made. The payment request to Santander had 
been made at 1.03am on that day  so I presume it was at that time that Mrs H made the 
booking with X. And so  Mrs H argues that because she agreed to the payment, it should 
then have been made. And so then  she couldve continued her holiday with her friends, 
and moved into the cottage she wanted to reserve with X.
X made a further payment request one second after the first one, for the same amount. This 
was declined for lack of funds  as the first payment was being held pending Mrs Hs 
authorisation. So  the second payment request isnt relevant to what happened here  so I 
set that to one side.
But what happened next is the key to this complaint. Santander replied (also at 7.27) to Mrs 
Hs text and said Thanks for confirming these transactions. Some of them may not have 
been processed so please check your account to see if you need to make any of them 
again. Ive seen the evidence that this text was sent. So here - Santander advised Mrs H 
that the payment may not have been made, and asked her to check her account to ensure it 
had gone through. Or, she couldve called Santander to check. But unfortunately, it appears 
that Mrs H didnt do that. 
It would also have been reasonable for Mrs H to check with X also  as it would seem likely 
that X would have emailed or contacted Mrs H to say that the payment hadnt been made; 
and the affect on her booking. If X didnt, then thats something Mrs H should take up with X.
Mrs H was wrongly informed that the first payment was declined due to lack of funds  this 
was an error, and Santander paid compensation of £150 for that. But  thats not part of the 
crux of this complaint; and it doesnt change my decision.Im sorry that the second week of Mrs Hs holiday didnt go ahead as she wanted it to. I can 
appreciate the frustration that it caused her and her friends. But my role is to decide whether 
this was caused by Santander, and in the circumstances of this complaint, I dont consider it 
was. And so, and I know this will be disappointing to Mrs H, Im not going to ask Santander 
to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman