DRN-2824668
The complaint
Ms T  represented in this complaint by her father, Mr T  complains that Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited wont accept liability for damage to her car when it was recovered 
following an accident.
Mr T holds Admirals recovery agent responsible for the damage, and all his correspondence 
has been with the recovery agent. However, Admiral is the policy underwriter so his 
daughters complaint is against Admiral. Any reference to Admiral in my decision includes 
references to its agents, including its recovery agent and approved repairer.
What happened
Ms T had a car insurance policy with Admiral. In May 2020, she had an accident which 
damaged the front of her car. Ms T called her father who reported the accident to Admiral. 
Admiral arranged for its agent to recover the car and transport it to an approved repairer. 
The accident happened on a Saturday evening; Admirals repairer was closed until Monday 
so the recovery agent stored Ms Ts car until then.
Admirals repairer returned the car to Ms T in July 2020. At that point, Ms T noticed 
significant scratches and a dent above the wheel arch on the rear passenger side of the car. 
She notified the repairer who told her that the damage was already there when it repaired 
the car. 
Mr T says, in summary:
The scratches werent there when the car was recovered following the accident.
The damage was first highlighted in a report by Admiral two days after the accident.
Ms T wasnt aware of Admirals recovery agent making a report at the accident site.
This means the damage must have occurred while the car was with Admirals 
recovery agent.
Mr T complained to Admiral on his daughters behalf. In response, Admiral said photos taken 
by its recovery agent showed damage to the rear passenger side of the car, and a report at 
the time highlighted this damage, although it acknowledged there is some uncertainty as to 
when this was completed. Finally, it said the damage wasnt consistent with recovery 
damage. This meant Admiral didnt agree that its recovery agent was responsible for the 
damage. Mr T didnt accept that and brought his daughters complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended that Ms Ts complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
photos taken by the recovery agent showed any damage to the car, whereas photos taken 
by Ms T after the car was returned to her showed substantial scratches and damage to the 
paintwork. She thought Admirals agent was most likely responsible for causing this damage. 
She recommended Admiral repair the damage and pay Ms T £50 for the inconvenience this 
caused her.
Admiral disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to consider.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 15 April 2021. I said:
The key issue here is: when did the damage to the rear passenger side of Ms Ts car 
happen? If this happened while the car was in Admirals care, it would be fair to ask Admiral 
to put things right.
Its first worth noting that neither party suggests the damage was a result of Ms Ts accident. 
Given Ms Ts account of what happened, I think thats a fair assumption.
The evidence Ive got about the damage to Ms Ts car is:
Ms Ts assertion that there was no damage to the car before the accident.
Photos provided by Ms T after the accident.
Photos provided by Admiral after the accident.
The two Vehicle Condition Reports by Admirals recovery agent.
Admirals approved repairer took 65 photos while the car was being repaired. (These photos 
are dated 21 July 2020, but I think they must have been taken earlier than that given Mr T 
says the car was returned to his daughter on 9 July.) These photos clearly show scratches 
on the passenger side of the car and a deep dent above the wheel arch. Ms Ts photos show 
the same damage.
Admiral provided two photos taken by its recovery agent. Our investigator thought these 
photos showed no damage, but I disagree. One appears to show the severe scratches 
behind the rear passenger side wheel arch. I cant see any sign of the dent above the wheel 
arch, however this doesnt mean its not there. I note that the dent isnt visible in similar 
photos taken by the repairer.
Its not clear when the recovery agent took these photos. Admiral said in its final response 
letter that they appear to have been taken whilst [Ms Ts] vehicle was in storage. It told us 
they were taken at the accident site, then later said no photos were taken at the roadside 
because it wasnt safe to do so. Looking at the photos and background, Im satisfied they 
werent taken at the accident site. I think Admirals statement to Ms T  that they were taken 
at the storage site  is most likely correct.
Admiral provided two Vehicle Condition Reports: one is dated 2 May, the other 4 May. Both 
reports include an illustration of a car plus handwritten scribbles indicating damage:
2 May 2020. This indicates damage to both the front and rear passenger side of the 
car.
4 May 2020. This only indicates damage to the front of the car.
I dont understand why these reports should be different, particularly given the 4 May report 
seems to indicate less damage than the 2 May report. Admiral hasnt given a satisfactory 
explanation for this. 
However, the 2 May report  made at the roadside immediately after the accident  noted 
damage to the rear passenger side of Ms Ts car. Mr T says his daughter wasnt aware of 
the recovery driver making any report. I accept that. However, Ms T had just been involved 
in an accident, the police were on the scene, the recovery driver wasnt taking photos, and 
didnt ask her to sign anything. So it may not have been evident to Ms T that the recovery 
driver was making a report. The report is timestamped when the recovery agent was at the accident site. Admirals 
explanation that its agent didnt take photos because it wasnt safe to do so is reasonable. 
So I think the 2 May report was made at the scene and shows damage to the rear passenger 
side of the car. I cant think of any reason why this report would indicate damage if it wasnt 
already there. I also think the photo taken by the recovery agent at its storage site shows the 
scratches behind the rear passenger side wheel arch.
Ms T hasnt been able to provide photos of the passenger side of the car before the 
accident. This is perfectly understandable and I dont mean to criticise her for this  I dont 
think many people take close-up photos of the side of their car. Its also understandable that 
Ms T only took photos of the front of the car after the accident.
But it means the only evidence to say there was no damage to her car before the accident is 
Ms Ts statement. I dont doubt her honesty but its possible she hadnt noticed this damage 
before. On the other hand, Admirals photos and report immediately after the accident 
appear to show damage to the rear passenger side of the car. Finally, Admirals description 
of how the car was secured and statement that the damage isnt consistent with a roadside 
recovery seems reasonable.
On balance, I think the damage highlighted by Ms T was most likely already there when 
Admirals agent recovered her car. It follows that, at this stage, Im not minded to uphold the 
complaint. This means I dont intend to require Admiral to fix the damage.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms T disagreed with me and provided detailed comments on my provisional decision. In 
summary, she said:
The scratches werent there when the car was recovered.
The car was loaded onto the recovery truck and taken away immediately.
The recovery agent didnt inspect her car and didnt complete a report at the accident 
site.
The police and a friend were present throughout the recovery.
Admirals statement that it was unsafe for its agent to take photos is incorrect. The 
accident happened on a quiet country road and the disputed scratches would have 
been on the kerb side of the car.
The photos of the car must have been taken at the storage site.
The scratches must have been made while her car was in the recovery agents care.
Ms T also said I was mistaken when I described a deep dent above the rear passenger 
wheel arch. She thinks this is simply a reflection in the photo.
Admiral didnt reply to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to Ms T for her detailed comments on my provisional decision. And Im happy to 
be corrected about the damage to her car. However, Im afraid she hasnt provided any 
information that I hadnt already carefully considered. This means I havent changed my 
decision.I agree with Ms T that the recovery agents photos showing the scratches were most likely 
taken at the storage site  that is, after the car had been recovered from the accident site. 
However, Im satisfied that the Vehicle Condition Report dated 2 May was most likely made 
by Admirals agent when he recovered the car. That report is timestamped 17:54. Admirals 
internal notes show that this is an hour after Ms Ts father reported the accident and 52 
minutes after its agent accepted the recovery job. The recovery agents premises are 
approximately a 30 minute drive from the accident site. So I think the report must have been 
made by Admirals agent at the accident site. An illustration on this report indicated damage 
to the passenger side of Ms Ts car.
As I said in my provisional decision, I see no reason why a report timestamped when the 
recovery agent was at the accident site would indicate damage to the side of Ms Ts car if it 
wasnt already there. While I appreciate Ms Ts strength of feeling about this  and I dont 
doubt that she honestly believes Admirals recovery agent caused the damage  the 
evidence suggests that the damage was already present when Admirals agent recovered 
her car from the accident site.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman