DRN-3823702
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax hasnt refunded him the money 
that he lost as part of a scam.
What happened
Mr S says that he made an account with an investment business that I will call A. They 
convinced Mr S that if he deposited funds with this business it would trade on his behalf and 
make him money. He therefore made a debit card payment to a third party. 
 
When he was unable to get his money back. Mr S subsequently reported to Halifax that hed 
been scammed and therefore he felt that his transactions should be refunded. Halifax 
declined to refund the transaction.
Mr S remaining unhappy, referred his complaint about Halifax to us. As our investigator (who 
didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld) couldnt resolve the matter informally, the 
case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for materially the same reasons as
the investigator. Ill explain why.
Should Halifax have prevented the payment in the first place
I dont think Halifax could reasonably be expected to have prevented the payment Mr S
says he lost to a scam. This is because at the time generally, banks were expected to
process payments a customer authorised it to make. And under The Payment Services
Regulations and terms and conditions of the account, Mr S is presumed liable for the loss in
the first instance, in circumstances where he authorised the payment. That said, as a matter
of good industry practice, Halifax should have taken proactive steps to identify and help
prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions  that could
involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a balance to be struck: banks had
(and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best
interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every transaction.
In this instance the payment was for £515.91 with an additional £15.42 transaction fee. I 
dont think that this payment was sufficiently large or out of character for Halifax to have 
intervened or asked further questions about this payment prior to it being agreed.
Chargeback
After the payment was made, I wouldnt reasonably expect Halifax to have done anything
further until Mr S notified it hed been scammed. Then, because this was a debit card
payment, the only recourse for potential recovery of the payment would be via the
chargeback scheme. Chargeback is a process by which disputes are resolved between card
issuers (here, Halifax) and the merchant.
In this instance Halifax asked for information from Mr S to support his chargeback claim. 
Halifax says that this information was provided by Mr S to an incorrect e-mail address and by 
the time the information was received the timescales for the chargeback had been 
exceeded. Mr S says the information was provided to the e-mail address that he was 
provided with.
Regardless of the above though, I dont think a chargeback would have been successful. I 
say this because the payment was made to a third-party trading course provider whereas the 
claim that Mr S was making was that he was unable to withdraw his funds from A. The 
evidence that Mr S has provided seems to have been proof that he had funds with A and 
that he was not allowed to withdraw these funds, this does not demonstrate to me any 
reason as to why Halifax could pursue a chargeback against the company that Mr S actually 
paid. So, I find it unlikely based on the evidence provided by Mr S to Halifax, a successful 
claim couldve been undertaken regardless of whether the evidence was or was not set to 
the Halifaxs correct e-mail address.
Mr S seems to be under the impression that he is entitled automatically to a refund if he is 
scammed. I should explain that in his specific circumstances there is no such right. 
Ultimately Mr S authorised a payment from his debit card which Halifax had no real reason 
to stop and there was no way that I can see that Halifax could have recovered the funds for 
him. So, I cant ask Halifax to reimburse the lost funds.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman