DRN-2431608
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the suitability of a whole of life policy sold to her by Phoenix Life 
Limited.
Mrs S is being represented in her complaint by a claims management company. For ease I 
will refer to all actions as being those of Mrs S.
What happened
After taking advice from Phoenix in 1993 Mrs S was sold a whole of life policy which she 
says wasnt suitable for her.
Phoenix life looked into the concerns raised by Mrs S and thought the policy was suitable. 
Whilst being widowed with no dependants, they say Mrs S told the adviser at the time that 
she wanted to provide a lump sum for her funeral costs and ensure her children were left an 
inheritance. 
Remaining unhappy Mrs S brought her complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. She thought the sale was appropriate at the time 
and that the paperwork was clear about the features of the policy. Mrs S said that she wasnt 
able to understand English and had no idea how the policy worked. Our investigator 
considered what Mrs S said, but still thought the sale was suitable. 
Mrs S disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the time of the sale in 1993 a Planning Your Future form was completed as a record of 
the conversation between Mrs S and the adviser from Phoenix. Whilst I could never be sure 
of what was said in the conversation between the adviser and Mrs S, this form is the best 
evidence we have from the time about what was discussed.
This form shows that Mrs S was 65 years old, widowed, living with her son, and she was 
receiving an income each month. When talking about plans for the future the form records 
that Mrs S said In my old age I am maintained by my children, so I decided to give security 
when I die. Theres also a record that affordability of the policy was discussed.
Having considered all of the available information from the time Im satisfied that the policy 
was suitable. Mrs S was looking to leave some money for her children and this policy 
provided for that.
Mrs S says that the policy wasnt suitable as she was widowed with no dependants and 
living with her son whilst receiving pension benefits. Because of this she feels she has 
wasted money on a plan she didnt need. All of these things are true about Mrs S at the time, 
but that doesnt necessarily make the policy unsuitable as Ive explained above. Its recorded 
that at the time Mrs S wanted to leave some money for her children; this was her need. Her 
living situation doesnt make the policy unsuitable. 
Mrs S says that she isnt able to speak English well so didnt know how the plan worked. The 
Planning Your Future form completed at the time makes clear that Mrs S was present at the 
time of the advice along with her son and daughter in law. It says: While I was explaining life 
cover to her son and daughter in law she was present  I explained to her through her son 
and both agreed to go for the life cover  She was happy to go ahead with the life cover.
The form acknowledges that the adviser wasnt speaking to her at the time. But theres no 
evidence that at the time Mrs S wasnt able to understand what was being said when it was 
being explained by her son. So Im satisfied the adviser was acting correctly and the 
information was being passed to her by her son. 
The premiums for the policy are being paid by Mrs S son. Because of this Mrs S says that 
the adviser shouldve conducted a financial review on him; however I dont think thats the 
case. The policy is in the name of Mrs S and she is the one liable for payment of the 
premiums. If Mrs S son chooses to pay the premium on her behalf thats a decision for them 
to make. I can see that affordability for Mrs S was considered at the time of the sale which is 
what the adviser was required to do. 
Mrs S says she didnt receive any policy documents when taking out the policy. Due to the 
time thats passed since when the policy was taken out, some 27 years, I havent seen any 
proof that the policy documents were provided. However its common industry practice for 
documents to be sent a policy holder after a policy is set up. So whilst I cant say for sure 
that documents were provided, I think on balance they were more than likely probably sent. 
If Mrs S was concerned about not receiving the documents, I think it wouldve been 
reasonable for her to follow that up at the time. 
Having carefully considering everything Im satisfied the sale of the policy was suitable for 
the needs of Mrs S at the time.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman