DRN-2900104
The complaint
  Mr B has complained that Progressive Money Limited (Progressive Money) lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
 Mr B was given two loans by Progressive Money. The details of these loans are given 
below:
Loan Date taken Date repaid instalments amount Repayments
1 25/04/2017 04/05/2018 36 £5890 £231.16
2 04/05/2018 21/11/2019 60 £16,890 £485.89
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in May 2021. Both parties have received 
a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the 
decision below. I said;
Progressive Money on both occasions it lent to Mr B asked for information about his income 
and expenditure. It also requested payslips to verify his wages. Progressive Money acquired 
a credit report for Mr B and reviewed bank statements.
I think in the circumstances when it agreed to both of the loans, it would have been 
proportionate for Progressive Money to have done more to check Mr Bs regular 
expenditure, but I dont need to draw any further conclusions about this. This is because, on 
balance, I dont think Progressive Money made a fair lending decision for either loan and I 
will explain why.
Mr B asked for loan 1 on 25 April 2017 for £5890 and when he did this, he told them about 
his income and expenditure. His income was validated by payslips and when I see 
Progressive Moneys income and expenditure sheet I can see, on the face of it, he had 
sufficient income to be able to afford the loan from Progressive Money.
But the lender was aware from the credit check it had acquired that Mr B had a total balance 
of revolving credit in excess of £28,000 including seven open short-term loans taken out in 
quick succession within 4 months of his application for this loan. 
I think Progressive Money focussed its calculation of whether the loan was affordable for Mr 
B on a pounds and pence basis. But as Ive already explained, the lender was required to 
establish whether the borrower could sustainably meet his loan repayments  not just 
whether the loan payments were technically affordable. The loan payments being 
affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could sustainably make their 
repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is the case. This is because the relevant 
regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulty  in particular without 
incurring or increasing problem indebtedness. The customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Mr B had fairly recently taken several payday loans, was spent up to his limit on credit cards, 
had other unsecured loans open and yet still needed to borrow further. I think it would have 
been reasonable for Progressive Money to conclude that despite his income, Mr B was 
struggling to manage his finances.
I appreciate that Mr B had approached Progressive Money to consolidate some of the 
revolving credit listed in the credit search. The monthly repayment to Progressive Money 
was less than the monthly amount being paid to service them. But I think Progressive Money 
ought to have been aware from the information it had gathered that Mr B was finding it 
difficult to manage his existing debt levels. Given the level of outstanding debt, and the 
number of creditors, I think Progressive Money ought reasonably to have been aware that 
this partial debt consolidation was unlikely to help Mr B make sufficient inroads into his 
existing debt and in particular his remaining revolving debt balance.
Mr Bs finances didnt improve when he asked for loan 2. Progressive Money could see that 
he had increased his reliance on short term lending and was told by Mr B that he was in a 
cycle of short-term lending debt that he couldnt get out of. 
Taking matters as a whole, I think on balance that Progressive Money ought reasonably to 
have realised that Mr B was finding it difficult to get out from under his debt problems, and 
that it was unlikely that he would be able to sustainably repay either loan over the extended 
terms provided. I think in these particular circumstances; Progressive Money should 
reasonably have concluded that it was not appropriate to lend to him in 2017 or 2018.
Taking everything into account, I dont currently think Progressive Money should have 
agreed to provide either loan to Mr B. So, I am currently intending to uphold this complaint 
and direct Progressive Money to put things right. 
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. 
Mr B responded and accepted the decision. He has no further comments to make.
Progressive Money has provided a detailed response and although I have not included 
every point that it has made below, I have considered everything it has said carefully. I will 
summarise what I believe the most relevant points that it has made:
For loan 1: 
It describes in further detail, what it says were its affordability and sustainability 
checks. These it says included a fact find, credit search, pay slip verification and 
copies of Mr Bs bank statements. 
It says Mr B was looking to consolidate his debts to make his financial situation 
more stable. Mr Bs credit file did not detail any adverse credit or data.
Mr B, during a phone call to Progressive Money, gave reasons why he obtained 
high cost credit and according to it, he says he didnt think he was in a payday loan 
cycle.It says he reduced his monthly credit commitments from £1000 to around £231.
It makes references to other customers complaints that our service has looked at 
that it thinks are relevant to this complaint. It says customers having payday loans 
or a high level of outstanding credit should not be the only deciding factor when 
making a decision in a loan application.
For loan 2:
It gave the same list of checks that it says it carried out for loan 2 as it did for the 
first loan.
It says Mr B told it during a phone call that he had got into a cycle of debt with pay 
day loans and wanted to use the loan to settle them.
It made observations about how the results from Mr Bs credit search had improved 
and there was no evidence of adverse credit data either.
Overall it didnt think it did anything wrong when it agreed to lend to Mr B on either 
occasion.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The submission from Progressive Money hasnt persuaded me that I should change my 
provisional decision. 
I have already explained this in my provisional decision, but I think it is worth reiterating 
again that the lender was required to establish whether the borrowers could sustainably 
meet their loan repayments not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Mr B had fairly recently taken payday loans, spent up to his limit on several credit cards,
had open unsecured loans to repay and yet he still needed to borrow further when he asked 
for loan 1. I thought it would have been reasonable for Progressive Money to conclude that 
despite his income, Mr B was already struggling to manage his finances. Further, the 
consolidation that Mr B was looking to make would only have covered a proportion of his 
debt. Given the level of outstanding loans and number of creditors, I think Progressive 
Money ought reasonably to have been aware that this partial consolidation was unlikely to 
help Mr B make sufficient inroad into his debt. 
The search results within the credit report that Progressive Money had in front of it for loan 1, 
showed that Mr B had developed a reliance on short term lending. When I think about this 
and also what I have concluded about the amount of outstanding debt he had, I think 
Progressive Money ought to have seen that Mr B was on balance, having problems 
managing his finances and that he was in all likelihood unlikely to repay this loan in a 
sustainable way. On balance, I dont think Mr Bs finances improved in any meaningful way 
when he applied for a larger second loan either.Taking matters as a whole, I think on balance that Progressive Money ought reasonably to 
have realised that Mr S was finding it difficult to repay his existing credit commitments when 
he applied for loans 1 and 2. It was unlikely that he would be able to sustainably repay either 
loan over the extended terms provided. I think in these particular circumstances (from the 
credit information on his report); Progressive Money should reasonably have concluded that 
it was not appropriate to lend to him.
As I am upholding Mr Bs complaint, I need to think about Progressive Money would need 
to do to put Mr B in a position he would have been in if it hadnt agreed to lend to him. He 
would still need to pay back the money that he had use of, but I would need consider 
amongst other things that interest and charges be taken off. 
I have considered all of the points Progressive Money has made in its submission, and I do 
thank it for engaging with and responding to the findings of my provisional decision. But my 
findings and decision hasnt changed. So, it now needs to put things right. 
 
Putting things right
 I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr B to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he has had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid interest and charges on 
lending that shouldnt have been provided to him.
Progressive Money should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on loans 1-2 and treat all the payments Mr B 
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Bs loan accounts result in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then Progressive Money should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file in relation to the 
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Progressive Money to deduct tax from this interest. 
Progressive Money should give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he 
asks for one.
 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Progressive Money Limited to 
pay compensation as described above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman