DRN-1596456
 
The complaint
Ms R says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
 In 2001, Halifax sold Ms R a monthly premium PPI policy to help protect her mortgage 
repayments if she was unable to work because of disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Ms R disagreed, so the complaint 
was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Rs case.
Having done so, Ive decided that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Ms R says she doesnt recall being sold PPI. I dont have a copy of, say, a signed PPI 
application form or other paperwork to indicate she opted to take out the cover. But I dont 
find that surprising given how long ago the sale took place. The absence of that paperwork 
doesnt necessarily mean she wasnt told about it at the time.
Of course, I dont know for sure what was said during the sale, but I cant discount the 
possibility that Ms R was told about optional PPI and that she agreed to go ahead with it. I 
can understand if she doesnt recall that now given the time thats passed. 
Either way, I cant fairly say that Halifax added the PPI without getting Ms Rs agreement to 
take it and so I dont uphold the complaint on this basis.
If Halifax recommended the PPI to Ms R, among other things, it should have taken steps to 
ensure its advice was right for her. Regardless of what steps it took, I think the PPI was right 
for her. For example, Ms R was eligible for the cover and wasnt significantly affected by any 
of the main things the PPI excluded or limited cover for. I cant see that Ms R would have 
found the monthly premium unaffordable either.
Ms R was entitled to enhanced sick pay and redundancy pay from her public sector 
employer, but I believe Ms R still had a need for the PPI. The PPI benefits potentially paid 
out on top of that pay and for up to 24 months for each successful claim. She says she could 
have relied on family help instead of taking PPI. But the PPI were benefits were guaranteed, 
whereas it would have been difficult to say with any certainty that her family would have 
been in a position to help when it was needed. Ive thought about the life cover Ms R held but that didnt provide like-for-like cover when 
compared with the PPI. 
While Ms R saw her financial situation as being relatively stable and secure, it was by no 
means certain that would continue to be the case going forward or that she wouldnt need 
the policy benefits at some stage in the future. 
Considering Ms R was entering into a long-term financial commitment that was secured 
against her home, I think she still could have found the PPI useful.
Halifax also needed to give Ms R enough information about the PPI so she could make up 
her own mind if it was right for her. I think its possible that some of the information it gave 
her could have been better than it was. But, for the same reasons that I dont think the PPI 
was unsuitable for her, I dont think better information would have changed her decision to 
take it. I think shed still have thought it offered her useful protection at an affordable cost.
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms R. But Halifax 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms R because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Ms R about that. Because Halifax didnt tell Ms R, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think thats fair in this case.  
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Ms R. I realise how strongly Ms R feels about her mis-sale complaint and 
Im sorry to have to disappoint her about that.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Ms R any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand its already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman