DRN-3764429
The complaint
Mr T complains about delays by DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited in 
dealing with a claim under legal expenses insurance cover. 
What happened
Mr T is represented by a family member but for clarity Ill refer to Mr T throughout.
Mr T is the policyholder of a home insurance policy. DAS underwrites the legal expenses 
cover within that policy. A separate entity underwrites the main policy, and an agent of that 
entity is the party that sold the contract to Mr T. 
The legal expenses cover includes (but not limited to) cover as follows:
Your or your familys legal rights in a contractual dispute arising from an agreement 
or an alleged agreement which Mr T or his family has entered into:
for the buying or hiring in of any goods or services; or the selling of any goods

Provided that:
You and your family has entered into the agreement or alleged agreement during the 
insurance period

Other relevant parts of the policy include the legal expenses cover definitions of You, your:
The person who has taken out the policy (the policyholder) and any member of their 
family who always lives with them. This includes students temporarily living away 
from the home and unmarried partners.
There is a detailed background including previous complaints made by Mr T to DAS but this 
complaint centres on delays in appointing suitable legal advisors to progress a claim. The 
claim Mr T wishes to bring concerns work done and / or damage to a property owned by his 
representative abroad. 
DAS previously accepted the claim was covered (after wrongly declining it) and had 
instructed various panel solicitors to try and deal with the matter. Around September 2021 
solicitors were again appointed but this was some ten months or so after Mr T initiated his 
claim with DAS. Mr T says hes suffered distress and inconvenience because of the delay 
and the lack of engagement from DAS in effectively moving the claim forward. And he 
doesnt think DAS offer of £300 compensation fairly reflects that distress and inconvenience.
Our investigator thought DAS should have been able to confirm legal representation much 
sooner than it did, and in the absence of this she was satisfied it had an impact on Mr T, not 
least because the claim wasnt able to progress. She explained that Mr T regularly contacted 
DAS for updates on progress and was satisfied this too contributed to the distress and 
inconvenience suffered. And as the claim didnt progress the issues with the property 
remained unresolved and this included no heating, which was inconvenient. Overall, she 
thought it fair that DAS pay Mr T an additional £450 to the £300 already offered (total £750).
DAS didnt agree making the following points:
The property is owned by the representative and not Mr T.
The representative isnt entitled to use Mr Ts policy to pursue a claim relating to his 
own property.
Mr T hadnt lived at the insured address in the UK for some time and hadnt notified 
this change.
DAS has now revoked indemnity for all claims made by Mr T or his representative.
In response, Mr T pointed out that DAS had accepted and funded the claim (and others) until 
it believed he wasnt living with the representative. While the property in question is owned 
by the representative its still covered by the policy. The claim has been suspended by DAS 
and the continuing denial by DAS is adding to the stress and inconvenience.
Our investigator provided DAS with a bundle of documents (by email) that Mr T provided to 
show that he and the representative lived together at different addresses in different 
countries since 2019 as he was dependant on the representative given his health. DAS 
hasnt provided a response to this information on this complaint that I can see. As the parties 
cant agree the matter has been referred to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The context of this complaint has changed during our investigation given DAS new position 
that it has withdrawn indemnity not just on this claim, but all current claims made under the 
policy. Im only focussed on this complaint about Mr Ts claim in relation to litigation 
regarding the contract dispute regarding the damaged property. As matters stand on that, it 
doesnt appear the claim has proceeded now almost two years on from when Mr T initiated 
the claim (November 2020). The fact that DAS is now refusing all indemnity would 
unfortunately need to be the subject of a separate complaint as its distinct and separate 
from this complaint brought to us in August 2021. 
As mentioned earlier, the decision to withdraw indemnity wasnt part of Mr T complaint and 
of course I recognise it couldnt be as notification came around 18 months after the claim 
was initiated. Therefore, I wont be looking at this aspect. If DAS maintains that position it 
would need further investigation including obtaining information from the main home insurer 
and thats more appropriately done under a separate complaint should that be made.
For this complaint, industry rules, among other things, require DAS to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and not unreasonably reject a claim. The handling of the claim in DAS 
own view didnt meet whats required of it under industry rules right up until the point it 
decided to withdraw indemnity on this claim, which it indicated to Mr T in a letter dated 3 May 
2022 and informed us of in June 2022. DAS position before this is that after realising its 
initial reason for refusing indemnity was wrong, it then instructed panel solicitors to progress 
Mr T claim. Panel solicitor after panel solicitor advised DAS that it was unable to act 
because the proposed legal dispute was in another countrys jurisdiction, and they didnt 
have the expertise to manage such litigation or be able to advise on the merits of the case. Its important to note that the first main step under the policy is that any claim must have 
reasonable prospects of success, and ordinarily thats what panel solicitors will advise on 
initially. However, in the 18 months to the point DAS refused all indemnity, such an 
assessment hadnt been done. While I acknowledge DAS attempts to instruct panel 
solicitors, it was patently obvious from the outset that DAS needed to specifically confirm any 
intended solicitors could deal with litigation in the country of jurisdiction for the proposed 
action. Im not satisfied DAS took reasonable steps to ensure this and as such the 
promptness with which it was required to handle the claim fell far short of what should be 
expected. 
From looking at all the information its apparent that Mr T was left in a vacuum of knowledge 
and certainty about the prospects and process of his claim. And the constant chasing of 
updates and communication with DAS demonstrates the distress and inconvenience being 
suffered as a result. Early in the claim process DAS acknowledged this and offered £300 
compensation but the uncertainty, frustration and inconvenience continued because DAS 
couldnt secure an appropriate panel solicitor to advise on prospects of success. And then, 
quite unexpectedly DAS decided to withdraw cover altogether.
The length of time until complete withdrawal in May 2022 was around eighteen months and 
this delay, as acknowledged by DAS, caused Mr T distress and inconvenience. Its fair to 
take into account that if things had progressed as they reasonably should the initial step of 
assessing prospects may have taken several weeks. Documents would need to be 
translated and some extra time to find appropriately competent lawyers capable of advising 
on the law of the relevant jurisdiction. However, the absence of progress and appropriate 
instruction of panel solicitors led to several months of needless delay for Mr T. Hes had to 
spend significant amounts of time waiting and instigating communication and complaints with 
DAS about how it has handled the claim to try and move it forward. Im satisfied DAS will 
need to take steps to put things right.
For the avoidance of doubt, I havent considered or determined the issue of DAS position to 
withdraw all indemnity which it communicated to Mr T in May 2022. Thats a separate issue 
that would require detailed investigation not just with DAS but with the underwriter of the 
main home insurance policy. Mr T would need to raise the specific issue with DAS if he 
hasnt done so already.  
Putting things right
Im satisfied DAS poor handling of the claim has caused significant distress and 
inconvenience and that £750 is fair compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited to pay 
Mr T £750 compensation. DAS is entitled to deduct the initial offer of £300 if it has already 
paid this to Mr T.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman