DRN-4059200
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund the money she lost when she 
fell victim to what she considers to be a scam, whereby she sent money to an account held 
at Barclays.
What happened
The details and facts of this case are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them at 
length here. But in summary, Miss M received a letter from a company Ill refer to as RB 
advertising a way to get onto the property ladder. Miss M met with RB at its offices and 
entered into an agreement with it. She proceeded to make three payments between January 
and March 2020 to RB. 
Miss M first made a card payment in January 2020 for £5,250 and then two further bank 
transfers in March 2020 for £1,000. The total amount Miss M sent to RB was £7,250. She 
made these payments from an account she held with a different banking provider, to an 
account held with Barclays. 
Miss M complained to her bank and has also raised concerns about Barclays (where the 
receiving account was held) via our service. 
Miss Ms bank and Barclays are signed up to the Lending Standards Boards voluntary 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code). The CRM Code was implemented to 
reduce the occurrence of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams. It sets out what is 
expected of the Sending Firm when payments are made which includes a consideration of 
whether a customer met their level of care when making the payment. And it also sets out 
the obligations for the Receiving Firm to prevent, detect and respond to the receipt of funds 
from APP scams in order to prevent accounts from being opened, or used, to launder the 
proceeds of APP scams. Where there is a failing by either the Sending Firm or Receiving 
Firm, they may be required to reimburse the customer. And the customer may also be 
required to share some responsibility for the loss if it is determined that they also failed to 
meet their level of care under the CRM Code.
Barclays, once notified of the fraud, restricted the account in question and investigated. 
Having done so, it considered this a buyer seller dispute. In its final response letter of 
4 January 2023, Barclays said it was unable to identify a bank error or any liability. 
Miss M didnt receive a refund from her bank or Barclays and so, she brought her complaint 
about her bank (sending firm) and Barclays (receiving firm) to our service. 
Miss Ms complaint about her bank, as the Sending Firm was looked at under a separate 
complaint reference and an Investigator at our service issued their view on the case. This 
case has now been closed. In that case, the Investigator, concluded that the bank was not 
liable for the card payment and for the faster payments as they didnt think the CRM Code 
applied - they thought it was a civil dispute. It followed that, the Investigator in that case 
didnt think Miss Ms bank as the sending firm was liable for the money shed lost. 
In this case, Miss M considers Barclays, as the Receiving Firm is liable for the money shes 
lost. 
Barclays, under the CRM Code, didnt agree that it was liable for any loss Miss M incurred. 
While it said it couldnt provide any specific information about the beneficiary account, it 
assured Miss M that the account was opened following its processes and procedures, that 
the account activity at the time was what itd expect to see from an account of its type and 
that it hadnt received any other scam claim notifications against the account at the time 
shed made her payments. Barclays added that it had no reason to be suspicious of the 
beneficiary account holder.  
Our Investigator looked into things and didnt recommend that Barclays needed to do 
anything further. Our investigator issued two views on this complaint. Overall, she concluded 
that the card payment Miss M made wasnt covered by the CRM code and neither were the 
two faster payments as she considered this to be a civil dispute between Miss M and RB. 
She also didnt think there was anything in relation to the beneficiary account activity that 
ought to have caused Barclays concern whereby it ought to have intervened. She thought 
Barclays had taken the appropriate actions once notified of the scam claim and that it did so 
in a timely manner. 
Miss M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, to clarify, this decision focuses solely on the actions of Barclays  as the Receiving 
Firm of the account where Miss M made payments to.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint and the responses briefly, in less detail than 
has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here  which is to determine whether 
Barclays could have done more to prevent Miss Ms losses. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our 
rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as an 
alternative to the courts.  
Im sorry to disappoint Miss M but Im not upholding her complaint about Barclays. I do 
appreciate how disappointing this will be for her, but I dont think Barclays has acted unfairly 
in its answering of the complaint. Ill explain why.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive thought about the CRM 
Code, which Barclays (as a Receiving Firm) is a signatory of and was in force at the time 
Miss M made the payments. 
Ive thought about if the CRM code applies in the circumstances of the payments Miss M 
made. 
First, the CRM Code only applies to authorised push payments (APP) so faster payments, 
chaps payments  so it doesnt apply to the card payment Miss M made.
And the CRM Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all push payments. It says: DS2(2) This code does not apply to: 
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for 
goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in 
some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier; *
*Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint. 
Having reviewed all the information and evidence provided, I agree with the view reached by 
our Investigator  that this is a civil matter rather than a scam. I will explain why. 
To be satisfied that Miss M fell victim to fraud, Id need to be persuaded that RB had the 
intention from the outset to defraud her. This isnt a straightforward question to address, and 
I cant know for sure what was in the mind of RB at the time they entered into this agreement 
with Miss M. So, when considering the above, I need to decide whether the available 
evidence suggests it is more likely than not that the seller intended to defraud Miss M. 
While I am unable to share details about a third party and the nature of their relationship with 
their bank, Barclays has said that at the time Miss M made the payments it had not received 
any scam claims against the account. It wasnt until several months after Miss M made her 
payments that it received a scam/fraud claim raised against it. And on its review of these 
claims Barclays deemed them to be a buyer seller dispute/civil dispute. I acknowledge that 
other scams claims were raised, but none were raised prior to Miss Ms. If RB wasnt a 
genuine firm, Im persuaded more scam claims from other victims wouldve been raised in 
the prior nine months, especially when taking into account when the receiving account was 
opened (around nine months prior) and considering the regular credits into the account. 
Further, having reviewed the information given to me, such as bank statements from the 
date the account was opened, the account activity Ive seen supports that RB was trading 
and regularly receiving credits into the account  not too dissimilar to Miss Ms payments. Im 
also not persuaded that the account activity prior to Miss Ms payments was unusual or 
inconsistent with an account of its type.   
Im also mindful that the scam claims all appear to have been raised after the country went 
into lockdown with Covid. From my own research, I can see RB was registered on 
Companies House around 9 months prior to Miss M making her first payment and that it was 
submitting accounts up to April 2020. In November 2021 there was a notice issued of a 
proposal to strike RB off  however this was suspended in April 2022. 
Further, Im aware based on what Miss M has told us that she attended RBs offices and 
talked to members of staff and made the initial payment whilst at the office. I accept that 
attending a premises doesnt in and of itself mean that RB is a genuine firm, but I think its 
another factor that ought fairly and reasonably to be considered amongst all the other 
available information and evidence. 
I cant say for sure what happened here, and I accept that Miss M has made payments and 
not received what she paid for. But that doesnt necessarily mean that Miss M was 
scammed. In such circumstances, I have to reach my decision based on what I think is more 
likely than not to have happened having weighed up all the evidence given to me. Having 
done so, I think it is more likely than not that RB was a firm that encountered financial 
difficulty and the loss Miss M has incurred has arisen through RBs business failure rather 
than the business setting out with the intention to scam/defraud her from the outset.  As set out above, the CRM Code is clear that it doesnt apply to payments that werent made 
as the result of a scam or fraud and its also doesnt cover payments that arent APP, as was 
the case with the initial payment Miss M made by debit card. 
For the reasons Ive explained above, I cant safely conclude Miss M was the victim of a 
scam, and so I cant apply the CRM Code or ask Barclays, as the receiving bank, to refund 
Miss M under the Code.
For completeness, Id like to assure Miss M that Ive considered her submissions to our 
service  in particular, her reference to another case brought to our service about RB in 
which she says a refund was provided. I can understand why Miss M therefore feels she 
should be reimbursed. But it is each respondent firms own commercial decision as to 
whether it wishes to offer to settle a complaint for its consumer. Barclays in this case 
deemed the matter a civil dispute. So while Ive taken Miss Ms comments on board as to 
why she feels this should mean shes reimbursed the moneys shes lost, Im afraid I cant 
agree. Each case brought to our service is considered based on its own individual merits 
and Ive explained above, based on the particular circumstances of this case, why I cant 
fairly ask Barclays to refund her losses. 
I appreciate that Miss M is going to be disappointed, but I hope my explanation sets out why 
Ive reached the outcome I have.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman