DRN-3944249
The complaint
Mr C complains that Clear Score Technology Limited allowed a third party to fraudulently 
access his credit file. 
What happened
Last year, a fraudster was able to open a Clear Score account in Mr Cs name and get 
access to his credit file. Around four days after the account was opened, Mr C contacted 
Clear Score and advised he didnt open an account with it and suspected fraud. Around four 
days later Clear Score says it blocked the account. 
In the days that followed, Mr C sent various emails to Clear Score raising his concerns about 
fraud. Mr C enquired about the account opening procedures and the security measures 
Clear Score uses. Mr C says emails he sent were missed and not responded to in good 
time. Clear Score later registered Mr Cs details with CIFAS and Action Fraud. 
Mr C complained that a third party had been able to access his credit file and about the 
security procedures Clear Score has in place. Clear Score responded and said it uses 
various security checks when opening an account and that details of someones date of 
birth, full name and address history are all requested. In addition, Clear Score says it then 
checks the details provided externally and asks security questions based on the customers 
financial history. Clear Score didnt agree it had failed to carry out reasonable checks. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Cs complaint and upheld it. The investigator 
didnt think Clear Score had made errors when the fraudulent account was set up. But they 
thought Clear Score had failed to treat Mr C fairly after he made contact to raise his 
concerns and asked it to pay him £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Mr C 
accepted the investigators view. 
Clear Score didnt agree and said it had moved to block the fraudulent account as quickly as 
possible. Clear Score accepted agents had missed Mr Cs emails but advised this was due 
to the system it uses and how it displays new messages. Clear Score also said there were 
delays referring Mr Cs details to CIFAS and Action Fraud due to the number of individuals it 
has that are authorised to do so and lack of availability. As Clear Score asked to appeal, 
Mr Cs complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr C is concerned about Clear Scores account sign up process as a 
fraudster was able to access his credit file. But Clear Score has provided a reasonably 
detailed picture of the processes it follows when opening an account. As, described above, 
someone seeking to access a credit file would need to supply a reasonably large amount of 
private information. In addition, Clear Score asks questions about the financial history of the 
individual and has confirmed access can only be granted once these have been answered. 
So whilst I understand someone was able to access Mr Cs credit file, Im satisfied Clear 
Score followed its account opening process and sought to verify the request. 
I havent set out the full timeline above as all parties broadly agree about the background 
and level of contact between Mr C and Clear Score. In my view, the information available 
shows Mr C was the driving force behind getting the issue dealt with. He regularly contacted 
Clear Score, checked what appeared to be mistaken responses to his emails and chased 
progress. Clear Scores confirmed that because of the way its systems display emails it 
missed some of Mr Cs communications. Its also confirmed that the process of registering 
Mr Cs details with CIFAS and Action Fraud required certain individuals within the office to 
process. But due to availability and numbers, the process wasnt prioritised until Mr C 
followed up with another email. 
Whilst I havent been persuaded Clear Score acted unfairly when it opened the account in 
question, I think the way it handled Mr Cs enquiries and concerns caused a reasonable level 
of distress and inconvenience. And I think a fair way to resolve Mr Cs case is for Clear 
Score to recognise the trouble and upset caused. Ive carefully considered the 
circumstances of Mr Cs case and agree with the investigator that £150 reflects the level of 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr C and is a fair way to resolve his complaint. So Im 
going to proceed on that basis and uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct Clear Score Technology Limited to 
pay him £150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman