DRN-3910514
The complaint
Mr A complains AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) unfairly recorded a claim on his motor 
insurance policy as a fault claim without his knowledge and this has had an impact when 
obtaining insurance with another provider.
AXA are the underwriters of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of the broker. As AXA have accepted it is accountable for the actions of the broker, 
in my decision, any reference to AXA includes the actions of the broker.
What happened
In August 2020 Mr A was involved in a collision in his car with a third-party whilst on a 
roundabout.
Mr A did not make a claim on the motor insurance policy that he held with AXA as his car 
wasnt badly damaged. He said this was so he did not lose his no claims discount. The 
third-party did report the collision to their insurer and the insurer contacted AXA. Mr A 
supplied details of the incident to AXA. The third-party supplied dash cam evidence of the 
incident. The claim was eventually recorded as full liability to Mr A. 
In 2022 Mr A applied for a motor insurance policy with another insurer and it was refused. 
The insurer said it was refused because he had an open claim. 
Mr A contacted AXA and it said the claim from 2020 was still open. The claim was closed by 
AXAs advisor, but it did not change its decision to settle the claim as full liability. AXA 
agreed the claim had been left open for a long time. It said it had not updated him between 
February 2021 and February 2022 or informed him of the liability decision when it was made. 
AXA paid him £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the poor 
customer service received, plus £25 for not responding to the complaint in the timescale 
advised.
As Mr A was not happy with AXA, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said based on 
the evidence provided about the collision they understood why AXA had not been persuaded 
to defend his claim. They said the claim shouldve been recorded as a fault claim rather than 
leaving the claim open. They said the £325 compensation paid by AXA would have been 
broadly the amount they wouldve recommended if AXA had not already offered this.
As Mr A is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I looked into the circumstances of the claim. I saw when AXA became aware of the claim 
from the third-party insurer it contacted Mr A and he provided details of the incident. In 
January 2021 AXA contested the claim with the third-party insurer and said it was holding 
the third-party at fault.
The third-party insurer disputed liability. As Mr A said the third-party had dash cam footage 
AXA requested this to be sent. I saw that AXA explained to Mr A at this time that it may have 
to settle the claim on a 50/50 basis and that Mr A understood this. 
I saw that AXA accepted it did not then have any further contact with Mr A until he contacted 
it in February 2022 after being made aware of the open claim.
I saw in March 2021 the claim went to an independent arbitrator Once a case goes to 
arbitration it is entirely up to the independent arbitrators to reach a liability decision. In this 
case they ruled in the third-party's favour. Both parties are legally bound by this decision, 
neither insurer can overturn this. 
I looked at the terms and conditions of Mr As policy. On page 16, Part 10 it says;
We shall be entitled to conduct the defence or settlement of any claim and to instruct the 
solicitors of Our choice to act for You in any proceedings. In circumstances where it is 
considered appropriate to do so We will be entitled to admit liability on behalf of You or any 
person claiming under the policy. Such admissions may be made prior to or after the 
commencement of proceedings in relation to any event likely to give rise to a claim under the 
policy. We will be entitled to take action, at Our expense, to get back any payment We have 
made.
This is not an unusual term. It is a fairly common term that is included by many insurers. It 
means AXA acted within the terms of the policy in making its own decision about liability.  
AXA agree that it should not have got to the stage of requiring arbitration and a decision on 
liability should have been agreed before this. But it said from the evidence it had reviewed of 
the incident it did not think it would win in court. It said it would still be a fault claim based on 
the evidence it reviewed.
My role is to consider whether the insurer handled the claim in a fair and reasonable 
manner. It isnt to decide who was at fault for the accident. From the evidence I reviewed, I 
think AXA attempted to settle Mr As claim on the best possible terms with the evidence it 
had in relation to the incident. 
I do understand Mr A does not agree with AXAs decision in this case and he has asked a 
number of times for this to be reconsidered. I can see AXAs claim team did explain the 
reasoning to Mr A for this claim being recorded as his liability. And it should be noted that if 
this claim was settled on a '50/50' basis, it would still be recorded as fault  because AXA 
wouldnt have recovered all its costs. 
Mr As claim was still open in February 2022. It is fair and reasonable for a claim to remain 
open while liability is being determined, and sometimes this can take a long time while 
insurers decide on whether legal proceedings should be the next step or whether a case 
should be taken to court. In this case a decision on liability was accepted in March 2021 and 
I would expect AXA to have closed the claim at this point. It should not have been left open 
until Mr A contacted AXA in February 2022.
AXA accepted it made an error and did not close Mr As claim as it should have done, and it 
paid him £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused because of this. I think this is a fair 
amount in the circumstances of this complaint.Therefore, I do not uphold Mr As complaint and do not require AXA to do anything further in 
this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman