DRN-1264104
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about the way UIA (Insurance) Limited has recorded their claims 
history on their home insurance policy.
What happened
Between 2013 and 2018, Mr and Mrs L made a number of claims on their home insurance 
policy. Some of these claims were settled by UIA, one was turned down and some claims 
were withdrawn. Mr and Mrs L are unhappy that all of these incidents have been recorded as 
claims, even those that werent paid out. They say UIA has now declined to offer them a new 
policy and theyre struggling to find alternative home insurance. They complained to UIA.
UIA wrote to Mr and Mrs L to list the claims theyd made that had either been turned down or 
withdrawn. It told Mr and Mrs L what each claim had been for and the reasons why each 
claim had either been withdrawn or turned down. Mr and Mrs L werent happy with UIAs 
explanation and asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. He said it was 
standard industry practice to log claims, even if they werent settled. He thought the claims 
Mr and Mrs L had made had been recorded correctly. And he said he thought UIA was 
entitled to decide not to offer a new policy to Mr and Mrs L at renewal.
Mr and Mrs L disagreed. They explained that they couldnt get any home insurance and this 
was affecting their mortgage repayments. They asked for an ombudsmans decision on their 
complaint. So their complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think UIA has treated 
Mr and Mrs L fairly. Ill explain why.
First, Ive turned to look at what Mr and Mrs Ls policy says about what happens if a 
policyholder makes a claim. Policyholders are told to call, email or write to UIA. In the 
section headed What Happens Next, the policy states:
We will register your claim and start our claims process.
So I think the policy makes it clear that once a policyholder gets in touch with UIA to let it 
know about a claim, UIA will register the incident as a claim and begin its claims process. 
Mr and Mrs L have made some successful claims on their policy which have been paid out. 
But I can see from their claims history that theyve also made claims between 2016 and 
2018 which havent been settled by UIA. One of these claims was turned down because the 
damage was found to be down to wear and tear. One claims value was below the policy excess. And two claims werent progressed because Mr and Mrs L didnt provide UIA with 
information it needed to consider the claims further. 
In each case, Im satisfied UIA recorded the claims accurately; started its claims process and 
in two of the claims, appointed specialists to assess the cause of damage. This means I 
think its acted in line with the policy terms.
UIA is signed up to the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE)  a national database - 
where insurers record the claims history of their policyholders. Insurers can check this 
database when theyre deciding whether or not to offer a potential customer insurance. If an 
insurer is signed up to CUE, itll record all incidents it finds out about, whether or not the 
incident leads to a claim. Insurers are obliged to provide CUE with accurate records. 
So I think CUE was obliged to record Mr and Mrs Ls full claims history, even though not all 
of the claims theyve made have been settled. And I think it was fair and appropriate for it to 
do so. This means I wont be telling UIA to change its records about Mr and Mrs Ls claims 
history.
Im sorry to hear Mr and Mrs L are struggling to find home insurance. UIA has confirmed it 
isnt prepared to offer a new policy to Mr and Mrs L. I understand Mr and Mrs L are unhappy 
about UIAs decision. But it doesnt look theyve made a complaint to UIA about this 
particular issue. Theyll need to make a new complaint to UIA about its decision not to offer 
them a new policy before we can potentially look into this point
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman