DRN-3203675
The complaint
Mr T complains about the decision by BUPA Insurance Limited to turn down his private 
medical insurance claim.
What happened
In 2019, Mr T was diagnosed with central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO) affecting his left eye. 
Mr T needed injections for this.
Mr T asked BUPA to cover the injections, but BUPA turned down the claim. It thought Mr Ts 
claim fell under the chronic condition exclusion, and an exclusion for temporary relief. 
Unhappy with this, Mr T brought a complaint to this service. He paid for the treatment 
himself.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He agreed with BUPA that Mr Ts 
condition fell under the chronic condition exclusion. However, he noted the policy included 
an exception to that exclusion where acute symptoms of a chronic condition would be 
covered. He thought Mr Ts claim fell under that exception. Our investigator recommended 
BUPA reimburse Mr T for the cost of his treatment, plus interest. 
BUPA didnt accept our investigators recommendations, and so the matter has been passed 
to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says the following about chronic conditions:
We do not pay for treatment of chronic conditions. By this we mean a disease, illness or 
injury which has at least one of the following characteristics:
it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-
ups and/or tests
it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms
it requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it
it continues indefinitely
it has no known cure
it comes back or is likely to come back.
BUPA says CRVO is a chronic condition because it needs ongoing screening and 
monitoring.
The information from a specialist eye hospital says that patients with CRVO will need regular 
check-ups. Based on this, I think it was reasonable for BUPA to say that the condition needs 
ongoing or long-term monitoring, and that it therefore falls under the policy definition of a 
chronic condition. 
The chronic condition exclusion includes an exception. This says:
We pay for eligible treatment arising out of a chronic condition, or for treatment of acute 
symptoms of a chronic condition that flare up. However, we only pay if the treatment is likely 
to lead quickly to a complete recovery or to you being restored fully to your previous state of 
health, without you having to receive prolonged treatment
BUPAs medical director has explained that the injections are aimed at treating macular 
oedema secondary to the CRVO. He says theres no treatment for CRVO, and the injections 
provide temporary relief of symptoms. 
Ive also looked at information provided by the specialist eye hospital. This confirms that in 
retinal vein occlusion, vision is reduced secondary to either damage to the retina (for which 
theres no treatment), or to macular oedema (collection of fluid in the retina). It says macular 
oedema can be treated by injections, which need to be given every month until maximum 
vision is achieved. And that after that, they may be given on extended intervals, depending 
on whether they are necessary, until there are no signs of active disease. 
Mr T has provided a letter from Miss O, his consultant ophthalmic surgeon, dated October 
2019. Miss O explained that Mr Ts condition of CRVO had presented acutely over the last 
few weeks and was showing signs of worsening. Miss O confirmed that she gave Mr T an 
injection and was hopeful that this would be enough to settle his eye. Though she said it 
would remain to be seen whether further injections may be required.
In July 2020, Miss O reviewed Mr T. She said he had undergone two injections in October 
2019 and December 2019. Miss O confirmed that as of July 2020, there were no signs of 
CRVO in his left eye, and that this had entirely resolved. 
Mr T has also provided a letter from Professor A, a consultant ophthalmic surgeon, written in 
January 2021. Professor A said that prompt treatment by Miss O saved Mr Ts eyesight. He 
also said that Mr T had made a full recovery, and there had been a complete resolution of 
the macular oedema.
Miss O doesnt say that Mr T was treated for macular oedema, but Professor A does make 
reference to this. Based on the information provided by BUPAs medical director and the 
specialist eye hospital, I think its reasonable to conclude that the injections treated Mr Ts 
macular oedema rather than his CRVO. It appears that macular oedema is a symptom of the 
CRVO, rather than a standalone condition. 
However, the evidence from Miss O is that Mr Ts condition had presented acutely, and she 
hoped one injection would be enough to settle his eye. In the end, she gave him two 
injections, and later confirmed that this had resolved his CRVO. I find this evidence to be 
persuasive, and it indicates that Mr Ts macular oedema was an acute symptom. We know 
that the treatment led to Mr T being restored fully to his previous state of health without 
needing prolonged treatment. Whilst we could say this was with the benefit of hindsight, it 
seems that Miss O expected this after she gave Mr T the first injection. 
Consequently, in the particular circumstances of this case, I think BUPA ought to have 
accepted that Mr Ts claim fell under the exception to the chronic condition exclusion.
The policy also excludes temporary relief of symptoms. It says:We do not pay for treatment, the main purpose or effect of which is to provide temporary 
relief of symptoms or which is for the ongoing management of a condition
The NHS says that the effect of the injection that Mr T was given is temporary, so the 
injections would need to be given repeatedly over a year or more. I can therefore understand 
why BUPA thought the injections would only provide temporary relief and fall under the 
above exclusion. However, the information from Miss O makes it clear that she didnt 
anticipate Mr T would need repeat injections. 
I think BUPA ought to have placed greater weight on the opinion of Miss O, as Mr Ts 
treating specialist. Mr T has confirmed that as of November 2021, his CRVO hasnt returned 
and hes been discharged by Miss O. We therefore know that Mr T only needed two 
injections before his macular oedema was resolved, and so the effect of the treatment wasnt 
to provide temporary relief of his symptoms. 
BUPA says that Mr Ts treatment hasnt returned him into a complete state of health curing 
his eye condition permanently. However, the policy terms dont require the condition to be 
cured for the claim to be payable. The exception says treatment will be covered if its likely to 
lead to the member being restored fully to their previous state of health. Im satisfied the 
injections have done this. 
BUPA also says it thinks the injections were outside of its license to treat CRVO and 
therefore fall within its experimental treatment exclusion. 
I dont think its fair for BUPA to introduce a new exclusion to turn down the claim at this late 
stage. Though in any event, I dont agree with BUPA that the injections were outside of the 
license. BUPAs argument is that the license states to treat monthly until maximum visual 
acuity/no signs of disease activity, and to then continue with a treat-and-extend regime. 
Therefore, BUPA thinks the license isnt for a short course of treatment. 
However, the license also says the monitoring and treatment schedule should be determined 
by the treating physician. Miss O decided that two injections were all that was needed, which 
was her decision. I dont think that means the use of the injections to treat Mr Ts condition 
fell outside the terms of the license.
Mr T has raised some concerns about the way he was spoken to when he called BUPA to 
make his claim. Like the investigator, I dont think BUPA did anything wrong during those 
conversations, though I appreciate that Mr T found it difficult to accept BUPAs view on the 
matter. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require BUPA Insurance Limited to 
reimburse Mr T for the cost of the two injections. Interest should be added to this at the rate 
of 8% simple per annum from the date the invoices were paid to the date of settlement*.
*If BUPA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It should also give Mr T a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman