DRN-2379751
The complaint
Mr A has complained about British Gas Insurance Limiteds (British Gas) decision to decline 
a claim he made under his joint homecare insurance policy with Mrs K. Mr A says an outside 
vent from his boiler was accidentally damaged by the soil vent pipe.
What happened
In March 2020 Mr As boiler was due to be serviced by British Gas. In February, Mr A 
noticed the outside vent on the roof was slightly open. British Gas said an engineer would 
look at this while carrying out a routine service of the boiler. 
An engineer attended and instructed a second engineer from a plumbing service to attend 
later the same day. Both reported to British Gas that two internal vent pipes had popped up 
through the roof  and that a vent that sits on the roof tiles was damaged by weather. No 
leaks were identified from the boiler and the boiler was found to be in full working order. 
Mr A complained to British Gas as he said the damage to the vent was covered under the 
policy. He said the first engineer advised him that the soil vent pipe had pushed out  and 
pushed the vent which led to the accidental damage. He said the first engineer had checked 
and advised him the claim was covered under the policy during his visit. 
British Gas said from the information it received from both engineers, the vent damage was 
caused by poor weather conditions and therefore wasnt covered. British Gas said that the 
first engineer who visited the property may have given his advice at the time. But the opinion 
of the second engineer found that the claim wasnt covered. 
In April 2020 British Gas said that it could re-arrange a further inspection once restrictions  
due to Covid 19  had been lifted. 
Our investigator thought that British Gas had acted reasonably. As there was a dispute 
about the cause of damage, he thought British Gas offer to revisit Mr A and Mrs Ks home 
was fair. And he thought it reasonable for Mr A to obtain his own independent report if he 
disagreed with British Gas decision. 
Mr A didnt agree. He said the weather had nothing to do with the vent opening. He believes 
his claim is covered under the policy. So hed like an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr A is concerned that this service has been biased when looking at his 
complaint. We take an even handed approach to the information provided by both parties. 
We look at what the insurance policy says  and whether an insurer has acted reasonably 
and in line with the policy. 
Mr As policy with British Gas says:
Any damage thats covered by other kinds of insurance
Your product doesnt include repairing or replacing any damage caused by extreme 
weather, flooding, escape of water, structural issues, fire or explosions  or any other 
kind of damage thats normally covered by household insurance  unless your 
product specifically includes it.
The policy provides cover for repairing leaks to external soil and vent pipes. However, notes 
provided by British Gas show that both engineers reported that the vent damage was caused 
by poor weather, and that there was no evidence of a leak.
I appreciate that Mr A says the first engineer gave him the impression his claim was 
covered. And I realise Mr A is disappointed with British Gas decision. But based on the 
information British Gas received from the engineers, I think its decision to reject Mr As claim 
was reasonable. And I think its actions and offer to re-arrange a home visit is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman