DRN-2331465
The complaint
Mr D has complained that TSB Bank plc (TSB) wont refund him £100 after his local cash 
machine failed to dispense his money.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr D says he tried to withdraw £100 from his local cash machine. He says 
after selecting the amount he was looking to withdraw the cash machine froze. He pressed 
cancel on the cash machines keypad - his debit card was returned, but the machine did not 
dispense the money hed requested. 
When the matter was raised with TSB, it applied a temporary credit of the disputed amount 
to Mr Ds account, but after its investigation it concluded that the cash machine had correctly 
dispensed the money and wrote to Mr D advising him that it would be re-debiting his 
account. 
     
After TSB had removed the temporary credit, Mr D wrote to it about its decision to decline 
his claim. He maintained hed not received the money. He told TSB he was accompanied by 
a friend at the time of the incident, whod also witnessed no money was dispensed. As no 
satisfactory response was received from TSB, Mr D complained to them in October 2019. 
TSB didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. In short it said, that it had received confirmation from 
the cash machine operator that there were no issues with the cash machine, and it had 
balanced correctly  without any discrepancies. TSB were satisfied it had not made a 
mistake and the claim had been correctly declined.
Unhappy with TSBs decision Mr D complained to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into Mr Ds concerns. She said that based on the evidence shed seen she couldnt 
agree with Mr D that the cash was not correctly dispensed. She concluded that the £100 was 
correctly dispensed by the cash machine and therefore she didnt think TSB needed to 
provide Mr D with a refund. 
Mr D didnt accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, Ive reached broadly the same view as the investigator did, and 
for similar reasons. 
I understand Mr D feels strongly about this incident. He is adamant the cash machine did not 
dispense the money hed requested. I note Mr D is unhappy as he is aware of other 
individuals who have experienced similar issues with the cash machine in question and he 
says their banks have been more diligent and correctly refunded the money. Whilst I do 
understand the point Mr D is making here, Im afraid I cant comment on what other banks 
decide. My role here is to look at all the evidence available to me and reach an independent 
decision about whether or not TSBs actions were fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint. And Im afraid it would not be reasonable, nor fair of me to uphold a 
complaint based on decisions other banks may have made or solely on a Mr Ds testimony if, 
on balance, the evidence suggests otherwise.
I know Mr D has said when he attempted to make the disputed cash withdrawal, he was with 
another person - who he says is a credible individual, and willing to provide a statement. 
Whilst I cant see that a statement from this individual has been provided to TSB or this 
service, Ive taken what Mr D has said into consideration when reaching my decision. 
Its also worth noting that we are an informal dispute resolution service and it is not my role 
to prove what exactly happened. I wasnt present at the time therefore I could never know for 
certain. And where theres a dispute about what happened  as is the case here, and the 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I must reach my conclusions on the 
basis of what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence 
and the wider circumstances. 
And having carefully considered everything Im afraid in the circumstances of this complaint 
Im more persuaded by the technical evidence and think, on balance, its more likely that the 
cash was correctly dispensed. I say this because; 
- Firstly, TSB have provided evidence it obtained from the cash machine operator 
confirming that the machine balanced  meaning that there werent any surplus funds 
identified in the cash machine nor retracted notes  when next checked after Mr Ds 
withdrawal. 
- It also provided a copy of the cash machines journal roll which gives a breakdown of 
the transactions. In relation to Mr Ds withdrawal this indicated that the withdraw of 
£100 was successful and that the money was dispensed. I can also see that within 
minutes other withdrawals were successfully made either side of Mr Ds withdrawal  
which also suggests the machine had no issues at the time. 
- I agree machines arent infallible, but if Mr Ds money hadnt dispensed and/or there 
was an issue with the machine, I would expect to see either a discrepancy in the 
machine balance, or this potentially recorded on the cash machine journal  neither 
of which is the case here. 
So it follows that I dont think its unreasonable for TSB to hold Mr D liable for the withdrawal.   
Mr D says there are two security cameras focused on the cash machine and has questioned 
why this evidence was not requested, as this would be able to confirm exactly what 
happened. However, in circumstances such as these I wouldnt ordinarily expect TSB to be 
responsible for gathering such evidence from a cash machine they dont own. I understand 
why Mr D says this wouldve been helpful, but it isnt available. And I think its worth 
mentioning that security cameras dont always show the detail wed need to help us, and it 
would be wrong to make any assumptions about what it might or might not have shown.
I realise this will be disappointing to Mr D but for the reasons Ive explained above I dont 
think TSB need to do anymore here.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman