DRN-3631302
The complaint
Mr O has complained that Sainsburys Bank Plc rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mr O bought a solar panel system for his home in 2018. Mr O paid for the system using his  
Sainsburys credit card. Sainsburys is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
supplier under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the supplier misleading 
Mr O into believing that the panels would be self-funding. 
Mr O said he bought the panels on the understanding that the system would pay for itself 
within 5 years. While he thought this was a long time, the long-term savings seemed good, 
so he agreed to the purchase. He says he wouldnt have agreed to the purchase if hed 
understood that the system would not pay for itself for much longer than this. 
Mr O used a 0% interest balance transfer card to move his outstanding balance and 
minimise interest payments. He paid a balance transfer fee when doing this. 
Mr Os complaint was considered by one of our investigators. They thought that the benefits 
of the system were mis-represented to Mr O, and that fair redress would be for him to pay no 
more for the system than the benefits it would provide over a reasonable period  which they 
defined as ten years. 
Sainsburys disagreed, it said:
The life expectancy of a solar panel system is 20 years. 
The system is generating in line with expectations and will continue to do so through 
its lifetime.
Saying the system would be self-funding was not a misrepresentation, as in time it 
will be self-funding. 
A reasonable period for a solar system to pay for itself would be 12 to 18 years. 
Energy prices have increased making it impossible to predict if the system will be 
self-funding in 10 years or less.
There is no evidence to substantiate that Mr O was told the system would pay for 
itself within 5 years. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, I have been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr O paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Sainsburys agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr O could claim against Sainsburys, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr O and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Sainsburys.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or its agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the investigator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr O was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding over a reasonable period of 
time.
Mr O has been consistent in his recollection that he was told the system would be self-
funding over five years and that he wouldnt have agreed the purchase if the payback period 
had been much longer. 
There is nothing in the sales documents that would allow an easy comparison of the cost 
and the benefits of the system. So, I think that Mr O would have relied on what he was told 
and would expect that the system would pay for itself within the short to medium term. And I 
think a fair period for that expectation would be ten years  given the expected life of the 
system, Mr Os understanding that the system would pay for itself within 5 years, and that he 
wouldnt have agreed to the purchase if hed understood the payback period was much 
longer. In light of this I have decided to uphold this complaint. 
However, I am directing Sainsburys to calculate the likely benefit of the system over ten 
years and to compare this with the cost of the system (including interest, fees and charges 
on his Sainsburys credit card and the balance transfer card that he transferred the balance 
to). If the ten-year benefit exceeds what Mr O has paid for the system, then no payment will 
be due to him other than £100 in recognition of the trouble and upset caused. 
It is only if the benefit of the system over ten years is calculated to be less than what Mr O 
has paid for the system that Sainsburys would have to pay the difference to Mr O. 
Sainsburys can take into account past and current energy prices and make reasonable 
assumptions about what may happen with energy prices in the future. 
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Os complaint for Sainsburys to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known (for the past and present) and assumed (for the future) 
savings and income to Mr O from the solar panels over a ten-year period so he pays no 
more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, and any future benefits. Sainsburys can use reasonable assumptions about future performance, taking into account 
what is currently known about energy prices and how these may change in future. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr O is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have (including interest, fees and charges on his Sainsburys credit card and the balance 
transfer credit card), then Sainsburys needs to pay him the difference. 
Where a payment results from the above, Sainsburys should add 8% simple per year for the 
time Mr O has been without that money. 
Where the calculation shows that the ten-year benefits will exceed the cost, then the 
calculation should be shared with Mr O so he can see that no payment is due to him as a 
result of the above calculation. 
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr O first 
contacted Sainsburys that means the claim should have been upheld. So, I direct that 
Sainsburys should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused (regardless of 
the outcome of the above calculation).
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Os complaint. Sainsburys Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman