DRN-4396064
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Motonet.com Limited mis-brokered a hire purchase agreement 
that was to be used to acquire a car. 
What happened
On 26 November 2022 Mr D visited Motonet to look at cars it had for sale. He says he saw a 
car he liked and discussed it with Motonet. He says Motonet told him hed need to pay £100 
to check his credit file. Mr D says he paid this but needed to leave for work so didnt 
complete the deal. Mr D says he returned on the 28 November 2022 to say hed decided not 
to proceed. He says Motonet told him the hire purchase agreement had already been signed 
so it was too late to cancel. Mr D says he never signed the agreement. So he complained 
and contacted his bank to cancel the associated direct debit. He says he also complained to 
the finance company. He requested everything was unwound. 
Motonet said Mr D visited it looking to acquire a car and that it gave him a quote for finance. 
It said Mr D wanted to proceed and it took a £100 holding deposit from him and that he told it 
he was going to put £1,700 towards the deal. It said it doesnt charge customers to check 
their credit file. Motonet said it put the application through and went through things with 
Mr D. It said Mr D e-signed the agreement. And as part of this process Mr D needed to verify 
his bank details and that he was required to enter a unique code that was sent by the 
finance company to his email. 
Mr D referred his complaint to our service. Motonet reiterated it didnt think it had acted 
unfairly. But it highlighted three options that were given to Mr D:
Arrange to cancel the agreement for him but a deduction of £500 would be made in 
relation to administration and preparation of the car. 
Mr D to reduce his deposit and/or part exchange the car and it would arrange to 
amend the agreement. 
Mr D to consider an alternative car if hed changed his mind. 
Our investigator looked into things and said she thought Motonet should arrange for the 
agreement to be cancelled and refund Mr D £100. She says she thought Mr D did want to go 
ahead initially but she thought Mr D should have been able to withdraw from the agreement 
within 14 days. She didnt think Motonet should be able to retain £500 and she said Mr D 
changed his mind within two days. 
Motonet didnt agree. But it highlighted the options it gave to Mr D which were still available. 
I issued a provisional decision that said:
I thought itd first be helpful to set out what I can consider against Motonet. As well as being 
a car dealer, Motonet is a credit broker. Our service is able to consider complaints about 
Motonet brokering certain agreements because credit broking is a regulated activity. This is 
a financial service that it carries out. The Financial Ombudsman was set up to deal with 
complaints about the provision of financial services. But that doesnt mean I can consider 
complaints about everything Motonet does as a car dealer. 
Like our investigator thought, I agree that it looks like Mr D intended to apply for an 
agreement to acquire the car. Its not in dispute he visited Motonet on 26 November 2022 
and Ive seen a receipt for the £100 payment he made. The receipt Ive been provided is 
attached to a declaration Motonet says Mr D signed that says Mr D agrees to enter into a 
contract to purchase the car. It says the payment was non-refundable if he withdrew and that 
hed be liable for any expense incurred by Motonet in preparing the car for delivery and any 
other losses as a result of the withdrawal. 
Im mindful Ive seen emails sent to Mr D that tell him the agreement was successfully 
applied for and signed on 26 November 2022. Im also told the only way the agreement can 
be e-signed is by using a unique code that was sent to Mr D. And the email address the 
finance company used is the same email address we hold for Mr D. So I think thats the most 
likely thing to have happened here. 
The finance company has a copy of Mr Ds driving licence. And his bank details were used 
to set up a direct debit, which he later cancelled. I dont think the finance company would 
have this information if Mr D didnt seek to apply for finance.
Taking all this into account, on balance, I think Mr D likely did apply and sign the agreement 
on 26 November 2022. And I dont think Ive seen enough to say that Motonet mis-brokered 
it.
Our investigator said Mr D had 14 days to withdraw from the agreement. While I agree Mr D 
was able to withdraw, thats not the same thing as cancelling the agreement. Mr D wanted to 
cancel the agreement and not acquire the car. But by withdrawing from the finance 
agreement, he would have had to buy the car by other means. So I dont think withdrawing 
from the agreement helps Mr D in this case, or was what he wanted to do. 
Im conscious Motonet has given Mr D a few options to resolve things. But I think these 
options were put to Mr D by Motonet acting in its capacity as a car dealer. In any event, I 
dont think Ive seen enough to say Motonet acted unfairly in its capacity as a credit broker. 
So I dont find I have the grounds to uphold the complaint on that basis. Ill leave it to Mr D to 
decide if he wishes to contact Motonet about the options it gave him. I think this would be 
sensible. But Im not intending to make any directions. 
Finally, Im mindful the finance agreement hasnt been paid. Once Mr D decides what he 
wants to do, if hes unhappy with how the finance company has treated him, thats a 
separate matter, but it might be something our service can consider for him if he ends up 
raising a complaint. 
Motonet didnt respond, but Mr D did. In summary, he said hed never given consent for 
Motonet to apply for a credit agreement. He asked for CCTV evidence to show he hadnt 
filled in paperwork or electronically signed an agreement. 
Mr D said Motonet must have signed the agreement on his behalf. He says the finance 
company told him the deal would have to be cancelled by Motonet. Mr D said he now 
realises he had received emails from the finance company, but he said Motonet told him to 
ignore them. Mr D said he didnt open the email containing the agreement until recently. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr D for his response. I do sympathise with the situation because he doesnt want 
the car. But even though Im sympathetic, in this complaint, given what the Financial 
Ombudsman has the power to do, my key role is to consider how Motonet brokered the 
finance agreement. This is the financial service it offers. Based on the evidence submitted, 
Ive not seen enough to demonstrate it acted unfairly when doing that. 
Mr D signed a document saying he wanted to acquire the car. He submitted his driving 
licence and supplied information for the application. Im told the only way Mr D would have 
been able to sign the finance agreement was by inputting a unique code that was sent to his 
email address  not Motonets. So as Ive explained, I think thats the most likely thing to 
have happened. We already asked Motonet for its CCTV recordings, but they are only stored 
for seven days. Even without that, I think I have enough evidence to reach a conclusion. 
While I can understand why Mr D thinks the deal should have been ended (or never set up in 
the first place), for the reasons given, I havent seen enough to conclude, on balance, that 
Motonet acted unfairly when brokering the agreement. 
Mr D may wish to contact Motonet about his options. And as I explained, if hes unhappy 
with how the finance company has treated him, its a separate matter, but it might be 
something our service is able to consider for him. I dont, however, have the grounds to 
direct Motonet to take any other action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman