DRN-2626317
The complaint
Mr L complains that Monecor (London) Ltd trading as ETX Capital failed to close his 
Contracts for Difference (CFD) account when requested, causing him to incur further losses. 
What happened
Mr L held a CFD account with ETX and in June 2019, he contacted them via email to close 
his account saying his losses were too great for him to carry on. He says ETX failed to act 
immediately to close his account when he requested so he was able to continue trading and 
as a result incurred further losses. He says he previously requested account closure with 
them in June 2018 and in the year from June 2018 to June 2019, he lost a total of around 
£110,000. He feels ETX have a duty of care to him and that they should have closed his 
account immediately instead of allowing him to suffer further financial detriment. He wants 
any losses incurred after his account closure request to be reimbursed. 
ETX say they made numerous attempts to contact him on the phone before the next working 
day in June 2019 and failing this, they acknowledged Mr Ls request and responded to him 
via email before 8 am the following morning. They say they requested a bank statement in 
order transfer the funds to him as part of their anti-money laundering requirements. They say 
Mr L responded to them saying he was on holiday and would send the statement five days 
later. They say they didnt receive this statement. 
They also say he started trading again after he said he would provide the statement and so 
they were unable to close the account while positions were left open. They say Mr L 
continued to trade for a further twelve months, opening and closing positions as well as 
depositing and withdrawing funds. They say he was aware of the risks when he continued to 
trade. 
ETX say the same happened in 2018 when Mr L requested account closure but then began 
trading again and continued to place more than eighty profitable trades.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and said he couldnt see any evidence that ETX had 
done anything wrong and didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr L didnt agree with the investigator, so this has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I will explain why.
In June 2018, Mr L sent ETX an email requesting his account to be closed. He says,
George Hope you are well?   I am writing to confirm that I definitely wish to cancel my account 
with ETX with immediate effect.  I have wasted money in recent months, so now is the time to 
give up. Thank you for all your help
ETX say they attempted to contact Mr L numerous times. He himself acknowledged one 
particular email that ETX sent him eleven days after his request to close the account, asking 
him to contact them. He says he agreed to continue trading after this and we know from the 
information provided that this continued for a further year. He continued to trade despite his 
request, and this may have been because he was making a profit initially. There doesnt 
appear to be any further mention of the account closure for a year.
In June 2019, Mr L sent ETX an email again requesting his account be closed. His email 
says:
Please accept this email as my request to close my Account with immediate effect. My loses are 
now too great for me to carry on trading. Please will you send the balance of my account to my 
account number ending 1131. Please note that I have closed two of the Accounts that you held on 
file.
ETX acknowledged and responded to Mr L very promptly and before the next working day 
and so I can see they acted on his request to close the account. ETX say in order for them 
close the account, they needed to transfer the funds to Mr L, so they required him to provide 
a bank statement. The bank statement they had on file was from 2017 so they needed 
updated one in order for them to comply with Anti-Money Laundering regulations. This was 
standard practice across financial businesses and in terms of asking for this statement I 
dont think theyve done anything wrong. 
Mr L responded to the request saying he was on holiday and would provide this in five days. 
This was never received by ETX and instead, on the sixth day, he started trading again.
Ive looked at what ETX say in their terms and conditions and what they were contractually 
obliged to do. Clause 4.5 outlines the basis of trading. ETX operate an execution only 
service and so the trader takes on the responsibility for the trades he places himself making 
independent appraisals and investigations into the risks of a trade. The expectation is that 
you would have sufficient knowledge and experience to enable you to trade.
Clause 4.4 of the terms of business and the trading platform outline the high risk nature of 
CFD trading and the high risk of the consumer losing their money. Clause 7.3 reiterates this 
risk and says that ETX do not guarantee or imply that a profit will be made and that no 
trading is free from risk of loss. Despite this, Mr L agreed to the terms and conditions when 
he opened the account. He seems to have made the decision to continue trading himself 
and there has been no advice or suggestion of influence by ETX.
Mr L says that in not closing the account immediately, they have failed in their duty of care to 
him. ETX have provided call logs showing the number of times they have contacted Mr L 
since he wrote to them requesting the account closure. In addition to this, theyve also 
provided numerous call recordings between them. I have listened to these calls and I cant 
say that Mr L has at any point asked to follow up or even mentioned the account closure. 
The opportunity was there, but he didnt mention this.
Mr L has made us aware of the financial difficulties he has found himself in and has 
expressed his vulnerability to us. I appreciate that this must have been difficult for him to do. 
I must also look at what ETX knew at the time. Where they made aware of this vulnerability?It is clear from communications that Ive seen and heard that ETX were not made aware of 
Mr Ls vulnerability. He had ample opportunity to make them aware of this particularly as Ive 
seen the level of communication between them. 
I do realise that this would have been difficult for Mr L to mention, but I also cant expect that 
ETX should have done something differently when they didnt know about his vulnerability. I 
dont think it would be fair to use the benefit of hindsight to say they should have done more. 
In that moment at that time, their actions were reasonable. They followed their own process 
and requested the updated bank statements in order to follow through with the closure 
actions. They then proceeded to call Mr L numerous times, but he failed to answer or return 
their calls. I think ETX have acted responsibly and dont feel that theyve failed in any duty of 
care to him. Whilst I appreciate the severity of the situation Mr L finds himself in, I cant see 
that there was any delay on ETXs part in closing the account. As such, I dont think ETX 
have done anything wrong and I wont be asking them to do more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against 
Monecor (London) Ltd trading as ETX Capital.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman