DRN-2672861
The complaint
Ms B says that after seeing an offer through Clear Score Technology Limiteds website, she 
took out a credit card in order to help improve her credit rating. But then after taking out the 
card, her rating went down.
What happened
In 2020, Ms B saw an offer on Clear Score for a credit card that could help build up her 
credit history.
Ms B took out the credit card with the lender, and shes explained that she used it 
responsibly. However, her credit score went down. It went back up over the following 
months, but not quite to where it was before.
Ms B complained. She said Clear Score had given her the impression this account would 
definitely improve her credit score, and they hadnt made it clear her score could go down. 
She asked for compensation, or for her credit score to be changed.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that Clear Scores website said this type of account could help build up a better 
credit history, but they didnt guarantee anything. And it also said that taking out a new 
account could impact the score. The investigator also explained that lenders use their own 
criteria to look at applications, and the credit score was just an indication for customers 
about how lenders might consider their file.
Ms B didnt agree. She said the account was sold as a way of improving her score and there 
was no indication it could affect her score like this. And she said that even if her credit score 
was only an indication, it suggested that this card was responsible for a reduction in her 
chances of getting credit. The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I will say I can completely understand Ms Bs point of view. I imagine it will have been 
disappointing to see her score go down when she was making efforts to improve it.
Ive looked at how Clear Score described this type of card, and I dont think they were 
misleading. I understand Ms B recalls getting the impression that this card would definitely 
improve her score, but it doesnt look like Clear Score said that. From what I can see, they 
said that it was important to be able to demonstrate that one could handle credit safely, and 
so this type of card could help you build a better history. That seems a reasonable way of 
describing this type of account. I dont think this constituted a guarantee that it would 
improve ones credit score, not least as taking out any credit comes with a degree of risk and 
the possibility of it affecting ones credit file for better or worse.
Meanwhile, under what happens when I apply for credit, the site explained that the lender 
would do a hard search, and that this would likely impact ones credit score.
The lender would also normally have told Ms B about the type of search it would do and that 
it could impact her file. If it didnt do so, Ms B can make a separate complaint to the lender.
As our investigator explained, lenders will have their own ways of looking at credit files, and 
the credit score is normally just a general indication about how the agency reckons lenders 
might view ones file. Further, there are lots of factors involved. For example, as the months 
go on, the time since Ms B last changed a credit limit, or missed a payment, or signed up to 
the electoral roll  and so on  changes. Further, the actual criteria that lenders use can 
change over time, as can the algorithms involved. So the score can change due to factors 
that arent necessarily noticeable, and its quite natural for a credit score to fluctuate.
In other words, while of course its likely that this credit card had some effect on Ms Bs 
score, theres no guarantee that it was the sole factor  or the most important factor  in the 
changes to Ms Bs credit score. And while her score going down would have understandably 
been disheartening, it was not a guarantee that any particular lender would see the change 
in a bad way or that shed be turned down for any particular credit. Further, when Clear 
Score last sent us Ms Bs score, it was only a few points below where it was before and had 
been going up.
Lastly, Ms Bs credit file will now show that shes taken on credit and managed it responsibly. 
And thats an important factor for lenders when they think about whether to give someone 
credit. Since the purpose of the card was to give Ms B the opportunity to show that very 
thing, I dont think I can fairly conclude that it was falsely advertised.
Taking everything into account, I have not found that Clear Score did anything significantly 
wrong in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman