DRN-3712459
The complaint
Mrs S complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited failed to send her 
information on her pension benefits in good time. As a result she says she was unable to 
obtain quotations to use her pension savings to purchase an annuity from another provider. 
Had she been able to do so Mrs S believes that her annuity would have been higher.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in August 2022. In that decision I explained 
why I thought the complaint should be upheld and what Prudential needed to do in order to 
put things right. Both parties have received a copy of the provisional decision but, for 
completeness and so those findings form part of this decision, I include some extracts from it 
below. In my decision I said;
Mrs S held pension savings with Prudential. Those savings had arisen from 
additional voluntary contributions (AVCs) that she had made to a money purchase 
scheme that Prudential administered. Mrs S reached 75 years of age in 
December 2016. She was required, under the rules of the AVC scheme, to take her 
pension benefits at that time.
In August 2016 Prudential got in touch with Mrs S to ask her to update her address. 
Mrs S says that she did this by telephone and was told that she didnt need to send 
any confirmation in writing. But around that time I can see that Prudential also sent a 
letter to Mrs S making use of the Department for Work & Pensions (DWP) tracing 
service. That letter wasnt received by Mrs S until the last week of October.
The letter that Prudential sent to Mrs S was important. It reminded her that she 
needed to claim her retirement benefits before she reached age 75. And it asked her 
to get in touch with Prudential to discuss her options. I can see that Mrs S made that 
telephone call as soon as she received the letter from Prudential. But by then, she 
only had around six weeks until she reached her 75th birthday.
Mrs S discussed with Prudential how she might take her retirement benefits. And 
based on that discussion Prudential sent her some quotations for retirement 
annuities. But it appears that information failed to reach Mrs S  potentially due to 
post problems as she was now living overseas. But when it was made aware of the 
missing letter, Prudential resent it on 14 November 2016. Mrs S accepted one of the 
quotations a few days later.
 
In its quotation letter Prudential reminded Mrs S that she might want to see whether 
other providers could offer her a better annuity. I have seen that Mrs S made an 
online enquiry to another provider on 10 November. But that enquiry was rejected as 
Mrs S was less than three months away from her 75th birthday. Mrs S says that led 
her to conclude that she was too late to receive quotations from any other providers, 
and hence was the reason she accepted Prudentials quotation.
Immediately Mrs S complained to Prudential about it sending the important letter to 
her via the DWP when it already held her correct address. Prudential accepted there 
had been no need to do so, and said it would pay Mrs S £100 for the inconvenience 
shed been caused. But Prudential didnt agree that the late arrival of its letter had 
prevented Mrs S from taking her pension benefits with another provider. It said she 
could have taken those benefits at any time after her 60th birthday. It did however 
agree to allow Mrs S to revise her annuity to include a guarantee period.
Mrs S didnt take her complaint any further at that time, although she says that the 
£100 compensation Prudential had offered was never received. In October 2020 
Prudential was required to write to Mrs S to offer her a review of whether it had 
provided her with sufficient information about the availability of enhanced annuities  
on the basis of medical or lifestyle issues  that might have been available from other 
providers. Mrs S declined that review, but asked Prudential to reconsider what it had 
said in 2016 about her complaint.
Prudential had another look at what had happened in 2016, and concluded that the 
answer it had given Mrs S at the time was reasonable. But it consented to Mrs S 
bringing her complaint to this Service if she was still unhappy with that outcome.
Prudential accepts that it had no need to use the DWP tracing service when it sent 
the important information to Mrs S about taking her pension benefits. In my 
experience, the data used to create letters of that type is collated some time before 
the letter is issued. So it is possible that, at the time of that data collation, Mrs S 
hadnt yet reconfirmed her address to Prudential. I would assume that, at some point 
previously, a letter had been returned undelivered so Prudential had concluded Mrs 
S had moved home without updating her address. But, for a period of around two 
months, Prudential was aware that it held Mrs Ss current address and could have 
resent the letter that was awaiting action with the DWP tracing service.
So what I need to consider in this decision is whether that delay had any impact on 
the pension benefits that Mrs S took from her AVC savings.
It seems that, when she was required to use her AVC savings to purchase some 
pension benefits, Mrs S decided to take them in the form of an annuity. And it seems 
she decided to use the whole of her savings to purchase the annuity, not taking a 
pension commencement lump sum (PCLS  otherwise known as tax free cash). So 
there were, broadly speaking, two options available to Mrs S. She could use her 
pension savings to purchase an annuity from Prudential, or she could take what was 
known as an open market option and use the pension savings to purchase an 
annuity from another provider.
Mrs Ss complaint is that better annuity rates (and hence a higher pension income) 
were available from other providers. But she says that the delays in Prudential 
sending her the information about taking her pension benefits meant she was too late 
to access quotations from other providers.
I cannot be sure whether what Mrs S says, that she was too late to purchase an 
annuity from another provider, is correct. There would clearly be a period of time 
where funds need to be transferred from Prudential to the new provider before the 
annuity was set up. And I dont know whether other providers had firm cut-off points 
for such transfers to be completed. But I can be sure that there were reasonable 
grounds for Mrs S to believe that she was too late to purchase an annuity from 
another provider.Mrs S has given us a printout of an online quotation request that she sent to another 
provider. That printout is dated 10 November 2016. So Mrs S was considering a 
transfer to another provider around the same time that she first started discussing her 
options with Prudential and before she received the quotations that Prudential 
needed to resend.
The quotation request that Mrs S made to the other provider was rejected because 
she was older than 74 years and 9 months. It told her that meant she was ineligible 
for an online quote. I accept it is possible that the other provider might have been 
prepared to offer a quotation to Mrs S if she had telephoned instead. But that wasnt 
the inference that Mrs S drew from the rejection. Instead she concluded that the 
provider wouldnt be willing to provide her with a quotation at all given her age. And 
she says she further concluded that this would apply across the whole of the 
marketplace.
I accept that some consumers might not have reached the same conclusion as Mrs S 
and explored their options further. But I can see that Mrs S has explained more 
recently to Prudential that she is very hard of hearing, and so most likely would have 
found the use of the telephone to be difficult. So I dont doubt the plausibility of what 
Mrs S has said about why she didnt explore taking an annuity from another provider 
any further.
 
Mrs S has told us that she knows that other providers would have provided her with a 
better annuity than Prudential. But she hasnt provided any evidence to show that 
was the case. So it is possible that, when Prudential looks at whether Mrs S has lost 
out, it will be able to show that the annuity it gave her was the best rate she could 
achieve. But Im satisfied, given my earlier conclusion that Mrs S reasonably thought 
it too late to move her pension savings to another provider, and so she shouldnt be 
held responsible for not taking a better rate from elsewhere if it was available.
I think that, if Prudential had issued its letter to Mrs S directly, rather than 
unnecessarily using the DWP tracing service, she would have had a longer time 
period to access quotes for her pension benefits from other providers. So it is unlikely 
that she would have faced the same problems with a quotation request being 
rejected due to her age. So whilst I think it likely that Prudentials actions didnt 
prevent Mrs S from being aware that she could purchase an annuity from another 
provider, the delay did mean that she thought that opportunity had passed.
As I said earlier, in 2020, Prudential wrote to Mrs S to check whether it had given her 
enough information about being able to take an enhanced annuity from another 
provider due to any medical or lifestyle issues. If it concluded that the information it 
had provided was deficient, Prudential said that it would check whether consumers 
could have received a better annuity, and make up the difference if necessary. I think 
it would be appropriate for a similar exercise to be carried out here.
I dont know whether a better annuity (based on the same terms such as guarantee 
periods, escalation rates, and dependants benefits) would have been available to 
Mrs S in 2016. But it does seem clear that she was interested in exploring that 
option, before being put off by the reasons for the quote rejection she received from 
the other provider. And I see no reason to conclude that she would have remained 
with Prudential if a higher value annuity had been available elsewhere.
Prudential has said that it paid £100 to Mrs S in 2016 in respect of the unnecessary 
delays it caused due to its use of the DWP tracing service. Mrs S has said that 
compensation was not received. So in response to this provisional decision I would ask that Prudential undertakes further checks on the status of that payment, and 
unless it provides evidence the payment was made, I intend to direct that 
compensation be paid now.
Overall I think it reasonable to conclude that the delay in sending the benefit 
information to Mrs S caused a chain of events that resulted in her not exploring 
further the option of taking her pension benefits from another provider. So I currently 
think Prudential needs to determine whether Mrs S has lost out, and if necessary to 
put things right.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Mrs S has said that she accepts my provisional findings. But she has 
asked me to note that she pays income tax on her pension income in France rather than the 
UK. Since any lump sum compensation would also be liable to income tax in France she 
says it would be unfair for Prudential to reduce her compensation to notionally allow for tax 
that would have been paid.
Prudential has said it doesnt agree with my findings. Although I am only summarising here 
what Prudential has said, I want to reassure it that I have read, and carefully considered, its 
entire response.
Prudential has reiterated that Mrs S had been able to claim these pension benefits since her 
60th birthday, and was sent paperwork at that time. It says that the only reason she got in 
touch about her benefits as she approached 75 was because of the letter Prudential had 
sent to her. It says that, as soon as it was aware that it held the correct address for Mrs S it 
sent the information to her  in October 2016. And shortly afterwards it had a lengthy 
conversation by phone with Mrs S and her husband. Prudential has sent us a recording of 
that phone call that I have listened to.
On the call Prudential suggested to Mrs S that she might find it helpful to obtain annuity 
quotes from two or three other providers. And it said she might like to discuss her situation 
with PensionWise or a financial advisor. So Prudential doesnt think it reasonable that Mrs S 
just tried to obtain one quotation, before deciding to not proceed with an open market option. 
Prudential has said that it no longer has access to the records it would need to confirm 
whether it paid the £100 it had offered to Mrs S in 2016. So it says it is prepared to reissue 
that payment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have thought carefully about the comments that Prudential has made in response to my 
provisional decision. But on balance I dont find that they have caused me to change my 
mind about this complaint. I would however like to comment further on the points that have 
been raised.
I dont agree with Prudential that it reissued the pension information to Mrs S as soon as it 
was aware that it held the correct address. That is the fundamental failing that I have noted 
in my provisional decision. Prudential was aware that it held the correct address for Mrs S in 
August 2016. But it took no action between then, and Mrs S making contact in October 2016, 
to discuss her pension benefits or resend the information. Mrs S only got in touch with 
Prudential at the conclusion of the lengthy DWP tracing process when she received the original letter. And it is the two-month delay, between August and October, that is at the root 
of the complaint being made by Mrs S.
I explained in my provisional decision that I thought some consumers might not have taken 
the same approach as Mrs S, and decided that they were too late to purchase an open 
market annuity following the online rejection. But that doesnt mean that I think Mrs Ss 
interpretation of the situation was unreasonable. I am satisfied, after listening to the 
recording of the conversation Mrs S and her husband had with Prudential, that she found 
telephone contact to be difficult. And I think that supports why she didnt progress the open 
market investigations any further.
I accept that it was Prudential that reminded Mrs S about the need to take her benefits 
before her 75th birthday. And I have no doubts that Prudential made Mrs S aware, 15 years 
earlier, that she could take her pension benefits. But I dont think either of those actions 
mean I should ignore the delays caused by Prudential unnecessarily using the DWP tracing 
service to send its letter to Mrs S.
I accept that Prudential has reasonably concluded, from its recent review, that it wouldnt 
have been likely that Mrs S would have been eligible for an enhanced annuity. And I see no 
reason for that check to be repeated. But it is possible that Mrs S might have been better off 
taking a non-enhanced annuity from another provider using an open market transfer. So that 
is the check that I am now asking Prudential to undertake.
In my proposed redress, I suggested it might be reasonable for Prudential to make a notional 
deduction from the compensation to reflect any income tax that Mrs S might have paid on 
her annuity income. I accept what Mrs S has said  that she pays income tax in France  
and that she will need to pay income tax on any compensation she is awarded. So I agree 
with her that it would be unreasonable for me to direct that notional deduction to be made.
In summary I think it reasonable to conclude that the delay in sending the benefit information 
to Mrs S caused a chain of events that resulted in her not exploring further the option of 
taking her pension benefits from another provider. So I think Prudential needs to determine 
whether Mrs S has lost out, and if necessary to put things right.
Putting things right
Prudential should assess what annuities would have been available to Mrs S from other 
providers, on the basis of her circumstances at the time, including her state of health, when 
she took her pension benefits in December 2016. The annuities being compared should be 
on the same basis as that provided by Prudential (including the later revision to add a 
ten-year guarantee period). If a higher annuity would have been available to Mrs S, I would 
conclude that she has lost out, and Prudential should do the following to put things right.
Provide an additional annuity for Mrs S to ensure the total annuity income she now 
receives is equivalent to that she could have received from the other provider.
Calculate the additional monthly income that Mrs S would have received since her 
annuity was first taken. Pay those additional amounts to Mrs S subject to the 
following additional provisions;oThe income Mrs S would have received would have been taxable in her 
country of residence. But so too will any additional amounts being paid in 
compensation. So no notional deduction should be made in respect of any 
income tax that might have been due.
oAdd simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from 
the date they would have been paid to the date of settlement. HM Revenue & 
Customs requires Prudential to take off tax from this interest. Prudential must 
give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
In addition, since it cannot show the payment has already been made, Prudential should pay 
Mrs S the sum of £100 that it offered in 2016 for her inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ss complaint and direct The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman