DRN-2866214
The complaint
Mr O complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), trading as Skoda Financial Services. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr O acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then VWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
VWFS have accepted that this car wasnt of satisfactory quality and theyve agreed to take it 
back, end the finance agreement and refund Mr Os deposit. Id agree that there is evidence 
this car wasnt of satisfactory quality and in those circumstances Id also agree that VWFS 
should take the car back, end the agreement and refund Mr Os deposit.
But theres still a dispute about how VWFS should compensate Mr O for any loss of use, 
impaired use and for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
Putting things right
Loss of use
Mr O covered an average of 405 miles per month in the first 17 months of his agreement. 
The agreement had a mileage limit of 8,000 per year or 666 per month.
This might suggest some lack of use, but I think its fair to suggest most consumers would 
have reduced the mileage they travelled in 2020 as the country was subjected to pandemic 
restrictions that limited non-essential travel for lengthy periods.
Im not therefore persuaded that there is enough evidence of loss of use that Mr O should be 
compensated for.
Impaired use
I am persuaded Mr Os use of the car would have been impaired and his enjoyment of the 
new car impacted.
Ive reviewed the time periods in which its likely Mr O was experiencing problems with 
various driver information/entertainment systems in his car. Id agree with the investigators 
analysis that that was about 11 months.
Mr O was still able to drive the car and Ive not seen there were any issues with the 
performance of the vehicle. I think its fair to suggest the satellite navigation would only have 
been required for some journeys and the SOS system would be used infrequently if at all. 
So, the impact of faults on these systems would have been limited but understandably 
frustrating. I can understand the intermittent infotainment problems and radio signal faults 
would have added further frustration. Overall, I think a refund of 10% of finance instalments 
paid, during the 11 months I think theres evidence the problem affected Mr O, is fair.
Where refunds are provided VWFS should add 8% simple interest per year as Mr O has 
been deprived of that money.
Mr O has clearly been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to return the car to the 
dealership on several occasions and has had to escalate his complaint to this service when I 
think it could have been resolved earlier by VWFS. In those circumstances I think VWFS 
should pay him £200 to compensate him for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to:
end the finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr O (unless theyve 
already done that);
refund any deposit Mr O has paid and add 8% simple interest per year to this refund 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement (unless theyve already done that);
refund 10% of 11 monthly rentals to cover the impaired use of the car. Add 8% 
simple interest per year to this refund from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
pay Mr O £200 to compensate him for the trouble and upset thats been caused;
remove any adverse information they may have reported to Mr Os credit file in 
relation to this agreement.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman