DRN-2861683
The complaint
Mr C complains about how Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (WICEL) dealt with 
a claim he made on his motor insurance policy.  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 7 June 2021. I wanted to give both parties 
the chance to respond with any additional information they wanted me to consider before 
coming to my final decision. Both parties have now responded and so Im in a position to 
issue my final decision. 
I have copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of this final decision.
Mr Cs car was damaged due a flash flood that took place near his home. Mr C 
subsequently made a claim on his policy for the car to be repaired. Mr C says he initially took 
it to a garage who agreed to repair it, but there were some issues with the courtesy car they 
offered him, and so he asked for the car to be taken to a different garage.
Mr C says that before anyone had inspected the car, he was told his car was to be classed 
as a write off due to the type of damage the flood had caused. Mr C says he asked WICEL 
for a physical inspection of the car, but this was declined.
In August 2020, an engineer issued a report to say that the car would be deemed CAT B, 
which means the car wasnt suitable for repairs, but the parts could still be sold. The 
engineer found that water had entered the car and deemed it a total loss due to water 
contamination and regression.
While disappointed, Mr C accepted that the car wasnt repairable. WICEL paid the market 
value of the car, less some costs, to the finance company and the claim was settled. The car 
was then in the possession of the salvage agent.
Later, in January 2021, Mr C received a Bus Lane Penalty Charge Notice for his old car. The 
notice said that the car had been spotted driving in a bus lane earlier that month. Mr C then 
did a search on his car and found that it had been sold on to a new owner, and the category 
of the damage to the car had been downgraded to N.
Mr C was unhappy with this. He says that he always wanted the car repairing and didnt 
want it to be without it. He says that having the car taken to salvage has caused him to lose 
out financially, as hes had to pay a deposit on a new car, additional insurance premium and 
pay the remaining balance of the old car to the finance company. He doesnt feel as though 
WICEL has treated him fairly when it made the decision to categorise his car as B instead 
of repair it. And Mr C doesnt agree that the cost of repairing the car would have been so 
high it would be deemed uneconomical to do so.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr C, but he didnt uphold the complaint. He said that 
the damage to the car had been assessed by three different experts  who had all agreed 
the damage to the car was Cat B, so he didnt think that WICEL had done anything wrong 
when it took this advice. Our investigator also found that even if the car had been given a 
Cat N rating at the time, WICEL wouldnt have agreed to pay for the repairs due to how 
much they would have cost. He found that the penalty charge Mr C received wasnt as a 
result of something WICEL had done wrong. And so all in all, he thought it had acted fairly 
when it dealt with Mr Cs claim.
Mr C didnt agree. He said that he was told that his car shouldnt ever return to the road, 
given that the long-term damage to the car was unknown. But in a few months, his car was 
back on the road after having been dried out. He says that this shows it was clear that 
WICEL made the wrong decision to write off the car as Cat B. And that his car could have 
been back on the road at a minimal cost.
Because Mr C didnt agree, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Having done so, Im currently intending to uphold Mr Cs complaint in part. 
Firstly, Id like to express my empathy for Mr Cs situation. Its clear that the consequences of 
him no longer having his car has caused upset and distress, which is completely 
understandable. In reaching my conclusion, I dont wish in any way to downplay or disregard 
the situation Mr C has found himself in. But being independent means, I have to take a step 
back and consider what both parties have said. And I have to look to see if WICEL has acted 
fairly and reasonably when dealing with Mr C  and I think it has.
When any car is assessed for damage, an engineer will have a physical inspection of the car 
or study photos to assess the damage and whether or not the car can or should be repaired. 
Ive seen a copy of the engineers report that relates to the damage caused to Mr Cs car 
after the flood. The engineer has recorded the car as a Cat B total loss and provided their 
reasons for this. Theyve said:
Vehicles which have been subjected to flood water ingress in the passenger compartment 
to a level which causes significant damage to the electrical and safety 
componentsconfirmed water has entered interior/electrics. Inside of the car flooded radio 
not working speakers are crackling wiring seem damaged as random lights are flashing  
have deemed vehicle a total loss due to water contamination and regression.
WICEL has also provided us with information to show that in addition to the report carried 
out by the engineer, it also got the opinion of two other engineers  all of which stated that 
the car would be a total loss. 
I can understand Mr Cs frustrations here that later the damage to his vehicle was 
categorised as N  so I appreciate that he is now upset as he feels more could have been 
done to repair the car. But for me to be able to uphold Mr Cs complaint, Id have to be 
persuaded that WICEL did something wrong when it made the decision to categorise the car 
as Cat B and I dont think it has.  
WICEL has relied on the report of a professional engineer when making its decision on how 
to settle the claim. It has also had the opinion of two other engineers. I dont think it was 
unreasonable or unfair of WICEL to rely on these professional opinions  after all, theyd be 
in the best position to know the extent of the damage and whether or not it was worth 
repairing the car. Given that the response from all engineers was that the car should be 
written off, I cant agree that WICEL ought to have done a more thorough investigation into the damage before making its decision. And it doesnt appear to me that the car was 
incorrectly categorised at the time.
WICEL say that based on what the engineers had told them about the damage, it didnt 
deem the car to be a repairable proposition  and it wouldnt repair a vehicle that had been 
damaged by flood. Its said that its network of repairers doesnt have the facility to carry out 
the same repairs to the vehicle that the salvage agent does. So, I find it unlikely that WICEL 
would have been able to repair Mr Cs car to a standard where it would be roadworthy again. 
Ive also thought about what might have happened if the car had been categorised as Cat N 
in the first instance. WICEL have said it wouldnt have paid for the repairs to the car, so Mr C 
would have had to arrange this himself  and he would have received a lesser settlement 
figure for the car. Its difficult to say what would have happened had Mr C been given this 
option. I understand that in hindsight he might have wanted to keep the car, but he would 
have had to arrange the repair works himself, which could have been expensive. It wouldnt 
have been clear to him at this point whether the car could have been repaired to its preflood 
state or not  and the long-term extent of the flood damage still wouldnt have been clear. So 
even if the car had been categorised as N, which Im not saying it should have been, I think it 
unlikely that Mr C would have wanted to take the risk of the repair work  in the knowledge 
that the car may not be as reliable later down the line.
Ive also thought about what happened when Mr C received the Bus Lane Penalty Notice.
WICEL say that it didnt ever take ownership of Mr Cs car, and ownership should have been
transferred directly from Mr C to the salvage agent. So, its said that Mr C will need to get in
touch with the salvage agent direct if he wants to complain about this. But I dont currently
agree with what WICEL has said here.
Mr C had a contract with WICEL and it was WICEL who made the decision to write the car
off. Once the WICEL paid Mr C the settlement, the car was its property. While I appreciate
that the salvage agent may take over possession of the car at this point, and perhaps it
normally does the paperwork to take ownership of the car, it does so as an agent of WICEL.
And it is WICELs responsibility to ensure that the car wasnt sold on without the correct
paperwork having been done. Its clear that in WICEL not having checked the paperwork
had been done correctly has caused Mr C distress and inconvenience. And so, I think that
WICEL should pay Mr C £200 to compensate him for this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, I have decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint in part.
Both Mr C and WICEL has responded to my provisional decision to say that they accept my 
findings. So, I see no reason to depart from the findings in my provisional decision.
I appreciate that Mr C feels that he is still out of pocket as a result of whats happened, and I 
do have empathy for the situation hes in. But for the reasons Ive explained in my 
provisional decision, I think the £200 compensation is fair in this case.
Putting things right
WICEL must pay Mr C £200 to compensate him for the trouble and upset caused when it 
didnt check that it sold on his car with the correct paperwork to change the ownership.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, it is my final decision to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Watford 
Insurance Company Europe Limited should pay Mr C £200 in compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman