DRN-4276393
The complaint
Mr B complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) declined this travel medical insurance 
claim. My references to IPA include its agents.
What happened
On 4 June 2021 Mr B took out a single trip travel insurance policy which he extended 
through an online sales process while travelling. The extended policy covered from 
1 January 2022 to 31 December 2022. The insurer was IPA. Mr B paid £473.37 for the 
extended policy.
In October 2021, before the policy was extended, Mr B discovered a lump in his thigh. He 
saw a doctor, who Ill refer to as Dr M, and was sent for an ultrasound. He was diagnosed as 
having an epidermal cyst and told by Dr M that no further action was needed. In April 2022, 
after the policy was extended, Mr B felt the cyst has increased in size so he had another 
ultrasound to check. A biopsy followed and unfortunately in June 2022 Mr B was told the 
lump was a cancerous tumour. He had urgent surgery and claimed on the policy for the cost 
of treatment.
IPA declined the claim. It said:
When the policy was extended online Mr B was asked if in the last two years hed 
had a medical condition for which he had treatment, consultation or investigations.
Mr B should have answered yes to that question as hed attended a consultation and 
an investigation for the cyst within the last two years.
As Mr B hadnt told it about the cyst that was a pre-existing condition not covered by 
the policy, so even though the cyst was later diagnosed as a cancerous tumour his 
claim for treatment wasnt covered.
Mr B said he didnt declare the cyst as a separate condition as in October 2021 Dr M told 
him the cyst was like a spot under his skin related to with his lifelong acne. Under the policy 
terms acne was listed as an automatically covered pre-existing medical condition which 
didnt need declaring. Mr B sent us information from a NHS website which he said supported 
that his skin cyst and acne were related.
Our investigator said Mr B had made a careless misrepresentation in not disclosing the cyst 
to IPA. IPA had told us that if Mr B had disclosed the cyst it would have charged an 
additional premium of £9.81 for the policy. That worked out to be about a 2% increase on the 
premium had Mr B paid. Our investigator recommended it would be fair and reasonable for 
IPA to pay a proportional settlement of 98% of the claim to represent the portion of the 
premium Mr B had paid.
Mr B agreed our investigators recommendation.
IPA initially also agreed but ultimately disagreed when it reviewed the ultrasound report. It 
sent us the ultrasound report and said the report didnt say that Mr Bs cyst was acne. IPA 
believed Mr B had made a deliberate/reckless misrepresentation so it shouldnt have to pay 
any of the claim. IPA wanted an ombudmans decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision explaining why I was intending to uphold the complaint and 
require IPA to pay 98% of the claim subject to the remaining policy terms, conditions and 
limits plus interest. I said:
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to take reasonable care the insurer has certain remedies provided 
the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to 
be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
IPA thinks Mr B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
answered the medical declaration when he extended the policy in January 2022.
Ive looked at the online policy extension process that IPA sent us. The medical declaration 
wording that Mr B saw says:
You must declare any pre-existing medical conditions you may have. If you fail to 
declare any medical conditions this may mean any claim you may need for medical 
treatment abroad may not be covered.
We have many Automatically Accepted Medical Conditions which you can review by 
clicking here. If all your pre-existing conditions are on this list, then you can answer 
No to the question below. If not then you must declare all your pre-existing 
conditions, including any on the automatically accepted list.
Do you or any other travellers have any medical conditions?
Yes/No
If you're unsure whether you have any medical conditions you need to make us 
aware of, please click here.
If Mr B had clicked yes to the above question he would have been asked:
You have in the last two years, suffered from any medical or psychological condition 
and for which youve received treatment, been prescribed medication, or attended 
consultations, investigations, or check-ups Yes /No.
Mr B has shown us evidence that acne is on the automatically accepted medical conditions. 
He says he was told by Dr M in October 2021 that the cyst was related to his acne so he 
didnt think he needed to declare the cyst as a separate condition.
Ive read the ultrasound report of 26 October 2021 and agree with IPA that the report doesnt 
say the cyst was related to Mr Bs acne. The reports gives the radiological conclusion as:
Epidermal inclusion cyst in the distal thigh.
However, Mr B has sent us a report from Dr M dated 27 October 2021. I dont think IPA has 
seen this report and Ive arranged for the report to be send to IPA with this provisional 
decision. 
Dr Ms report says:
An ultrasound scan was requested, which showed an epidermal inclusion cyst in the 
medial thigh measuring 11 x 8 x 10.5 mm.In accordance with the ultrasound scan, the patient presented an unclassified non-
infiltrative pathology, which appeared to be consistent with a cyst.
Due to the patient's history of multiple complex acne lesions, again a possible 
complication is suspected.
I think Dr Ms report supports Mr Bs evidence that Dr M told him it was suspected that the 
cyst was a possible complication of his acne lesions. So I understand why Mr B thought the 
cyst was related to his acne.
But Dr Ms evidence is that he only told Mr B that the cyst was a possible complication. The 
medical declaration said If you're unsure whether you have any medical conditions you 
need to make us aware of, please click here. I think it would have been reasonable for Mr B 
to have contacted IPA to discuss whether he should disclose the cyst as a separate 
condition. So I dont think Mr B took reasonable care when he answered the medical 
declaration.
If Mr B had contacted IPA I think it would have told him to disclose the cyst as a separate 
medical condition. IPA has provided evidence that if he had disclosed his epidermoid cyst as 
a pre-existing condition it would have charged him an additional £9.81 in premium. This 
means Im satisfied Mr Bs misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
IPA has said Mr Bs misrepresentation was deliberate/reckless because the ultrasound 
report didnt say the cyst was related to acne.
I dont agree with IPA that Mr Bs misrepresentation was deliberate/reckless. Dr Ms report 
shows he and Mr B had discussed that the cyst was a possible complication of Mr Bs 
lifelong acne so I think its understandable that Mr B thought the cyst might be related to a 
pre-existing condition that was automatically covered by the policy. Im satisfied Mr Bs 
misrepresentation should be treated as careless.
As Im satisfied Mr Bs misrepresentation was careless, and not deliberate/reckless, I dont 
think IPA acted fairly and reasonably by not paying his claim. CIDRA reflects our long- 
established approach to misrepresentation cases. As explained above, had IPA known 
about Mr Bs cyst it would have covered the condition but charged him an additional £9.81 
for his policy premium, about 2% more than he actually paid.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both IPA and Mr B accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both IPA and Mr B have accepted my provisional decision Ive no reason to change my 
mind. For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings Im satisfied 
Mr Bs misrepresentation to the medical question he was asked when buying the policy was 
careless, and not deliberate/reckless. 
CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases and if IPA had 
known about Mr Bs cyst it would have covered the condition but charged him an additional 
£9.81 for his policy premium, about 2% more than he actually paid. So I dont think IPA 
acted fairly and reasonably by not paying his claim.Putting things right
I think the fair and reasonable outcome to the complaint is for IPA to pay the claim with a 
proportionate settlement of 98% of the claim subject to the remaining policy terms, 
conditions and limits plus interest as Ive set out below.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Inter Partner Assistance SA to pay 98% of Mr Bs claim subject to the remaining 
policy terms, conditions and limits. Interest* should be added at 8% simple a year from the 
date of claim to the date of settlement.
*If Inter Partner Assistance SA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr B a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman