DRN-3313067
The complaint
Mrs K complained about Acromas Insurance Company. She isnt happy about the way it 
dealt with a claim under her motor insurance policy.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Acromas are responsible for 
it, Ive just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
Mrs K made a claim under her motor insurance policy. And Acromas appointed its approved 
repairer to fix the car. Unfortunately, Mrs Ks car had to be returned for rectification work on 
a number of occasions and there was delays generally. 
When Mrs K complained to Acromas it looked into her complaint on a few occasions. It 
accepted that its communication had been poor; that Mrs K had to chase matters and its 
repairer didnt communicate with her; and offered £300 by way of compensation. When it 
looked at things a second time it increased the level of compensation to £400. But Mrs K 
remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for her but didnt uphold the complaint. He accepted that 
Acromas hadnt dealt with Mrs Ks claim very well or provided a very good service, but he felt 
that Acromas offer of £400 compensation was fair in the circumstances.
As Mrs K didnt agree, maintaining that she felt aggrieved by how Acromas had treated her, 
the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs K, who has clearly been provided with a poor service, but Ill explain 
why.
It isnt disputed by all parties that Mrs K wasnt treated very well here. Acromas clearly failed 
to keep her up to date about her claim and the delays clearly impacted Mrs K. It fell to Mrs K 
to chase matters with Acromas which was far from satisfactory, especially as Acromas failed 
to repair her car properly in the first place. But Acromas has accepted this and so the only 
thing Im left to consider is whether the level of compensation Acromas has offered (£400) is 
fair in the circumstances.
Mrs K seems to accept the position outlined by our investigator who pointed to a few cases 
on our website that outlines how we approach cases like hers generally and the kind of 
compensation awards we make. She has questioned why the level of compensation hasnt 
been increased as she didnt have a courtesy car. But Acromas did offer her a courtesy car 
when her car first went in for repair. Fortunately, she did have access to another car and if 
Mrs K wanted to get a courtesy car at any stage she could have asked about this and 
Acromas would have looked into this for her. As such, I cant hold Acromas responsible for 
this as Mrs K chose not to get a courtesy car or to follow this up if she changed her mind. 
However, I can understand how frustrating Mrs K found all of this. I say this as Acromas 
clearly delayed a number of times in dealing with her claim. And it must have been very 
stressful and annoying to have to take her car back for rectification on a number of 
occasions. But I think Acromas offer of £400 compensation for all of this feels fair in the 
circumstances and in line with the general awards this service tends to make. It isnt the role 
of this service to look to punish businesses for any mistakes made, just to look to put things 
right. And there is always a fair degree of inconvenience and delay in advancing any claim, 
so overall I think its offer of £400 is fair. 
Given all of this, I think Acromas has acted fairly in offering to pay £400 compensation in 
acknowledgement of its failings and poor service provided. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman