DRN-2193281
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out at 
some point between 1991 and 1996. Mr and Mrs M say HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold them 
the PPI.
What happened
I sent Mr and Mrs M and HSBC a provisional decision on 24 August 2020, to explain why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Neither side have provided the original documents from the sale, which is understandable 
given just how long ago it was. Indeed, under data protection rules, HSBC were required 
to dispose of Mr and Mrs Ms data rather than hold onto it for too long. Ive thought 
carefully about whats most likely to have happened based on the limited information 
I have.
It wouldve been a very serious failing for HSBC to have misled Mr and Mrs M into having 
PPI. And I have no evidence which shows thats what HSBC did here. Nor have I seen any 
wider problems with its sales process from the time. And this particular sale was too long 
ago for me to reasonably require HSBC to be able to produce documents from the time to 
defend itself now. So I dont have a fair basis on which to conclude that HSBC misled 
Mr and Mrs M. I think its more likely that it followed a relatively normal sales process, 
offered them a choice, and that they chose PPI at the time.
Mr and Mrs M explained that they felt pressured into buying PPI as they were told they 
couldve lost their home if they didnt repay their mortgage. But that was true  they really 
could have lost their home if they didnt make their repayments. So I dont think thats 
unfair pressure; it sounds more like accurate advice.
Its not clear whether HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M, or not. The 
requirements were stricter on HSBC if it did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr and Mrs M, 
Ive assumed it did. That means HSBC had to check the policy was right for them  and 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like Mr and Mrs M were eligible for the cover and werent affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
While Mr and Mrs M had benefits through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those 
and given them more comprehensive cover  especially for when their benefits reduced to 
just a fraction of their normal pay. And while I understand theyd been in their jobs for 
some time, unexpected illnesses and redundancies can and do happen, so it seems 
reasonable that they insured themselves just in case. Its worth bearing in mind that the 
mortgage was secured against their property, so if Mr and Mrs M fell behind on their 
payments they couldve lost their home. So it looks like the PPI couldve really been useful 
for them in protecting their home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information HSBC gave Mr and Mrs M about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above, Mr and Mrs M werent affected by any of 
the main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for them in case 
something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay 
out in a claim, and it looks like it wouldve been affordable. And the PPI was paid on a 
rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs M could cancel it at any time without a penalty. 
Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put them off taking out the 
cover.
I also understand that Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the way that the loan itself was set 
up and administered. But in this case, Im only looking at the sale of the PPI, and not the 
credit. As our adjudicator mentioned, Mr and Mrs M can complain to HSBC separately 
about the mortgage itself, and may be able to get help from our service as a separate 
case.
Lastly, Mr and Mrs M pointed out that theyd had refunds of other PPI policies, and 
I understand why theyve raised this. But different policies worked in different ways, were 
suitable in different circumstances, were sold using different methods at different times, 
and so on. So even if one policy was mis-sold, it doesnt necessarily mean that a different 
one was, too. We look at each case on its own merits, and Ive explained above why Ive 
not found that this particular policy was mis-sold.
This means HSBC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But HSBC has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because:
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because HSBC didnt 
tell them, that was unfair.
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission and profile share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that is fair in this case.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
21 September 2020. But neither Mr and Mrs M nor HSBC sent me anything new to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before.My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  which means HSBC UK Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
HSBC UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profile 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman