DRN-3790853
The complaint
Mr A complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund money he lost 
to a cryptocurrency investment scam.
In bringing his complaint Mr A is being represented by a claims management company. For 
ease in this decision I will refer to Mr A throughout, even where the submissions have been 
made on his behalf by his representative. 
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision. 
Mr A says he was contacted by someone claiming to be an accounts manager for an 
investment firm.  
Mr A told us he was shown the firms website to demonstrated it was a legitimate investment 
firm and he says they reassured him that the firm was regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA).
Mr A and the accounts manager discussed investment opportunities via a well-known 
messaging app. Unbeknown to Mr A, he was in fact speaking with a fraudster. Mr A 
explained that he was told he could begin by investing small - €200. It is not clear exactly 
where this payment was made from, but it doesnt appear to have been made from Mr As 
NatWest account. 
Mr A told us he was encouraged by the fraudster to open accounts with two cryptocurrency 
exchange providers in his name  Ill refer to these as C and B. He says he was told to send 
his funds to these accounts before sending onto the investment platform. Mr A said there 
was a platform which he could log into to check the progress of the investments. 
Shortly after the initial investment, Mr A says the fraudster contacted him and informed him 
hed made a £354 profit. It told him about a promotion on offer and explained that he would 
receive larger profits if he invested more money. Mr A proceeded to invest up to £15,000 
from his NatWest account and another account he held with a different bank. 
Below is a list of the transactions Mr A made from his NatWest account. 
Transaction date Type Payments made to Amount
1 November 2021 Faster Payment C £5.00
1 November 2021 Faster Payment C £4,450
1 November 2021 Faster Payment C £2,436
2 November 2021 Faster Payment B £2,040
Total loss £8,931
When Mr A made the payment of £4,450 to C on 1 November 2021, this payment was 
stopped by NatWest and Mr A contacted the bank. After Mr A spoke with NatWest, the 
payment was released. Mr A then successfully made a further payment to C and a payment 
to B.  
Mr A also referred to a payment of £2,200 within his complaint but NatWest has said this 
payment was transferred between two of Mr As accounts with it. Mr A has not disputed this. 
As this payment went to another of Mr As account, this has not been included within the 
scam loss under this complaint. 
Mr As told us after seeing hed made large profits, he requested a withdrawal. At this point 
he was told hed need to pay insurance fees and taxes. Mr A explained he became 
suspicious when they refused to take the fees and taxes from the profits. Mr A says he 
checked the FCA register and saw there was a scam warning for the investment firm, and he 
became aware hed been the victim of a scam. 
He reported the matter to NatWest on 4 November 2021. NatWest refused to refund the 
payments Mr A made. It said it was unable to assist with these payments as theyd been 
made to wallets in Mr As name. It also said two payments had been blocked for security 
fraud checks (payments £4,450 and £2,436) on 1 November 2021, where Mr A confirmed 
the payments as genuine. It added that Mr A should contact the cryptocurrency exchange 
providers as the loss occurred when it sent the cryptocurrency into the cryptocurrency wallet.
Unhappy, Mr A brought his complaint to our service. One of our Investigators looked into 
things and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Our Investigator concluded that Mr A 
discussed the payments with the bank at the time and he was satisfied Mr A wouldve still 
proceeded with the payments despite appropriate warnings and questioning by NatWest. 
And in this particular case, he didnt think NatWest ought to have refused the payments 
contrary to Mr As instructions. Our Investigator highlighted that within the call about the 
payment of £4,450, Mr A told NatWest that hed made similar cryptocurrency investments in 
the past and that hed held the account with C for years. Mr A confirmed he had access to 
the account and could withdraw funds. Our Investigator also didnt think NatWest wouldve 
been successful in recovering any of Mr As funds. This was because, Mr A sent the money 
to cryptocurrency exchange accounts in his name, which was converted into cryptocurrency 
and sent onto the fraudsters.          
Mr A, via his representative, disagreed with the outcome reached. It raised that NatWest 
ought to have been aware about the risks of sending money to a cryptocurrency wallet held 
in a customers own name and that customers lose money to fraudsters this way. It 
considers that had NatWest asked questions about the payments the scam wouldve been 
exposed.   
Whilst the case was awaiting a final decision, our Investigator got in touch with Mr As 
representative to clarify a point from his initial view. Hed initially explained that he didnt 
think NatWest ought to have been concerned about the payment of £2,436 Mr A made on 
1 November 2021. However, he let the representative know that hed since become aware 
that NatWest did intervene on this payment and that there was a further call between the 
bank and Mr A. Having listened to this call, he explained that he thought this further 
strengthened his initial view on the case. He didnt think the bank had missed an opportunity 
to reveal the scam. Mr As representatives responded to this and, in summary, maintained its 
position that the banks intervention wasnt effective. It added that had the bank asked the 
correct questions the scam wouldve been revealed, and the loss prevented. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks 
should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The starting position 
is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if they were duped into 
doing so, for example as part of an investment scam. 
The payments Mr A made to the fraudulent company werent sent directly from his bank 
account to the companys. All payments were made via other accounts in Mr As name which 
he says he had control over. Under these circumstances, the Lending Standards Boards 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code), which requires signatories such as 
NatWest to reimburse customers who are victims of scams like this one in all but a limited 
number of circumstances, doesnt apply.
While I find the CRM Code doesnt apply here, that Code is not the full extent of the relevant 
obligations that could apply in cases such as this. In accordance with the law, regulations 
and good industry practice, a bank has a duty to protect its customers against the risk of 
fraud and scams so far as is reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act 
on information which ought reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or 
financial crime, it might be liable for the losses incurred by its customers as a result.
Even though Mr A was transferring funds to accounts (crypto accounts) in his name, 
NatWest ought to have been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions. 
While the transfers were made to his own wallet, scams involving transfers to cryptocurrency 
accounts were well known to banks by this time and I therefore think that where payments 
were also out of character, potential losses were foreseeable to the originating bank.
Ive considered the operation of Mr As account in the months leading up to the scam 
payments. I dont consider the initial payment of £5 to be unusual or suspicious such that I 
think NatWest ought to have intervened at that point.
The next payment of £4,450, which was made the same day, did flag on NatWests fraud 
systems and there was a call with Mr A to discuss this payment. In this call Mr A told the 
banks agent that he recognised the payment and that it was an investment he was making 
to his own cryptocurrency account. He went on to explain that hed held the cryptocurrency 
account for years, that hed made a payment to it previously and that only he had access to 
it. The agent spoke further with Mr A about how he obtained the account details and about 
Confirmation of Payee (CoP). Mr As response acknowledged that CoP wouldnt match as a 
cryptocurrency account and that the payment details were those on his cryptocurrency 
account. With all this in mind, whilst NatWests agent possibly couldve done more in this 
call, given the information Mr A provided to them in response to the questions they asked, 
Im persuaded what the bank did was proportionate in the circumstances of this case. On 
balance, Im not persuaded any of the answers Mr A provided or likely wouldve provided 
wouldve exposed the scam or would have prevented him from making the payment. It 
follows that I cant safely say NatWest ought to have been on notice that Mr A might be at 
risk of financial harm. 
Im mindful Mr A proceeded to make further payments  another payment to C and then a 
payment to B on 2 November 2021. There was a further call between Mr A and NatWest 
when he attempted to make the payment of £2,436. This appears to have been because Mr A was making this payment in quick succession after the payment of £4,450. Mr A 
doesnt consider the banks intervention to have been effective in this call. In brief, he 
doesnt consider the bank warned him about how these types of scams work, that it failed to 
ask him open questions and that it failed to use its experience of these types of scams to 
question him or probe answers. Ive thought carefully about what Mr A has said about this 
second call. Having done so, while I recognise he wont agree, on balance Im persuaded for 
the same reasons Ive set out for the first call, that the banks intervention was proportionate 
enough in this case. I think it is more likely than not that Mr A reassured the bank about the 
payments he was asking to make. He reiterated that the payment was being made to his 
own account and when asked if he was making the investment directly to C or with other 
companies via C, he responded to say directly with C. The agent explored investment 
aspects with Mr A and also asked him if hed set up a wallet to store his funds in  to which 
Mr A replied no and confirmed he was buying Bitcoin. The agent then provided some 
reasoning for asking the questions he had. It follows that I think, given the information Mr A 
provided, that the banks intervention was proportionate in the specific circumstances of this 
case. I dont think the answers Mr A gave to the bank ought fairly and reasonably to have put 
it on notice that Mr A might be at risk of being scammed.  
Whilst I acknowledge the payment to B on 2 November 2021 was to a new payee, I dont 
find making a payment to a new payee in and of itself ought to have caused the bank 
concern. All in all, I dont think this payment ought to have put NatWest on notice that Mr A 
might be at risk of falling victim to a scam given the previous activity on the account. 
Finally, Ive also gone on to consider whether NatWest took reasonable steps to recover 
Mr As funds once it was aware of what had happened. While I think NatWest ought to have 
contacted the receiving firm to make a recovery attempt, which it doesnt appear to have 
done here, I dont think this has made a difference here. I say this because, Mr A sent the 
funds to a cryptocurrency account in his name and from there he moved the funds onto the 
fraudster. Given that Mr A had already moved the funds before reporting the scam to 
NatWest, I dont think NatWest has missed an opportunity to recover the money Mr A has 
sadly lost. 
Its very unfortunate Mr A has lost this money in this way, and I understand the whole 
experience has been deeply upsetting for him. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can 
fairly or reasonably say NatWest should have done more to prevent Mr A from losing this 
money.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman