DRN-4201700
The complaint
Miss B complains Lendable Ltd is pursuing her for repayment of a loan she says was 
advanced in her name but applied for by her ex-partner and that she had no knowledge of. 
Miss B complains that her ex-partner opened several lines of credit in her name and that she 
is in financial difficulties as a result of having to repay borrowing shes not had the use of.
In resolution of this complaint Miss B is looking for Lendable to write off the outstanding 
balance and refund all payments shes made to date.
What happened
Lendable approved a loan of £7,000 with a fee of £410 in June 2020. The loan had monthly 
repayments of around £270 over 36 months, with a total repayable value of around £9,560.
Miss B complained to Lendable in May 2022. She said shed been coercively controlled by 
her ex-partner, who was physically and emotionally abusive, and had opened several lines 
of credit in her name without her knowledge. Miss B said shed only been able to face her 
financial situation in early 2022 with the help of a domestic violence charity, because of the 
abuse and control shed suffered, and was concerned she would continue to suffer if she 
raised concerns while still in the relationship. Shes said it was only in early 2022 that she 
became aware of the full extent of the number of credit accounts and value of lending her 
ex-partner had obtained in her name. 
Lendable issued its final response in June 2022 not upholding Miss Bs complaint. It said the 
checks it completed at the time of the application were in line with its regulatory 
responsibilities; and that it wasnt aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, that the 
lending wasnt entered into by Miss B. It did say within its response that if Miss B could 
provide documentary evidence about her financial situation, it would consider writing off the 
fee and interest accrued to date, as well as all future interest, effectively leaving Miss B to 
repay the £7,000 capital amount lent. Miss B doesnt appear to have provided Lendable with 
any further information at this point.
Miss B brought her complaint to our service for consideration in July 2022 following 
Lendables final response. 
Our investigator reviewed Miss Bs complaint and didnt uphold it. She said Lendables 
checks were fair and reasonable based on the terms of credit being provided; and the 
information it obtained about Miss Bs financial circumstances. She concluded that this loan 
appeared sustainably affordable for Miss B and that Lendable had made a fair lending 
decision. She also said that at the point of the lending decision she didnt consider Lendable 
ought reasonably to have identified that it wasnt Miss B entering into the agreement; and 
that ultimately, she could see the loan was used to consolidate other lines of credit in 
Miss Bs sole name, suggesting shed benefitted from the loan.  
Miss B didnt accept our investigators assessment. She acknowledged that while the other 
debts repaid with this loan were held in her sole name, that these had also been accrued by 
her ex-partner; and as such shed received no benefit from this lending. Miss B also pointed 
out that she hadnt raised a complaint about the affordability or the sustainability of the loan, 
but rather that her ex-partner had been coercively controlling her finances; and that she 
wasnt aware of the extend of the lines of credit opened in her name and therefore her actual 
financial circumstances.
Our investigator reviewed Miss Bs position and confirmed her opinion didnt change. So, as 
Miss B asked for an ombudsmans decision the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by thanking Miss B for the level of information shes shared with our service 
about her personal circumstances. I understand this wont have been easy given what shes 
gone through  and continues to go through  especially as shes said its only recently that 
shes felt able to address the situation. Id like to assure Miss B Ive very carefully considered 
everything shes told us throughout the history of this complaint, as well as all of the 
information Lendable has provided. 
Our investigator reviewed the affordability and sustainability of this loan. But Miss B has said 
this isnt the crux of her complaint. Miss B has said her complaint is that she was physically 
and emotionally abused and coercively controlled by her ex-partner; who she says obtained 
this loan without her knowledge, and solely benefited from the funds. 
While I understand Miss Bs position here, for completeness, and as Lendable considered 
the affordability of the loan, I have also considered this point. 
The affordability of the loan
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website; and both Miss B and Lendable are aware of this.
Lendable needed to take reasonable steps to ensure the lending it provided was responsibly 
lent. The relevant rules, regulations, and guidance at the time of Lendables lending decision 
required it to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. These checks needed to 
assess Miss Bs ability to afford the credit limit being approved and repay it sustainably, 
without causing her financial difficulties or harm.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration, and total cost of the credit, as well 
as the borrowers individual circumstances.
And it isnt sufficient for Lendable to just complete proportionate checks  it must also 
consider the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair lending decision. This 
includes not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring repayments can be 
made sustainably without the need to borrow further.
Lendable has said it was provided with Miss Bs declared income, a copy of a recent payslip 
and received read only access to her bank account, allowing it to verify her recent income 
and expenditure. It has also said it completed a credit check to understand Miss Bs existing 
lines of credit and the management of these accounts. It has said the results of these checks 
didnt cause it any concerns; and that these proportionate checks led to it making a fair 
lending decision when concluding this loan would be sustainably affordable for Miss B. Ive carefully considered Lendables argument, and Im persuaded its check were reasonable 
and proportionate in the individual circumstances; and that it went on to fairly assess that 
this loan would be sustainably affordable across its full term.
I say this because the evidence Lendable obtained at the time of its lending decision meant 
it verified Miss Bs actual financial circumstances rather than using estimates or average 
data. This meant Lendable understood Miss Bs actual financial situation, and therefore had 
a thorough understanding of her financial position before it lent.
Lendable obtained one months payslip and received read only access to Miss Bs bank 
account covering around mid-March to early June 2020, enabling it to verify her income and 
expenditure across a near three-month period. It also completed a credit check to identify 
Miss Bs existing credit commitments and the management of these and recently settled 
accounts. 
Review of the payslip and bank account data Lendable obtained show Miss Bs income to 
average around £2,400 across the three months leading up to this loan. However, Miss Bs 
income fluctuated across these three months, being as low as around £1,800 in one month 
and as high as around £2,700 in another. Miss B has said these amounts fluctuated as she 
worked overtime, largely she says to pay for spending by her ex-partner. The one-month 
payslip Lendable obtained showed Miss Bs base salary to be around £1,870.
Lendable used an income figure of around £1,660 in its affordability calculations. This feels 
reasonable given Miss Bs verified base salary. 
The read only access Lendable obtained also allowed it to identify Miss Bs regular non-
discretionary expenditure across the three months leading up to this loan. The information 
Lendable obtained doesnt show a cumulative balance, it only provides details of the credits 
and debits on the account. It does appear Miss B was using an unauthorised overdraft 
facility in the run up to this loan; there are charges for emergency borrowing in each of the 
three months, suggesting Miss B was financially stretched in each month. And there is 
evidence of one returned direct debit in early March 2020, so around three months prior to 
the loan being provided. 
On average Miss Bs account shows her regular non-discretionary expenditure totalling 
around £950. This is made up of payments for food, petrol, charges, subscriptions, and 
existing lines of credit. Each month there are payments to and from another account in 
Miss Bs name. These payments debiting the account generally total more than £1,000; and 
in one month more than £1,500. Some have the reference Miss B, and some have the 
reference savings. Miss B has said these payments were made by her ex-partner to an 
account hed opened in her name, which she had no access to. Miss B has said shes not 
able to provide us with statements for this account; so, Im unable to review the status of this 
other account; or obtain a level of knowledge as to what happened to these funds once they 
credited this other account.
But I dont think I need to see the statements for this account to reach a fair decision here. I 
say this because from the information Lendable obtained it could see that in the three 
months leading up to this loan Miss Bs income was significantly higher than the income it 
was using for its affordability assessment. So, I dont consider it would have been 
unreasonable for Lendable to have considered Miss B was transferring money into another 
account, potentially for savings given the payment reference, in the months she received a 
higher income when shed worked overtime.I do consider the emergency borrowing charges ought to have raised concerns for 
Lendable, especially as it saw Miss B was transferring large volumes of money out of the 
account it had sight of. But I must weigh this up against the purpose of this loan, which was 
detailed as debt consolidation, so Lendable was aware there was a likely strain on Miss Bs 
finances. And it had calculated that by consolidating existing debts Miss B would be in a 
better financial position each month, as well as changing running credit facilities where 
minimum payments were largely being made, into one structured loan repayment with an 
end date for the borrowing to be repaid. So, it was aware there would be a financial benefit 
to this lending. I think weighing all of this up, together with the knowledge it had that it 
appeared Miss B was transferring money out of the account in months where shed received 
a higher income due to overtime, that overall Lendable would have reasonably reached the 
same decision to lend.
It therefore follows I consider Lendables decision to approve this loan on an affordability and 
sustainability basis was a fair one.
As Ive found that Miss B could afford to repay the loan sustainably, and Im not upholding 
the complaint on the lending decision, Ive gone on to consider the wider circumstances 
Miss B has made us aware of. 
Did Miss B enter into this loan agreement?
Miss B has told us throughout her complaint that she was in a coercive and abusive 
relationship at the time this loan was approved. Shes said it was her ex-partner who applied 
for the loan without her knowledge; and that she only became aware of it in early 2022 when 
she was able to regain control of her finances. 
I want to start by saying I dont doubt the testimony Miss B has provided us throughout the 
complaint. But my role here is to weigh up all the evidence  testimony and documentary 
evidence  to reach a fair and reasonable decision. And where there is missing evidence or 
inconsistencies, I need to base my findings on what I consider more likely, on balance, to 
have happened. 
Taking this approach and considering all of the available evidence I cant safely conclude 
Miss B wasnt a knowledgeable party to this loan agreement. I appreciate this will be 
disappointing for Miss B. Especially as shes said her ex-partner had taken control of her 
finances and had access to the information provided to Lendable. But Ive set out my 
findings for this below. 
As part of the affordability assessment Lendable requested evidence of Miss Bs income and 
expenditure, as Ive set out above. This included obtaining a copy of one months payslip 
and read only access to her bank account. While I accept it may have been possible for 
Miss Bs partner to grant Lendable access to her bank information without her knowledge, 
Im not persuaded the same can be said about her payslip. I say this because the copy of 
the payslip Lendable has provided is a screen print and I consider it is more likely than not 
Miss Bs partner would not have access to her employers systems, nor be able to get a 
screen-print of her payslip without her knowledge. So, I consider, on balance, it more likely 
this information wouldnt have been able to have been provided to Lendable without Miss B 
having knowledge. 
And while after the event, the monthly payments to the loan were being maintained from 
Miss Bs main bank account, who, coincidentally, was also her employer at the time. So, 
following the advance, I think it more likely than not Miss B would have seen the payments 
debiting her account as she has confirmed she had access to this account. Given the level of personal information Lendable requested and obtained, I dont consider it 
was, or ought reasonably to have been, aware that Miss B may have been coerced into 
taking out this loan.
I say this because Lendable had been able to verify Miss B based on the information it had 
obtained. So, based on the evidence I cant conclude there was any point where it ought 
reasonably to have been on notice, or had concerns, that this wasnt Miss B entering into 
this credit agreement under her own free will. 
Did Miss B receive a benefit from this lending? 
Miss B has said she didnt enter into this agreement or benefit from the funds, so she 
shouldnt be liable for repayment of the debt. Shes therefore said the outstanding loan 
should be written off and she should be refunded all payments made to date. 
To reach this conclusion, I would need to be persuaded that it wasnt Miss B entering into 
this agreement of her own free will; or that she didnt benefit from the lending. In order to 
look to obtain some further insight into the use of the loan funds, I asked Miss B to provide 
information about the debts this loan consolidated; and provide evidence to support she 
didnt benefit from the loan. I also asked Miss B to provide details of the other debts shes 
said her ex-partner accrued in her name to provide an overall picture of the full situation and 
support my investigation and findings. 
Miss B has told us that she isnt able to provide us with bank account statements for the 
second account she says was opened in her name by her ex-partner. Or statements for the 
credit cards she says were used by her ex-partner which this loan was used to consolidate 
(which she has confirmed were cards held in her name). Shes said due to an unforeseen 
event she no longer has the paperwork. She has suggested that once the credit card 
accounts were consolidated with this loan, they were closed so no further debt was accrued.
So, based on the testimony and evidence I currently have (or lack of statement evidence), I 
cant safely conclude Miss B didnt benefit from this lending. 
I say this because the debts consolidated as part of this lending were all in Miss Bs sole 
name. These other lines of credit had been opened for a number of years before this loan 
was provided in 2020. So even if Miss B could show the debts accrued on them werent by 
her or for her benefit, it would be unreasonable to hold Lendable responsible for the 
spending on Miss Bs credit cards because it wasnt transacted with them.
As I cant be satisfied Miss B didnt reasonably benefit from the loan, it therefore follows I 
cant reasonably conclude that Lendable should look to refund interest and charges, or look 
to write off any of the outstanding balance. 
I know Miss B will be disappointed with this decision. Id like to reassure her that my decision 
is in no way intended to doubt or downplay her situation and the testimony she has provided 
 its clear Miss B has been through and continues to go through a very difficult time. But 
based on the testimony and the evidence I currently have; I cant reasonably conclude 
Lendable need to take any further action in resolution of the complaint.
Within its final response Lendable invited Miss B to provide it with information for it to 
consider removing all interest and charges added to the loan to date; and freeze all future 
interest and charges. This would leave Miss B to repay the capital amount lent of £7,000.
As Miss B has told us she has limited information to provide this may be difficult for her to 
explore with Lendable. But Id encourage Miss B to contact Lendable directly to discuss the outstanding balance and possible options it may be able to provide in support of repaying 
the outstanding balance. I would also remind Lendable of its obligations to treat Miss B fairly 
and sympathetically when engaging with her and making arrangements to recover the 
outstanding debt.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint 
about Lendable Ltd and therefore dont require it to take any further action in resolution of 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman