DRN-3506175
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that they havent been able to successfully make payments from 
their account with The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS).
What happened
In October and November 2020 Mr and Mrs M tried to make payments to Mrs Ms credit card 
using the debit card details linked to their current account with RBS which look to have been 
successful. When they looked at the statements for their credit card, they found that the 
payments hadnt been made though. At the time, they believed that interest and fees had 
been applied by the credit card company, along with negative information being recorded on 
Mrs Ms credit file about this.
Mr M contacted RBS, as he said that they had given all of the correct details for the payment 
to be made. RBS responded to explain that some of the transactions had been declined 
because of the banks policies and internal processes. RBS explained that this wasnt 
because of a bank error and suggested some methods that might avoid these issues again.
Mr M raised this issue again with RBS. This time, it advised him that the initial complaint 
wasnt investigated correctly. This time RBS clarified that the payments werent successful 
because the reference details entered for the payments werent correct and were declined 
by the credit card company. RBS advised Mr M to speak to the credit card company about 
this.
Mr M brought his complaint to us where one of our investigators looked at it. They were 
satisfied that the issue Mr and Mrs M were facing with the payments was because Mr M was 
inputting the wrong reference number. They said that there was information about this online 
and on its banking app. So as RBS advised, Mr M would need to contact the credit card 
company about this, but they didnt think RBS needed to do any more.
Mr M then tried to make another payment which failed again, despite appearing to be 
successful. He spoke to the credit card company, which said that the error was because of 
the information provided at the point of payment with the bank. Eventually, our investigator 
worked out with RBS that the problem was because when a customer wants to send a 
payment to an account that has more than eight digits in the account number (as a credit 
card would) the sort code prepopulates and the account number puts a zero in the relevant 
box. The payment screen then comes up with a link to a help sheet about what to do in 
these circumstances.
Our investigator considered this and was satisfied that RBS had now explained what the 
situation was and the reason behind the issue. But they did say that RBS had a number of 
opportunities to explain this to Mr M in a much clearer way than it did, much sooner than it 
did too. So they felt that RBS should pay £50 for the confusion this had caused, although 
they noted that the impact here was limited, as Mr M confirmed that Mrs M hadnt actually 
incurred any extra interest or charges, or adverse records on her credit file.
There was some confusion about this offer, the result of which meant that this £50 was paid 
to Mr and Mrs M. But they eventually let our investigator know that they didnt accept this 
and wanted the issue to be rectified and fairer compensation paid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that there has been a lot of confusion around what the underlying issue was in 
relation to the payments here. But it seems that now, RBS has finally explained what the 
problem is and has suggested how Mr and Mrs M can avoid this in future. The current 
explanation RBS has given seems reasonable and appears most likely to me to be the 
cause of the problems Mr and Mrs M have had here. 
I think its fair to say that RBS could have handled this situation better though. Mr and Mrs M 
were clearly confused about their payments and RBS is the expert in how its systems work. 
While this was complicated slightly by the involvement of the credit card company as a third 
party  I still think RBS could have identified what the problem was and told Mr and Mrs M 
how they could have avoided this much sooner than it actually did.
Now that RBS has done that, its also paid Mr and Mrs M £50. I realise that may not seem 
like much to them, but I think its fair in the circumstances. They have clearly been caused 
some confusion and frustration by the situation here. Its fair that RBS compensates them for 
that, but equally Mr M has confirmed that there has been no further impact on Mrs M as he 
originally thought there had. That is fortunate, given what happened  but it does mean that 
there isnt any impact in this wider sense that I can fairly say that RBS needs to put right, or 
should fairly compensate them further for.
Mr and Mrs M have also suggested that they want this issue resolved. We cant tell RBS as 
a bank to change the systems it has though  instead we look into the individual 
circumstances of a complaint. In doing that here, I think RBS has now provided a reasonable 
explanation for why the payments werent successful and has explained what Mr and Mrs M 
can do to try and avoid this in future. There can always be problems with payments, as there 
can with any system, but I think the explanation and advice that RBS has now given is 
reasonable.
Putting things right
In line with the above, I think the fair thing to do here would be for RBS to pay Mr and Mrs M 
the £50 that was recommended. Its already done that and so there is nothing further I need 
tell it to do.
My final decision
My final decision is that its fair that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has paid Mr and Mrs M 
£50 to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman