DRN-2719286
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) declined his claim under his 
buildings insurance for damage caused to his floor and walls by water ingress following flash 
floods. Mr D had both buildings and contents insurance with Fairmead, including accidental 
damage. His claim was under his buildings insurance.
What happened
Mr D made a claim under his policy the day after his cellar suffered water damage during 
flash floods. Fairmeads building contractor assessed the damage and reported that it was 
due to long-term issues and lack of tanking. It declined the claim under the policy exclusion 
for water ingress from underground.
As suggested by Fairmead, Mr D arranged for an independent report. His contractor 
reported that the surface drain was cracked, which Mr D had fixed at a cost of £450. 
Fairmead appointed a drain specialist company which agreed that the repair was covered. 
But Fairmead declined the remainder of the claim because its drain specialist didnt think the 
cracked drain had contributed to the damaged cellar floor and walls. 
Mr D complained to Fairmead and it looked into what he said. But, after seeking further 
opinion directly from Mr Ds contractor and its own contractors about pre-existing damage, 
Fairmead repeated its decision to decline. 
Our investigator initially thought there was some merit in Mr Ds complaint but, on further 
review of the evidence she thought Fairmeads response was reasonable. Thats because 
there was no evidence that either a storm or the cracked drain had caused the damage to Mr 
Ds cellar. Our investigator thought the evidence indicated that an underground drain was 
responsible, which is excluded from cover under the policy. She didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr D didnt agree. He said his photo from the day of the damage showed that there wasnt 
any mould on his walls; he said his cellar was fully tanked; he thought it was unlikely that the 
cracked drain was coincidental to the floor damage, and he didnt think Fairmead had given 
enough weight to his contractors report.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr D will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain.
When Mr D made his claim to Fairmead, he thought the flash floods had caused the water to 
enter his cellar. So, he claimed under his policy for flood damage caused by a storm. Mr D 
provided a photo of his cellar on the day of the flash floods showing water covering the floor. 
Was there a storm?
Historical weather reports suggest there wasnt a storm around the time Mr D made his 
claim, although I note that the rainfall reported was just under the threshold. That said, local 
weather reports and media coverage show that there were flash floods which caused 
significant damage in the area surrounding Mr Ds home. For that reason, Im satisfied that 
there was a storm (flash floods).
Ordinarily, Id go on to consider the following two questions:
Was the damage consistent with that typically caused by a storm?
Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
However, as the investigation progressed, the damage was assessed as a claim for water 
ingress from a cracked drain. So, Ive considered the two storm damage questions alongside 
the evidence for the cracked drain, for completeness, to decide whether it was reasonable 
for Fairmead to decline Mr Ds claim for the reasons it gave, and in line with the terms of the 
policy.
The following points arent disputed:
Mr Ds cellar flooded
A gully/drain had cracked
The cracked gully was covered under the policy
Fairmead settled Mr Ds claim for the gully repair.
The issue, then, is that Mr D thinks Fairmead should cover the cost of the repairs to the 
cellar walls and floor which he thinks mustve been caused by water ingress from the 
cracked gully. I can see why Mr D mightve been confused about Fairmeads decision to 
cover the repair but not the damage, so Ive looked at the reason Fairmead gave for 
declining the claim. It believed the damage to the cellar was the result of a long-term issue 
caused by a lack of tanking, and it referred to an earlier claim where Mr D was aware of that.
The policy states:
General Exceptions
3. Gradually operating cause 
Any loss, damage or liability arising from wear and tear or damage that happens gradually 
over time.
Fairmead pointed out that the photo Mr D supplied from the day of the event shows existing 
mould on the walls. Mr D says the photo was taken on the day of the water ingress and 
shows undamaged walls. Ive looked at the photo which shows the cellar floor covered in 
water, and Mr D uploaded it to his claim form on the day after the event. So, Im satisfied that 
I can rely on this as evidence of the cellars condition at the time of the event.
The photo shows parts of two walls meeting in the corner of the cellar. On the wall to the left 
of the corner, there is relatively faint evidence of damp and/or mould, becoming darker the 
nearer it gets to the corner. It reaches a height of around 75cm (estimated using several 
photos for perspective). Its possible to see the dark patch reaching round onto the second 
wall, which is then obscured by a radiator. Above the radiator there are further patches of 
mould, and to the right of the radiator there is clear evidence of much darker mould, also 
reaching around 75cm from the floor.
This tells me that mould was present in Mr Ds cellar when the water ingress happened, 
rather than appearing over the following days. Ive compared the photo to those taken eight days later, and theres no real change in the 
amount of mould evident in the same area of the cellar as that shown on Mr Ds photo. 
Therefore, the evidence persuades me that the flooding wasnt the main cause of the wall 
damage.
So, with this evidence in mind, Im satisfied that Fairmead reasonably declined the claim on 
the basis that the damage was already present.
Mr D said his cellar was fully tanked, so he didnt agree with Fairmeads reason for declining 
his claim. Fairmead provided evidence of a claim Mr D made two years before, during which 
he said he would deal with the tanking while he made other changes to the cellar.
The policy states: 
General conditions applying to sections 1-3 of this policy 
8. Your duty to prevent loss or damage 
You must keep your buildings in sound condition and in good repair, and you should consult 
a suitably qualified expert if you are unsure whether or not you are complying with this 
condition. You must take all reasonable steps to safeguard your buildings, contents or 
property against loss or damage and to prevent accidents. If loss or damage does occur, you 
must take all reasonable steps to prevent further loss or damage.
The photos dont provide any clarity on the tanking, and I havent seen any evidence from Mr 
D to show what was done as part of the change of use alteration work. But, regardless of 
this, it remains that the damage can be seen already on the day of the flooding. I cant fairly 
say that Fairmead should cover the cost of repairs as theres no evidence that Mr D met the 
conditions of his policy.
I understand that Mr D doesnt think Fairmead placed enough weight on his contractors 
report, which referred to water running into his cellar through a cracked surface drain. Mr D 
disagrees with Fairmeads conclusion that the water was entering his cellar from an 
underground drain. 
Within the evidence, I note that Fairmead attempted to contact Mr Ds contractor directly, 
through the company named on the report. And Fairmead appointed a second contractor in 
response to that report, resulting in a partial settlement of the claim. So I dont think its fair to 
say Fairmead didnt place weight on the independent contractors report. 
Ive considered the three expert reports provided as evidence. 
Fairmeads initial report said the water ingress was from the underground water table 
and the damage occurred on more than one occasion orhappened a long time 
ago and has been left.
Mr Ds contractor reported that the water ingress originated from a broken surface 
drain.
Fairmeads second contractor said it was extremely unlikely for the damage to the 
gully to have caused the cracking to the floor.
Ive looked at the policy to see whether cover is available for these events. The policy states:
The buildings are insured against loss or damage caused by:
4. Storm or flood.
We will not pay for:
Loss or damage caused by underground water.7. Escape of water from any washing machine, dishwasher or plumbed domestic water or 
heating installation.
We will not pay for:
Loss or damage caused by escape of water from guttering, rainwater downpipes, 
roof valleys and gullies.
It appears to me that whether it was a surface gully or underground drain, cover is excluded. 
As the evidence doesnt show that there was an insured event, Im satisfied Fairmead fairly 
declined Mr Ds claim in line with the policy.
Overall, Im satisfied that Fairmead relied on the available evidence which indicated that the 
walls were already damaged, and the floor damage wasnt caused by an insured event. 
While it covered the cost of repair to the damaged gully, Fairmead declined the rest of the 
claim in line with the terms of the policy and for the reasons it gave. Im not asking Fairmead 
to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman