DRN-1643089
The complaint
Mr W complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited wrongly cancelled his car 
insurance policy. Hes unhappy with the amount of compensation he received.
What happened
In 2018, Admiral cancelled Mr Ws car insurance policy, after its monthly premium request 
was rejected by Mr Ws bank for the third time during that policy term. In 2019, Admiral 
identified its process wasnt compliant with certain rules and guidance set out by the 
regulator. Admiral wrote to Mr W and he complained.
In response to Mr Ws complaint, Admiral acknowledged it should have attempted to take the 
rejected payment again (as it had done on the other two occasions), rather than cancelling 
his policy. 
To put matters right, Admiral compensated Mr W the difference between what he had paid 
for his cancelled policy and the policies he had taken out the following two years, plus the 
cancellation fee Admiral had charged, plus 8% simple interest on these amounts. Admiral 
also compensated him the cancellation fee for his current policy so he could find cheaper 
cover; and it provided a letter which confirmed Admiral had cancelled his previous policy 
incorrectly, so he doesnt need to disclose the cancellation in the future. Admiral also 
compensated Mr W £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr W didnt consider the £100 reflected the distress and inconvenience he had suffered, so 
he referred his complaint to this service. Mr W says the cancellation meant that he could no 
longer use price comparison websites and he had to go with a specialist broker; and having 
to declare the cancelled policy going forward, and the prospect of paying higher premiums, 
caused him stress and worry. Mr W thought the £100 should be over £2,000.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ws complaint, but she thought £100 (along with the 
other compensation) was fair. Mr W disagreed, so his complaint has been passed to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral accepts it did something wrong, so I dont need to make a finding on this point. 
Instead, Ive focused on what its done to put matters right.
Admiral has ensured Mr W wasnt financially disadvantaged by what happened. Hes been 
reimbursed (with interest) Admirals cancellation fee and any extra he paid for cover during 
the following two years due to having had a policy cancelled. He has also been provided a 
letter to ensure the situation doesnt affect him in the future and he was compensated the 
cancellation fee for his current policy so he could now find cheaper insurance. Admirals 
redress is in-line with our general approach and Im satisfied it put matters right.
Whats left for me to decide is whether Admirals £100 compensation fairly acknowledges the 
distress and inconvenience this matter caused Mr W. Although Admiral told Mr W it wouldnt 
share the cancellation with other companies, I can understand why he felt he had to declare 
the cancellation to his future insurers given the implications if he didnt do so. I dont doubt 
the situation caused him some worry and inconvenience.
However, I havent seen anything that suggests Mr W struggled to obtain cover the following 
two years, and the extra premium he paid wasnt so significant it can reasonably be said to 
have caused him substantial distress.
Overall, Im persuaded £100 compensation, along with the other steps Admiral has taken to 
put matters right, is fair. I havent seen anything that persuades me the £100 compensation 
ought to be increased and its broadly in-line with the amount I would have awarded had 
Admiral not made this offer. So, Im not directing Admiral to do anything further.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W. But for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman