DRN-2964094
The complaint
Miss L has complained Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, has not dealt properly with 
her claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Miss L believes her divorce 
solicitor fraudulently misrepresented their service.
What happened
Miss L was going through a divorce and engaged solicitors she felt were appropriate. She 
was influenced by the solicitors advertising themselves as the leading family law firm in the 
country they were providing services. Ill refer to Miss Ls solicitors as M.
Miss L paid some of her solicitors costs using her Halifax credit card. Miss L was unhappy 
with the service shed received. She felt M had failed to consider:
Her restricted financial position;
Her personal situation including the failing health of close family;
Her long-term mental health issues; and
Her wish to ensure the legal strategy avoided mentally and financially gruelling 
litigation.
She made a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 to Halifax. She quickly 
felt Halifax werent competent in managing her claim as she was being advised to refer her 
concerns to the Legal Ombudsman. She made a claim but remained unhappy with how this 
was resolved. She believed this only covered the service she received and not the standard 
of service. 
Halifax believed they were unable to assess the validity of Miss Ls claim without knowing 
exactly what the Legal Ombudsman had considered. Miss L was unwilling to share this with 
them. Miss L brought her complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence. This included detailed testimony by Miss L which 
included her complaint submissions to M in 2018 and 2019. Her submissions to our service 
also included photographs, along with excerpts from the law and previous ombudsman 
service publications. Miss L was adamant that her complaint was Halifax had failed to 
consider her claim of fraudulent misrepresentation.
Our investigator didnt believe there was sufficient information to show that M had acted 
without exercising reasonable care and skill. He felt that the report by the Legal Ombudsman 
could have provided some detail on this aspect but noted Miss L wouldnt provide this to our 
service. He also considered whether thered been a fraudulent misrepresentation. However 
he felt that he couldnt safely say this was a misstatement of fact. He wasnt going to ask 
Halifax to do anything further as he understood why theyd turned down Miss Ls claim.
Miss L disagreed with this outcome and made further substantial submissions. She believed 
our service had ignored the major issue which was how Halifax had failed to manage her 
claim.
This complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than either of the two 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point 
made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key 
issues here. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome. This also reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Im also aware of Miss Ls submissions, including her initial 26-page complaint and her later 
59-page submission to M. She has also compiled very detailed comments to us, including a 
five-page submission on 31 December 2021. Ive reviewed all of these. Some of this 
contains a lot of detail about Miss Ls personal situation which I dont believe is appropriate 
to repeat here, although I confirm I have taken it into consideration.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 allows a customer to submit a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by a supplier to their credit provider. This applies when 
customers use certain types of credit to buy goods or services. In this case Miss L used her 
Halifax credit card to pay for some of her solicitors costs. 
Its worth clarifying Im not deciding Halifaxs liability under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act. We consider the relevant law and that includes section 75. But we decide cases 
by considering what is fair and reasonable, as statute requires us to do. What Im deciding is 
whether Halifax did enough in considering Miss Ls complaint. And if they didnt, what else 
should they now do.
If there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract in the supply of the goods that 
resulted in detriment then its fair to ask Halifax to put things right. Its worth stating that my 
role is not to penalise businesses for a breach of contract or misrepresentation on its own. 
Im concentrating on the impact of that breach rather than the fact a breach may have 
occurred. 
Im very aware that Miss L has continued to stress her complaint is straightforward and her 
claim against Halifax is merely one for a fraudulent misrepresentation. Im not going into any detail around the breach of contract as Miss L has insisted otherwise. However I will 
confirm, as did our investigator, that Im satisfied I cant  and neither could Halifax  
consider whether a breach of contract has occurred. I dont have enough evidence to 
determine whether M carried out their duties without exercising reasonable care or skill. 
The claim of fraudulent misrepresentation turns around the fact that Miss L was looking for a 
company who actually was one of the best divorce solicitors in X. Ms advertising at the 
time Miss L engaged them promoted themselves as the leading family law firm. 
So Ive considered whether this is a statement of fact that would have influenced Miss L. 
Theres no indication what measurement could be used to assess whether M were or 
werent the leading law firm in that field. I accept that M changed their advertising later. 
However even if this originally threatened to contravene advertising standards, this doesnt 
mean it would constitute misrepresentation.
Miss L admits she didnt do any research into M. I find this surprising knowing what I do of 
Miss L and her background in managing financial claims. Im also surprised that someone as 
savvy as Miss L would be influenced by anyone claiming to the best at what they do 
although I appreciate this was a personal matter. I see this as not too dissimilar to something 
being advertised as the best brand. Whether thats shampoo or lager, its not always 
accepted these constitute statements of fact as no measurement is applied nor are there any 
clear parameters 
Like our investigator I think the statement is reasonably vague. I dont believe theres enough 
evidence to show this is fraudulent misrepresentation. Therefore I can see why Halifax were 
unable to reach the outcome Miss L wanted. Overall I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to ask Halifax to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Miss Ls complaint against Bank 
of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman