DRN-3544211
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc have not refunded him after he fell victim to a 
scam.
 
What happened
Im not going to cover all the points raised in detail. The view of 15 June 2022 covered the 
detailed timeline of the transactions and the details of Mr Ms testimony. But briefly, on 19 
November 2021, Mr M made several purchases for gift cards from a supermarket after 
receiving emails from someone who he thought was his manager and another colleague 
from work. Mr M says he first became aware he was the victim of a scam the following day 
when he emailed his manager to inform her he had bought the gift cards - and she 
responded saying she knew nothing of the emails and requested gift cards. Mr M was also 
unhappy with the communication he received from Bank of Ireland during the complaint 
process.
Our investigator thought the transactions were unusual based on the account activity and a 
sudden flurry of activity just a few minutes apart warranted intervention from Bank of Ireland 
from the fourth transaction onwards. However, the investigator didnt feel any additional 
compensation was due for the way Bank of Ireland handled the complaint.
Bank of Ireland did not agree. It felt the spending was not unusual for the time of year with 
the run up to Christmas and said its systems would not have triggered. It also considered 
any intervention would not have made a difference. It felt the gap between the fourth and 
fifth transaction was long enough for Mr M to check with his manager and uncover the scam. 
As the case could not be resolved informally, its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that Mr M authorised the transactions. In broad terms, the starting 
position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a 
customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services Regulations and 
the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when 
deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case. 
However, looking at what happened here, it is evident that Mr M was the victim of a 
concerted fraud. And, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant 
codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I 
consider Bank of Ireland should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, Bank of Ireland had obligations in respect of protecting Mr M from fraud and financial 
harm. I appreciate the amounts were relatively small and I accept there is a balance to be 
struck between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising 
disruption to legitimate payments. I also appreciate that Bank of Irelands fraud systems 
didnt identify these payments as having high risk characteristics. But that isnt to say that 
any activity not picked up on means a business doesnt need to do anything more.
I think Bank of Ireland should have been concerned that payments were being made in very 
quick succession with the gaps between the transactions just minutes apart. The third 
transaction took place just two minutes after the first and a fourth transaction was made just 
one minute later.
In the circumstances I do think Bank of Ireland could have acted here. I think in a situation 
like this Bank of Ireland should have spoken with Mr M to check everything was in order, to 
protect him from the risk of financial harm. If it had done so, and if it had asked suitably 
probing questions about the payments, Im persuaded it would have uncovered that Mr M 
was purchasing gift cards for his manager. I think some basic questioning would have 
revealed his manager had emailed him to make the request.
As a financial services professional, I think Bank of Ireland would have been aware at the 
time of email interception scams; including ones to buy gift cards. With this in mind, I think 
the bank could, relatively easily, have identified and warned Mr M of the possibility he was 
being scammed. The bank should have helped Mr M to reflect on whether it was legitimate 
or not. This was something that a more experienced eye should think was potentially not 
quite right. I do think it could have done much more to bring to life what scams like this look 
and feel like by providing further information about the hallmarks of these types of scam. I 
think that would have been enough to cause Mr M sufficient concern. It seems probable that 
Mr M would have become suspicious and then incredulous about the scam in time and 
stopped the fourth and subsequent payments. The fraud would have failed; and Mr M would 
not have lost £100 or the transaction that followed.
I have also considered whether Mr M should bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence. However, it is clear that up to and including the time of authorising the 
payments, he was still totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate what he was doing or 
the consequences of his actions. Mr M received an email from two work colleagues including 
his manager. He exchanged several emails with the scammer, and I can see why he didnt 
suspect he was being scammed. Overall, I think this was a very sophisticated and believable 
scam, I am satisfied there was no contributory negligence on this occasion, Mr M was simply 
the unwitting victim of a clever fraudster. The bank was the professional in financial matters; 
Mr M was a layperson. Finally, for the reasons outlined by the investigator, I agree that Bank of Ireland acted within 
reasonable timeframes when handling Mr Ms complaint and dont find there were any 
failings here  so Im not making any further award.
 
Putting things right
The payment was made from Mr Ms current account. I think its likely had he not been 
defrauded he would have spent it on other things. So, I consider it fairest to award 8% 
simple interest. In order to put things right for Mr M, Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc should:
Pay Mr M £500 within 28 days of receiving notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision; plus
Pay simple interest at the rate of 8% per annum on the sum above from the date of 
the transactions to the date of refund1. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold the complaint in part and require Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to put 
things right for Mr M as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman
1 If Bank of Ireland is legally required to deduct tax from the interest should send Mr M a tax deduction 
certificate so he can claim it back from HMRC if appropriate.