DRN-3841987
The complaint
Ms C complains that RAC Insurance Limited has unfairly declined a claim under her legal 
expenses insurance (LEI) policy. 
Any reference to RAC includes the actions and comments of its agents.
What happened
On 6 February 2019, Ms C completed the purchase of her house. A few days earlier, Ms C 
had taken out buildings and contents insurance, along with a RAC LEI policy. The insurer of 
her LEI policy has since changed to Company A. 
In June 2020, Ms C became aware of a serious issue with the gabion baskets that were 
being used as a wall between her and her neighbours properties. She arranged for an 
engineer to inspect the baskets. He said they werent fit for purpose and were potentially 
unsafe. Unable to reach a resolution with the builder, Ms C made a claim on her LEI policy, 
but it was declined by Company A.
Ms C since raised the claim with RAC who also declined it  on the basis the date of the 
event occurred before the policy started. So, Ms C asked this Service to review her 
complaint.
An Ombudsman ultimately decided that complaint. In summary, he said RAC shouldnt have 
applied the exclusion regarding pre-existing disputes and that it should reconsider the claim 
in line with the remaining policy terms. The decision set out the costs RAC should pay if the 
claim was covered or not. The Ombudsman also said RAC must pay £500 compensation for 
the delay it had caused by incorrectly rejecting the claim. 
Following the Ombudsmans decision, RAC reconsidered the claim but declined it because 
the policy doesnt cover legal claims arising out of or relating to the construction of buildings. 
Ms C disagreed and brought a new complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it 
and said Ms C had been treated unfairly. The Investigator said the exclusion applies to 
additional building construction, not existing ones. As she was satisfied the gabion baskets 
formed part of the existing building, she thought the legal claim was covered. She also said 
RAC should pay £250 compensation for how it had handled the claim. 
RAC disagreed saying it had fulfilled the obligations of the previous Ombudsmans final 
decision by paying the relevant costs and reconsidering the claim without reference to the 
pre-existing exclusion. It added that it had also paid £150 compensation. RAC asked for a 
final decision and so, the complaint was passed to me. 
Because I disagreed with the Investigators outcome, I issued a provisional decision 
explaining why I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. In summary, I said I was 
satisfied the policy made it clear that where the subject matter of a legal claim is in relation to 
the construction of a building or parts of it, cover wouldnt be provided. And as Ms Cs legal 
claim is about the developer allegedly failing to construct her property correctly, I was 
satisfied her claim was about the construction of a building and therefore, not covered. 
I explained that Id not seen any evidence to persuade me the exclusion distinguished 
between new and existing building construction  and so, I wasnt persuaded by Ms Cs 
argument that because her issue was in relation to an existing part of the property, it should 
be covered. 
I also said I didnt consider it necessary for RAC to pay compensation beyond what it already 
had. 
Ms C appointed a representative, and together they put forward several arguments as to 
why they disagreed with the provisional outcome Id reached. In summary they said:
The decision fails to address the Braganza duty in law to act rationally when 
exercising contractual discretion. 
RAC has unfairly been given a second opportunity to reassess and reject Ms Cs 
claim. 
That Ive erred in not considering the context of the first Ombudsmans decision. 
The Barrister  upon whose advice the Insurer relied  was chosen and paid for by 
the Solicitors and was therefore, not independent. 
Ms C didnt see the instructions provided to the Barrister and considers these to have 
been misleading.
Theres a conflict of interest between the Solicitors and Intermediary through which 
Ms C purchased her LEI policy. Ms C says the Solicitors firm is owned by the same 
parent group as the Intermediary. She considers that these businesses are likely 
working together to prevent claims being accepted.  
Ms C has provided Counsels opinion which states her legal claim satisfies the policy 
criteria and confirms it enjoys prospects of success. 
 
RAC responded to say it had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read all the information provided by Ms C and her representative. In making my 
decision I need to consider whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, 
taking into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to be good industry practice. 
Although I will take account of relevant law, its only one of the factors to consider when 
deciding whats fair and reasonable. Were an informal alternative dispute resolution service 
and our role is to provide an impartial review of a case, quickly and with minimal formality. In 
reaching a final decision, I use my judgement to decide what is fair, based on the main crux 
of a case, and so my comments focus on whats relevant to the outcome Ive reached.
The starting point is the policy document which sets out that there is cover for:Professional costs and expenses incurred in pursuit of civil claims [] for damages, 
arising from or out of []
ii) The purchase, hire purchase or lease of goods or services for your private use. At 
least £125 must be in dispute and the contract for the goods or services must have 
been made after the inception of the first period of continuous insurance.
iii) Any infringement of your legal rights arising from and relating to your ownership or 
occupation of your principal place of residence where the Insured event occurs more 
than 180 days after inception of the first period of insurance.
Here, Ms C has a contract with the Developer of her property. Shes alleging the Developer 
is in breach of the contract for poorly constructing her propertys gabion basket wall. So, on 
the face of it, Ms C satisfies the policy criteria as there is a legal claim for breach of contract. 
However, the contract was for the purchase of a house which doesnt appear to be a 
contract for goods or services, in which case theres no cover.
But even if Im wrong about that, there is only cover if an exclusion doesnt apply. Under 
What is not insured the policy says:
There is no cover in respect of the following [] Claims arising from or relating to: 
xii) The construction of or structural alteration to buildings or parts of buildings.
Ive read Ms Cs Counsels opinion that it was not the policys intention to exclude cover 
where a new build has been purchased through a Development method, but Im not 
persuaded by this. I say this because Ive not seen anything in the LEI policy wording to 
suggest the Insurer was intending to distinguish between existing and new construction  if it 
had wanted to, I would expect this to have been reflected in the terms. 
The exclusion applies to any claims arising from or relating to the construction of buildings. 
I think thats clear and dont see any ambiguity in the wording. Ms Cs legal dispute is about 
how part of her property was constructed. On that basis Im satisfied it arises out of and 
relates to the construction of a building. So, it isnt covered, and Im satisfied it was fair and 
reasonable for RAC to decline her claim. 
Ms C has raised concerns about the impartiality of the Barristers opinion upon which RAC 
relied to decline her claim. I havent seen anything to persuade me it was unreasonable for 
RAC to rely on the Barristers advice. Its worth mentioning that Barristers have their own 
professional standards which they must abide, and this includes a duty to declare any 
conflicts of interest. In any event, its not for this Service to comment on the professionalism 
and conduct of legal professionals and so, any concerns Ms C has should be directed to the 
Legal Ombudsman. 
In my provisional decision I said RAC didnt need to pay further compensation to Ms C. 
Whilst I understand Ms Cs frustration at having dealt with this claim for a lengthy period, she 
has already been compensated for the inconvenience caused by RAC incorrectly declining 
her claim in the first instance. The time its taken RAC to reconsider the claim is what it 
would have been but for itss initial error, so it wouldnt be fair to compensate her for the time 
spent dealing with the claim since its been reconsidered. I note RAC has paid an additional 
£150. Ive not seen anything to persuade me this should be increased, and so my position 
remains the same that RAC doesnt need to pay additional compensation.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman