DRN-2277664
The complaint
Mr M and Miss W complain about the poor service theyve received from First Central 
Insurance Management Limited (First Central) with their motor insurance. 
What happened
In March 2019, Mr M took out motor insurance with an insurer through First Central with 
Miss W a named driver on the policy. There were various administrative errors over the 
course of the policy term, including an incorrect e-mail being sent to Mr M and Miss W which 
stated theyd paid their insurance premium in full. They say these errors caused the policy to 
be cancelled and reinstated on two separate occasions. The second time the policy was 
cancelled Miss W was stopped by the police for having no insurance. Miss W explained she 
believed she was insured. She called First Central the next day to make a complaint.
First Central apologised for their errors and reinstated the insurance as if there had been no 
break in cover or cancellation. They agreed they didnt handle the issues well. They 
explained the cancellation was due to difficulties collecting the monthly direct debits, causing 
arears on the account. They issued a cover letter indemnifying Miss W of any police fines or
driving convictions connected to the stop for no insurance. First Central first offered to 
deduct £250 from outstanding direct debits by way of compensation. Later they increased 
their offer to £465.01.
Mr M and Miss W werent happy with the amount of compensation. They also didnt want the 
compensation to be used to reduce the outstanding balance. So they brought their complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold their complaint. He considered the amount and method of 
compensation First Central had offered to be fair and reasonable under the circumstances. 
Mr M and Miss W didnt agree. So their complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that the policy was purchased on 10 March 2019 with the premiums to be paid 
monthly. On 27 March 2019, a non-fault claim was recorded. When the first monthly 
payment was made slightly late in early April 2019, a £30 default fee was applied. A system 
error caused the motor insurance to be cancelled. First Central reinstated the policy the day 
later and waived the £30 default fee. First Central also paid £75 compensation to cover costs 
incurred when there was no insurance on the car for a day, and to make amends for the 
system error. Given the only implication of the first cancellation was one day where Mr M 
and Miss W couldnt use their car, this looks to be a fair and reasonable response. 
On 29 April 2019 Mr M and Miss W received an email from First Central saying the 
outstanding balance of £657.82 had been successfully collected for the policy. First Central 
say this was sent in error. They note that the money hadnt actually been collected. They say 
that the error occurred due to the claim on the policy. Mr M and Miss W didnt check their 
bank account to confirm the payment had been taken. But they say they believed this meant 
their policy had been paid in full rather than by monthly direct debit. They do now know that 
the email was sent in error and that £657.82 wasnt taken from their account. But at the time 
they wouldve thought the premium had been paid in full.
On 12 July 2019, First Central say they sent a direct debit default notice. This asked for 
payment within 14 days or the policy would cancel on 25 July 2019. It was sent by email and 
post. But Mr M and Miss W say they didnt receive these. So they carried on driving believing 
they were still insured. On 25 July 2019 the policy was cancelled for non-payment. 
On 9 September 2019 Miss W got stopped by the police for having no insurance. But Miss 
W said she believed she was insured. So she called First Central the following day to find 
out why the policy had been cancelled and to complain. She said shed had no notification of 
the cancellation. First Central agreed to reinstate the policy from the date it was cancelled to 
cover the police stop. But only if she brought the premium payments up to date. First Central 
say Miss W agreed to do this. But that to date no payments have been made.
On 8 October 2019 First Central agreed to reduce the outstanding balance by £465.01. On 
30 October 2019, Miss W called First Central team to ask them to increase the 
compensation, given the level of inconvenience shed been through. She was also unhappy 
that the compensation reduced the outstanding balance, instead of being paid out. First 
Central declined to increase the compensation as they felt it was fair.
Miss W cancelled the policy on 10 November 2019, as she said she no longer trusted First 
Central.
From all the evidence Ive seen, First Central shouldve warned Mr M and Miss W that it was 
intending to cancel their policy because premium payments hadnt been made. However this 
problem was rectified quickly and I think the £75 compensation First Central paid was fair. 
But looking at the July cancellation, I am persuaded that First Central couldve provided a 
much better service. And I can see that their actions led to a particularly poor experience for 
Miss W when she was stopped by the police. First Central have already acknowledged this. 
So I need to look at what they offered to make amends for that poor service.
First Central ensured that the police stop had no lasting implications for Miss W. And, 
because they reinstated the policy, theyve ensured that the policy cancellations wont affect 
Mr M and Miss Ws future costs of insurance. Theyve also offered £465.01 in compensation 
for the second cancellation. I consider that its reasonable for First Central to deduct this 
compensation from the outstanding balance for two reasons. First  Miss W agreed to bring 
the policy premiums up to date when First Central agreed to reinstate the policy. And 
second, its common practice for compensation to offset a debt. While I appreciate it mustve 
been an awful experience to be stopped by the police, its clear that First Central have 
acknowledged their errors and taken reasonable steps to correct them. The compensation is 
in line with what this service wouldve directed had First Central not already taken the action 
they did. So I cant say that First Central has acted unfairly or unreasonably in their handling 
of this complaint. And I wont be asking them to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr M and Miss Ws complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman