DRN-2096617
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy that Freemans Plc have charged her for goods she says she never 
received.
What happened
Ms S had a catalogue shopping account with Freemans. In August 2019 she ordered a PC 
Gaming Bundle, which cost £854.10. When this was received, Ms S says she no longer 
wanted it, so she returned the item to Freemans unopened. 
But Freemans say Ms S didnt return the PC Gaming Bundle, she returned a PC case 
instead. And, because their supplier who provided the PC Gaming Bundle to Ms S didnt 
stock or supply the PC case Ms S returned, they charged her for the PC Gaming Bundle.
Ms S complained to Freemans about this, but they didnt uphold her complaint. So shes 
asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to investigate.
Our investigator said Freemans have shown the PC Gaming Bundle was provided direct 
from their supplier, not from them. And the courier label on the box Ms S returned doesnt 
belong to a courier the supplier uses. He also said that hed seen no evidence to show the 
supplier stocked the particular make and model of PC case Ms S returned to Freemans. 
And, as Freemans had shown theyd supplied a PC Gaming Bundle to Ms S, he didnt think 
theyd acted unreasonably by charging her for this.
Ms S didnt agree with the investigator. After reviewing what Freemans had provided to us, 
Ms S said they were withholding evidence  transcripts of calls she had with them  and 
feels this is because this would lend credence to my version of events that she received a 
PC case in error. And she feels that the evidence doesnt prove what was actually delivered 
to her. Shes also questioned why, if Freemans didnt refer the matter to the police when she 
asked them to.
Ms S has also provided copies of bank and credit card statements which she says proves 
she didnt purchase any computer equipment elsewhere. Shes asked for an ombudsman to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Before I explain my decision, I think its important that I set out my understanding of the 
timeline of what happened. All of these events took place in 2019:
16 August  Ms S ordered a Desktop Bundle through her account with Freemans.
19 August  Ms S cancelled the Desktop order. Because this was being dispatched 
direct from the Desktop supplier, Freemans asked the Desktop supplier not to send 
the goods. But it was too late to cancel as the Desktop was out for delivery.
19 August  Ms S ordered a PC Gaming Bundle through her account with Freemans. 
But this order was cancelled the same day by Ms S in error.
20 August  Ms S reordered the PC Gaming Bundle.
21 August - The Desktop was delivered to Ms S and she refused to accept delivery.
4 September  The PC Gaming Bundle was dispatched directly from the supplier, 
with an up to five days delivery schedule.
6 September  Ms S says that, because she hadnt received the PC Gaming Bundle, 
she ordered another one through a different catalogue account belonging to a friend. 
10 September  Ms S says she took delivery of two large brown boxes. She says 
she opened one, and it contained the Desktop shed previously refused delivery of. 
She says she assumed the second, plain brown box must contain the Gaming PC I 
no longer required so I did not open it. Ms S contacted Freemans to arrange for the 
boxes to be collected.
11 September 2019  Freemans charged Ms Ss account for the PC Gaming Bundle.
20 September  Ms S says a courier arrived but would only collect the smaller of the 
two boxes  the unopened one she assumed contained the PC Gaming Bundle.
23 September  Desktop collected from Ms S by a different courier.
25 or 26 September  Freemans sent Ms S a PC Case, saying this is what shed 
returned on 20 September, instead of the PC Gaming Bundle.
29 October  Freemans say that the PC case has been returned to them again, and 
they would be sending it back to Ms S. Ms S disputes this was sent to Freemans 
again and says the PC case remained in her possession.
Ms S is concerned that Freemans think she returned a second PC case instead of the 
Desktop, or that there are two PC cases. But Ive seen nothing to show me that that was the 
case. And Ive not seen that Freemans have charged Ms S for the Desktop. 
Ms S has provided screenshots of orders shed placed through a major online shopping 
retailer on various dates between June and September 2019. These dont show shed 
ordered a PC case. And the credit card statements shes provided show she made no 
purchases on that particular card between 7 August and 1 October 2019.
Ms S has provided copies of bank statements for one of her accounts for the period 10 July 
to 28 October 2019. She also provided bank statements for another account which shows 
transactions between 14 July 2019 and 13 October 2019. Bank statements show the retailer 
where a transaction took place, not what was purchased. So they cant show whether Ms S 
purchased a PC case or not. Because of this, I cant agree with Ms S that her bank and 
credit card statements show she definitely didnt purchase a PC case from another retailer. 
But I also think they dont show she definitely did purchase one either. 
Freemans have said that the PC Gaming Bundle is not something they stock themselves in 
their warehouse, and orders are sent directly from the supplier. And theyve said the supplier 
doesnt stock or supply the PC case they received from Ms S in September 2019. Theyve 
also said that the box they received from Ms S, containing the PC case, had stickers on it 
from a courier that the suppliers dont use. Our investigator checked the suppliers website 
and they dont stock the make and model of PC case Freemans received from Ms S.But, as I understand it, the Desktop supplier also supplies the make and model of PC case 
Ms S returned to Freemans. I believe the most likely explanation is that the Desktop supplier 
sent Ms S the PC case in error, along with the Desktop, and Ms S received these on 10 
September. This would explain how Ms S came into possession of an item she seemingly 
didnt order or purchase separately. It would also explain the different courier used. But this 
doesnt provide an explanation for the unwanted PC Gaming Bundle not being returned.
There were problems delivering the PC Gaming Bundle. It shouldve been delivered by 23 
August 2019, but it wasnt. Ms S says that, after chasing Freemans for a delivery date, on 4 
September she told them that if it hadnt been received by 6 September, shed have to get it 
from someone else. 
But Freemans notes for this conversation dont confirm this. Freemans notes show that Ms S 
called them on that day, but not that she mentioned getting the PC Gaming Bundle 
elsewhere. They also show the PC Gaming Bundle was dispatched on 4 September and 
would be delivered within five days  on or before 9 September. 
Unfortunately, the tracking details which would show the exact date and time of delivery are 
only held for three months, so werent available at the start of our investigation. But this 
doesnt mean that Freemans are trying to hide something. And I cant uphold a complaint on 
the lack of delivery tracking details alone. I have to rely on what both parties have told me 
and make my decision on what I believe is more likely to have happened.
Ms S said she purchased the PC Gaming Bundle through her friends catalogue on 6 
September. But she didnt contact Freemans to cancel the order she had with them. Instead, 
Freemans notes show Ms S contacted them on 11 September to tell them that shed 
received the PC Gaming Bundle, that shed already bought one over the weekend, and to 
arrange for Freemans to collect the now unwanted goods from her. Which Freemans did.
Ms S has provided a copy of notification of a parcel being delivered to her on 6 September, 
from the catalogue company she says she ordered the second PC Gaming Bundle from. 
This shows a parcel being delivered on 6 September (the same day Ms S says she ordered 
the second PC Gaming Bundle). But Ive seen nothing to show me what was in that parcel. 
And Ive seen nothing to show me that Ms S actually ordered another PC Gaming Bundle 
through a different catalogue shopping company on 6 September, or on any date before this. 
Ive also seen nothing to show me that the delivery of the PC Gaming Bundle (due between 
4 and 9 September) failed and the goods were returned to either Freemans or the supplier.
Based on what Ive seen, I think its most likely that Ms S received the PC Gaming Bundle 
from Freemans  Ive not seen anything that shows me she didnt receive this. And its not 
disputed that she didnt return a PC Gaming Bundle to Freemans, she returned a PC case 
she hadnt ordered and received in error. So I dont think Freemans have done anything 
wrong by charging her for the PC Gaming Bundle (and by not charging her for either the 
Desktop or PC case). 
I also dont think Freemans have done anything wrong by not informing the police after 
theyd completed their investigation (an investigation which included taking the PC Gaming 
Bundle off sale while it was ongoing). They were satisfied Ms S had received the goods 
shed ordered and hadnt returned them. So charging Ms S was the right course of action 
following their investigation, and I wont be asking them to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint about Freemans Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman