DRN-2943370
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Covea Insurance plc trading as Provident Insurance mishandled her 
motor insurance policy. 
 
What happened
In September 2018, Mrs J and a third party driver were involved in an incident.
In October 2020, Mrs J went online and bought a car insurance policy with Covea. She didnt 
disclose the September 2018 incident. She paid a premium of about £410.00 including 
£24.99 for motor legal protection.
In December 2020, Covea found out about the September 2018 incident and treated it as a 
fault claim against Mrs J. Covea asked Mrs J to pay an additional £217.29. 
On 16 December 2020, Mrs J sent Covea evidence that she hadnt been at fault in the 
incident and that the third partys insurer had dealt with it. Covea re-calculated the additional 
premium and reduced it to £180.10. 
Mrs J cancelled her policy. Covea refunded part of what Mrs J had paid. Mrs J complained to 
Covea that it charged a cancellation fee of £55.00 and hadnt made any refund for motor 
legal protection.
By a final response dated 23 December 2020, Covea turned down the complaint. Unhappy 
with that, Mrs J brought her complaint to us in January 2021.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. The investigator 
thought that Mrs J had made a qualifying misrepresentation under Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representation) Act 2012 (CIDRA) . 
The investigator thought that it was fair for Mrs J not to be charged a cancellation fee. And 
the investigator thought that Covea hadnt been clear whether or not Mrs J would get a pro-
rata refund for the legal cover if the policy were cancelled in the circumstances of a careless 
misrepresentation.
The investigator recommended that Covea should pay Mrs J:
1. a refund of the cancellation fee of £55.00; and
2. a pro-rata refund on the motor legal protection cover. 
Covea disagreed with the investigators opinion. It asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. It says, in summary, that:
Coveas policy wording entitled it to charge the cancellation fee as Mrs J chose to 
cancel. The fact that fees are not mentioned in CIDRA doesnt mean Covea isnt 
entitled to charge them. Mrs J would still have shopped around for other insurance 
and would still have had to cancel the Covea policy. 
The cost of legal protection is non-refundable, as stated in the Insurance Product 
information Document (IPID). This is a separate product that was purchased as an 
optional extra at point of sale and is therefore subject to different terms and 
conditions. A pro-rata refund is not applicable to the legal protection. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I consider that an insurer is entitled to ask about non-fault claims and to have underwriting 
criteria that take such claims into account in pricing the risk of future claims. 
From screenshots provided by Covea, I see that the website asked Mrs J a question as 
follows:
Have you had any motor accidents, claims or losses in the past five years, no 
matter who was at fault or if a claim was made?
Coveas statement of fact recorded that question in a slightly different way as follows: 
 
In the last 5 years, have you had any accidents, claims or damage involving any 
motor vehicles even if no claim was made and regardless of blame?
Notwithstanding the difference, Im satisfied that Covea asked Mrs J a clear question about 
accidents regardless of fault or blame. 
As shed been involved in an accident (albeit not her fault) in September 2018, Mrs J 
shouldve answered yes. But she answered no. Her answer was incorrect. Her 
explanation was that she didnt think she had to disclose a non-fault accident. But I consider 
that this explanation shows that she hadnt taken reasonable care to avoid making a 
misrepresentation.
Its clear that if she had answered the question correctly, Covea wouldve offered cover at a 
higher premium. So  in the terminology of CIDRA  Mrs J had made a qualifying 
misrepresentation.
I dont consider that Covea treated Mrs J unfairly by asking her to pay an additional premium 
 but giving her the option to cancel. 
Different insurers will have different prices. I cant say that the existence of a lower price 
means that a higher price is unfair. From its underwriting criteria, Im satisfied that Covea 
wouldve charged the same price to any policyholder in Mrs Js position. So I cant say its 
proposed addition premium of about £180.00 was unfair to her.
In any event, Mrs J wasnt prepared to pay the additional premium and preferred to cancel 
the policy. 
Regardless of who cancels the policy, CIDRA says the insurer should return any unused 
premiums to the consumer (a pro- rata refund).Covea gave Mrs J a part refund of what shed paid. That shouldve been pro-rata to the 
period between the cancellation and the date the policy would otherwise have expired. Ive 
noted two respects in which it wasnt pro-rata.
The first respect is that Covea deducted the cancellation fee. That was in line with its policy 
terms. But CIDRA doesnt say the insurer can charge a cancellation fee or anything other 
than a pro-rata charge  so I dont think it should do so. And I find it unfair for Covea to 
charge a cancellation fee in circumstances where Mrs J either had to cancel or to pay a 
premium higher than she wanted to pay.
The second respect is that Covea declined to refund any of the premium for motor legal 
cover. That was in line with the IPID which should be a summary of the motor legal policy 
terms. But the motor policy terms said that cancellation of the motor policy would 
automatically lead to cancellation of the motor legal cover. So I find it unfair for Covea to 
treat the motor legal premium in a different way to the motor premium.
Putting things right
Overall I find it fair and reasonable to direct Covea to refund the cancellation fee and to 
make a pro-rata refund of the motor legal premium. As Mrs J has been out of pocket, I also 
find it fair to direct Covea to pay interest at our usual rate. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Covea Insurance plc trading as Provident Insurance to pay Mrs J:
1. a refund of the cancellation fee of £55.00; and
2. a pro-rata refund of the motor legal protection cover; and
3. simple interest on each such refund at the yearly rate of 8% from the date of the 
cancellation to the date of the refund. If Covea considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs J how 
much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate showing this if she asks for 
one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman