DRN-2661588
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that Darlington Building Society switched their self-build 
mortgage from interest-only to repayment once the build was complete. They say they 
applied for an interest-only mortgage.
This is the first of two linked complaints, with the other dealing with what happened after the 
mortgage was moved to repayment.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The advice was given by a mortgage broker, and the application was submitted by a 
mortgage packager. This complaint is only dealing with the acts and/or omissions of 
Darlington so I cant consider those other parties in this decision. 
The application that was submitted to Darlington was on the basis it would be 
interest-only until the build was complete, at which time it would switch to a 
repayment basis. So Darlington did nothing wrong in setting the mortgage up on that 
basis, as it matched the application it received.
The mortgage offer said It is a condition of this Offer that upon completion of the 
Build the loan will automatically be transferred onto a Capital and Interest repayment 
basis. That was the contract Mr and Mrs H entered into. Mr and Mrs H say they, 
their broker and their solicitor all overlooked that condition, but I cant hold Darlington 
liable for that.
Mr and Mrs H say the rest of the offer just referred to it as an interest-only mortgage. 
Were not the regulator, and Ive no power under our rules to comment on, or 
otherwise determine, how financial businesses operate in general terms. Im satisfied 
the offer document was set out in a manner that met the regulators requirements 
and the condition that the mortgage would be transferred to repayment was clearly 
worded. There was no regulatory requirement for Darlington to do any more, or to 
provide any further explanation.
For these reasons, although I understand Mr and Mrs Hs frustration, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman