DRN-3987058
The complaint
Ms Os complaint is about a claim she made on her Soteria Insurance Limited legal 
expenses insurance policy, which was declined.
Ms O, through her representatives says she was treated unfairly.
All references to Soteria include their claims handlers.
What happened
Ms O made a claim on her Soteria legal expenses insurance policy for cover to bring a claim 
in the Employment Tribunal. Soteria, through their panel firm, declined the claim. They said 
that based on the information Ms Os Solicitor had provided, there wasnt enough to support 
her claim had reasonable prospects of success as required by the policy and she didnt in 
any event qualify for cover because she didnt have a contract of employment with the party 
she wanted to bring a claim against.
Ms O instructed another firm of Solicitors to help her with her claim. She then complained to 
Soteria about the outcome of her claim and being referred to the Legal Ombudsman for 
recourse against the panel firm when she should have been provided with referral rights to 
this Service. Soteria reiterated its previous position in relation to the claim Ms O wished to 
make following which Ms O referred her complaint to this Service to consider. 
Ms Os current firm of Solicitors also provided Soteria with an assessment of her claim. They 
said it had reasonable prospects of successfully proving Ms O was employed and of winning 
on the claim itself. Soteria referred this opinion to a Barrister for advice. The Barrister didnt 
agree; the opinion given determined that the claim didnt have reasonable prospects of 
success and wasnt proportionate to pursue. As a consequence, Soteria reiterated its 
previous position and declined cover once again. 
Our investigator considered Ms Os complaint. Overall, she didnt uphold it. She said that 
Soteria were entitled to rely on their policy terms when turning down cover firstly on reliance 
of their panel firms advice and then on the advice of a Barrister. She also said that although 
Soteria should have explained what Ms O needed to do in order for the position on cover to 
be reconsidered, that didnt make any difference because Ms O continued with her claim 
regardless of cover and based on the Barristers opinion, she had no entitlement to cover in 
any event.
The investigator also concluded that Soteria didnt do enough to explain the role of their 
panel solicitors and how complaints about their actions as legal advisors as distinct from 
claims handlers, could be complained about. But because that didnt prevent Ms O from 
pursuing a complaint to this Service about the matters she was unhappy with, the 
investigator didnt think Soteria needed to do anything else. 
Ms O doesnt agree. Both she and her representatives have made detailed representations 
about this which I have summarised as follows:
Ms Os second Solicitor was suitably qualified to advise on the merits of the claim so 
Soteria should have accepted this and provided cover.
Theres nothing in the policy that allows Soteria to obtain the opinion of a Barrister 
without identifying that Ms Os own Solicitors opinion was wrong. 
Ms Os second Solicitor obtained the advice of a Barrister through the Equality and 
Human Rights Commission. That advice favours Ms O and is from a better qualified 
Barrister. As such Soteria should accept Ms Os claim.
The Barrister Soteria instructed had no experience in the complex area of law on which 
they were advising. Instead, they should have gotten advice from the Barrister who was 
already involved in Ms Os case.
Ms O was prevented from bringing her complaint to this Service because she was 
wrongly advised to complain to the Legal Ombudsman. It was only when the second 
Solicitor started acting for her that they advised her to complain to the Service. As a 
result, she lost a year of time and was representing herself when she could have been 
represented by a Solicitor of her own choice under her legal expenses insurance policy.
The advice obtained by the Equality and Human Rights Commission should be 
considered and accepted by Soteria and Ms O should not have to make a separate 
complaint about that issue to this Service.
Employment law supports that Ms O is classed as employed.
 The Equality and Human Rights Commission wouldnt support a case that had less than 
51% prospects of success and this is corroborated by other Barristers Chambers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Ms Os complaint should be upheld for broadly the same 
reasons set out by the investigator. Ill explain why.
The starting point is the policy terms. Its a requirement of virtually all legal expenses
insurance policies that any intended claim has a reasonable prospect of succeeding. Ms Os
policy is no exception. That means her claim needed to have over 51% prospects of
succeeding in order for Soteria to cover it. The policy also requires claims to be 
proportionate to pursue.
We dont think this is unfair. Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer
wouldnt want to bear the cost if advised it is unlikely to succeed or that the amount they
might recover would be less than the cost of the action itself. We wouldnt expect a legal
expenses insurer to fund claims in these circumstances either.
Where an insurer has declined funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate the merits of
the underlying claim. Instead, and as the investigator explained, we look at whether the
insurer has acted fairly. So long as they have got advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we
wont generally question their reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong
or based on factual mistakes. Soteria did this. The panel firms advice was that Ms Os claim
didnt have reasonable prospects of being successful and wasnt covered under the policy in 
any event because she didnt have a contract of employment with the party she wanted to bring a claim against.
The policy terms say:
What IS insured
3. Employment
We will cover Legal Costs for pursuing a claim arising from a dispute with Your employer 
under Your contract of employment.
Ive considered the type of claim Ms O wants Soteria to fund. Whilst I appreciate that Ms O is 
seeking to establish shes an employee of the party shes bringing a claim against, this isnt 
yet a matter thats been determined by the Employment Tribunal. And in the absence of a 
contract of employment, I agree that Soteria were entitled to decline the claim on the basis 
that it hasnt yet been proven that Ms O is an employee nor that she has a contract of 
employment.
When Ms O provided her own Solicitors opinion to support her claim had prospects of 
success both on the substantive claim and that she could establish she was an employee, 
Soterias panel firm instructed a Barrister to consider the matter further. This is in line with 
what we would expect it to do in such circumstances. Thats because Soteria would 
ultimately be paying Ms Os costs of pursuing her claim if it met the policy requirements. 
Broadly we think its reasonable for an insurer to take its own advice about this. I dont think 
as Ms Os representative has said, that the policy terms need to provide specifically for this 
scenario for us to reach this conclusion but in this this case they do. The terms set out the 
following:
(b) If We decide that Your claim does not have Reasonable Prospects and/or is not 
Proportionate and You get a legal opinion, at Your own expense, that says Your claim does 
have Reasonable Prospects and/or is Proportionate then We will arrange to get a final 
opinion from an independent barrister.
The Barrister Soteria instructed concluded that the claim didnt have reasonable prospects of 
success and was disproportionate to pursue. 
In this case Im satisfied that the Solicitor and the Barrister were experienced in the area of 
law Ms O was asking for help with. I note that Ms Os representatives dont think the 
Barrister Soteria instructed was suitably qualified to advise on the claim, but I dont agree. 
Whilst I accept that the advice Ms O is taking might be from representatives who have more 
experience on the specific issue thats being litigated, that doesnt mean that the Barrister 
Soteria instructed isnt suitably qualified. In this case I think it was acceptable for Soteria to 
instruct a Barrister with relevant experience in the area of law Ms O was asking for help with, 
rather than the specific issue being litigated.
I know Ms O wants Soteria to reconsider the merits of her claim off the back of an advice 
from a Barrister through the Equality and Human Rights Commission. That advice wasnt 
disclosed to Soteria until after both her complaint was made to this Service and Soterias 
response to it was provided. Its now up to Soteria to decide once more whether its 
persuaded that the advice means it needs to do something else, but as the investigator 
explained, thats not something I can decide here. There is a clear process for making 
complaints thats established in the rules that govern this Service. I can only consider 
complaints that have been brought to us and considered and responded to by businesses 
within specified timeframes. I cant determine matters that fall outside that. So, although I 
know Ms O is keen for me to look at this issue, its one shell need to raise with Soteria in the 
first instance. If she remains dissatisfied, she can refer the matter to this Service, as she has 
done before. Ms O feels she was prevented from bringing her complaint about her claim being declined by 
the panel firm on Soterias behalf in the first instance, because she was referred to the Legal 
Ombudsman. She also felt that she lost time in pursuing this complaint as a result. I agree 
that she should have been correctly advised by Soteria that she was entitled to complain to 
us about the declinature of cover when her claim was turned down. But I cant see how this 
has prejudiced Ms O, such that it would lead me to uphold her complaint. The outcome of 
this complaint is that she is not thus far entitled to cover and that Soteria were entitled to turn 
down her claim. So, Soterias actions havent had any bearing on her ability to obtain funding 
sooner. And I cant see how Soterias failing has led to her obtaining representation from the 
second firm much later than she did in respect of her claim. That was a choice that was open 
to her when she stopped instructing the first firm. And its not something that I would 
reasonably conclude is contingent on Soteria advising her she could complain to this Service 
sooner.
Finally, and for the sake of completeness, I agree with the investigator that Soteria should 
have told Ms O what she could do if she wanted them to reconsider her claim in terms of 
providing an alternative comparable legal opinion at her own cost. Again, and for similar 
reasons that Ive mentioned above, whilst Soteria didnt do this, I dont think this led to an 
outcome that otherwise wouldnt have been the case had Soteria done what it should have. 
By that I mean that this hasnt meant that Ms O was entitled to and would have gotten the 
benefit of legal expenses insurance cover sooner, nor did it prevent her from pursuing her 
claim against the other party or obtaining representation from the second Solicitor when she 
did. And even if there was a delay in her obtaining representation from the second Solicitor, I 
cant say this was down to Soteria failing to tell her she could come back to them with an 
alternative legal opinion, which led to cover being put in place.
Overall, I appreciate that Ms O is unhappy with the level of customer service provided to her 
by Soteria in the way it handled her complaint. Thats not something I can consider as a 
distinct issue as it doesnt fall within my remit. And given Im not upholding her complaint, its 
not something I can look at as part of something else Soteria did wrong because its not 
linked to this.
I know Ms O and her representatives will find the outcome of my decision disappointing, but I 
hope Ive provided them with a thorough explanation around why Im unable to uphold Ms 
Os complaint. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Os complaint against Soteria Insurance 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman