DRN-2941625
The complaint
Mr Js representative complains that Bank of Scotland plc unreasonably refused to extend
Mr Js mortgage. 
What happened
When Mr Js mortgage with Birmingham Midshires came to an end in 2015 he re-mortgaged
with Bank of Scotland. The new mortgage was for around £90,000, over a four year term.
Around £75,000 of the mortgage was on an interest only basis, while around £15,000 was
on a repayment basis.
The mortgage expired in October 2019. In the months leading up to this Mr J was in
discussion with Bank of Scotland. He wanted to extend the term of the mortgage for a further
five years as he was still working and not planning to retire. And, around this time, he made
a lump sum payment of £20,000 to the mortgage account. But due to Mr Js age Bank of
Scotland said it needed to use his retirement income to assess affordability. And it said the
results of the income and expenditure review showed that a repayment mortgage was not
affordable for him on that basis.
Bank of Scotland did raise the possibility of Mr J moving to a retirement interest only (RIO)
mortgage. However, it was ultimately found that this wasnt possible, as Mr J was not retired.
Mr J complained to Bank of Scotland. He said in particular that he thought its policy was
ageist, and that its staff had been unhelpful in offering solutions which were later withdrawn.
But Bank of Scotland didnt uphold his complaint. It said, in summary, that its policy when
considering lending beyond age 70 was to use the income guaranteed in retirement to
assess affordability. And the income and expenditure review it had carried out for Mr J
showed that a repayment mortgage would not be affordable for him on the basis of his
retirement income.
Bank of Scotland also said that while it had spoken to Mr J about potentially taking out a RIO
mortgage it didnt agree it had given him an option and then taken it away as Mr J had been
told that this was only a possibility.
Before the complaint was considered by our investigator Mr J secured a new mortgage with
an alternative provider. However, he said he incurred costs of around £2,500 which would
not have been the case if the Bank of Scotland had granted him an extension on his existing
mortgage. And he said that the interest rate he was required to pay was slightly higher than
before.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt think that Bank of Scotland needed to take any action. She said, in
particular:
When Mr J had taken out the mortgage with Bank of Scotland he had signed a form 
confirming that at the end of the mortgage the amount outstanding would be repaid 
by the sale of the property;
Bank of Scotland had confirmed that it did look to see if it could take Mr Js employed 
income into consideration, but during conversation with Bank of Scotland Mr J had 
confirmed that although he was employed full time his pay varied as he worked on a 
stand by basis;
She didnt think it was unreasonable for Bank of Scotland to assess the affordability 
of the mortgage on the basis of the guaranteed income Mr J would receive during 
retirement. Although Mr J was intending to keep working it was industry standard to 
use 70 as a reasonable age for retirement and she didnt feel Bank of Scotland had 
acted unreasonably in doing so;
Bank of Scotland had mentioned the option of Mr J moving to a RIO mortgage. But 
this would be a brand new mortgage with different terms and conditions to the 
standard residential mortgage. This meant that Bank of Scotland was entitled to 
assess any application on the lending criteria in place for that product, and one of the 
requirements was that the consumer was retired. As Mr J wasnt retired Bank of 
Scotland wasnt able to proceed on this basis.
Mr J didnt agree with our investigators view. His representative said in particular that Mr J
was in good health and his employer was happy for him to continue to work until at least age 
75. In addition, the standby element of his income was only a small part of his annual 
employed income. 
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision to both parties on 4 June 2021. I said, in summary:
Mr Js mortgage with Bank of Scotland was an interest only mortgage. This meant 
that, at the end of the term, Mr J was obliged to repay the balance to Bank of 
Scotland.
From the information supplied to me, Mr J had previously had a four year term 
extension. And, at the time he took that extension, he planned to repay the mortgage 
at the end of the extended period. When the four year period was up he then asked 
to extend it for a further five year period.
Bank of Scotland had explained that in order to extend a mortgage term its 
requirements were that either the full mortgage needed to be affordable to switch to 
repayment or that there must be an acceptable repayment vehicle in place.
Bank of Scotland wasnt prepared to extend Mr Js mortgage on an interest only 
basis as he didnt have a repayment vehicle in place. I was provisionally persuaded 
that, given that Mr J had already had an extension, this was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Bank of Scotland did consider whether to allow Mr J to convert his mortgage to a 
repayment mortgage. But it explained that its policy was to use age 70 as the 
maximum working age, and only take account of retirement income beyond that age. 
And it said that when it assessed Mr Js income and expenditure, it found that it 
wasnt affordable for him to remortgage to a repayment mortgage on the basis of his 
retirement income.
I explained it was correct that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
requires stringent assessments of both affordability and, for interest only mortgages, 
repayment strategy, before lenders agree to enter into or vary mortgages. However, 
there are exceptions to these requirements.
As I understood it, Mr J took his mortgage out before April 2014, hadnt borrowed any 
more since then and wasnt wanting to borrow any additional money. Although 
converting to a full repayment mortgage would have made it more expensive on a 
monthly basis the rules allowed Bank of Scotland to waive an affordability 
assessment and allow the change to his mortgage if it was in his best interests. Bank of Scotland could carry out the affordability assessment if it wanted to and take it into 
consideration as part of looking at his best interests. But I needed to consider 
whether allowing the change to Mr Js mortgage was in his best interest overall.
Although Bank of Scotland assessed affordability on the basis of Mr Js retirement 
income, the fact of the matter was that Mr J was still working  and intended to 
continue working for the next five years. Bank of Scotlands notes indicated that it felt 
that it would have been affordable for Mr J to take out a mortgage of around £45,000 
on a repayment basis. So, given that his earned income was higher than his 
retirement income I was provisionally satisfied that Mr J would have been able to 
afford to move to a repayment mortgage.
There was potentially a greater degree of risk that Mr J might have to retire sooner 
than he expected if, for example, he became ill. But he had his pension income to fall 
back on if he did and the outstanding balance of the mortgage would have reduced 
during the term. And, at the end of the mortgage term, Mr J would have had the 
benefit of having paid off the mortgage, whereas if he had been forced to sell he said, 
and I accepted, he would not have been able to buy a new property. So, on balance, 
I was provisionally persuaded that it would have been in Mr Js best interests for 
Bank of Scotland to have waived its policy and taken account of his earned income 
when deciding whether the mortgage would be affordable.
I appreciated that Bank of Scotland has said that it couldnt take Mr Js earned 
income into account as it varied due to working on standby. But Mr J said that only a 
small part of his income was due to the standby payments. So this didnt change my 
provisional view.
Bank of Scotland did consider whether Mr J was eligible to take out a RIO mortgage. 
But as this would have been a new application I agreed with our investigator that 
Bank of Scotland was entitled to assess it as such. Unfortunately, Mr J wasnt eligible 
for the RIO mortgage as he wasnt retired.
As Bank of Scotland declined to extend the mortgage, Mr J was obliged to re-
mortgage elsewhere. As a result, he said that he incurred £2,500 of costs, and was 
also paying a slightly higher interest rate. In order for me to consider the redress to 
be paid to Mr J I asked him to supply me with full evidence of the costs he incurred 
and the interest rate he was paying in response to my provisional decision. And I also 
required Bank of Scotland to provide me with details of any costs Mr J would have 
incurred had the re-mortgage gone ahead, and details of the interest rate he would 
have been paying.
I was also provisionally satisfied that Mr J suffered trouble and upset as a result of 
Bank of Scotland declining to extend his mortgage. Having considered all the 
evidence, I was provisionally persuaded that Bank of Scotland should pay Mr J £200 
compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J has supplied the information I requested in my provisional decision. And, in response 
Bank of Scotland has offered to pay him a total of £5,981.98. This figure includes £3,043.98 
in respect of the additional interest he will pay over a five year term, £2,738 in respect of 
fees he paid for his new mortgage, and £200 compensation.
Mr J has accepted Bank of Scotlands offer. And I also find it to be fair and reasonable and in 
line with my provisional decision. So I confirm it here.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Bank of Scotland plc to pay to Mr J 
£5,981.98 as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman