DRN-3475127
The complaint
Mrs R and Mr R complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc addressed a letter to Mr R and not Mrs R 
despite Mrs R being the first name on the account.
What happened
Mrs R and Mr R say that their HSBC account was set up with Mrs R first as it is the first 
named person that is normally contacted about the account. Mrs R says she has always 
managed their accounts and is offended by the traditional method of how joint accounts are 
set up. They say that in July 2021 HSBC sent them replacement account cards in one letter 
addressed to Mr R which is not legal and is discrimination. Mrs R says the actions diminish 
her and caused distress. Mrs R and Mr R would like compensation of £3,000 for what took 
place as well as an apology.
HSBC says this was a joint account and says mailings may be sent in either name. It doesnt 
accept there was any discrimination and says its practice is to send the account cards in one 
letter where there is no dispute or issues between the joint account holders. HSBC says it 
outsources the sending of account cards and a lead party is not identified. It accepts Mrs R 
is the first name on the account.
Mrs R and Mr R brought their complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The 
investigator thought HSBC had apologised for any upset caused and explained it wasnt our 
role to say if the Equality Act 2010 had been breached. The investigator explained that we 
are not HSBCs regulator and so cant punish or fine a business. And didnt think HSBC had 
intentionally caused distress.
Mrs R and Mr R dont accept that view and in summary say Mrs R should have been written 
to and it was HSBCs incompetence that led to Mr R receiving the letter. They would like 
HSBC to say how many times in these circumstances it has it written to the second joint 
account holder and how does its systems pick one party when in this case it ought to have 
picked Mrs R as lead as her initial S is higher in the alphabet than Mr Rs initial T. Mrs R 
and Mr R maintain they would like £3,000 compensation and say there has been direct sex 
discrimination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont intend to order HSBC to do 
anything further in the circumstances of this complaint. I appreciate Mrs R and Mr R will be 
disappointed by my decision and appreciate how strongly they both feel about what took 
place.
I make clear to the parties that I have reviewed the later submissions as I appreciate Mrs R 
was concerned that I should do so and have seen her online complaints to HSBC. I also 
make clear to Mrs R and Mr R that we are not HSBCs regulator and so its not our role to 
punish it or direct it to change the way in which it operates. The investigator has explained to 
Mrs R and Mr R and I repeat it, that it would be for a court to decide if there had been a 
breach of the Equality Act 2010. So, while Ive had regard for what Mrs R and Mr R have 
said about this  Ive ultimately decided the case on the basis of whats fair and reasonable.
Im satisfied that Mrs R and Mr R held a joint account which means the account is equal with 
either party having the same rights as the other. I dont think either party is the lead party or 
that one party has greater rights than the other. And I think the account terms and conditions 
confirm that and say both parties have equal rights. It follows that one party has to be 
recorded first and the other second. I appreciate Mrs R says she was responsible for 
banking matters, but I wouldnt have expected HSBC to know that here where they hadnt 
been made aware of whatever personal financial arrangements may exist between Mrs R 
and Mr R.
I accept that HSBC by the sending of the new account cards to Mr R caused offence and I 
have made clear that I appreciate the strength of feeling here. But I have not seen any 
evidence that HSBC intended such offence or made a deliberate decision to send the 
account cards to Mr R rather than Mrs R. HSBC has told us that the systems used to send 
the account cards does not identify a lead party and so I cant fairly conclude that HSBC 
either made a mistake or should have send the account cards to Mrs R as her initial is higher 
in the alphabet or her name is first. I have not seen any evidence that suggests HSBCs 
systems take that into account.
I appreciate Mrs R suggests we should ask HSBC how many joint account holders have 
faced similar circumstances. I am sorry to disappoint Mrs R but as I have explained we are 
not HSBCs regulator and my role is to look at the individual circumstances of this complaint 
and decide what is fair and reasonable. I also appreciate Mrs R says she has been 
discriminated against and should receive £3,000 compensation. I dont think HSBC has 
treated Mrs R unfairly or treated her differently as both Mrs R and Mr R both received their 
account cards. I cant see that one joint account holder has been disadvantaged or treated 
less favourably by what HSBC has done here. It follows that I cant fairly order that HSBC 
pay the compensation Mrs R would like.
Overall, I find this now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally 
can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 September 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman