DRN-1769948
The complaint
Mr B and Ms P complain Great Lakes Insurance SE unfairly declined their claim for the 
cancellation of their holiday. 
Mr B brings this complaint on behalf of himself and his wife, Ms P. For ease I will refer to all 
submissions as having been made by Mr B. 
What happened
Mr B and his wife had booked a trip for their honeymoon and were due to fly on 16 April 
2019. 
On 3 April 2019, Mr Bs mother in law - Mrs P - was admitted to hospital as an emergency, 
due to a fall and possible urinary tract infection (UTI). Two days later on 5 April 2019, while 
Mrs P was still in hospital, Mr B purchased his travel insurance policy online, for himself and 
his wife.
The following day, on 6 April, Mr B said he was told Mrs P was thought to have stage four 
breast cancer. And on 9 April, Mr B called Great Lakes to explain what had happened, and 
said he thought he would need to cancel his trip. 
Mr B made a claim against his and his wifes policy for the cancellation of their trip. Great 
Lakes declined the claim. It said the incident which caused Mr B to cancel his trip occurred 
before he purchased the policy. It referred to the explanation Mr B had given when he called 
to make his claim. And it said at the time of taking the policy, Mr B had agreed to statements 
including the following:
You agree that you and anyone to be covered by this policy:
Are not aware of any reason why you may need to claim.
Mr B complained to Great Lakes. It said it had reviewed the claim again but maintained that 
it had been right to decline it. 
Unhappy with Great Lakes response, Mr B brought his complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into the complaint and said he didnt think Great Lakes had done 
anything wrong. 
Great Lakes accepted the investigators decision. Mr B disagreed, and asked for a decision 
from an ombudsman. 
And so the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers have a responsibility to settle claims promptly and fairly, and shouldnt decline a 
claim unreasonably. And in this case, I dont think Great Lakes has done anything wrong. Ill 
explain why.
Mrs P was in hospital as an inpatient at the time Mr B and his wife took out their policy. 
However, Mr B has said the reason for Mrs Ps admission  a fall and possible UTI  didnt 
give him cause to think that he would need to cancel the trip. Hes provided evidence from 
Mrs Ps GP saying that a need to cancel due to her health wasnt foreseen when the policy 
was purchased, and says Great Lakes should accept this and pay his claim.
Ive considered the terms of Mr Bs policy, and the questions he was asked when he took it 
out. 
The insurance important information document (IPID) for Mr Bs policy says:
Whats not insured? 
Existing medical conditions of a close relative, travelling companion or someone you 
were going to stay with if, at the time of buying this insurance, it was highly likely that 
their condition would deteriorate.
Great Lakes said, when he took out the policy, Mr B agreed to a statement which said he 
was unaware of any reason why he may need to claim. 
So I need to consider whether, at the time of taking out the policy, Mr B was unaware of the 
possible need to cancel his trip due to Mrs Ps health. 
Ive reviewed the information provided by Mrs Ps GP. He stated the condition which caused 
the claim was breast cancer. And the first consultation for symptoms was on 3 April 2019, 
with the condition diagnosed on 17 April 2019. 
However, the GP answered a question about Mrs P undergoing inpatient treatment or 
investigations in the three years prior to the policy being taken out with no. I think this must 
have been an error by the GP, because Ive seen the hospital discharge report showing 
Mrs P was admitted to hospital on 3 April 2019, which was two days before the policy was 
taken out. And the GP said the first consultation for symptoms of the condition was on 3 April 
2019 in accident and emergency, which is in line with the information in the discharge report. 
The GP also signed a statement which said at the time of Mr B taking the policy, he would 
have seen no substantial likelihood that Mrs Ps health would deteriorate to such a degree 
that cancellation would be necessary. However, hed also said Mrs P had presented with 
symptoms on 3 April 2019, two days before the policy was taken out.
The evidence provided by the GP is somewhat contradictory, so Ive placed more weight on 
the information provided within the hospital discharge report, and the information Mr B 
relayed to Great Lakes when he first called about his claim.
Great Lakes has provided me with a recording of the call Mr B made about his cancellation 
claim on 9 April. During this call, Mr B said Mrs P had been admitted to hospital on 3 April 
2019. In relation to purchasing the insurance two days later, he said: I believe I purchased the insurance on Friday - I dont remember exactly when it was  
just in order to be sure as we had a trip coming up on April 16th. We just wanted... 
obviously it was just to be safe  
And in the call, Mr B went on to confirm that hed been told Mrs P might have stage four 
breast cancer the day after he took out his policy.
Great Lakes said due to the comments Mr B made about his reason for taking out the policy, 
it thinks Mr B was already aware he may need to cancel his holiday due to Mrs Ps ill health. 
Mr B has since said the comments he made in relation to taking the policy to be safe were 
in relation to his wifes pregnancy. 
Ive considered the contents of this call, together with what both parties have said, and the 
hospital reports provided. 
Having reviewed the call, Ive found no mention of Mr Bs wifes pregnancy. Mr B made the 
comments about his reasons for purchasing the policy directly before he informed the call 
handler that it was thought his mother in law had breast cancer. So I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Great Lakes to draw the conclusion that Mr Bs comments about 
purchasing the policy to be safe were in reference to his mother in law being in hospital. 
Ive also thought about the proximity of the purchase of the policy (5 April) to when Mrs P 
was admitted to hospital (3 April), and Mr B being told by the hospital doctors that Mrs P 
might have cancer. Mr B says he was given this information the day after he bought his 
policy (6 April). 
Aside from Mr Bs testimony, theres nothing in the medical evidence Ive been provided 
which confirms exactly when Mr B was first told Mrs P could have cancer  he said this was 
on 6 April. The hospital discharge report shows Mrs P had already been in hospital for two 
days when Mr B took the policy out, and she was admitted as an emergency. So on balance, 
I think its most likely Mr B bought his policy in the knowledge that Mrs Ps health was under 
investigation in hospital, which could possibly have led to him needing to cancel his holiday. 
And because of this, I dont think Great Lakes declined his cancellation claim unfairly.
I sympathise with Mr Bs position in regard to Mrs Ps health, and him and his wife having 
missed out on a very expensive honeymoon trip. But in the circumstances of this case, it 
would be unfair for me to direct Great Lakes to pay the cancellation claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And 
I make no award against Great Lakes Insurance SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman