DRN-2114112
The complaint
Miss S complains Barclays Bank UK plc will not refund a disputed transaction.
Barclays says it is satisfied the payment was authorised.
What happened
The payment which Miss S complains about was for £5000 and was made on 19th 
December 2019.  The payment was made using Barclays mobile banking, but Miss S said 
she never made the payment.  She complained to Barclays on 31st December 2019.
Barclays investigated her complaint but did not uphold it.  It noted a payment had been 
made to the same beneficiary on 13th December 2019 which Miss S was not disputing  yet 
she denied knowing anything about the £5000 transfer.
Its investigations also showed the payment was used by logging into Miss Ss mobile 
banking using a device which she had previously used for non-disputed payments and an IP 
address which she had previously used.  In order to access the mobile banking, a secure 
passcode would have needed to have been entered and Miss Ss debit card was also 
required.
Miss S confirmed she had not shared her secure details with anyone.  She also confirmed 
she was still in possession of her debit card.
So, Barclays rejected her complaint and she came to this service.
Our investigator did not think he could ask Barclays to do anymore  so Miss S asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I carefully considered everything Miss S has said in support of her complaint.  And I remind 
myself that where transactions are in dispute, it is for Barclays to show they were authorised 
by Miss S and not for Miss S to show she did not.
From the evidence I have seen, I am satisfied  on balance  that Miss S did authorise this 
payment.  I say that for the following reasons:
-Miss S says no one else would have had access to her secure passcode to log onto 
mobile banking
-Miss S says she was, and still is, in possession of her debit card
-The payment was sent to a beneficiary which Miss S had previously sent money to.  
Yet she denied knowing who this was in relation to the disputed transaction
-The payment was made using a device and IP address that Miss S had used on 
numerous occasions in the past
So, whilst I accept the burden is not on Miss S here  the circumstances of how this 
payment was made lead me to believe she consented to it being made.  According to Miss 
Ss account of events, there has been no feasible or credible opportunity for a third party to 
have done this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman