DRN-4331717
The complaint
Mr H complains that James Hay Administration Company Limited trading as James Hay 
Partnership (JHAC) provided poor service to him and delayed the transfer of his pension to 
another provider. He suffered financial loss as a result.
What happened
Mr H was a member of a Group Self-Invested Pension Scheme (Group SIPP) which was 
administered by JHAC. It was invested in a product known as the IPS Pension Builder 
SIPP.
Mr H informed JHAC in or about August 2020 that he (along with certain other members of 
the Group SIPP) wanted to transfer his pension to another provider. The SIPP was invested 
in a commercial property and arrangements were made to sell the property. The property 
sale completed on 23 February 2021 and the sale proceeds were transferred to JHACs 
bank account that day.
Mr H says that an application was made to transfer the pension using the ORIGO Options 
Pension Transfer Service (ORIGO). However, despite having previously been told that 
JHAC would accept an application to transfer using ORIGO, the application was denied and 
paper forms had to be submitted. He says that the paper forms were received by JHAC on 
12 March 2021 but JHAC delayed the transfer. It wasnt completed until 18 June 2021 with 
the monies being reinvested by the receiving scheme on 22 June 2021.
Mr H complained to JHAC about what had happened. He said that throughout the period 
since August 2020 thered been a series of administrative errors. By way of summary, he 
complained about:
no effective management or control of the overall process. Despite asking for a 
single point of contact, hed had to deal with multiple members of staff none of 
whom had an overview of the process;
delays responding to queries about the bank account and failure to provide copies 
of bank statements in a timely manner; 
failure to allocate moneys from rental income to the correct ledger;
issuing incorrect rental statements and wrongly saying that there was (a) an 
underpayment of rent and then (b) an overpayment of rent;
requesting a letter of authority when it wasnt required;
incorrectly saying that ORIGO could be used to submit the transfer application;
delays and errors effecting the transfer; and
not handling the complaints correctly.
JHAC investigated Mr Hs complaint. It accepted thered been delays dealing with Mr Hs 
request for duplicate bank statements. It said that in light of that it had previously offered to 
waive the schemes fee on the property sale but he hadnt accepted that offer. It further 
acknowledged that it had inaccurately informed him his request for copy bank statements 
was being progressed  when that was not the case. It apologised for this.
JHAC did not agree its delay in providing the copy bank statements had delayed the sale of 
the property. It said the rent reconciliation was carried out after the sale had already 
completed. It acknowledged that the errors with the rent reconciliation and the information 
hed been given about an underpayment of rent and then an overpayment of rent should 
not have happened.
JHAC said it had received the transfer application on 12 March 2021. It did not accept that 
any maladministration which may have occurred prior to that date had led to any delays in 
the transfer. But it accepted that the transfer application had taken much longer than it 
should reasonably have taken. It said it was prepared to consider financial loss calculations 
based on the following assumptions:
The instructions were received on 12 March 2021;
The transfer was completed within 10 working days - 26 March 2021; and
The funds were reinvested by the new provider within 2 working days - 30 March 
2021.
JHAC asked Mr H to provide evidence of the investments the new provider had made so 
that it could complete the calculations. In addition JHAC said it would refund his share of 
the administration fee raised on 15 March 2021. That fee related to administration charges 
for the period from March 2021 to February 2022. It would also refund his share of the fee 
for the property sale.
JHAC apologised that the transfer had taken longer than anticipated. It also acknowledged 
that the standard of service Mr H had received was extremely disappointing and hed 
experienced distress and inconvenience as a result. It offered to pay him £1,000 by way of 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Mr H did not agree. He referred his complaint to our service. He also said he hadnt 
received any invoices from JHAC during the period after August 2020. He said it shouldnt 
be able to apply charges when it hadnt sent him the invoices.
Our investigator looked into the complaint.
She said that we could only consider the points raised in the final response letter from 
JHAC dated 25 March 2022. Mr H hadnt referred any previous final response letters JHAC 
had sent to him within the six month timeframe set out in our Rules.
She firstly commented on what Mr H had told our service about not having received any 
invoices from JHAC in the period after August 2020. JHAC provided copies of its records 
which showed that the invoices had been posted to Mr H at the address it held for him on 
its records. Our investigator was satisfied having reviewed the information shed been sent 
that JHAC had posted the invoices to him at the correct address. She didnt think JHAC 
should be held responsible for any postal issues which she said were outside of its control.
She then considered the delay when Mr H had asked for his pension to be transferred to 
another provider. She thought JHAC had not made it clear to Mr Hs advisers that ORIGO 
was not available for this particular SIPP. If it had done that she thought the paper application forms would have been received by 1 March 2021, which was the date that she 
said the sale proceeds could reasonably have been allocated to the SIPP. She said it was 
reasonable to say that the transfer process could take ten working days and allowing for a 
further two days to reinvest the funds, she thought the process could have concluded by 17 
March 2021. She thought JHAC should rework its calculations using these dates.
Our investigator also considered the offer to pay Mr H £1,000 compensation. She thought 
this was fair and in line with our approach.
JHAC accepted what our investigator said and agreed to settle the complaint in the way 
that shed set out. It said it didnt have anything further to add.
Mr H also responded to what our investigator said. By way of summary he said:
The date when the funds could have been reinvested, in his view was 3 March 
2021. The proposed date of 15 March appeared to be a compromise  but it was 
not of any assistance to Mr H because a significant part of the overall loss was prior 
to 15 March.
JHAC now accepted the funds were received by them on 23 February 2021. That 
being the case JHAC was obliged under regulatory rules to allocate the funds to the 
correct client ledger on the same day.
the transfer should have commenced on 23 February 2021. The transfer shouldve 
been straightforward. The fund was all held in cash. The only steps JHAC was 
required to take were to check the transfer forms, deduct fees, divide the balance by 
the number of members in the Group SIPP and make the transfer. The funds could 
have been reinvested no later than 3 March 2021.
Mr H also thought that £1,000 was not enough compensation for what happened. He said 
the distress and inconvenience had been prolonged and extraordinary, over an 18 month 
period. Hours and days were spent trying to get JHAC to do their job.
Because Mr H didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id just comment at the outset that I asked JHAC whether it consented to our service 
investigating all of the issues raised by Mr H in his complaint to our service. JHAC 
confirmed that it did not object to our service considering the issues addressed in its 
final response letter of 11 March 2021 which it said were closely related to those 
addressed in its more recent final response letter dated 25 March 2022.
So, in this decision I will consider all of the complaints Mr H has raised in the period 
since August 2020 and which were responded to in the final response letters of 11 
March 2021 and 25 March 2022.
On 21 August 2020 Mr H wrote to JHAC. In that email he made several requests  
each of which Ill consider below:Request for a single point of contact
Mr H explained that because of past problems he would prefer a single, senior 
point of contact.
I can see that the next day he was given the names of two individuals as points of 
contact for the property sale. One of those points of contact did write to him on 2 
September but Mr H wasnt satisfied with how matters were being progressed and 
he tried to escalate things as a result.
Its not always possible for a firm to provide a single point of contact. Where, as 
here there were multiple issues to be dealt with, it is the case that different parts of a 
firm may need to deal with specific aspects of the overall transaction. I think thats 
fair and reasonable. The fact that there is not a single point of contact does not 
necessarily result in poor customer service or inefficiency.
So, although I understand why not having a single point of contact was frustrating I 
think JHAC did try to provide named contacts. However, despite having done so, 
JHAC accepts there were service failures because of internal confusion.
Request for a former bank account in the name of the Group SIPP to be closed
The Group SIPP held a bank account with a bank (Ill refer to as L). It appears that 
JHAC had required that the bank account for the Group SIPP should instead be 
held with a different bank (Ill refer to as S). Its not clear when that occurred but the 
account with L was not closed at that time.
Mr H asked JHAC to arrange for the account with L to be closed and the balance 
transferred to the new account with S. I think that was a reasonable request.
On 25 September 2020 JHAC sent Mr H the forms it said it required all the trustees 
of the Group SIPP to sign so that the balance in the account with L could be 
transferred to the account with S. JHAC acknowledged in its letter dated 11 March 
2021 that there had been a delay issuing the forms and it apologised for that delay.
Mr H returned the forms, duly signed, at the start of November 2020 and JHAC 
forwarded the closure request to L on 9 November 2020. The account was closed 
later that month. In December 2020 he queried why he hadnt been informed that 
the account with L had been closed in November.
Having looked at what happened here, although there was an initial delay sending 
the closure forms to Mr H, for which JHAC apologised, I dont think it did anything 
wrong when it asked the trustees of the Group SIPP to authorise the closure of the 
account with L. Once it received the duly completed forms theres no evidence that 
it caused any further delay as regards the closure of the account. It sent the 
completed forms to L within three business days and L closed the account and 
transferred the balance to the account with S shortly after that. So, Im not 
persuaded, on balance, that Mr H experienced any financial loss as a result of the 
time taken to close the account.
Ive then thought about whether JHAC should have informed Mr H when the 
account was closed. In its final response letter dated 25 March 2022, JHAC 
explained that it would not ordinarily provide notification to a SIPP member of the receipt of cash into their pension scheme or the closure of an account but it 
acknowledged that in view of the circumstances in this case it might have done so 
here.
Mr H told JHAC in his email of 21 August 2020 that he used to get bank statements, 
for the account with L, sent to him, but since the involvement of JHAC he no longer 
got the bank statements and he asked it to provide copy statements for the previous 
12 months. In light of that, and the fact that Mr H had explained that several 
members wanted to transfer out of the Group SIPP and the property would have to 
be sold, I think JHAC was right to acknowledge that it should have told Mr H that the 
request to close the account with L had been completed. It was clear from the 
correspondence that Mr H wished to be kept informed about how things were 
progressing.
Ill comment further below about what JHAC has offered to do to put things right.
Request for copy bank statements for the previous 12 months
It is the case that copies of the bank account statements (for the account with L) 
were not sent to Mr H until March 2021  almost seven months after the initial 
request was received. This was despite numerous follow up requests Mr H made 
and several assurances  which proved to be inaccurate - given by JHAC that the 
statements had been requested.
JHAC accepted in its letter dated 11 March 2021 that it had checked its records and 
could not find anything which categorically confirmed that the statements had been 
requested prior to 12 January 2021. JHAC received the statements on 22 February 
2021 but did not forward them to Mr H until 2 March 2021.
Id just comment that it is not acceptable that JHAC gave inaccurate and repeated 
assurances to Mr H that it had requested the bank statements without checking that 
the statements had infact been requested. It is important that a firm should take time 
to investigate why a consumers reasonable request has not been complied with 
and then take whatever action is reasonably required to fully resolve the matter as 
expeditiously as possible. That does not appear to have happened here until 
January 2021  some five months after the initial request. And even after the 
statements were received JHAC did not act as quickly as it might have been 
expected to, given all the circumstances of the case. Mr H had explained he needed 
the statements to reconcile the rental payments.
JHAC apologised for what had happened with the bank statements. It 
acknowledged that how it had handled the request was unacceptable. In response 
to Mr Hs initial complaint about this and other matters, it had offered to waive the 
property charge that had been applied to the Group SIPP account. In its subsequent 
letter dated 25 March 2022 it offered to increase that offer  as part of a new overall 
offer to resolve all of the complaints Mr H had raised. Ill comment further below 
about what JHAC has offered to do.
The sale of the Property
Mr H and other members of the Group SIPP wanted to transfer their pensions to 
another provider. As mentioned above it was agreed that the commercial property, which was the main asset in the fund, would be sold before the transfer could take 
place.
Ive looked at the sequence of events that followed and Im not persuaded that this 
shows JHAC caused any unreasonable delays as regards the sale of the property. It 
is the case that the purchaser raised queries about the rental logs  which couldnt 
be dealt with because the bank statements from L were not available. But Ive not 
been provided with any evidence which shows that this delayed the sale from 
progressing within a reasonable timeframe. Mr H submitted details of the purchaser 
to JHAC on 28 October 2020 and the sale completed on 23 February 2021. The 
rent reconciliation was carried out after that date.
Ill now comment on the problems that arose with the rent reconciliation.
One of the reasons why Mr H had been anxious to get copy bank statements was 
because he says he wanted to reconcile the rental payments. As mentioned above 
the commercial property was being sold and as part of the sales process it was 
likely that the purchaser would raise enquiries about the rental account.
JHAC commenced the rent reconciliation on 2 March 2021. Mr H was then told (a) 
there were rental arrears and after he challenged this and explained why that was 
not the case, he was told (b) there was a rental overpayment  which was also 
incorrect.
After JHAC investigated the problems with the rent reconciliation it acknowledged 
on 29 April 2021 that it wouldnt try to disguise the fact that the confusion and 
incorrect reporting of the rental should not have happened. The email provided a 
detailed account of what had gone wrong with the rent reconciliation and included a 
further apology.
Having looked at the correspondence I agree that the errors with the rent 
reconciliation were avoidable. But for the fact that Mr H was actively involved in 
trying to resolve the matter it would have taken a lot longer to get the rent 
reconciliation completed and may have resulted in other accounting errors for both 
the purchaser and the Group SIPP.
I can see that Mr H wrote numerous emails to JHAC concerning the issues that 
were raised and also had to carry out his own research to get matters resolved. Ive 
also noted that the erroneous information JHAC provided about rental arrears 
caused considerable concern and distress to Mr H. Mr H first expressed those 
concerns on 29 September 2020  and it wasnt until 29 April 2021 (some seven 
months later) that the issues with the rent reconciliation were finally resolved. Ive 
taken that into account when considering what JHAC has offered to do to put things 
right.
Request to transfer Mr Hs (and others) pension to a new provider
In his original email Mr H had indicated that at least three of the members (including 
Mr H) wished to transfer their fund from the Group SIPP and the property needed to 
be sold. The sale proceeds were received on 23 February 2021 but the transfer of Mr Hs share of the Group SIPP wasnt transferred to the new provider until 18 June 
2021.
In its letter dated 25 March 2022 JHAC accepted that the transfer took much longer 
than it would consider to be reasonable and identified two primary reasons for the 
delay:
It took longer than it should reasonably have taken to complete the fund 
split; and
It misunderstood that a deed of removal was required  infact it was not 
required.
There is no dispute that the transfer took longer than was reasonable. The issue 
that I have to decide is whether the compensation which JHAC has offered to Mr H 
to compensate him for any financial loss he experienced as a result of the delay is 
fair and reasonable. So, Ive looked at what happened and when I think the transfer 
should reasonably have concluded.
When considering whether a business has acted fairly and reasonably we take into 
account the law, codes and good practice. The Association of British Insurers (ABI) 
published a statement of good practice relating to pension transfers in 2006. It said 
that requests relating to transfers of pensions should be completed within ten 
working days. That doesnt mean it will always take ten days to complete a transfer 
 some transfers will be completed quicker than that and some will take longer. It 
will depend on the particular circumstances of each case.
When should the transfer request be treated as having been received?
Mr H first informed JHAC in August 2020 that he intended to transfer his pension to 
a new provider. He thinks that in light of this stated intention, JHAC should have 
been ready to make the transfer as soon as the property sale was completed.
However, even though there was a stated intention to make the transfer, I dont 
think that precluded the requirement for Mr H to make his intention clear by 
completing a transfer application. The application would have included details such 
as the name of the scheme he was transferring to and his authority for the transfer 
to proceed. So, I dont think its fair or reasonable to say that the application can be 
treated as having started prior to the date when JHAC received a formal application.
Mr H says JHAC told his advisers that ORIGO could be used to make the 
application and a transfer out application was submitted through ORIGO. ORIGO is 
described as an electronic pipework that lets connected businesses swiftly and 
easily transfer customer funds from one platform to another. The application was 
denied however because the IPS Pension Builder product required a paper 
application.
Having looked at the exchange of correspondence, Im satisfied, on balance, JHAC 
did not do enough to inform Mr Hs advisers that a paper application would be 
required. When reaching that view, Ive taken into account a response which JHAC 
provided to a request for information it received from a firm which was acting on behalf of Mr H and another member of the Group SIPP. That response was dated 
December 2020. It stated:
Is the plan supported under ORIGO Options Pension Transfer Service  if 
not please provide Warranty/Discharge forms?
Yes we use ORIGO, paper forms are on the Literature page of our website.
I think its fair and reasonable to say that the recipients of this information 
reasonably believed they could rely on the information provided. When reaching that 
view, Ive taken into account what JHAC says about its response to the information 
request. It says that the Literature page on its website made clear that paper forms 
were required for the IPS Builder product. However, having looked at the response 
to the request for information, I dont see any reference to the product name on that 
document. So, Im persuaded, on balance, Mr Hs advisers reasonably believed that 
the transfer request application could be submitted using ORIGO.
Mr Hs advisers say the ORIGO application was submitted on 26 February 2021. 
JHAC has now confirmed that an application was submitted through ORIGO on 26 
February 2021 and received by it on 1 March 2021.
The application was denied on 2 March 2021 with the response ceding product not 
supported. The records indicate that a further attempt was made to submit the 
application via ORIGO and that attempt was also denied with the same response.
Mr Hs advisers asked him to complete a paper application which JHAC 
acknowledges it received on 12 March 2021. Im persuaded, on balance, that had 
JHAC made it clear to Mr Hs advisers that it wouldnt accept a transfer application 
via ORIGO, the paper application wouldve been submitted instead. Ive no reason 
to believe that a paper application wouldve been submitted on a date which differed 
from the date of the original ORIGO application.
Having considered everything here, Ive decided its fair and reasonable to conclude 
that the date when the application should be treated as having been received is the 
date when the original ORIGO application was received by JHAC  which is 1 
March 2021. So, thats the date I think the transfer out process should be treated as 
having commenced.
How long should it have taken to complete the transfer?
JHAC says that its normal timescales and processes in respect of a group pension 
scheme cash transfer are that it takes ten working days to carry out the necessary 
reconciliations and final checks before sending the cash. 
Mr H disagrees. He says that once the sale proceeds were received into the bank 
account (which would have been the same day as the sale completed) all JHAC had 
to do was deduct its fees, divide the balance by the number of members of the 
scheme and transfer that amount to the new provider for each member.
Ive thought about what both parties have said here. Having done so, Ive decided 
that ten working days to complete the transfer is a fair and reasonable timescale in this case. When reaching that view, Ive taken into account the information that 
JHAC sent Mr H at the start of the process (in August 2020). In its Property Disposal 
Guide (referred to in that email) it said:
[after outlining the various accounting entries that would be required  ]
Once all these aspects have been resolved, we will check that the property 
account has been fully reconciled and once confirmed we will proceed to 
close the property account and transfer the balance to your trustee cash 
account. If applicable, funds will then be transferred to your new pension 
provider.
So, even though the completion monies had been received on 23 February 2021, 
JHAC had made Mr H aware, from the outset, that there was a requirement for post-
sale reconciliations to be completed, the property account to be closed and the 
balance transferred to the trustee bank account before the transfer out could take 
place.
It is the case that JHAC made a number of errors when carrying out the post-sale 
reconciliations  which caused further delays. JHAC has accepted that these further 
delays were wholly avoidable. But even though there were avoidable delays, that 
doesnt mean the post-sale reconciliation, associated processes and the 
subsequent checks we would expect JHAC to carry out before transferring a 
members pension to another provider didnt need to be carried out.
So, Ive decided that in line with the ABI guidance, ten working days to complete the 
transfer out process, taking all the circumstances that applied here into account, is 
fair and reasonable. That means I think its fair and reasonable to say that the 
transfer should have been concluded by 15 March 2021 and the new provider could 
then have reinvested the funds two working days later (17 March 2021). Ill 
comment further below about what I think JHAC needs to do to put things right.
the request for a consent form to be completed.
One of the reasons which JHAC has put forward for the delay here was that it 
erroneously requested that a deed of removal should be signed by all of the Group 
SIPP members before it could proceed with the transfer. Although JHAC has 
accepted that this document was not required and shouldnt have been asked for, I 
have commented on it here because of the additional time, effort and inconvenience 
it caused.
Mr H had continued to press JHAC to deal with his concerns about how long the 
transfer was taking. At the end of May 2021  some three months after the sale had 
completed  JHAC said it needed the members of the Group SIPP to complete a 
deed of consent form. Mr H arranged for the form to be signed but he explained to 
JHAC that he didnt think it had any lawful basis for refusing to transfer his pension 
without the consent of the other members of the Group SIPP. JHAC subsequently 
accepted that it had misunderstood the need for this document to be completed.
I have taken this into account when considering what needs to be done to put things 
right.Non receipt of invoices for the period after August 2020
Mr H says he was not sent invoices for the period after August 2020. He says JHAC 
was required to send these to him in accordance with regulations and he thinks any 
charges applied after that date are not properly chargeable.
In response to what Mr H has said, JHAC has provided evidence to show that the 
invoices for the period in question were issued to Mr H at the address which it held 
on its records. Mr H has previously confirmed that the address used was an address 
that he visited to collect documentation. So, although he says he hasnt received the 
invoices, I dont think its fair or reasonable to say that JHAC should be liable for 
that, given that its records show it posted the invoices to the correct address.
Complaint handling
Mr H has also complained about the way that JHAC handled his complaint. He says 
that second only to the issue of delays this is the most serious point to be 
addressed.
Whilst I have commented on the sequence of events here and the actions taken by 
JHAC in response to the issues Mr H was raising, under the Rules which apply to 
our service, we cannot look into complaints (or any part of a complaint) which are 
solely about how a business handled a complaint. Thats because complaint 
handling is not itself a regulated activity. It means I cant comment further on this 
aspect of his complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided needs to be done to put things right
JHAC accepted in its final response letters that there had been several difficulties 
and delays on a significant number of occasions over a prolonged period of time. It 
also accepted that the transfer had taken much longer than it should reasonably 
have taken.
When a business makes errors its not our role to fine or punish it. We look to see 
what the business has done to put things right and whether its proposals are fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
When thinking about what needs to be done to put things right our Rules provide 
that we can make a money award for such amount as we consider to be fair 
compensation for one or more of the following:
- financial loss (including consequential or prospective loss);
- pain or suffering;
- damage to reputation;
- distress or inconvenience
whether or not a court would award compensation.
There is further information available on our website setting out what our service 
takes into account when deciding what amount of compensation would be fair 
overall to put right the impact a mistake has on a complainant.
Mr H has complained about the financial loss he says hes suffered as a result of 
the delay in completing the transfer of his pension to the new provider and hes also complained about the distress and inconvenience hes experienced. So, Ive 
considered each of these in turn.
Financial Loss
For the reasons set out above Ive provisionally decided that the transfer out 
shouldve been completed by 15 March 2021 and the fund reinvested two working 
days later (17 March 2021). In order to put things right Ive provisionally decided 
JHAC should be required to take the following actions:
JHAC should be directed to re-work its calculation to assess whether Mr H 
has suffered any financial loss as a result of the delay that occurred in 
respect of his transfer request. JHAC should compare the number of units in 
each of the funds Mr H purchased with the new provider on 22 June 2021 
against the number of units in each of those funds he could have purchased 
on 17 March 2021 had the transfer monies been reinvested on that date. If 
the number of units he could have purchased on 17 March 2021 was 
greater, JHAC should arrange to purchase those additional units and add 
them to his pension with the new provider. If the number of units he could 
have purchased on 17 March 2021 was lesser, he will not have suffered a 
financial loss as a result of the delay and no compensation for financial loss 
would be payable.
JHAC also offered to refund Mr Hs share of the property sale fee. It did that 
in its initial final response letter dated 11 March 2021. Mr H didnt think that 
was enough. It has subsequently repeated that offer.
Although Ive provisionally decided that JHAC didnt cause the property sale 
to be delayed, I think its offer to refund this fee is fair and reasonable in all of 
the circumstances. So, if it has not done so already I intend to require it to 
refund Mr Hs share of the property sale fee (being £108) together with 8% 
simple interest on this amount from 26 February 2021 until the date of 
settlement.
Mr H also thought that JHAC should refund all administration fees for the 
period since August 2020. There is no doubt, as JHAC has accepted itself, 
that there were difficulties and delays over a protracted period of time. But, 
although it agreed to refund the administration fees for the period after 
March 2021, JHAC wasnt willing to refund administration fees for the period 
prior to that date.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions regarding the payment of 
administration fees. These provide that administration fees are payable in 
advance. The terms further state that where there is a transfer out there is 
no entitlement to any pro rata refund of fees.
So, even if the transfer out had progressed much earlier than it did, no part 
of the administration fees chargeable for the period up to the end of 
February 2021 would have been refunded under the terms and conditions. 
And despite the issues that arose with administration here, I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable to require JHAC to refund the administration 
fees for the period prior to the end of February 2021. I do think its fair and reasonable for the administration fees after that date to be refunded  since I 
dont think those fees would have been chargeable had the transfer request 
commenced on 1 March 2021. Those fees appear to have been charged on 
15 March 2021 and Mr Hs share was £858.
I also note that an annual income drawdown charge (for the period after 
March 2021) was also applied to the Group SIPP account on 15 March 
2021. For the same reasons as set out above, Ive also provisionally decided 
that Mr Hs share of that charge (£38.88) should be refunded.
So, if JHAC hasnt done so already, I intend to require it to refund to Mr H his 
share of the administration fees (being £858) which were applied to the 
Group SIPP account for the period after 1 March 2021 and his share of the 
annual drawdown charge which was applied for the period after 1 March 
2021 (being £38.88) together with 8% simple interest on both of these 
amounts from 15 March 2021 to the date of settlement.
Distress and Inconvenience
Ive thought about the distress and inconvenience Mr H experienced over, what 
JHAC accepts, was a prolonged period of time  almost a year. As set out in this 
provisional decision there were numerous administrative errors and delays despite 
the fact that at different times Mr H received assurances that the matter would 
receive attention from more senior personnel.
When thinking about what is a fair and reasonable award for distress and 
inconvenience, Ive taken into account the time and effort Mr H had to put into these 
matters throughout the period since August 2020.
He sent numerous emails. He was given inaccurate information on several 
occasions  for example about his requests for the bank statements from L; about 
the errors with the rent reconciliation; and about the need for a deed of consent. He 
had to escalate each of these matters and often had to spend additional time 
researching the issues himself to try to get things sorted out. I would also point out 
that the other members of the Group SIPP were able to benefit because of the 
actions he took. The responses from JHAC on occasions, added to the time and 
effort he had to spend.
There was a delay with the transfer to the new provider which also incurred 
additional time and effort.
Ive taken into account the distress Mr H experienced because of genuine concerns 
about whether there were rental arrears on the commercial property  worries he 
first raised in September 2020 after receiving erroneous information from JHAC, 
and which were not laid to rest until the end of April 2021 and only then because of 
the significant time and effort spent by Mr H trying to resolve the matter.
Although I have considered the many hours Mr H has told us he had to spend trying 
to get the issues sorted out, I would just point out that this service does not make 
awards based on hourly rates. So, Ive not used an hourly rate when thinking about 
how much compensation Mr H should be awarded.JHAC has offered to pay Mr H £1,000 by way of compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced. I agree that the impact of what happened here was 
substantial. Ive noted that Mr H doesnt think £1,000 is adequate compensation. 
But, taking into account all of the evidence available and our general guidelines 
about compensation for distress and inconvenience, Ive provisionally decided that 
the offer to pay Mr H £1,000 for distress and inconvenience is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances. So, if it hasnt done so already, I intend to require JHAC to 
pay Mr H £1,000 for distress and inconvenience.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this 
complaint about James Hay Administration Company Limited trading as James Hay 
Partnership.
I intend to require James Hay Administration Company Limited trading as James 
Hay Partnership to take the following actions:
re-work its calculation to assess whether Mr H has suffered any financial loss as 
a result of the delay that occurred in respect of his transfer request. It should 
compare the number of units in each of the funds Mr H purchased with the new 
provider on 22 June 2021 against the number of units in each of those funds he 
could have purchased on 17 March 2021 had the transfer monies been 
reinvested on that date. If the number of units he could have purchased on 17 
March 2021 was greater, it should arrange to purchase those additional units 
and add them to his pension with the new provider. If the number of units he 
could have purchased on 17 March 2021 was lesser, he will not have suffered a 
financial loss as a result of the delay and no compensation for financial loss 
would be payable.
if it has not done so already, refund Mr Hs share of the property sale fee (being 
£108) together with 8% simple interest* on this amount from 26 February 2021 
until the date of settlement.
if it has not done so already, refund Mr Hs share of the administration fees 
(being £858) which were applied to the Group SIPP account for the period after 
1 March 2021 and his share of the annual drawdown charge which was applied 
for the period after 1 March 2021 (being £38.88) together with 8% simple 
interest* on both of these amounts from 15 March 2021 to the date of 
settlement.
if it has not done so already, pay Mr H £1,000 for the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced as a result of what happened.
JHAC responded to my provisional decision. It said it had nothing further to add and it could 
agree to settle the complaint in accordance with what Id said.
Mr H also responded to my provisional decision. By way of summary he said:
It was never part of his case that the property sale had been unreasonably delayed 
 but he reiterated that the only reason for that was because of the extensive efforts 
hed made to deal with the delays and problems JHAC had caused. Hed also had 
to deal with misleading information provided by JHAC.
JHAC hadnt just made one failure. There were numerous failures which should give 
rise to multiple instances of distress and inconvenience. As a minimum, Mr H felt he should receive an award for distress and inconvenience caused prior to completion 
of the sale of the property and a further award for the errors and delays caused after 
completion.
The ABI guidance referred to in the provisional decision was from 17 years ago. 
Thered been further work carried out since then including a consultation paper 
published in 2016 which proposed a 48 hour turnaround standard for each step in 
the transfer process. Mr H suggested that this was a more practical test to apply 
when considering the circumstances of each case. The actions required by JHAC to 
complete the transfer could only be regarded as one step in the process. Mr H also 
referred to a previous decision where he said our service had confirmed this 
approach.
Even if 10 days was a fair and reasonable period to complete the transfer, Mr H felt 
the process should be treated as starting on 23 February 2021. He said that if hed 
been aware a paper form was required he could categorically state he would have 
made sure that the completed form was in possession of JHAC on that date.
So, I now have to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, Id just confirm Ive read all of the 
correspondence thats been provided to our service  including the two letters Mr H 
specifically asked me to confirm that Id read.
Ive considered the responses to my provisional decision. 
Ill comment firstly about what Mr H says concerning the time taken to complete the transfer 
of his pension to the new provider.
Mr H says if hed known a paper application was required he would have made sure the 
application was with JHAC no later than 23 February 2021. 
However, when thinking about what happened, I noted that the ORIGO application wasnt 
made until after that date. Mr H has provided a copy of the client declaration he completed 
on 26 February 2021 (the same date as the ORIGO application was made). That declaration 
was on the headed paper of the party he was transferring his pension to. It included his 
authorisation and instruction to JHAC to make the transfer and also certain agreements with 
the acquiring provider. 
Whilst Mr H is adamant a paper application wouldve been received by JHAC no later than 
23 February 2021, Ive not seen any evidence to show that JHAC were in receipt of Mr Hs 
authorisation and instruction to complete the transfer before 1 March 2021. In those 
circumstances, I dont think its fair or reasonable to have expected it to initiate the transfer 
prior to that date. So, I remain of the view that its fair and reasonable to treat 1 March 2021 
as the date when the transfer process should reasonably be treated as having started. 
Mr H has also commented on the ten business day timeline I referred to in my provisional 
decision. And hes provided details about more recent work which has been carried out by 
the ABI and others in relation to making the transfer process faster. Hes referred to the 
proposal in a 2016 consultation paper to adopt a 48 hour standard for each step in the transfer process. And, hes referred to a previous decision made by our service which he 
says supports this approach.
I wont comment on the earlier decision Mr H has referred to since it is the case that we 
consider each complaint thats referred to our service based on its own particular 
circumstances. However, I have considered what hes said about the time he thinks each 
step in the transfer process should take.
I have also looked at how industry guidance has developed since the date of the ABI 
guidance I referred to in my provisional decision. Ive considered the information in the 2016 
consultation paper published by the Transfers and Re-registration Industry Group (TRIG) 
and the subsequent Industry wide framework for improving transfers and re-registrations 
(published by TRIG in June 2018). 
Ive noted that the timescales set out in the 2018 document (including the proposal for a 48 
hour standard for each step in the process) mostly relate to automated transfers - with 
additional time required where a manual process is used. The 2018 document also indicates 
that the 48 hour or step-by-step standard should apply to transfer processes with the 
exception of pension cash transfers. In relation to pension cash transfers it proposes that 
end to end timescales would instead apply. For automated pension transfers involving cash 
assets, the 2018 document states that an end to end standard of ten business days is a 
good practice timescale (from when the acquiring party receives a completed instruction 
from the client to receipt of the transferred funds). The 2018 document also explains that 
manual processes  such as those which applied in this case  usually require extra time.
In this case Mr Hs pension was invested in the IPS Builder product. JHAC has explained 
that although it does use the ORIGO system for pension transfers generally, that option 
was not available for the IPS Builder SIPP. So, a manual process applied. That means 
Mr Hs pension transfer involved a transfer of cash assets using a manual process. Ive 
considered the industry guidance in that context and I remain of the view that ten business 
days, from the date that JHAC received the ORIGO application, to complete the transfer 
process in this case is a reasonable timescale.
The 2018 document also refers to the importance of setting expectations for clients in terms 
of the likely timeframes to complete a transfer. In my provisional decision I referred to the 
information in the Property Disposal Guide which JHAC sent Mr H at the start of the process 
(in August 2020). That document had explained to Mr H, at the outset, that there was a 
requirement for post-sale reconciliations to be completed, the property account to be closed 
and the balance transferred to the trustee bank account before a transfer out could take 
place. In my provisional decision, I also pointed out that there are processes and checks 
which we would expect JHAC to carry out before transferring a pension to another provider.
Having thought about everything again, including taking into account recent developments 
in industry guidance about pension transfers, I havent changed my view that, in this case, 
ten business days to complete the transfer process is a fair and reasonable timeline. That 
means I think its fair and reasonable to say that the transfer could reasonably have been 
concluded by 15 March 2021 and the new provider could have reinvested the funds two 
working days later (17 March 2021)
Ive then considered what Mr H has said about the amount of compensation he thinks he 
should receive for distress and inconvenience. He thinks there should be at least two 
separate awards for distress and inconvenience given everything that happened. As I said in 
my provisional decision, I thought about the amount of time and effort Mr H had to spend as 
a result of the errors and delays made by JHAC. I also outlined why, taking account of our general guidelines about compensation for distress and inconvenience, I thought the offer to 
pay Mr H £1,000 was fair and reasonable. Whilst I understand that Mr H feels very strongly 
that this is not enough, Ive not been provided with any new or further information which 
persuades me to change my view.
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I havent changed my view 
about the actions I require JHAC to take to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint about James Hay Administration 
Company Limited trading as James Hay Partnership.
I now require James Hay Administration Company Limited trading as James Hay 
Partnership to take the following actions:
re-work its calculation to assess whether Mr H has suffered any financial loss as 
a result of the delay that occurred in respect of his transfer request. It should 
compare the number of units in each of the funds Mr H purchased with the new 
provider on 22 June 2021 against the number of units in each of those funds he 
could have purchased on 17 March 2021 had the transfer monies been 
reinvested on that date. If the number of units he could have purchased on 17 
March 2021 was greater, it should arrange to purchase those additional units 
and add them to his pension with the new provider. If the number of units he 
could have purchased on 17 March 2021 was lesser, he will not have suffered a 
financial loss as a result of the delay and no compensation for financial loss 
would be payable.
if it has not done so already, refund Mr Hs share of the property sale fee (being 
£108) together with 8% simple interest* on this amount from 26 February 2021 
until the date of settlement.
if it has not done so already, refund Mr Hs share of the administration fees 
(being £858) which were applied to the Group SIPP account for the period after 
1 March 2021 and his share of the annual drawdown charge which was applied 
for the period after 1 March 2021 (being £38.88) together with 8% simple 
interest* on both of these amounts from 15 March 2021 to the date of 
settlement.
if it has not done so already, pay Mr H £1,000 for the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced as a result of what happened.
* If HM Revenue & Customs requires James Hay Administration Company Limited trading as James Hay Partnership to 
take off tax from this interest, James Hay Administration Company Limited trading as James Hay Partnership must give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman