DRN-2785464
The complaint
Mr A complains that Insurance Factory Limited (trading as Lancaster Insurance) mishandled 
his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Since about 2016, Mr A had had a hatchback. He renewed the insurance policy for the 
hatchback from July 2019. He was the policyholder. The policy also covered his wife to drive 
the hatchback.
In September 2019, Mr A acquired a second car - a small cabriolet. He used a comparison 
website and took out a policy. Lancaster acted as an intermediary between Mr A and an 
insurance company. 
There was an issue about his no-claims bonus (NCB). As a result, Lancaster asked Mr A to 
pay an additional premium of £16.80 and an adjustment fee of £30.00, a total of £46.80.
In December 2019, Mr A complained to Lancaster that it had cancelled the policy without his 
knowledge, charged him a £50.00 cancellation fee and not allowed him to reinstate the 
policy. By a final response dated 24 December 2019, Lancaster turned down the complaint. 
Mr A brought his complaint to us in January 2020.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that  
with an outstanding balance and no response to its letters - Lancaster had acted reasonably 
in cancelling the policy. He also thought that Lancaster had applied the cancellation charge 
fairly in line with its terms and conditions.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He has always been willing to pay for the uplift in the insurance premium.
He didnt cancel the policy - the Insurance Factory did. He shouldnt have to pay the 
cancellation fee.
 
His desire is to settle this matter amicably, but the Insurance Factory played hardball. 
His complaint has been about the professional conduct of a financial company, not 
just the additional charge incurred. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against one regulated 
financial firm at a time. In our final decision we name that firm, but we dont identify any other 
party. Im dealing with a complaint against Lancaster. I wont identify the insurance company.
Im satisfied that  in order to get the policy  Mr A accepted Lancasters terms of business. 
Those terms included an arrangement fee of £70.00 and a fee of £30.00 for any adjustment 
to the policy. 
The terms also included a fee of £50.00 in the event of cancellation after the 14-day cooling- 
off period. In my view, that fee would apply whether Mr A or Lancaster or the insurance 
company initiated the cancellation.
The policy was from 27 September 2019. Mr A was the policyholder. The policy also covered 
his wife to drive the cabriolet. Mr A paid nearly £190.00.
Lancasters welcome letter asked Mr A for evidence of his no-claims bonus (NCB). Mr A 
didnt respond, so Lancaster sent a reminder dated 7 October 2019. The next day, Mr A 
provided the July 2019 renewal letter for the hatchback. 
Mr A has shown us a letter from Royal Mail in early December 2019 about an alleged theft of 
mail in Mr As area. But Mr A has said that he didnt receive any of the following letters from 
Lancaster:
15 October 2019: saying that his evidence of NCB wasnt acceptable as it was being 
used on another vehicle;
24 October 2019: saying that if there was no NCB, there would be an additional 
charge of £46.80;
4 November 2019: confirming that amendment;
13 November 2019: reminder for £46.80;
22 November 2019: reminder for £46.80 and seven-day warning of cancellation 
notice.
2 December 2019: seven- day notice of cancellation.
And I dont find it likely that someone stole all those letters on all those separate occasions. 
Rather, I find it more likely that Mr A received most, if not all, of the letters but didnt respond. 
In an event Im satisfied that Lancaster did enough to communicate with him.
On 10 December 2019, Lancaster wrote to Mr A to confirm cancellation of the policy with 
effect from that date. He received that letter - he says that was on 12 December 2019. But 
Lancaster had sent a seven-day notice of cancellation. And that notice made it clear that 
Lancaster was giving it as agent for the insurance company. 
So I dont consider that Lancaster treated Mr A unfairly in cancelling the policy. I dont share 
his characterisation that Lancaster played hardball. I consider that it acted as I would expect 
it to act in the circumstances.
From what Lancaster has said, the insurer refunded it about £95.00 - about 50% or six 
months of the premium of about £190.00 for the year. That refund mustve superseded the 
additional premium of £16.80. From the refund, Lancaster deducted its fees including a cancellation fee of about £50.00. 
But it applied a discount so the balance didnt increase from its previous amount of £46.80.
Mr A wanted to pay the additional premium and the amendment fee in order to reinstate the 
policy. Lancaster declined. In view of the previous unanswered letters, I dont consider that 
this was unfair or unreasonable.
As an alternative, Lancaster offered a quote for a new policy. Mr A didnt accept that quote. I 
can see why he thought that hed already paid Lancaster about £190.00 for a year and it was 
asking him to pay a similar amount again after less than three months.
However, I consider that this was partly because of Lancasters fees and partly because of 
the limited refund from the insurance company. I havent found that Lancaster dealt unfairly 
with the cancellation or its charges. And I dont consider that Lancaster had responsibility for 
the insurance companys calculation of its refund. 
Overall, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Lancaster to do any more in response to 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Insurance Factory Limited (trading as Lancaster Insurance) to do any more in 
response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman