DRN-3671938
The complaint
Mr S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc blocked payments from his account and 
the service he subsequently received.
 
What happened
In June 2021 Mr S initiated some payments from his account with NatWest to an account he 
held with another bank. These payments were initially blocked but later verified as genuine. 
But he says this also resulted in access to his accounts being blocked. 
Mr S says NatWests fraud system is flawed. And, to unblock his accounts, he had to attend 
a branch with his identification. Mr S made two visits to a branch because the branch didnt 
complete the identification process correctly on the first visit. Mr S explained the visits to the 
branch had to be made during his working hours and that he incurred travelling costs. He 
added that he also spent many hours on the phone trying to resolve the issues with the 
payments. Overall, Mr S feels the service he received was poor when trying to resolve the 
issue over the phone and in branch. 
Mr S complained to NatWest as he felt compensation was due for what had taken place. 
NatWest acknowledged that when payments are blocked it can cause inconvenience to the 
customer. But it says it is entitled to block an attempted payment when its security systems 
raise fraud concerns. So, it didnt agree that it had done anything wrong in blocking Mr S 
payments. It also said that - as part of the process, Mr S needed to visit a branch with proof 
of identification.
But it accepted that the level of service Mr S received wasnt what he had a right to expect. 
And, on 23 August 2021, NatWest paid Mr S £100 compensation in recognition of this. It 
also paid £10 to cover any travel expenses Mr S had incurred as a result of having to visit a 
branch and any phone calls he had made. It said it would consider further costs if Mr S 
submitted evidence of them. 
   
Mr S didnt accept this outcome and brought his complaint to this service. In summary, our 
investigator didnt think NatWest had done anything wrong when it blocked Mr S payments 
and asked Mr S to attend a branch. But she did think NatWest could have handled the 
process better than it did. So, she upheld Mr S complaint and asked NatWest to pay a 
further £125 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr S didnt accept this outcome. NatWest accepted the outcome but pointed out that - in 
addition to the £100 compensation referred to in its final response letter, it had also paid a 
further £100 compensation to Mr S on 3 September 2021. 
The investigator considered what both parties had said. She didnt think Mr S further 
comments altered the overall outcome she had reached. She thought the £10 already paid 
to Mr S to cover any travel costs was fair. But, as NatWest had since shown that it had 
already paid Mr S £200 compensation (in total) for the distress and inconvenience caused, 
she said NatWest was only required to pay an additional £25 to make the total compensation 
£225. 
Mr S didnt accept this outcome. He pointed out that he had already told this service he had 
received £200 compensation from NatWest and that he had referred the complaint to us 
after these payments had been made as he didnt think this fairly reflected the distress and 
inconvenience he had been caused. Mr S asked for his complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman. So, his complaint has come to me to decide.
Since Mr S complained to NatWest about the blocked transactions mentioned in this 
complaint, Mr S has raised further concerns about another blocked payment. This is being 
dealt with separately by our service. Additionally, Mr S has also mentioned how NatWest 
handled a Subject Access Request (SAR) and hes raised concerns about how his 
subsequent complaint was handled. But he has also said he has referred his concerns about 
the SAR to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) and our investigator has explained 
that this service doesnt consider issues about complaint handling as complaint handling isnt 
a regulated activity. So, this decision solely relates to the blocked transactions in June 2021 
and the service received in that respect. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has made detailed submissions in bringing this complaint to both NatWest and this 
service. And Im aware that I have only summarised Mr S concerns above. So, Id like to 
assure Mr S that I have read and considered all his correspondence in full  and Ive listened 
to the call recordings between Mr S and NatWest and the subsequent calls with this service. 
And I hope the fact that I do not respond in a similar detail will not be taken as a discourtesy. 
As an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable 
conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it is not necessary for me to respond 
to every point made but to consider the crux of the complaint. 
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator. I know Mr S 
will be disappointed, so Ill explain why. 
I note Mr S has said that NatWests fraud prevention system is flawed. So, Id like to explain 
to Mr S that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run its security 
procedures. It is the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), who have the power 
to instruct NatWest to make changes to its policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Mr S says he has made some financial losses as a result of his payments being delayed and 
because he has had to take time off work to visit a branch to help resolve the issues. But 
banks and building societies have an obligation to try and keep their customers accounts 
safe and prevent fraudulent transactions. Sometimes they identify and block legitimate 
payments that a genuine customer wants to make. This can cause distress and 
inconvenience to a customer  but it doesnt necessarily mean they have acted incorrectly. 
Ive noted what Mr S has said about why he thinks the payments were blocked. But overall, 
Im persuaded that NatWest had genuine concerns about the payments being made from  
Mr S account. So, Ive not found that NatWest did anything wrong when it blocked the 
payments and asked Mr S to attend a branch to verify his identity. 
Therefore, it follows that I cant fairly say NatWest caused Mr S the losses he has 
mentioned. I can see that NatWest paid Mr S £10 to cover his costs incurred when visiting 
the branch. While Mr S had to return to the branch a second time, it seems this was very shortly after his first visit and, therefore, he doesnt appear to have incurred any travelling 
costs twice. And Ive not seen anything that would make me think Mr S costs were more 
than this, so Im satisfied the £10 payment is fair.   
I do appreciate that Mr S is a genuine customer, and his transactions were legitimate. So, I 
accept he was caused distress and inconvenience as a result of the blocked payments. And 
Ive listened to the calls Mr S had with NatWest and taken into account he had to return to 
the branch shortly after his first visit. And  like the investigator, Im satisfied that Mr S 
received poor service both on the phone and in branch. 
Matters of compensation for distress and inconvenience can be subjective. While an amount 
considered fair by one person may not considered such by someone else. The investigator 
thought a total compensation payment for the distress and inconvenience caused was £225. 
Having thought carefully about this, I think this amount fairly reflects the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr S. 
Putting things right
NatWest has since shown that it has already credited Mr S account with a total of £200 
compensation in respect of this complaint (plus £10 for costs incurred when visiting the 
branch). So, National Westminster Bank Plc should now pay Mr S the remaining £25 as it 
has previously agreed to do.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
National Westminster Bank Plc should now settle this complaint as set above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman