DRN-3657549
The complaint
Mr B complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Unity Auto Finance Ltd (Unity). 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr B, but I agree with the investigators opinion. 
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Unity, who are also the supplier 
of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if 
they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into 
account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr B. The car here was nearly 
seven years old and had already completed about 53,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect there to be some wear and tear present.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Unity were responsible for the cars 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. 
Within the first six months Mr B complained about the brakes, an SD not present message, 
and a key entry problem. The brakes were repaired, the batteries replaced on the key, and 
the SD removed and updated.
Mr B also complained about other issues such as, the emergency brakes coming on without 
reason, the radio going off when driving over bumps, a grinding noise from the engine, 
electrics shutting off, an intermittent key fault warning, headlights on full when set to auto, 
the exhaust blowing, the rear view mirror not working properly, a fault with the heater 
venting, and a Bluetooth connectivity issue. No faults regarding these issues could be 
identified or replicated and the business say there were no faults codes recorded.
The independent inspection that took place about four months after the car was supplied to 
Mr B couldnt identify any faults with the emergency braking or with the car but did mention 
that the spare key wasnt working.
The business have an opportunity to repair faults present or developing at the point of supply 
and I think theyve done that. Theyve completed repairs to the brakes, updated the SD card, 
and replaced the key batteries.
Theyve also inspected the car for the other issues Mr B has reported but the dealership 
have been unable to replicate those issues and neither has an independent expert in these 
matters. 
It seems the key error message is still an issue for Mr B but its unclear whether its due to a 
fault or due to driving style. Mr B says its a fault as it only happens when using his wifes 
key, but Unity say the issue relates to driving style and is caused when the foot is rested on 
the clutch. I dont think we have a definitive answer.
The relevant legislation says that if a business fails to repair a fault that was present or 
developing when the car was supplied then the consumer should be allowed to reject the 
car.
But I think rejection would be disproportionate here. Mr B has explained that when the 
warning message appears it doesnt affect his ability to drive the car and the warning only 
lasts a few seconds. This car was nearly seven years old when supplied and, as Ive 
explained, I think its reasonable to expect a few things to have gone wrong with it through 
wear and tear. Its unclear whether this is an actual fault but even if it is, I think its 
reasonable to categorise it as something that could be considered fair wear and tear on a 
car of this age and mileage. Its not something I think it would be fair to ask Unity to take any 
further action over.
I can see that Mr B is also still complaining about lights switching on in day light hours. The 
dealership were unable to identify any issues with that when it was reported to them. The 
business has explained that lights may come on automatically when the car drives through 
dark areas but that doesnt mean theyre faulty. I think that seems the most likely explanation 
and Im not therefore persuaded sufficient evidence has been provided of a fault with the 
lights.
Mr B also says hes having problems with the stop/start system and that also appears to 
have been reported within the first six months. The dealership didnt find any faults with the 
system and Im not persuaded by Mr Bs subsequent explanation, or the video hes provided, 
that a fault is evident. Mr B has explained that the engine doesnt switch off all the time when 
the car isnt in motion but I think there will be times when the engine wont switch off if the 
battery level is low, so in the absence of any expert corroboration the system isnt working 
properly I dont think it would be fair to suggest there is a fault with the stop/start function.
Mr B has mentioned hes now having problems with the radio finding channels, but thats not 
an issue that has been raised to Unity. Given the passage of time I think it would be fair to 
suggest the onus is on Mr B to demonstrate to Unity that this is a problem that was present when the car was supplied and when they held responsibility for the cars quality. In the first 
instance the issue will need to be raised with Unity as theyve not had a chance to consider 
it.
Overall, I dont think it would be reasonable to ask the business to take any further action 
with regards to faults on this car. 
But I think its clear Mr B has experienced some distress and inconvenience here and Ill 
consider how the business should therefore put things right for him.
Putting things right
Whilst I havent been persuaded there is sufficient evidence the car was suffering from all 
the issues Mr B has reported, I have explained that there is evidence that some issues 
needed resolving for him. Hes had to return the car on several occasions to the dealership 
and hasnt always been provided with a courtesy car of the same specification, in the 
circumstances, I think the business should pay him £250 in compensation. 
I believe thats already been done.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Unity Auto Finance 
Ltd to pay Mr B £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused, unless 
theyve already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman