DRN-4408320
The complaint
Mr F complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt treat him fairly when he
experienced financial difficulties.
What happened
Mr F had a personal loan, credit card account and overdraft with Halifax. In 2019 he
explained he wouldnt be able to keep up with his repayments. He complains Halifax didnt
do enough to support him and its actions led to his credit file being adversely impacted.
Halifax didnt accept it had treated Mr F unfairly. Our Investigator wasnt persuaded it had. 
Mr F disagreed so I was asked to review the complaint and make a final decision. 
I issued a provisional decision. I said:
In late 2019 Mr F knew he would struggle repaying his loan, credit card account and
overdraft. He wanted Halifax to combine his debt into a restructured loan to reduce 
his monthly repayments. Halifax declined his request. Mr F complained about this 
and received a final response dated 8 October 2019. I dont have the power to 
consider this complaint because it wasnt referred to our service within six months of 
the final response being issued  see DISP2.8.2(R).
Halifaxs notes show a discussion took place in January 2020 where Mr Fs 
circumstances were discussed, 30 days breathing space (and a minor refund) was 
applied, and Mr F would complete an income and expenditure form. The notes say 
Mr F was told of the impact of missed repayments on his credit file. The notes show 
similar discussions happened in February 2020 and ultimately short-term plans were 
agreed for all the accounts. They also show Halifax applied a refund and Mr F was 
again told of the impact to his credit file.
The loan
The short-term plan for the loan was set out in a letter dated 22 February 2020. It 
said Halifax would accept £213.44 a month, for three months  instead of the 
£646.80 contractual repayments  and interest would be suspended. I find this was 
fair and reasonable as it gave time for Mr Fs financial circumstances to improve. 
Unfortunately, this plan failed because Mr F needed the money for day-to-day living 
expenses. In March 2020 Halifax agreed a further 30 days breathing space.
Halifax responded to a complaint from Mr F in April 2020. It said, amongst other 
things, that the collections team was there to help customers with short term financial 
difficultly  normally for three to six months. If this isnt enough, a better solution is for 
the account to be defaulted, which will show on a credit file for six years, but it does 
allow for longer term repayment plans and for interest and charges to be stopped.
I find this was appropriate advice. While Mr F was keen for Halifax to do something to 
assist him, said help can only go so far before the underlying contract is breached 
(defaulted on). When a borrower isnt maintaining their contractual repayments, 
Halifax has an obligation to report this to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) so 
that other lenders (and others) are aware when making their own decisions.
The loan was defaulted on 18 May 2020 and this was reported to the CRAs. I find 
this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. When the default notice was 
issued to Mr F in April 2020, he was £3,736.98 in arrears. He wasnt able to clear 
these arrears, or make his contractual repayments, or make reduced repayments. 
And there was no compelling reason to suspect his circumstances would materially 
change in the short term. Mr F had defaulted on his contract with Halifax. And while 
Mr F may disagree, defaulting can be a good thing because it permanently suspends 
interest and charges, generally allows for lower repayments and the sooner a default 
is registered with the CRAs, the sooner is drops off.
Mr F says he was told his credit file wouldnt be impacted. I have seen no compelling
evidence to support this. Each of the letters he was sent said his credit file could be
impacted. The contemporaneous notes show he was told his credit file would be 
impacted. In any case, if I were persuaded Mr F was told his credit file wouldnt be 
impacted, it wouldnt make a material difference. I say this because the remedy for 
incorrect information isnt to make matters as if the information was correct. Its to 
make matters as if the incorrect information hadnt been given, which here, would 
lead to the same result as Mr F couldnt have avoided the impact on his credit had he 
been correctly informed.
Im satisfied Halifax did enough to support Mr F when he experienced difficulties 
making his loan repayments and that defaulting the account was fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. Im also satisfied Halifax ought to be reporting the loan status 
to the CRAs. Mr F has provided CRA data which shows the loan was showing as 
defaulted in December 2020, but by May 2021 was showing as satisfied. Its unclear 
to me why this is, but as it is to Mr Fs advantage, and what he wants, Im not going 
to interfere with it.
The credit card account
As part of the February 2020 plan, Halifax explained in a letter dated 22 February 
2020 that to give Mr F a fresh start it had moved the arrears back into the balance. 
This meant rather than needing to make a minimum payment of £872.07, he could 
make contractual minimum repayments. Halifax also said it would accept reduced 
repayments of £63.62 for three months and freeze interest for three months. I find 
this was a fair and reasonable action on the part of Halifax as it did give Mr F a fresh 
start and allowed him some time for his financial circumstances to change.
Mr F didnt make any repayments in March, April, May or June 2020. He made a 
repayment in July 2020 of £254.48 (£63.62 x 4) but no repayments thereafter. The 
account was defaulted in April 2021. Given the account had been over its agreed 
limit for many months, and repayments werent being made, I find it was fair and 
reasonable for Halifax to consider the account in default in April 2021. And, as above, 
this may have been a good thing, as it permanently suspended interest, which was 
circa £110 a month given Mr Fs high balance.
Mr F would like the credit card account to be removed from his credit file. He says 
this, broadly, because he was told missed repayments on his credit card wouldnt 
impact his credit file and what Halifax has done with his loan shows this to be the 
case. As with the above, Im not persuaded Halifax said Mr Fs credit file wouldnt be 
impacted, and also as above, if it did, it wouldnt make a material difference. Further, 
Halifax doing something it didnt have to (to Mr F advantage) for his loan doesnt mean the same must be done for his credit card account.
The overdraft
I have very little information about this account other than a limit reduction plan was 
agreed in February 2020 and some interest/charges were refunded. As whats 
happened on this account doesnt seem to be in contention, or indeed complained 
about, I havent considered it as part of this decision.
Overall
I sympathise with Mr F. He experienced financial difficulties, seemingly 
predominantly for reasons outside his control. But I must approach this matter 
objectively and having done so, Im satisfied Halifax provided sufficient short-term 
support and was fair and reasonable in defaulting the accounts and reporting them 
as such to the CRAs.
My provisional decision
I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Neither party provided any materially new evidence or arguments in response to my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any materially new evidence or arguments from either party, I see no 
compelling reason to depart from my provisional decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman