DRN-2944069
The complaint
  This complaint is about mortgage advice Mrs and Mr T received on three separate 
occasions between 2006 and 2008. The advice was given by a broker who is part of 
Largemortgageloans.com Limited (LCL). Mrs and Mr T, who have third-party 
representation, say the advice was flawed, due to mistakes and regulatory breaches, 
resulting in financial detriment to them. 
What happened
The main facts of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them in 
detail here. Our decisions are published and its important that I dont include any information 
here that might result in Mrs and Mr T being identified. Also, Im aware that the events at the 
heart of the complaint have been set out in considerable detail in the investigators view of 
the complaint, which isnt published, and both parties have seen that. Instead Ill give a brief 
summary in my own words and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Also, any 
figures I may have referenced are rounded.
In 2006, LCL arranged a new mortgage for Mrs and Mr T to move house, with a lender Ill 
call N. The main thrust of the complaint about this transaction is that Mrs and Mr T say LCL 
overcharged its fee by £3,000 and that its mortgage sourcing was flawed. This meant that 
cheaper alternatives from lenders Ill call B and R respectively were disregarded in favour of 
N.
In 2007, LCL arranged a secured loan with a second charge lender Ill call F. The main thrust 
of the complaint about this transaction is that Mrs and Mr T would have been better advised 
to take a further advance from N.
In 2008, LCL arranged a re-mortgage from N to a lender Ill call C. The main thrust of the 
complaint about this transaction is that information gathering was flawed, and that the switch 
to C wasnt the best choice for Mrs and Mr T.
Our investigator initially thought the complaint might be time-barred under our rules, but Mrs 
and Mr Ts representative challenged this and the case went to an ombudsman colleague to 
decide jurisdiction. My fellow ombudsman concluded that we could deal with the events in 
2006 and 2007, but not those in 2008.  
When we did so, our investigator didnt think LCL had done anything wrong regarding the 
secured loan in 2007, as N wasnt willing to lend Mrs and Mr T all the money they wanted. 
On the sale of the mortgage with N in 2006, the investigators conclusion were, in summary:
The cheaper mortgage with B wasnt an option for LCL to arrange, as B only took 
applications from consumers directly, rather than through intermediaries;
The information LCL used for sourcing the mortgage was wrong, and resulted in the 
wrong loan-to-value (LTV) being used when sourcing the mortgage with N. However, 
with the passage of time, he didnt think it was possible safely to decide whether, and to 
what extent, Mrs and Mr T had suffered financial detriment.
What looked like a fee overcharge of £3,000 was a typing error.
The investigator recommended LCL pay Mrs and Mr T £150 compensation by way of an 
apology for not using the correct sourcing information. 
 Mrs and Mr Ts representative has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. His reasons were set out in a letter dated 27 July 2021, and I summarise the 
key points as follows:
On the 2006 transaction, lender R (as well as lender B) would have been a cheaper 
option; in any event, LCL could have advised Mrs and Mr T (for a fee) on how to apply to 
B directly.
On the 2007 transaction, there was no evidence LCL advised Mrs and Mr T it would be 
cheaper to borrow some of the money from N on a further advance and either borrow the 
rest from F.
Mrs and Mr Ts loss didnt begin when they became aware of the grounds for complaint, 
and enough information exists for that loss to be calculated.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority.  We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions 
on how we investigate a complaint, or when we have enough information on file to decide it.
Ive looked at the decision my fellow ombudsman reached on which parts of the complaint 
our rules permit us to deal with. I agree with her decision, and the reasons for her having 
reached it, as a consequence of which my final decision is confined to events in 2006 and 
2007.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also paid particular attention to the 
representatives letter of 27 July 2021, which sets out the grounds for a review of the 
investigators findings.
Starting with the 2006 mortgage, I share the investigators view that the wrong information 
was used for sourcing the mortgage. Clearly, that shouldnt have happened, and yes, it does 
introduce the possibility that it resulted in the wrong mortgage being sourced. But I also agree with the investigator (and therefore by extension, disagree with the 
representative) that assessing whether and to what extent Mrs and Mr T suffered detriment 
is no easy matter. Its not simply a case of saying if things had gone as they should, 
Mrs and Mr T would have had this mortgage rather than that mortgage and comparing the 
cost of the two for the duration. Its much more nuanced than that.
First of all, theres the representatives suggestion that LCL collect a fee for helping 
Mrs and Mr T apply to B directly, given that it didnt accept applications through 
intermediaries. That would have involved LCL, in effect, completely changing its terms of 
business to create a bespoke agreement for Mrs and Mr T, and I dont agree that a fair 
interpretation of the rules of mortgage regulation requires businesses to do that.
The other alternative lender referenced by Mrs and Mr Ts representative is R. A mortgage 
application could have been made to R, but it cant be taken for granted that it would have 
been accepted. But if its assumed for a moment that it would have been, and the 2006 
mortgage completed with R, theres still a great deal of uncertainty about what might or could 
have happened thereafter. 
I make that point because in the late summer of 2007, R all intents and purposes stopped 
trading. Its structural problems were the first to emerge (in the UK at least) in what became 
known as the global financial crisis, revealing it to be an unviable business. 
Of course that could not have been foreseen in 2006, by LCL or anyone else for that matter. 
But it amply illustrates why making any kind of reliable assessment of how Mrs and Mr T 
would have been affected financially if their 2006 mortgage had been placed with R instead 
of N, as suggested by their representative here, is fraught with difficulty. To be frank, it would 
require me to speculate far beyond what I consider safe or appropriate. 
In summary, I agree with the investigator that all that can safely be concluded here is that 
finding out that things didnt go as they should have in 2006 was distressing for 
Mrs and Mr T. They found this out relatively recently, and any compensation I award for that 
distress must reflect that. I also keep in mind that Mrs and Mr T would probably have 
suffered a greater level of stress, uncertainty and anxiety if theyd been existing borrowers 
with R (instead of with N) when it stopped trading in 2007. Having considered everything 
thats been said and provided, I agree that £150 is fair compensation in all the 
circumstances.
One conclusion I can reach safely and without speculation, is that arguing that the 2006 
mortgage should have been placed with R instead of N, as suggested by Mrs and Mr Ts 
representative, impacts on the outcome of the complaint as it relates to what happened in 
2007 with regard to the second charge loan. I go there next.
In November 2007, Mrs and Mr T wanted £36,000 to carry out home improvements; when N 
told them it was only willing to consider lending £22,000. Mrs and Mr T asked LCL to find 
them an alternative and it did what they wanted by arranging for another intermediary to 
obtain the secured loan with F. Their representative says LCL failed to advise them that 
borrowing £22,000 from N and £14,000 from F would be cheaper. Ive thought hard about 
that, but dont find it a convincing argument.
First of all, I note that in his email to LCL of 27 November 2007 regarding the further 
advance Mr T said he was intending to take the standard variable rate (i.e. not the fixed rate 
of the main mortgage) as that would give more options come August next year. One day 
later, Mr T emailed LCL again to say Nationwide was only willing to lend £22,000. So the 
relevant comparison isnt between Fs rate and the existing mortgages fixed rate, but 
between Fs variable rate and Ns variable rate. Secondly, in an email to us dated 11 May 2021, Mrs and Mr Ts representative told us that 
LCLs role in the 2007 transaction was to arrange for another intermediary to place the loan 
with F. If true, then depending on any terms of business agreed between Mrs and Mr T and 
that other intermediary, it could well be that the responsibility to recommend the cheapest 
solution for the extra borrowing in 2007 lay with that other intermediary, not with LCL. That, 
of course, might explain why theres no evidence of LCL having given that advice.
More significantly, to be certain of getting the full £36,000, Mrs and Mr T would have needed 
to run both applications in tandem. Each lender would have found out about the other 
application when it did final credit checks and theres a good chance that one, if not both, 
applications would have been refused on the grounds of the existence of the other. 
Lastly, Ive kept in mind that Mrs and Mr Ts representative doesnt believe Mrs and Mr Ts 
mortgage should even have been with N in the first place. In that context, by arguing that 
LCL should have done more in 2007 to place some of the extra borrowing with N, it seems to 
me Mrs and Mr Ts representative is rather arguing against himself. 
If the 2006 mortgage had been placed with R instead of N (as the representative believes 
should have happened) then there would have been no prospect of Mrs and Mr T borrowing 
any more money from R in November 2007. Theyd have ended up doing what they did; i.e. 
borrowing all of the further advance funds from F.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint in part only, and in full and final settlement thereof, order 
Largemortgageloans.com Limited to pay Mrs and Mr T £150. My final decision concludes 
this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman