DRN-3400362
The complaint
Mr C complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) misrepresented to him the 
spouses benefits payable from his policy on death.
What happened
Mr C said his financial adviser received confirmation in 2012 that in the event of his death his 
long-term partner would receive a spouses pension. In 2021 Aviva backtracked and said 
that this was not correct as he and his partner were not legally married. Mr C said it would 
cost him to buy an annuity to provide similar cover. Aviva paid £350 which was not enough.
Aviva said the plan had been set up to secure a Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP). This 
was earned from his employment and contracting out of the state earnings related pension 
scheme (SERPS). It carried a spouses pension payable on the death of Mr C to any legally 
married spouse or civil partner in accordance with HMRC rules and provided the marriage 
took place at least six months before death. 
Aviva accepted that in 2012 it had wrongly said a spouse benefit of 50% of Mr Cs annuity 
would be paid to his partner, who it named in its confirmation letter. In 2021 it clarified that 
this was incorrect as Mr C was not legally married to his partner. In the light of the error it 
sent Mr C a cheque for £350 for distress and inconvenience.
The investigator said the annuity was set up in November 2011 and included a spouses 
benefit for the GMP element. He said that the HMRC rules determine who the spouses 
pension would be payable to and these clearly referred to a married man. It wasnt possible 
for the spouses pension to be paid to Mr Cs unmarried partner.
He accepted that wrong information was supplied in 2012 and in that situation this service 
would seek to reflect the loss of expectation. He thought that the £350 was fair and 
reasonable. He didnt expect Aviva to amend the annuity to reflect the incorrect information. 
There was no evidence Mr C had suffered a financial loss due to the mistake.
Mr C didnt agree and his IFA said it was unacceptable that Aviva were now going back on 
their findings in 2012. It was hiding behind HMRC rules that remained the same as they 
were in 2012. He thought Aviva should stand by its statement made in 2012 that there would 
be a spouses pension payable to Mr Cs partner of over 40 years. If they couldnt pay the 
spouses pension, they could pay something else. He also asked if the payment conflicted 
with recent liberalisation of laws concerning common law partnerships. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not disputed that a mistake was made in 2012 stating a spouses pension would be 
payable to Mr Cs partner.
Where there is a mistake this service would follow the law and seek to put Mr C as close to 
the position, he would have been in, but for the mistake. The law would not seek to put him 
in the position he would have been in had the mistake been correct. 
Where there is a mistake, I can make an award for financial loss and distress and 
inconvenience arising from that mistake. That is what I have considered below.
Financial loss
I have seen the retirement preparation letter issued in June 2011 advising of his forthcoming 
retirement. The form attached asked him to indicate whether he was single, married, 
separated divorced, co-habiting, widowed or in a civil partnership.
I have also seen the retiring now form, and can see that Mr C selected Options 1(Non- 
GMP) and 1G (GMP) which had to be taken together, so that all of his pension (both GMP 
and Non GMP) was secured in the same way. Option 1G carried a pension with a 50% 
spouses pension but option 1 did not. 
The other option he could take was an open market option to take his funds to another 
insurance company. It seems there was a small excess over the GMP (creating a yearly 
pension of £4.08).The form asks if Mr C is married or has a civil partner? He has replied yes 
and provided details for his partner. The form was signed and dated by Mr C in October 
2011. 
The important notes to the form contain a section headed Spouses options. This says, If 
you are not married, the spouses pension is not payable. (my emphasis)
It seems clear to me that the policy terms at the time Mr C took them out were clear that 
there would not be a spouses pension if Mr C was not legally married. 
It may well be that Mr C didnt appreciate this at the time and this is why he included details 
of his partner on the form. However that does not make him entitled to something that was 
never promised or offered. I note also that he had a financial adviser at the time who was 
paid commission for advising on the product he selected (I say that because details of the 
commission are included on the form). So it would have been for the financial adviser to 
ensure the product was appropriate for Mr C and his personal circumstances.
I can see that in early 2012, the IFA requests confirmation that the spouses pension would 
apply to Mr Cs long-term partner to whom he was not married. Aviva wrote to the IFA on 13 
June 2012 and confirmed that on the death of Mr C a spouses benefit of 50% of Mr Cs 
annuity would be paid to his partner. We know, in the light of the original policy documents, 
and what Aviva has since said, that this statement was not correct and Aviva confirmed that 
in 2021. 
To put Mr C back in the position he would have been in, but for the mistake ( which was 
telling him he would get a spouses pension for his partner), would mean that he reverted to 
the correct 2011 position i.e. without a spouses pension for his partner to whom he says he 
is not legally married.
The position would be different if Mr C had placed reliance on the representation made in 
2012 and changed his position and suffered financial loss. But I dont think he did. I say that 
because he entered into the annuity contract in 2011 based on correct information, that no 
spouses pension would be paid unless married. 
When the mistake was made in 2012 Mr C didnt change his position, as he had already taken out the policy before the statement was made, so there was no reliance to his 
detriment. I accept that had he known the correct position he might have taken out separate 
insurance to provide a pension for his partner. But he didnt do that and in effect he saved 
the money that would have been needed to buy that cover.
Thankfully Mr C didnt die during that time. So I dont think he changed his position to his 
detriment in reliance on what he was told in 2012 , and did not suffer any financial loss. 
I dont think that Aviva are hiding behind any HMRC rules, I think they are following them, as 
they are required to do.
Mr C also referred to recent liberalisation of laws concerning common law partnerships. He 
did not specify which laws he meant. I am not aware of any laws relevant to this specific 
situation, but that is a matter Mr C can take up with Aviva directly should he wish to.
The investigator asked what Mr C would have done had he had the correct information. Mr C 
replied that he would have got married. I dont know the details of Mr Cs personal 
circumstance and whether that option remains open to Mr C. If it does, he may wish to get 
Aviva to confirm that such a marriage would mean his new wife would be entitled to a 
spouses pension under the policy, assuming he didnt die within six months of the marriage. 
I say that because there are some references to the treatment of marriages after leaving 
employment and leaving the scheme which should first be clarified to make sure a legal 
marriage will bring with it the spouses pension Mr C would like to have.
Distress and inconvenience
It is however clear that a mistake was made and I can consider an award for distress and 
inconvenience. Such an award is intended to reflect the impact on Mr C not to punish Aviva 
nor to provide financial compensation for loss of expectation, which I have dealt with above. 
I can see the mistake caused confusion and while for a time Mr C was reassured, he is now 
concerned by the lack of provision. However it does not seem that Aviva had a choice as 
they are following the rules applicable to GMPs and Mr C never was entitled to the spouses 
pension. I accept that he was disappointed when he understood the true position and has 
suffered a loss or expectation. I think the amount of £350 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and had I made an award it would have been of a similar amount.
For those reasons I do not uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
I think the award made by Aviva was fair and reasonable. So I am not making any further 
award and dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman