DRN-2217826
The complaint
Mrs H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc will not refund all of the money she lost after falling 
victim to a scam.
What happened
In June 2019, Mrs H saw an 18ct white and yellow gold bracelet advertised by a private 
seller on an online marketplace. Mrs H explains that she had used this website before 
successfully to buy other items of jewellery. Mrs H told me she had some jewellery stolen so 
she initially started to look on auction websites to try and trace her own pieces, then she 
used them to successfully purchase replacements. Mrs H told me that shed had no 
problems in the past, with the items always arriving promptly by special delivery. Mrs H says 
she was interested in the bracelet because it was the closest shed seen to the one shed 
had taken. She told me that shed watched the item on the marketplace for a while and then 
decided to buy it because it was a good bracelet at a good price. 
The advert had pictures of the bracelet along with key details about it such as its weight and 
hallmarks. Mrs H has provided a copy of the advert which shows the seller had a positive 
rating on the website, ranking 4.5 out of a possible five stars with 181 reviews. 
  
The bracelet was listed for sale at £750, but Mrs H made an offer of £600 which was 
accepted. Mrs H explains all of the contact she had with the seller took place through the 
websites messaging service, just as her previous successful purchases had. The seller told 
Mrs H they didnt have PayPal but would accept cash on collection or payment by bank 
transfer. As the seller lived some distance away from Mrs H, it was agreed she would pay by 
bank transfer and then the seller would dispatch the bracelet using a traceable delivery 
service. On 26 June 2019, Mrs H phoned the bank and used its telephone banking service to 
make a payment to the account details shed been given. The seller confirmed they had 
received the money and would be in touch with the parcel tracking details.
Unfortunately, Mrs H was dealing with a scammer. She didnt receive tracking details and 
was unable to make any further contact with the seller. When the bracelet didnt arrive, she 
realised she had been tricked. On 28 June 2019, Mrs H contacted the bank to report what 
had happened. She also contacted the scammers bank, the website and Action Fraud. The 
website has since suspended this seller from its marketplace. 
HSBC contacted the receiving bank but was unable to recover any of the money Mrs H had 
sent. It also considered whether it ought to refund Mrs H for her loss. HSBC is a signatory to 
the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM or the Code) and so considered its 
obligations under it. 
On 30 July 2019 HSBC wrote to Mrs H. It said it should have done more to protect and 
advise her before she made the payment. But it felt Mrs H could have taken more 
responsibility and made checks before making the payments too. So it thought they should 
share the responsibility and offered to reimburse half of the money Mrs H had lost. It 
refunded £300 into her account.  
Mrs H complained. She thought HSBC should have refunded all the money shed lost. She 
pointed out HSBC had said she could have done more but didnt advise what else she could 
do. She explained she had spoken to the Police and the receiving bank.   
HSBC looked into Mrs Hs complaint but did not change its position. It issued its final 
response on 19 August 2019. In it, it said it had accepted 50% liability as it did not have 
appropriate fraud warnings in place on its online banking service but felt Mrs H was 50% 
liable too. It said she did not use a reputable website to purchase the item and didnt use a 
payment service such as a debit or credit card or PayPal which offer some form of buyer 
protection. 
Mrs H was unhappy with HSBCs response and asked us to review the banks position. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He contacted HSBC on 28 May 2020 and said HSBC 
should have fully reimbursed Mrs H. 
He noted HSBC had refunded Mrs H with 50% of the funds lost because it should have done 
more checks before the payment was made. He didnt agree with the banks suggestion that 
this wasnt a reputable website. He pointed out that the online marketplace is owned by a 
multinational business and is reasonably well known from its internet, television and print 
advertising. He thought Mrs H had a reasonable basis for believing she was dealing with a 
legitimate seller when she made the payment. He didnt think shed been grossly negligent. 
HSBC responded on 8 July 2020 and disagreed. It felt its offer to reimburse half of the 
payment was in compliance with the CRM Code and was fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances. 
It didnt think Mrs H had a reasonable belief that the payment was for genuine goods and 
that the person she was transacting with was legitimate. It said Mrs H did not meet the 
requisite level of care required by the CRM Code and should rightly bear some responsibility 
for her loss. It said the price of the bracelet was too good to be true and that Mrs H was or 
ought to have been aware of this. It felt it was unusual to buy goods from a marketplace 
without using PayPal so Mrs H did not meet the requisite level of care - or that she was 
grossly negligent in her actions and beliefs. 
In summary, HSBC wanted it noted that: 
There had been no detailed consideration of the fraudsters profile on the 
marketplace. It said whilst the fraudster was stated to have an OK rating on the site. 
(sic) There was therefore no basis for having confidence in the bona-fides (sic) of the 
[marketplace] profile as a seller and this alone should have given Mrs H pause for 
thought before committing to a £600 purchase.
Mrs H hasnt given any evidence of the steps she took before finding the bracelet 
listing or whether it was being advertised at market value. It suggests that before 
purchasing an item of jewellery, one would expect at least rudimentary research into 
a number of different items and sellers and is concerned that there is no indication 
why [marketplace] was chosen as the appropriate place to purchase the bracelet.
The bank considers that it must be inferred that Mrs Hs purchasing decision was 
guided largely, if not wholly, by price. This, in our opinion, was a red flag in this case.
It did not consider an effective warning in compliance with the CRM Code would have 
prevented Mrs H from making the payment. It said the investigator had quoted selectively from the CRM Code and omitted key 
considerations such as the balance to be achieved between prevention and 
protection from fraud and minimising disruption when facilitating transactions. 
The marketplace has a buyer protection link on its website and Mrs H failed to review 
this link in order to satisfy herself that the payment request was genuine. 
The bank also asked to see a copy of the advert and listing from the website, which our 
investigator promptly provided. HSBC said it wanted to consider its position. 
As HSBC did not respond to indicate whether seeing the advert had changed its position, no 
agreement could be reached and the complaint was passed to me. Mrs H was disappointed 
that the matter was escalated. She pointed out that she was 73 years old now and had been 
the banks customer since she was 16. 
When the complaint was passed to me, HSBC responded and provided details of other 
bracelets listed for sale on websites and auction websites. It suggested the type of bracelet 
Mrs H thought she was buying would cost significantly more than the initially advertised price 
and pointed out that Mrs H had been able to negotiate a deal to reduce the price even more. 
In closing, it thought the price she had agreed was simply too good to be true.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required 
to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry 
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
However, where the consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer 
even though they authorised the payment. 
Of particular relevance to the question of what is fair and reasonable in this case is the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code), 
which HSBC has signed up to.
Under the CRM Code the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam, like Mrs H. The circumstances where a firm may choose not 
to reimburse are limited and it is for them to establish that a customer failed to meet their 
requisite level of care, as set out in the Code. 
It says:
A Firm may choose not to reimburse a Customer if it can establish any of the 
following matters in (a) to (e). The assessment of whether these matters can be 
established should involve consideration of whether they would have had a material 
effect on preventing the APP scam that took place.(a) The Customer ignored Effective Warnings, given by a Firm in compliance with 
SF1(2), by failing to take appropriate action in response to such an Effective Warning 
given in any of the following:
(i) when setting up a new payee;
(ii) when amending an existing payee, and/ or
(iii) immediately before making the payment
(c) In all the circumstances at the time of the payment, in particular the characteristics 
of the Customer and the complexity and sophistication of the APP scam, the Customer 
made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
(i) the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay;
(ii) the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
(iii) the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
(e) The Customer has been grossly negligent. For the avoidance of doubt the 
provisions of R2(1)(a)-(d) should not be taken to define gross negligence in this 
context
Subsections (b) and (d) have not been included as they are not relevant to this 
complaint. 
When assessing whether it can establish these things, the firm must consider whether 
they would have had a material effect on preventing the APP scam. The Code itself 
doesnt set out specific examples of a customer failing to meet their requisite level of 
care. Its for businesses to consider each case on its own facts. 
I have thought about how the CRM Code applies in the circumstances of the payment 
Mrs H made and, in particular, whether HSBC ought to reimburse her under the 
provisions of the Code. 
When HSBC first considered this matter, it said it was refunding 50% of the money 
Mrs H had transferred because it had not provided effective online warnings. But Mrs H 
made the payment through the telephone banking service. 
Our investigator pointed out HSBC hadnt suggested that Mrs H had ignored an 
effective warning so he did not need to consider that point further. In HSBCs recent 
responses, it has suggested an effective warning would not have prevented Mrs H from 
making the payment and the investigators conclusion that it would was not supported 
by any reasoning. But from what I have seen, the investigator did not make this finding. 
HSBC has reiterated that its key concerns in this case are whether Mrs H had a 
reasonable belief that the payment was for genuine goods and that she was transacting 
with a legitimate person, and whether she was grossly negligent. As it is not arguing that 
she ignored an effective warning and has accepted it didnt do enough to protect her by 
refunding 50%, Im going to go on and consider whether HSBC has been able to 
establish that it may choose not to reimburse Mrs H fully for any other reasons given in 
the Code. Although Ive considered HSBCs comments carefully, I dont think it has. 
Ill explain why. Has HSBC established that Mrs H made the payment without a reasonable basis for 
believing that the payee was the person she was expecting to pay, the payment was for 
genuine goods or service, and/or the business with who she was transacting with was 
legitimate? 
I have outlined HSBCs representations around this point in length earlier in this 
decision. Theres no debate that Mrs H did all that she reasonably could to try and get 
her money back after she found out she had been the victim of a scam. HSBCs position 
is that she failed to take appropriate steps before making the payment, so it wasnt 
reasonable for her to think that she was buying genuine goods from a legitimate seller. 
HSBC has placed a lot of emphasis on the price of the bracelet and the level of 
research it would have expected her to do before agreeing to buy it. But I think HSBC 
needs to be realistic in its expectations of what would be reasonable and prudent for an 
individual to do when sourcing goods online. 
Mrs H found the bracelet advertised on an online marketplace. Marketplaces are an 
increasingly common way for private sellers to sell items they no longer want, use or 
need. Whilst the marketplace that Mrs H used isnt the most prevalent one, it is still 
reasonably well known and one that she had used successfully for other similar 
purchases in the past. As the items offered for sale on this marketplace are from 
predominately private sellers, it would not be realistic to expect payment for these items 
to be made by plastic card. From what I have seen, this particular marketplace did not 
have PayPal integrated into its website when Mrs H agreed to buy the bracelet, nor are 
sellers offering items for sale on the platform obligated to accept PayPal as a form of 
payment. This means that some sellers are only able to accept payment in cash or by 
direct bank transfer. I dont think its fair to say Mrs H has acted irresponsibly by opting to 
make payment by bank transfer when there was no other feasible way for her to pay. 
I accept that buying from a private seller on a marketplace is not the same as buying 
from an established retailer, where the purchase is likely to be covered by consumer 
protection legislation if theres a problem. But there was nothing obviously untoward 
about this seller from the information that was available to Mrs H at the time. The seller 
was rated 4.5 stars out of a possible five stars, with 181 reviews. Its possible that those 
reviews were falsified, especially as the marketplace has since suspended this seller 
from its platform. But I can see why this information would have lulled Mrs H into a false 
sense of security at the time that she made the payment. User feedback and reviews 
are an integral part of the online marketplace experience and its not unreasonable for 
Mrs H to have felt reassured that she was dealing with a trusted and established seller 
as a result. I also note that all of Mrs Hs dealings with the seller were conducted 
through the marketplaces messaging and communication platform, which shes 
explained gave her further confidence that she was doing everything right. For these 
reasons, Im not persuaded that Mrs H ought reasonably to have had qualms about the 
seller at the time. All of the information that Mrs H had indicated the seller was 
legitimate. 
HSBC has strongly suggested that the price for this bracelet was too good to be true 
and that Mrs H should have realised that it wasnt genuine as a result. But I disagree. 
Ive looked carefully at the extracts of the advert Mrs H has provided. At no point does it 
say that this bracelet is brand new, so I dont think it is fair to compare the price to the 
cost of what a similar item would be when new. 
It is clearly a used bracelet as the seller refers to getting compliments when they have 
worn it. As the bracelet was made out of a precious metal that holds its value, its not 
unreasonable to expect the bracelet to still have a second-hand value, so I dont think its advertised price was alarmingly cheap. HSBC has pointed out that Mrs H was able 
to negotiate a deal price that was cheaper still which should have further indicated that 
something wasnt right. But I disagree. Mrs Hs deal price was £600, which wasnt an 
entirely spurious amount compared to what the seller had originally listed the bracelet 
for. Sales of second-hand goods can have a degree of negotiation around the price and 
its not unusual for interested buyers to make offers. A seller could be motivated to 
accept a lower offer if they need a quick sale or if theres not been much interest in their 
item. 
Ive also noted that the description of this bracelet had information that was reassuring 
to Mrs H, such as the reference to the precious metal being hallmarked. The bracelet is 
a distinctive style and a blend of two-coloured metals. Its appearance was an important 
factor to Mrs H and something I think HSBC has overlooked. Mrs H liked the look and 
style of this particular bracelet and she wanted to buy it. From the information in the 
advert, it was genuine gold and Mrs H was happy to buy it from the seller at the price 
they had agreed. She had no reason to think that the seller would not keep to their side 
of the bargain, given her positive experiences of using the platform to buy other items 
and the feedback the seller had received. Im not persuaded that it is fair to expect 
Mrs H to have researched the item any further than this, and certainly not to the depth 
that HSBC has indicated would be fair and reasonable. Whilst £600 is not an 
inconsequential amount of money, it is not uncommon to find and buy items online that 
cost this much, if not more. As a result, I think HSBCs expectations of Mrs H are far too 
high.
Was Mrs H grossly negligent?  
HSBC says that Mrs H did not meet the requisite level of care and the CRM Code 
stipulates that she should bear 50% of the loss that she has suffered. It suggests if this 
is not the case, Mrs H was grossly negligent in her actions and beliefs.
Although HSBC has not elaborated on specifically what aspects of Mrs Hs actions and 
beliefs it considers would meet the very high bar for gross negligence, in my 
consideration of this case I dont think Mrs Hs actions and beliefs show a lack of care 
that goes significantly beyond what a reasonable person would have done in the same 
situation. For the reasons Ive already explained earlier in this decision, Im persuaded 
Mrs Hs actions do not show a lack of care that goes significantly beyond what a 
reasonable person would have done in the same situation. 
Overall
Overall, I am satisfied that HSBC should have reimbursed Mrs H under the provisions of the 
CRM Code. In the circumstances I think HSBC ought to have fully refunded Mrs H at the 
time she reported the loss and so it should fairly and reasonably compensate Mrs H by 
refunding the remainder of that loss now. 
Putting things right
The Code explains that where a customer has met their requisite level of care (which as Ive 
explained, Im satisfied was the case here) they should be refunded all of the money that 
was lost.
So I think its fair that HSBC refunds the remaining £300 Mrs H lost, along with 8% simple 
interest from the date HSBC decided not to refund her under the Code until the date the 
funds are returned.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay 
the settlement as Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman