DRN-3443215
The complaint
Mrs and Mr G complain that Lloyds Bank PLC gave them incorrect information about the 
package bank accounts available to them. They say that, as a result, they lost out on a 
higher rate of interest. 
What happened
Mrs and Mr G already had a Gold packaged bank account. They say that, in 2016, Lloyds 
told them they couldnt have two packaged bank accounts (Gold and Club Lloyds) at the 
same time. Mr G says that, more recently, Lloyds told him they could have both accounts at 
the same time. Mrs and Mr G say they could have earned a much better rate of interest on 
their savings if this had been allowed. 
Lloyds say there is a note on their system that an adviser had, in 2016, told Mr G that he 
couldnt have a Club Lloyds account because he only had one direct debit set up  and the 
terms and conditions require at least two direct debits. Mr G says he was not told this at the 
time. 
Our adjudicator looked at the evidence and said the bank records did support Lloyds 
account of what happened. Mrs and Mr G disagreed and so the matter has come to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken a similar view to that of the adjudicator. The bank record of a conversation in 2016 
does suggest that there was discussion about the rules on direct debits and how this meant 
they werent eligible for the Club Lloyds account. From what Ive seen, this advice was 
correct.
I dont of course know whether this is a fully accurate note, nor what exactly was said to 
Mr G and how clearly things were explained. But I also dont know whether the Lloyds 
adviser did explain things well enough, but Mr G misunderstood. 
For me to fairly say that Lloyds did something wrong, I would need reasonable supporting 
evidence. I dont have that, and the actual documentary evidence there is tends to support 
Lloyds position. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint, for the reasons Ive given. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman