DRN-3726313
The complaint
Ms J complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt apply pending transactions to her credit card 
account and charged her interest. She is also unhappy with the way HSBC handled things. 
Ms J want compensation for the trouble and upset she experienced. She also wants HSBC 
to refund her the transactions and interest she was charged.
What happened
On 29 December 2020, Ms J contacted HSBC to report fraudulent transactions had been 
made on her account. She told HSBC that she didnt want to cancel her credit as she was 
using the card for online festive shopping. And didnt want to wait for a new card to be 
issued. So, Ms J arranged to confirm transactions with the bank when she used her card.
HSBC looked into Ms Js claim and refunded the disputed transactions. HSBC also asked 
Ms J about two payments of £1,585 and £47.50 which were made in December 2020. Ms J 
confirmed these as genuine and requested these be allowed to be paid. HSBC told Ms J that 
the transactions were in pending status and would be applied to her new credit card when a 
statement was generated. However, the transactions werent applied to Ms Js account until 
June 2021. Up until this time the transactions had been in an interest free holding account. 
Ms J noticed the transactions on her account statement, and she says she was shocked by 
the sudden increase in her balance. She immediately called HSBC to try and find out more 
about the transactions. But the bank didnt provide her with a proper explanation about why 
the transactions had taken six months to appear on her account. Between June and August 
2021, Ms J had to make several phone calls to HSBC, however, HSBC didnt escalate the 
matter to the correct department and didnt respond to Ms J within agreed timescales. So, 
Ms J raised a complaint.
In response, HSBC apologised and accepted it should have applied the transactions to 
Ms Js account sooner than it did. HSBC also accepted that it had provided Ms J with poor 
service because she had to contact the bank on numerous occasions and each time the 
bank hadnt provided her with a proper explanation about why this had happened. HSBC 
offered Ms J £100 for the trouble and upset this had caused her.  
Ms J didnt accept HSBCs offer. She pointed out that shed been a loyal customer of the 
bank for over twenty years and that she feels very let down by how shes been treated. Ms J 
says she took all necessary steps to ensure that all her credit card transactions were 
transferred over to her new card and feels it is unacceptable for HSBC to charge her for  
transactions six months after being made. She said HSBC should refund the transactions 
that were applied late and correct her credit file which has been negatively impacted by 
HSBCs actions.
One of our investigators looked into Ms Js complaint. She didnt think HSBC should refund 
the two late transactions as they were made by Ms J for goods and services she received. 
She also said that Ms J hadnt paid any interest on the amounts until the transactions had 
been applied to her account in June 2021. And she hadnt seen any evidence that Ms Js 
credit file had been impacted. She agreed that HSBC should have provided Ms J with better 
service but said that £100 was fair and reasonable to compensate for any trouble and upset 
Ms J had suffered. 
Ms J disagreed.  Ms J has explained that prior to the two late transactions being applied to 
her account she was paying minimum interest payments.  So, to put things right, she says 
HSBC should waive the interest applied to her account from June 2021 (around £370) until 
now whilst she waited for HSBC to respond to her complaint. And having to escalate the 
matter to our service. She also says the amount of compensation offered doesnt go far 
enough to compensate her for the amount of time she has spent trying to resolve things with 
HSBC.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im 
satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that Ms J and 
HSBC have said before reaching my decision.
It's not in dispute that a mistake happened when the pending transactions Ms J made in 
December 2020, werent applied to Ms Js account until June 2021. HSBC has also 
accepted that it should have provided Ms J with better service when she contacted the bank 
seeking an explanation about why the pending transactions took so long to appear on her 
account. HSBC accepts it didnt provide Ms J with a reasonable explanation and didnt deal 
with her calls as it should have. So, the issue I need to decide in this decision is what should 
be done by HSBC to put things right considering all the circumstances.
I think its clear that the account balance was important to Ms J from the numerous calls she 
made to HSBC trying to find out what had happened. And Ive no doubt that it would have 
come as quite a shock to Ms J to see transactions appear on her account that she thought 
shed already paid  especially as shed recently been the victim of fraud and budgeted on 
the basis that her account was up to date. But I dont think its unfair for HSBC to ask Ms J to 
repay the late transactions, which were genuine spending by Ms J for goods and services 
she received. So, HSBC would be wiping off debt Ms J owed.
Ms J has said she hasnt repaid the full statement amount because of her dispute about the 
late transactions. Ive considered Ms Js argument, but I dont think this meant HSBC should 
have prevented interest being applied to her account. Because the statement balance wasnt 
repaid it meant interest was able to be applied to the account for the entire statement 
balance, which included the late transactions. I dont think HSBC has treated Ms J unfairly 
here. Although I accept Ms J is unhappy to repay the late transactions, I dont think HSBC 
made an error in charging interest. Ive also kept in mind that up until June 2021, the 
transactions were held in a pending account  so Ms J hasnt paid any interest on the 
transactions between December 2020 and June 2021. It follows that as HSBC havent made an error with how they have applied the interest I wont be asking them to refund Ms J the 
interest that was applied to her account. 
Ms J has said she wants more than £100 compensation to resolve this matter. Shes pointed 
out that she is a professional person and has spent a considerable amount of time trying to 
sort things out with HSBC, which was tedious and stressful. I should explain that our awards 
are designed to reflect the actual loss, trouble, and upset caused to the consumer by 
something a financial business did wrong. We are not here to punish financial businesses. 
Nor can we award compensation as a means of punishing a business for a consumer 
bringing their complaint to this service. 
I accept that Ms J would have been shocked to see transactions she thought shed paid 
applied to her account several months after she made them, and the subsequent poor 
communication from HSBC clearly caused Ms J further stress and inconvenience. Its not 
possible to give back Ms J her time or take away the upset caused. HSBC has accepted its 
service fell short and didnt respond to Ms J when it said it would. It has apologised to Ms J 
and offered her £100 compensation. Ive no doubt that having to chase the bank repeatedly 
caused Ms J a good deal of frustration and inconvenience. But I think the banks offer is a 
reasonable reflection of what went wrong and the impact on Ms J. So, Im not going to ask 
HSBC to do anything more regarding this aspect of Ms Js complaint. I think the offer of £100 
is fair and reasonable. 
In summary, its clearly caused Ms J inconvenience when transactions were applied late to 
her account, and she received poor service from HSBC when she tried to sorting things out. 
So understandably shes upset, and I realise she will be disappointed by my decision. But 
having looked at all the evidence and circumstances of this complaint, I wont be asking 
HSBC to do anything more to resolve Ms Js complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont require HSBC UK Bank Plc to do anything more to 
resolve Ms Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman