DRN-1428534
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the fee Peach Code Ltd charged her for representing her in a 
Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) complaint.
What happened
In March 2018, Peach Code phoned Mrs M and asked her if she wanted to make a claim for 
mis-sold PPI. Mrs M agreed for Peach Code to send her a form.
In 2019 Mrs M returned the completed form and gave Peach Code authority to pursue PPI 
claims on her behalf. Shortly afterwards, Peach code was successful in gaining a settlement 
from a lender who had sold PPI to Mrs M. Peach Code sent Mrs M an invoice for its fee of 
30% of the settlement (+VAT).
Mrs M queried the amount of the invoice. She said shed found out that legislation came into 
force in July 2018 meaning all PPI claims companies had to cap their fees. This meant 
Peach Code couldnt charge more than 20% of the settlement (+ VAT). 
Peach Code said it was allowed to charge fees of 30% (+ VAT) because this was the 
amount showing on the letter of authority Mrs M had signed. It said shed agreed for Peach 
Code to represent her in March 2018, which was before the fee cap had come in. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ms concerns and thought her complaint should be upheld. 
He said Mrs M didnt enter into a contract with Peach Code until May 2019, when she signed 
paperwork agreeing for it to act on her behalf. This was after the fee cap took effect in July 
2018. He said Peach Code should limit its fees to no more than 20% (+ VAT) of the 
settlement offered on the successful claims. He also thought Peach Code should pay £200 it 
had previously offered her for service failings.
Peach Code agreed to limit its fee to 20% (+ VAT). But it didnt agree to pay Mrs M the £200. 
It said it had offered this as a gesture of goodwill, before Mrs M brought the complaint to our 
service. It didnt think it was reasonable for it to have to pay it now it had agreed to reduce its 
fee.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 December 2019, where I explained why I intended to 
uphold Mrs Ms complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstance of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant legislation says that claims management companies arent allowed to charge 
fees of more than 20% (+ VAT) of the amount recovered for the claimant for a PPI claim. 
This legislation came into force on 10 July 2018.Peach Code told Mrs M that it was entitled to charge 30% (+VAT) because shed entered 
into a verbal contract with it in March 2018. Having listened to a recording of Mrs Ms 
conversation with Peach Code in March 2018, Im satisfied she hadnt entered into a 
contract with it at that time. She asked Peach Code to send her a form and said shed think 
about whether she wanted it to pursue a PPI claim for her.
Mrs M didnt sign the paperwork giving Peach Code the authority to act on her behalf until 
May 2019. This was after the fee cap had come into effect. So Peach Code shouldnt have 
charged her more than 20% (+VAT) of the settlement.
Peach Code has accepted our investigators view on this, but it hasnt agreed to pay Mrs M 
£200 it had previously offered. 
Mrs M says that Peach Code initially charged the correct fee (20% + VAT) before charging 
the inflated fee (30% + VAT). It then agreed to a £200 reduction for initially issuing what it 
said was an incorrect invoice. I can understand why Peach Code doesnt think Mrs M is 
entitled to a further £200, now that its agreed to the lower fee. 
Mrs M had already paid Peach Code 20% (+VAT) of the settlement before she brought her 
complaint to us. So Peach Codes fee has been settled. But Mrs M feels that Peach Code 
should pay her £200 compensation for the upset it caused her when it was chasing her for 
the fee.
Mrs M says Peach Code harassed her to settle the account. She says it bombarded her with 
phone calls and lied to her by saying the money was owed to HMRC and it would let them 
know she hadnt paid. 
Peach Codes contact history shows that on the day it received Mrs Ms initial payment, it 
phoned her to see if shed paid the remainder. It phoned her another four times over the 
following eight days.  
After this theres an email exchange between Mrs M and Peach Code where she disputes 
the amount of the fee. In one of the emails Peach Code says Unfortunately (Mrs M) it 
appears you are trying to find a way of not paying HMRC. If we do not receive your final 
invoice payment we will be contacting HMRC to take over as our fees have been paid and 
we are chasing for HMRCs payment.
I dont think the number of phone calls Peach Code made to Mrs M were excessive. But 
bearing in mind it was chasing her for money she didnt owe, I think this caused her some 
unnecessary distress. What seems to have been particularly upsetting for Mrs M was when 
Peach Code accused her of trying to avoid paying tax. She was understandably offended by 
this comment which comes across as being threatening in addition to being inaccurate.
I dont think Peach Code needs to pay the £200 it originally offered Mrs M as a gesture of 
goodwill. But I think it should pay Mrs M some compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused to Mrs M when it chased her to pay more than it was entitled to. So, I intend to direct 
it to pay her £100 for this."
I gave both parties the opportunity to send me any further information or comments they 
wanted me to consider before I issued my final decision.
Peach Code said it agreed with my provisional decision and it was happy to pay Mrs M £100 
only.Mrs M said she didnt agree that the compensation payment should be reduced from £200 to 
£100. She said Peach Code was dishonest with her from when it told her the initial invoice 
shed paid was incorrect. Peach Code told her the amount she still owed was for VAT which 
was clearly untrue, and it was trying to charge her an enhanced fee which was against the 
law. She also felt the number of calls Peach Code made to her were excessive and Peach 
Code was bullying and harassing her. She felt that Peach Codes behaviour should be 
recognised by an appropriate level of compensation. She was not seeking this but would be 
satisfied with the £200 Peach Code initially offered her for its failings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mrs M feels Peach Code should be made to pay a higher amount of 
compensation to her due to the way its acted. But it isnt the role of this service to fine or 
punish a business. I can only consider the impact of Peach Codes actions on Mrs M. And I 
think £100 is fair compensation for the distress and upset Mrs M experienced. So, I dont 
think it would be appropriate to increase the amount of redress Im awarding.
Putting things right
Peach Code should pay Mrs M £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint and direct Peach Code Ltd to pay 
her £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2020.
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman