DRN-3052579
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a PPI policy when they took out a mortgage in 1993. 
Mr and Mrs H paid a monthly amount of £40.31 for the policy. It provided a monthly benefit 
of £580 for up to 36 months per claim if Mr H was too ill to work, or for up to 12 months if 
Mr H was made involuntarily redundant.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs case. Having done so, I wont be 
upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Santander had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs H that the policy was optional. And it had to 
get their consent before it added PPI to their account. Mr and Mrs H have said that they 
agreed to take the policy due to the advice they received at the time, so I think they were 
aware they didnt have to have it. From what Ive seen, Mr and Mrs H are concerned about 
whether the policy was suitable for them given their circumstances at the time. 
Mr and Mrs H say they were given advice and Santander agrees. That means as well as 
giving Mr and Mrs H enough information about the policy, Santander also had to check it 
was suitable for them. Mr and Mrs H say that they dont think it was, but based on what Ive 
seen, I think it was.
Mr H was eligible for the policy and he doesnt seem to have been affected by any of the 
terms which might have made it harder for him to claim on the policy, such as having 
unusual employment circumstances. 
Mr H says he was entitled to employee benefits if lost his job and that Mrs H was also 
working at the time, so they could have afforded to pay the mortgage even if Mr H was not 
working.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs H have said, but I dont think this means that the 
policy wasnt right for them. The policy would have paid out in addition to Mr Hs employee 
benefits and potentially for longer. And he could have made repeat claims subject to a 
requalification period. 
Mr and Mrs H say that Mrs Hs salary was not relied on to obtain the mortgage because they 
werent sure if she was going to stay in her role at the time. But Mrs H continued working 
and so they could have used her salary to pay the mortgage if anything happened to Mr Hs 
income. But if Mrs H salary wasnt used and the reason for that was uncertainty about how 
long shes have stayed in her job, then I dont think this could be relied on to say the policy 
wasnt necessary either. 
Its possible Santander didnt give Mr and Mrs H all of the other information they needed. But 
for the same reasons as Ive explained above, I dont think this would have put them off 
taking the policy.
The mortgage was a big and long-term commitment, secured against Mr and Mrs Hs home. 
And the repercussions of not keeping up with repayments could have been serious. So, I 
think the policy could have been useful to Mr and Mrs H and I dont think they lost out 
because of anything Santander did wrong. 
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman