DRN-3447528
The complaint
Mr G complains about mistakes by American Express Services Europe Limited after he 
applied for a payment holiday. 
What happened
Mr G had a charge card with Amex. The terms said Mr G had to clear the outstanding 
balance in full each month. No payments were received in February and March 2020. 
Mr G spoke with Amex during March 2020, after received arrears correspondence from 
Amex. Mr G explained he was hoping to make the payment shortly. On 30 March 2020 Mr G 
was enrolled on what Amex calls a PHP (Payment Holiday Plan). On 3 April 2020 Amex 
cancelled Mr Gs card. Mr G called Amex again on 8 April 2020. Amex says that during this 
call, Mr G was advised he shouldnt have been enrolled on the PHP. 
On 9 April 2020 Amex spoke with Mr G and confirmed it had approved a PHP. Amex says it 
told Mr G it would last 90 days. Amex says Mr G needed to get in contact to clear his 
arrears. Mr G has told us Amex made no mention of a 90 limit to repay the account balance. 
In July 2020 Mr G complained. Amex upheld Mr Gs complaint in part and said he was 
incorrectly informed that his charge card would be reinstated once his account was clear. 
Amex paid Mr G £100 and apologised. Amex also said it would amend Mr Gs credit file to 
remove missed payments whilst he was subject to the PHP. But Amex didnt agree to 
reinstate the charge card. 
Mr G referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Amex had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr G 
asked to appeal and said Amex hadnt taken action to remove the agreed missed payments 
from his credit file. Mr G also said he couldnt recall being given a 90 day time limit to repay 
the outstanding balance and that he was promised his card would be reinstated when he 
cleared the outstanding balance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G had an Amex charge card and was required to clear the balance in full each month. I 
can see no payments were received in February and March 2020 so its fair that Amex 
records that Mr Gs account was two payments behind at the point it agreed the PHP. 
The PHP was agreed on 8 April 2020 to run for 90 days. Amexs contact notes show it told 
Mr G he didnt need to make a payment during that period and that his credit file wouldnt be 
impacted. But at this point, Mr G was already two payments behind as noted above. 
Amex has told us that it shouldnt have approved the PHP as Mr G was already behind by 
two months when it was approved. And Amex says the PHP should only have been applied 
when there were no arrears in place. In addition, Amex told Mr G the PHP had been 
approved but continued to send him collections correspondence, including a formal demand. 
I agree the information provided by Amex has been confusing at times. 
I know Amex incorrectly told Mr G his account could be reinstated. But given it was already 
two months behind when the PHP was agreed, Im not persuaded it was unfair for Amex to 
cancel the charge card. 
So whilst I agree Amex gave Mr G the wrong information, his card would always have been 
cancelled due to the arrears in February and March 2020. I havent been persuaded Amex 
acted unfairly when Mr Gs charge card wasnt reinstated. 
Amex upheld Mr Gs complaint and agreed to ensure his credit file wasnt impacted during 
the PHP period. Ive asked both parties to provide evidence to show how Amex recorded Mr 
Gs payments. Whilst Amex agreed to update Mr Gs credit file, he was already two 
payments in arrears when the PHP started in April 2020. Im satisfied it was fair for Amex to 
continue reporting those missed payments whilst the PHP was in place. 
Mr Gs credit file shows no new arrears were recorded in April, May and June 2020  only 
the two existing missed payments. Looking at Mr Gs credit file, the arrears level remains at 
2 until July 2020, when Mr G complained. Im satisfied thats correct as set out above. 
Mr G didnt clear the balance until 21 August 2021. The PHP agreement was only in place to 
cover April, May and June 2020s payments. As no payment was received in July 2020 and 
the balance wasnt cleared until 21 August 2020, an additional missed payment was 
recorded on Mr Gs credit file to reflect that. I know Mr G says he wasnt aware the payment 
holiday was only for 90 days. But the contact notes Ive seen from the time confirm Mr G was 
given a time frame of 90 days when the PHP was agreed in April 2020. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G but as the PHP didnt cover July and August 2020, Im satisfied 
Amex correctly reported an additional missed payment, prior to the balance being cleared. 
As Im satisfied the information recorded by Amex on Mr Gs credit file is correct, Im not 
telling it to make further amendments. 
I agree Amex made a mistake when it told Mr G his charge card could be reinstated at the 
end of the PHP. And I think Amex couldve been clearer when explaining the changes it 
agreed to make to Mr Gs credit file. I note Amex paid Mr G £100 in response to his 
complaint. In my view, £100 fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr G, so 
Im not telling Amex to increase the award.
As Im satisfied Amex has already paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances, Im not telling it to take further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Amex has already paid a 
settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. .
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman