DRN-3340461
The complaint
Mrs M complains about National Westminster Bank Plc (NWB) and the way theyve handled 
her accounts since she entered into a Debt Management Plan (DMP).
What happened
Mrs M entered into a DMP in 2009. This plan included two current accounts and one 
mortgage account provided by NWB. Mrs M has maintained payments to these accounts in 
line with the DMP that was agreed. But during the lifetime of this plan, Mrs M has been 
unhappy with the actions of NWB. So, in early 2021, she raised a complaint.
Mrs M was unhappy with interest and charges that had been applied to her accounts when 
she first entered into the DMP. She thought these were unfair and wanted this interest and 
charges to be removed. Mrs M was also unhappy that NWB hadnt provided her with regular 
statements as other lenders had done. And finally, Mrs M wanted clarification on a 
transaction made in 2018 on one of her accounts. Mrs M explained shed had to contact 
NWB on several occasions without receiving satisfactory answers and so, she wanted to be 
compensated for the upset this caused.
NWB responded and didnt agree. They explained they didnt issue statements for accounts 
that had been defaulted, such as the ones Mrs M held. So, they didnt think theyd acted 
unfairly in relation to this complaint point. And they explained the transaction Mrs M wanted 
clarification had been used to offset her debts, so they didnt think shed been disadvantaged 
by this. And finally, they thought Mrs Ms complaint about the interest and charges fell 
outside of our time limits. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mrs M 
remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
While the complaint was with our service, NWB reviewed their initial response and offered to 
pay Mrs M £150 to recognise any difficulties she may have faced when trying to contact 
them. Our investigator put NWBs offer to Mrs M, but she didnt think this adequately 
addressed her concerns or the impact shed suffered.
So, our investigator looked into the complaint. And they upheld it. They explained they were 
unable to consider Mrs Ms issue relating to the interest and charges, as theyd seen 
evidence to show Mrs M spoke to NWB about this in 2010. So, they thought the complaint 
fell outside both the six-year and three-year time limits. Im aware Mrs M accepted this and 
agreed for our investigation to continue on this basis.
Our investigator thought NWB had acted fairly when using the credit to offset Mrs Ms 
existing debt in 2018. And they also didnt think NWB had an obligation to send Mrs M 
statements as the accounts were defaulted. But he didnt dispute Mrs Ms testimony 
regarding her difficulties speaking to NWB and he thought the £150 NWB offered was a fair 
one to recognise this.
Mrs M didnt agree. She referred to the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) and why she thought 
this supported her belief NWB acted unfairly by not sending her statements. So, she wanted 
NWB to change their policies, taking the CCA into consideration, and she also wanted to be 
compensated £631. As Mrs M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful to explain exactly 
what Ive been able to consider. Mrs M didnt dispute our investigators initial view that the 
issue surrounding the interest and charges fell outside of our time limits due to the length of 
time that had passed since they had been applied to the account, and Mrs Ms awareness of 
this. As it hasnt been disputed, I think its reasonable for me to assume Mrs M accepted this. 
So, I havent considered this any further.
Im aware Mrs M has asked for £631 to resolve her complaint. And that amount is exactly 
what she believes to be her financial loss due to the interest and charges Ive referred to 
above. As the complaint about these interest and charges wont be considered, any direction 
or award I make wont consider, or be based upon, this potential financial loss.
Ive first thought about Mrs Ms complaint regarding NWBs failure to provide her with 
statements for her accounts included within the DMP. Mrs M doesnt think this is fair as other 
lenders have continued to do this, so she thinks NWB had an obligation under the CCA. But 
I dont agree.
The term Mrs M refers to in relation to the CCA is in place for accounts that are open and 
importantly, not defaulted. As Mrs Ms account was defaulted, I dont think there were any 
requirements for NWB to provide her with regular statements.
But despite this, Id still expect NWB to do so if this is what they stated they would do within 
the terms and conditions of the accounts agreements. These terms explain well provide 
you with statements every month and free of charge, provided that there have been payment 
transactions on your account during the month. In this situation, as the accounts were 
defaulted and could no longer be used, there were no payment transactions. So, I dont think 
NWB acted outside of the terms of the accounts when not providing regular statements.
Ive also thought about whether NWB acted unfairly by deciding not to provide these 
statements. And I recognise Mrs M has explained other lenders have continued to provide 
her with statements for defaulted accounts. But crucially, this was the other lenders own 
decision to do so. And each lender has the ability to set their own business process. In this 
case, its NWBs business process not to send statements in those situations. And our 
service is unable to comment upon, or force lenders to change, business processes they put 
in place. This would be the role of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. 
So, Im unable to say NWB have acted unfairly, or done anything wrong, by not sending Mrs 
M regular statements.
And even if I thought they had; Mrs M had the ability to request these statements if she 
needed them. So, I dont think this wouldve had any material impact on Mrs M as they 
wouldve been available if her need for them arose.Ive then turned to the transaction Mrs M wanted clarification on. I can see £35 was paid into 
her staff account, which was then transferred into the main account that was being used to 
pay off the debts she owed. While Im unable to say exactly what this £35 was for, NWB are 
able to use credits that come into a customers account to clear outstanding arrears. This is 
whats happened on this occasion and Mrs M has received a financial benefit from this as its 
left her with less debt to pay. So, I cant say NWB have acted unfairly or that Mrs M has 
been negatively impacted in any way. Because of this, I dont think NWB need to do 
anything more for this aspect of the complaint.
But NWB have accepted Mrs M is likely to have needed to take time out of her usual routine 
to contact them. And theyve accepted they made the upset and stress this wouldve caused 
worse, due to the difficulties Mrs M faced when speaking to them. To recognise this, they 
offered £150 to compensate Mrs M for any upset shes been caused. This offer was made 
after NWBs initial complaint response and after Mrs M contacted our service. As NWB 
themselves have accepted they acted unfairly, I dont intend to discuss this any further. 
Instead, Ive then thought about what I think NWB should do to put things right.
Putting things right
Any award or direction I make is intended to place Mrs M back in the position she wouldve 
been, had NWB acted fairly.
As Ive explained above, Im unable to consider the financial losses Mrs M thinks she 
incurred due to the interest and charges being applied. And even so, I think Mrs M would 
have incurred these even if NWB had acted fairly, as the £150 NWB have offered is for more 
recent problems Mrs M has faced when attempting to contact them.
I recognise it wouldve been stressful and time consuming for Mrs M when she needed to 
contact NWB to discuss her issues. But I think NWBs offer of £150 is a fair one, and in line 
with what I wouldve directed had it not already been made. I think it fairly takes into 
consideration the time Mrs M has lost, and the stress she wouldve felt when speaking to 
them, while also recognising NWB havent acted unfairly regarding the complaints Mrs M 
has raised. So, I think NWB should pay Mrs M £150 and I dont think it would be fair for me 
to ask NWB to increase this.
Im aware Mrs M has expressed her interest in this offer being used to offset her existing 
debts. Mrs M should look to arrange this directly with NWB if this is something she still 
wishes to do.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint about NWB and direct them to 
take the following action:
Pay Mrs M £150 to recognise the stress and inconvenience shes been caused when 
speaking to them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman