DRN-2312779
The complaint
Mr T complains about QIC Europe Ltds decision to decline his home insurance claim for 
storm damage to his boundary wall. 
What happened
During a storm in February 2020, part of the boundary wall at Mr Ts property blew over. He 
made a claim to QIC who appointed a surveyor to visit the property, inspect the damage and 
validate the claim. 
The surveyor reported to QIC a few days later and said that the wall had been built at the 
same time as the property (about 1910) and the mortar used at the time was black lime 
whichd reached the end of its life span allowing the bricks to move. He said the remaining 
section of the wall that hadnt collapsed was bowing considerably indicating it was also 
reaching the end of its life span. He also said that the part of the wall that had collapsed had 
a tall fence attached to it whichd compromised the stability of the wall. He told QIC he could 
see no damage caused by an insured peril. 
QIC declined the claim so Mr T complained. QIC looked into the complaint and issued its 
final response letter at the start of March 2020. It said itd reviewed its surveyors report 
which confirmed the damage wasnt the result of an insured event covered by his policy. It 
accepted that thered been a storm around the time the damage occurred but thought itd 
highlighted the pre-existing condition of the wall. 
Unhappy with QICs decision, Mr T complained to this service. Our investigator looked into 
his complaint but having taken all the evidence into account, didnt think the decision QIC 
had reached about the claim was unfair or unreasonable. 
Mr T disagreed with our investigators findings. He said the wall had been well maintained 
and he said the wall was next to an alleyway that acted as a wind tunnel. Mr T also sent in 
CCTV footage of the wall actually collapsing which he said showed the wall was in in good 
condition and had been felled by the storm in one piece which showed itd been well bonded 
at the time. 
Our investigator looked at the CCTV footage and said that having done so the fencing 
attached to the wall appeared to have contributed to the problem as itd acted like a sail so 
when the wind hit, it brought the wall down from its base which appeared to be its weakest 
point. So, she said this, together with the age of the wall, meant she didnt think QIC had 
unfairly declined Mr Ts claim. 
Mr T asked for his complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether QICs decision to decline Mr Ts claim was a fair one. Although 
I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr T, I have to say that I think it was; Ill 
explain why. 
This service has a well-established approach to the consideration of complaints about an 
insurers decision to decline a claim for storm damage. We ask three questions. If the 
answer to any of the questions is no then we say its fair to decline the claim. 
The first question is, were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?. Ive 
seen the weather report from the night the damage occurred and Im satisfied that the 
conditions met the definition of a storm as set out by QIC in its policy terms (winds of Force 
10 or above as defined by the Beaufort Scale). Indeed, QIC accepts there were storm 
conditions at the time the damage occurred. So, the answer to the first question is yes. 
Next we ask whether the reported damage is consistent with the type of damage we expect 
a storm could cause. Insofar as storms cause damage it can be of the type reported by Mr T. 
So, the answer to the second question is also yes.
The third question we ask is were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
Unfortunately for Mr T, having reviewed the available evidence, I dont think they were. So, 
I think the answer to this question must be no. I say this for the following reasons. It is in no 
doubt that the damage occurred during a storm. But for the damage to be covered by the 
storm peril in Mr Ts policy it must be the storm that was the main cause of the damage. 
Thats because well maintained buildings, or structures that havent reached the end of their 
lifespan are typically capable of withstanding the types of storms seen in this country. 
It is often the case that whilst the damage is sustained during the storm, the storm itself has 
highlighted a pre-existing problem with the damaged part of the building (in this case, the 
wall). We know that the house was built around 1910, that the wall was built at the same 
time and that ash or lime was commonly mixed into the mortar around this time and in this 
locality. Ive seen the photographs and I can see that the mortar has effectively disintegrated 
and crumbled into shavings. 
From these photographs, and the fact the remaining parts of the wall that are still standing 
are leaning, I dont think QIC unfairly concluded that the black lime had reached the end of 
its lifespan. I appreciate the wall is situated in an alley and that the wind may well have 
whipped down but, I think a wall with mortar that hadnt reached the end of its lifespan 
wouldve withstood the storm. 
Its not clear to me from the evidence Ive seen whether or not the CCTV footage Mr T 
provided to this service was seen by QIC. Certainly theres no reference to it on QICs file. 
Having viewed the footage myself, and assuming for a moment that the mortar hadnt 
reached the end of its useful lifespan, I still think the storm cant reasonably be said to be the 
main cause of the damage. 
Thats because the footage shows the fence acting as a sail. The winds were forceful and 
the pressure they applied to the fence panels brought the whole wall down. And I note that 
QICs surveyor commented that he thought the fence being attached to the wall had 
compromised its stability. So even if the mortar hadnt reached the end of its lifespan, I can 
see that damage caused by poor design  which arguably attaching fence panels to a wall 
can be said to be  is excluded from cover under the policy. So, its reasonable to say that 
an alternative main cause of the damage is poor design which was highlighted by the storm. 
So, I dont think the damage to Mr Ts boundary wall can reasonably said to have been 
caused by the storm itself. I think the damage was highlighted by the storm but was mainly caused by the mortar reaching the end of its useful lifespan and/or poor design in respect of 
the attached fence. As damage caused in this way isnt covered by Mr Ts policy, I dont 
think QIC has unfairly declined his claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman