DRN-3531990
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) sold her a home insurance policy, 
incorrectly telling her wet and dry rot was covered.
What happened
Mrs S took out home insurance at a Santander branch after she received confirmation from 
her existing insurer that renewal was due. Mrs S said that at the face to face meeting, 
Santander told her wet and dry rot (rot) was covered. She says, based on that information, 
she bought a new policy with Santander and then cancelled the renewal with her previous 
insurer.
The policy renewed again with Santander the following year.
Some time later, on checking the documents, Mrs S realised the policy didnt cover rot. She 
complained to Santander that it had misrepresented the policy. Mrs S said she wouldnt have 
taken out the policy if shed known rot wasn't covered and she asked for a little over £800 
compensation.
Santander looked into her complaint. It said that its policies didnt cover rot, so it was unlikely 
the sales agent wouldve said it did. Santander didnt think it had done anything wrong, so 
Mrs S brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint. She explained that there was no evidence 
of what was said during the face to face purchase and, as the policy documents were clear 
that rot wasn't included, she didnt think Santander had done anything wrong.
Mrs S didnt agree. She said Santander didnt advise her about the cover  it was a 
statement of fact. Mrs S also pointed out that shed already cancelled her other policy when 
she received the documents. She said she trusted Santander and didnt think she needed to 
check the policy details against what shed been told.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
All parties to this complaint are aware that theres no recorded evidence of what was said or 
discussed at the sales meeting, specifically with reference to wet and dry rot. So, the starting 
point for me is that I cant be completely sure what information Santander did, or didnt give 
to Mrs S.  
The issue here is that Mrs S said Santander sold her a new insurance policy, telling her it 
covered rot, only to find out later that it didnt. Santander said it doesnt provide cover for rot, 
so it doesnt think its sales advisor wouldve said it did.
Looking at the policy documents Santander gave to Mrs S, the following points are made 
clear:
Rot is not covered.
It was Mrs Ss responsibility to check the documents.
The sale wasnt advised  that is Santander didnt tell Mrs S which policy would suit 
her needs. Instead it presented a policy to her which she needed to check met her 
own needs.
Mrs S said her complaint is that the policy was mis-represented and it wasnt about advice. I 
understand the distinction shes making, but Santanders responsibilities are different 
depending on whether the policy is sold on an advised or non-advised basis. Hence the 
reference to advice. This policy was non-advised, so Santander wasn't responsible for 
assessing and identifying whether it was the most suitable policy for Mrs S.
As Ive said, I cant be sure whether Santander told Mrs S she was covered for rot under the 
policy. As it wasnt included in its product offering, it seems unlikely. The key thing for me, 
here, is that if cover for rot was of importance to Mrs S, Id have expected her to check the 
policy for details of that cover before cancelling her existing policy renewal. 
However, I understand Mrs S didnt check the documents because she trusted the sales 
agent and didnt think she needed to verify the details. Santander investigated this point and 
told Mrs S there was no indication that the agent misunderstood the cover available under 
the policy. So, it concluded that it was more likely than not that it didnt sell the policy as 
including rot. In the absence of any clear evidence to the contrary, I have no reason to doubt 
this.
While I appreciate Mrs S said she should be able to rely on what Santander told her, the fact 
remains that it was her responsibility to ensure the cover she bought was suitable for her 
needs. Thats not to say it would be acceptable for Santander to say the policy included 
something it didnt, simply that I cant see any persuasive evidence to indicate that 
Santander told Mrs S her policy included cover for rot.
To be clear, I havent concluded that Santander did or didnt tell Mrs S the policy included 
cover for rot. My decision is, simply, that theres no evidence to persuade me that Santander 
misrepresented the policy to Mrs S. And for that reason, I dont think its fair to ask 
Santander to pay Mrs S any compensation.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman