DRN-3410817
The complaint
Miss W complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) didnt do enough to protect her from falling 
victim to a scam. She thinks it should reimburse her losses of £33,000. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its accepted that Miss W fell victim to a scam. Its also accepted that she authorised 
these payments. In line with the Payment Services Regulations, Monzo has a duty to 
execute authorised payment instructions without undue dely. So, the starting position 
here is that Miss W is liable.
But there are some situations where we believe banks ought to have identified a 
potential fraud risk, so should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding 
the transaction before making the payment. If they failed to do so, and that failure led 
to a loss for their consumer, it may be fair to hold them liable.
Although Monzo doesnt think it acted in error here, we have a duty to resolve 
complaints based on what we consider to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances, taking into account not just the law, but also regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what we consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time. So, I consider it reasonable to expect Monzo to have 
had measures in place to identify, and respond to, signs of possible fraud such as 
unusual or uncharacteristic account activity.
Miss W made an initial payment of £1,000 as a test. I dont think this was substantial 
enough to say that it should have triggered Monzos fraud alert systems and I note 
that she received this payment back, as well as an additional £203.15. 
But Miss W went on to make further payments of £10,000, £3,000, and £20,000 on 
28 August, 5 September, and 11 September 2020 respectively  and I think Monzo 
shouldve intervened here. The first of these payments  the £10,000 payment  was 
out of character for Miss W. It was a significant sum, which was also far more than 
shed spent on the account previously, to a new payee and was an international 
payment. 
While Miss Ws relationship with the scammer escalated quickly, Im persuaded that 
an intervention could have unravelled this scam. I say this because Miss W believed 
this was a real investment, so I think shed have been willing to disclose details of it 
had she been asked questions. The company she believed she was paying is a well-
known betting website, whereas she was under the impression she was investing. I 
think it likely that this then would have  and should have  prompted further 
questions. And that it would have become clear that she had very little understanding 
of where her money was going, and was placing her trust entirely in an individual 
whom shed only known for a matter of weeks and only in a virtual setting. Had an 
appropriate intervention taken place, I dont think Miss W would have continued with 
this payment, nor the £3,000 or £20,000 payments that followed. 
Furthermore, before making the payment for £20,000, I note that Miss W needed to 
ask Monzo to increase the payment limit. Having reviewed the live chat, I can see 
that Miss W was asked the purpose of the payment. She told Monzo it was a transfer 
to a friend and that they have a plan for investment. Following this, Miss Ws limit 
was raised to £20,000  substantially more than shed paid using the account 
previously  and Monzo directed her to make the payment by midnight. Monzo 
acknowledges that they didnt ask Miss W whether she trusted the person or check 
on the possibility of this being a scam. In my opinion, Miss Ws answers should have 
prompted further questioning from Monzo and this, again, would likely have led to the 
unravelling of this scam. Instead, the payment limit was increased  resulting in 
£33,000 being spent across a span of around two weeks  and an opportunity to 
prevent further losses was missed. 
I turn next to whether Miss W ought to bear some responsibility for her loss  but I 
dont think she should. She told us she researched the company and, given that its a 
well-known betting firm, it would have appeared to have been a legitimate company, 
though we now know the app she downloaded with the same name was unrelated 
to this firm. I note that on her first payment  of £1,000  she received a return of 
around £200, so this would have helped with the perception that this was a legitimate 
investment. So, I dont think it would be reasonable to suggest she should bear any 
responsibility for the loss by way of contributory negligence  I think Miss W was the 
victim of a sophisticated and persuasive scam in which she became emotionally 
invested. 
In summary, while I agree that these payments arent covered by the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) as these were international payments, this doesnt remove 
Monzos responsibility to identify and respond to signs of possible fraud. Im satisfied that 
there should have been an intervention here and, if there had been, the scam would likely 
have been uncovered, preventing Miss Ws losses. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Monzo Bank Ltd to refund 
Miss Ws loss of £33,000. And it should pay 8% interest on this amount from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement. 
If Monzo considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customers to deduct income tax 
from the interest award, it should tell Miss W how much its taken off. It should also give her 
a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
and Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman