DRN-2244947
The complaint
Miss C complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) delayed in 
requesting a police report and this caused an initial delay in her motor accident claim being 
considered.
What happened
Miss C was involved in a car accident in August 2019. She reported the claim to Advantage 
and provided the police log number in mid-August 2019.
By early September 2019, Advantage hadnt applied to the police for a report. Miss C wasnt 
happy about this and complained. Miss C received an apology and an offer of a payment of 
£100 to reflect the delay. Advantage said they had applied for the police report and it would 
be chased every 30 days. Miss C accepted the payment of £100.
Advantage applied for the police report at the end of September 2019. Miss C was unhappy 
that the request had been further delayed and raised a second complaint.
Shortly after this complaint was made, Advantage received a response from the police 
requesting a payment to produce the report. Advantage said they sent a cheque and it was 
presented for payment by the police at the end of October 2019.
Advantage provided a final response to the second complaint and this dealt with the delays 
they caused in applying for the police report. Advantage accepted they had wrongly told 
Miss C the police report had been applied for. They apologised and offered a further £75 for 
the inconvenience and delay this caused. 
Advantage paid Miss C £175 to resolve the complaints about the delay in applying for the 
police report, and the mistake they made by telling her they had applied for it in early 
September 2019. But Miss C didnt consider that was a reasonable remedy and brought her 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the evidence both parties provided and thought the payment of 
£175 was a reasonable remedy to reflect the impact of the initial delays caused by 
Advantage.
Miss C didnt agree with the investigator. She said the delay in applying for the police report 
led to her having to pay an additional premium on a replacement insurance policy with 
another provider. Her insurance was up for renewal at the end of October 2019, and she 
was asked by another insurer to pay an additional premium because the claim she had 
made hadnt been settled. Part of this premium was to be refunded by the new insurer if the 
existing claim was settled on a no-fault basis. Miss C said this wouldnt have happened if 
Advantage had applied for the police report in good time.  
Miss C has since raised new complaints with Advantage about the provision of a courtesy 
car and the subsequent lack of updates they have provided about her claim. This service is 
investigating these matters under another complaint reference and will consider if there are 
any losses arising from them. I therefore consider it reasonable for me to address only the 
initial delay in Advantage obtaining the police report in my final decision, and the impact this 
had on Miss C at the time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage didnt request the police report until six weeks after the accident. And over three 
weeks after they had told Miss C it had been applied for. Advantage accepted the 
information they provided to Miss C during this time was wrong and that it took too long to 
initially request the police report. I dont think I need to consider any further evidence in this 
regard as both parties agree this is what happened. 
Miss C believes it was reasonable for Advantage to have known they would have to pay a 
fee for the police report. And their failure to pay this when they first applied for the report 
caused more unnecessary delays. 
It wouldve been better if Advantage had called the police and asked the cost of the report 
before they applied for it, but they did ask this question when they first wrote to the police. 
And when they received a response, Advantage raised the cheque within a reasonable time 
and sent the appropriate fee to the police. Therefore, I think Advantage acted reasonably 
here.
The crux of this complaint is that Miss C believes the delay in obtaining the police report 
resulted in her having to pay an increased insurance premium with her new insurer.
I agree the delay in applying for the police report caused Miss C some distress and 
inconvenience. She had to chase Advantage several times and her confidence that 
Advantage were dealing with the claim as quickly as they should was undermined. However, 
I dont think the delay had any impact on Miss C having to pay an increased premium with 
her new insurer and I will explain why.
The accident happened in mid-August and Miss C took out a new policy in late October 
2019. This was approximately eight weeks after the accident. Obtaining the police report 
was only the initial part of the claims process. Im not persuaded the claim wouldve settled 
as a no-fault claim before Miss C took out the new policy, regardless of the delay in 
Advantage obtaining the police report.  
Advantage has already paid Miss C the sum of £175 for the delay in applying for the police 
report. And they apologised for telling Miss C they had applied for the report earlier than they 
did. In the circumstances of this case, I think this reasonably reflects the inconvenience Miss 
C suffered having to chase Advantage for the police report, and the distress this would have 
caused over a three-month period.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I wont be asking Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do 
anything more in relation to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Paul LawtonOmbudsman