DRN-2906640
The complaint
 Mr H complains about JAJA Finance Ltds (JFL) refusal to give him the refund he has 
requested.
 
What happened
 In brief Mr Hs stance is that in January 2019 he used his credit card provided by JFL to pay 
a deposit on a second-hand car. He paid the balance via part-exchanging his original car. Mr 
H explains he bought the car as a gift for his wife, but he also used the car. The sales 
invoice for the car is in his wifes name, although he signed it. 
Mr H says the car was misrepresented to him and his wife and that also unknown to them at 
the time, the car had a number of faults at the point of sale that made the car not of 
satisfactory quality. Mr H says he paid £369.96 for repairs to the car. On this basis Mr H 
wanted to reject the car and be refunded. He got nowhere with the seller of the car, a limited 
company who I will call C. So instead Mr H complained to JFL. Mr H suggested he was 
entitled to refund from JFL under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). 
JFL refused Mr Hs request for a refund. Its reasoning was that in order for Mr H to have a 
valid claim under Section 75, there needs to be a relevant relationship in place known as a 
debtor-creditor-supplier relationship (d-c-s relationship). At first, JFLs stance was that no 
such d-c-s relationship exists because Mr Hs wife, rather than Mr H is the debtor as far as 
the d-c-s relationship is concerned. It came to this conclusion because Mr Hs wifes name is 
on the sales invoice. JFL suggested this was significant because in its opinion the sales 
invoice also forms the contract of sale. On this basis JFL did not agree it had to give Mr H a 
refund. However, it agreed that it had not provided the level of customer service that Mr H is 
entitled to expect, and it offered and paid him £75 for this. 
Dissatisfied with JFLs response Mr H came to our service.
Once the complaint was with us we asked Mr H for further details about the purchase. Mr H 
explained that his wife chose the car. But he also indicated that he bought the car on the 
basis of environmental concerns. He told us that he part-exchanged his previous car to fund 
the purchase. His original car was worth more than the new car, there was a balance 
remaining once he bought the new car from C. Therefore, C paid him this balance via a 
cheque which he then banked in his sole account.
Further Mr H also explained that he always intended to use the car, which he did in fact do. 
He was the main driver on the car insurance policy.  And he indicated that his household 
decided to come down from two cars to one. Hence the purchase. So, the car was intended 
to be a family car. Mr H suggested that his wifes name was on the invoice not because he 
has bought the car as a present for his wife, but because C told him it needed the name of 
the person who would be the registered keeper of the car and that was his wife. But he 
made the point that the registered keeper of a car is not necessarily the owner of the car. He 
maintained in this instance he was the owner of the car.
Moreover, Mr H told us that one of the reasons he purchased the car was due to the 
information he saw in an advert that C had taken out. The advert said that the car had a full 
service history. He took this to mean that the car had been serviced in line with the 
manufacturers guidelines. But when Mr H took the car to be checked out at a main 
dealership, he found out this was not the case. The car had been serviced, and that 
servicing had been documented but crucially for him the servicing had not been done in line 
with the manufacturers recommendations.
Mr H sold the car privately for £7,500. Mr H told us about losses he felt he had made and 
how he thought any redress should be calculated. In particular, he objected to being charged 
anything for the use he had had of the car.  Mr H also sent us an article about an individual 
who he said had a successful claim against his bank in relation to a car. It seems that this 
service never issued a decision on this complaint. Mr H suggested this complaint was 
broadly the same as his own and therefore he ought to get the same redress. He suggested 
if we did not give him the same redress we would be acting unfairly towards him. 
In the meantime, JFL agreed that there was a valid d-c-s relationship JFL also appeared to 
accept the contract for the car had been misrepresented. Further it also appeared to accept 
that the car had not been of satisfactory quality when sold and this was a breach of contract.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint. He concluded that in the 
circumstances it was fair and reasonable to ask JFL to take a number of steps to put things 
right. He recommended that it refund the deposit with interest if necessary. He calculated a 
settlement figure that he recommended JFL had to pay. In particular our investigator said Mr 
H could be charged for the use he had of the car and that should come off the settlement 
figure. Also, the proceeds of the sale of the car should come off the settlement figure. He 
recommended that JFL refund the cost of the repairs that cost £369.96 plus pay interest on 
that sum. Further he recommended JFL pay £150 in total for distress and inconvenience. 
Although he noted that £75 of this £150 had already be paid to Mr H this was according to 
JFL, and Mr H acknowledged he had received the £75. 
Initially Mr H accepted our investigators recommendation. On that basis JFL calculated how 
much it needed to pay (£5,103.26) and paid the full amount to Mr H to settle the complaint. 
Subsequently Mr H rejected the recommendation. As far as I am aware the £5,103.26 was 
not returned to JFL by Mr H when Mr H rejected the recommendation. 
In summary Mr H asked for the sum of money he said he had incurred in transferring his 
£100 deposit from his credit card account with JFL to a new account with a third party, this 
sum is £2.95. JFL agreed to pay this sum as a goodwill gesture and it did this before the 
complaint came to me. Further, it appears that Mr H has returned to his previous point about 
considering it unfair that a deduction has been made for his use of the car.
Mr H asked that an ombudsman review his complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.Both parties now agree that Mr H was the contracting party in relation to the purchase of the 
car. They also agree the car was misrepresented and that there was a breach of contract. It 
follows I dont need to look at those points any further in this decision. The only question now 
is about the redress. It appears that the parties also now agree although repair might have 
been a possibility at some points during this complaint since Mr H has now sold the car a 
refund is the most appropriate option.
Mr H relies on Section 75. He asks for the redress which he suggests he is entitled to under 
Section 75. When I look at a complaint I have to take account of relevant law. Relevant law 
here includes Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75), which both parties 
accept is the case. However, I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a 
complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that 
a party might have under Section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr Hs 
complaint, I have to take account of relevant law, amongst other things. Section 75 is 
relevant law as I have already said. Therefore, Ive taken it into account. But that doesnt 
mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for example, a court might reach if Mr H 
pursued a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract. Our service is an informal 
alternative to the courts. 
The redress for misrepresentation is to put the consumer into the position he would have 
been in but for the misrepresentation. The redress for breach of contract is not quite the 
same. But Ill focus on the redress for misrepresentation as this gives Mr H the most 
generous redress. 
One of the things that Mr H has asked for is to be refunded for the full purchase price of the 
car without deduction for the use of that car, I can see why is asking for this, up to a point.  I 
think it unlikely that Mr H would have gone ahead with the purchase if he had been aware of 
the cars service history which is what the material misrepresentation was about here. But 
equally if Mr H had not gone ahead with the purchase it does not follow that he would have 
got free motoring. And he would have got the use of the car for nothing if I were to give him 
the redress he has asked for. On that basis I do think it is fair and reasonable that I should 
take account of his use of the car when I think about putting things right..
That said, the calculation of the redress in this instance is not an exact science. Mr H has 
invited to me to look at the example of a complaint by a third party, who never got a final 
decision from this service so it would seem, and where I dont know all of the relevant 
details. He suggests that the example situation is more or less the same as his and he asks 
why this service is treating him differently. I have to look at each complaint on an individual 
basis. Moreover, I cant be sure how close that example is to Mr Hs complaint as I dont 
have all relevant details. In any event the complaint never had a final decision, and even if it 
had that would not be a precedent that I would be obliged to follow. This service does not 
operate under a system of precedents like the courts. For all of these reasons, I cant 
properly be guided by the example that Mr H points to. 
When I think about the use he has had of the car, and what he ought fairly and reasonably 
pay for this, I think it is fair and reasonable to consider what he might have paid if he had 
had to pay a monthly fee for the use of the car. I recognise Mr H does not agree with this 
approach. He has suggested instead as well as looking at and following the example he has 
sent in, we should also consider the different ways he might have funded the purchase of the 
car. I dont think this is relevant. The question here is what Mr H ought reasonably pay for 
having used the car during the period that he did. Alternative potential funding models that 
Mr H might but did not use to buy the car, shed no light on this. I agree with the methodology 
which we used earlier in this complaint to work out what this deduction for use should be. 
The methodology was already explained in detail earlier in the complaint, so I see no merit in 
repeating that detail here again. 
Normally if I was asking JFL to refund Mr H in such circumstances I would say this was on 
the proviso that the car was returned to it but that cannot happen here. Rather, Mr H has correctly sought to lessen his loss. His method of doing this was to sell the car. He has the 
proceeds of that sale so those proceeds ought fairly and reasonably be taken off any redress 
otherwise Mr H would be compensated twice for the same loss, that would be inappropriate. 
In any event, I dont think this point is disputed.
Further, I find that Mr Hs loss was also the deposit of £100 and the repair costs of £369.96. 
He should be refunded for both with interest.
In addition, I can see that there was some confusion on JFLs part about what Mr H was 
complaining about and next steps. But the £150 it has offered and paid I find is appropriate 
in light of the distress and inconvenience this may have caused Mr H to experience.
Somewhat unusually JFL paid the redress (in the belief that the investigators 
recommendation had been accepted) but afterwards Mr H then rejected the investigators 
recommendation.
In the circumstances, I think JFL needed to put things right. I think compensation of 
£5,103.26 is fair and takes into account of the points I have set out above. Given that this 
sum has already been paid by JFL Im not going to order it to pay anything further.
As to the £2.95 that Mr H tells us he incurred when he decided to transfer the £100 balance 
representing his deposit to a new credit card account I dont consider this is a loss that flows 
from anything JFL had done wrong. I would not have ordered JFL to pay this. For that 
reason, I dont mention it in the redress.
My final decision
  My final decision is because JFL has already paid the redress set out above, I make no 
further order or award. I simply leave it to Mr H to decide if he wants to accept the redress 
already paid by JFL in full settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman