DRN-2201027
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy that their Barclays Bank UK PLC mortgage account hasnt run 
how they expected with the overpayments theyve made.
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont repeat it again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs R have set out their account in considerable detail, including providing us with 
copies of their own calculations. I trust they wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive 
condensed their complaint in the way that I have. Although Ive read and considered the 
whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it 
in order to reach the right outcome. 
This service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What 
this means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions 
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at.
Mr and Mrs R have said that it was their direct instruction that the overpayments were to 
reduce the term of their mortgage, not to reduce their monthly payments. They paid £1,000 a 
month against a contractual monthly payment (CMP) that was initially around £740. Each 
year until 2012 Mr and Mrs R had to reconfirm their request to pay £1,000 a month (rather 
than their CMP), and had they made all those higher payments from June 2009 as was 
originally discussed then their mortgage would have been fully repaid towards the end of 
2017.
But that didnt happen. Mr and Mrs R paid only their CMP (with no overpayment) in 
November 2009, November 2010, March 2013 and June to October 2013. And in April 2013 
and May 2013 they paid nothing at all. The overpayments later stopped, with Mr and Mrs R 
reverting to just their CMP from May 2015. At that point the balance was around £35,000 so 
a quick calculation would have shown their CMP of around £390 meant it would take over 
seven years (from May 2015) to repay the remaining debt; not the three years Mr and Mrs R 
say they were expecting. To achieve a full repayment in three years at that point would have 
needed a monthly payment of around £970 a month.
Unfortunately due to the passage of time theres no longer a recording of the call that took 
place on 28 April 2015, with the contact notes just saying  cust called  in to cancel  the DD 
amount  from 1000  to 387.98  .. done  wef may2015.  It may be Mr and Mrs R did tell 
Barclays  at that point  that they wanted  to reduce  their term so it would  end on a set date 
in 2018,  but if they did then they would  have  needed  to make  a formal  application  (with  
an affordability  assessment)  for that to take place,  as well as make  the much  higher  
payments  of around  £970  a month  rather  than around  £390  a month.  As Mr and Mrs R 
are the ones bringing the complaint against Barclays, if Im to find in their favour on this 
issue Mr and Mrs Rs version needs to be more likely than Barclays version; not just as 
likely. And having considered everything, on balance I cant say that Mr and Mrs Rs version 
is anything other than just as likely. 
Barclays issued a mortgage statement to Mr and Mrs R in October 2016 and that showed an 
opening balance (in September 2015) of around £33,200 and a closing balance (in 
September 2016) of around £28,800, a decrease of around £4,400. Again that should have 
put Mr and Mrs R on notice that their CMP of around £380 as it was at that time wouldnt be 
sufficient to repay their mortgage in mid-2018.
I understand  Mr and Mrs R are unhappy  that Barclays  changed  the way it calculates  the 
account,  saying  it was done  without  their knowledge  or consent.  Barclays  doesnt  need  
Mr and Mrs Rs consent  to make  internal  changes  to its computer  systems,  and theres  
nothing  in the mortgage  contract  to say it will calculate  it either  one way or the other.  
The issue  came  about  because  Mr and Mrs R didnt  make  all the overpayments  they 
said they would.  Even  if Barclays  hadnt  changed  its systems,  Mr and Mrs Rs CMP  
would  still have  been  set (from  May 2015)  based  on the original  term of the mortgage,  
unless  a formal  application  to amend  that had been  made  and accepted.  And as I 
concluded  above  that Mr and Mrs Rs complaint  about  that point  doesnt  succeed  then it 
follows  this point  also doesnt  succeed.
Whilst Ive reviewed Mr and Mrs Rs calculation, immediately I can see it is unreliable as 
theyve stated they paid the CMP in April 2013 and May 2013 whereas the account 
statements show they missed both those payments in their entirety. Its not for us to carry 
out a detailed or forensic audit of an account history. Its open to Mr and Mrs R to ask a 
suitably qualified independent accountant to do that for them (a spreadsheet from an 
unqualified individual isnt sufficient). That would have to be at their expense, though if an 
error were found to their detriment they could include any reasonable costs of finding it in 
any complaint that followed. But Ive looked at the transaction history, and the comments on 
both sides, and having done so I cant see any obvious mistakes in Barclays accounting. Im 
also satisfied the overpayments have been taken into account when the interest was 
calculated each day. 
Having considered everything Im not persuaded Barclays is administering Mr and Mrs Rs 
mortgage incorrectly. For that reason Im also not persuaded it has done anything wrong 
here.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of the 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr and Mrs R to accept or reject my decision before 12 November 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman