DRN-3884846
The complaint
Mrs D and Mr M complain about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds), declining 
a claim under their buildings insurance policy for damage to her property caused by bad 
weather. 
References to Lloyds include their agents who administer the policy and assess claims. 
What happened
In November 2021, around the time of Storm Arwen, Mrs D and Mr Ms property suffered 
damage from bad weather. An awning at the rear of the property was damaged, which in 
turn they thought caused water ingress through to the kitchen (which they didnt notice until a 
kitchen blind fell off). They contacted Lloyds the following month to report the damage and 
lodge a claim. Lloyds appointed a firm (H) to visit the property and assess the damage. 
For various reasons, including the need to isolate because of Covid infection in the family, 
the visit didnt take place until February 2022. During the visit, H indicated the external 
damage would be declined because of what they thought was wear and tear, including rotten 
timberwork to the awning. But they said the internal damage would be covered, under the 
accidental damage section of the policy. Subsequent discussion between Mrs D and Mr M 
and Lloyds also led them to believe the external damage wouldnt be covered, but the 
internal damage would be covered. Lloyds agreed to send them a copy of Hs report.
In their report, H confirmed the awning with a timber frame had been fitted to the affected 
wall, but the timber frame was decayed. The report also noted loose brickwork to the wall 
above the window, with evidence of re-pointing. The report concluded none of the damage 
was attributable to a single, storm event  but was the result of gradual operating cause 
(deterioration). The report also noted internal damage to the kitchen wall from the window. 
The report included a statement of works schedule for repair of the internal damage. 
Based on the surveyors findings and conclusions, Lloyds declined the claim for external 
damage. They said the awning came away (from the external wall) because the timber 
supports attaching it to the wall had rotted. So, the bad weather had merely highlighted an 
existing issue. Over time, the structure had become worn and eventually came away from 
the wall. While it may not have been visible, the damage wasnt related to a storm. 
On the internal damage, Lloyds subsequently issued a settlement letter to Mrs D and Mr M 
in March 2022, saying they accepted the claim for internal damage based on the figures in 
Hs report. However, Lloyds then said the settlement had been raised in error and had been 
reversed. Lloyds told Mrs D and Mr M they would be declining the claim for internal damage, 
as the accidental damage section of the policy contained an exclusion for water ingress.
Mrs D and Mr M complained to Lloyds. In their initial final response, they partially upheld the 
complaint. They upheld their decision to decline the external damage to the property on the 
grounds of gradual deterioration, the timberwork having decayed and evidence of re-pointing 
to the brickwork. While Lloyds didnt dispute the presence of storm conditions at the time of 
the incident, they said (based on Hs report) none of the damage identified or inspected was 
attributable to the storm (the insured peril under the policy). Lloyds also referred to the policy 
exclusion for wear and tear and things that happened gradually over time. On the internal 
damage, Lloyds referred Mrs D and Mr M to the accidental damage section of the policy and 
advised them to discuss it with their claims team. But Lloyds did uphold part of the complaint 
about not phoning them back and not sending them a copy of Hs report when requested. 
Lloyds apologised for not providing better service and awarded £75 compensation.
Lloyds then considered the claim for internal damage. They issued a further final response, 
which confirmed the change of decision. Having initially said the internal damage would be 
accepted under the accidental damage section of the policy, they said they wouldnt now 
cover it because the section of the policy contained an exclusion from cover for water 
ingress. They said accidental damage had to be caused by sudden, unintentional and 
unexpected one-off incidents. It didnt include damage caused by wear and tear, lack of 
maintenance, mechanical faults or damage which occurred gradually over time. Because of 
this, both the external and internal damage elements of the claim were declined due to the 
gradually operating cause exclusion.
However, Lloyds acknowledged the service theyd provided to Mrs D and Mr M hadnt been 
to the standard expected. In recognition, Lloyds said they would pay a further £400 to Mrs D 
and Mr M (making a total of £475).
Mrs D and Mr M then complained to this service. Their complaint covered three main issues. 
First, the poor service theyd received from Lloyds, including delays, poor communication 
and different decisions made about the claim. Second, when dealing with their complaint, 
Lloyds didnt provide them with the opportunity to present a rebuttal to their original decision 
prior to making a final decision. Third, the decision to decline their claim in full  despite 
having originally accepted the claim for internal damage. They thought the decision was 
wrong, based on incorrect, irrelevant or unsubstantiated opinions. They also thought the 
original settlement offer was misrepresented to them and included clear omissions and 
errors. They said theyd been affected by the decline of the claim and the time theyd spent 
pursuing the claim and complaint. This was very stressful, as theyd also experienced family 
illness and bereavement. They wanted Lloyds to offer a fair and reasonable settlement of the 
claim and compensation for the stress theyd suffered.
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it, thinking Lloyds didnt need to 
take any further action. Following further information provided by Lloyds, he thought Mrs D 
and Mr M should have been aware of the issue of the condition of the awning timberwork. 
So, Lloyds had acted fairly in declining the claim for external damage by applying the 
exclusion for gradual operating cause. On the internal damage, based on the further 
information provided by Lloyds, he thought theyd settled the claim for internal damage (as 
Lloyds had initially indicated). He also thought the total of £475 compensation was fair.
Mrs D and Mr M disagreed with our investigators view and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. In doing so, they raised several points. 
First, they thought the awning was in good condition (being put up by the previous owners of 
the property some two years before Mrs D and Mr M moved into the property in 2018). Prior 
to the incident, there was no visible evidence of deterioration to the awning and it was well-
attached to the exterior wall. And the timberwork was likely to have been affected by being 
left exposed for the period between the incident and Hs inspection. Second, they disagreed 
with further evidence provided by Lloyds about the condition of the brickwork and sealant 
around the kitchen window. Mrs D and Mr M maintained the window was properly sealed 
and there was no issue with the pointing of the brickwork. Any small cracks around the 
anchor points for the awning were the result of the wind acting on the awning at the time of 
the incident. Third, they said theyd not received any settlement for the internal damage (only 
the payments awarded by Lloyds as set out in the final responses).In my findings, I agreed with our investigators conclusion Lloyds fairly declined the claim for 
external damage. However, I concluded Lloyds hadnt settled the claim for internal damage 
(as our investigator had thought) and the claim had been declined. That being the case, I 
considered Lloyds decline of the claim.
Based on the evidence and information provided, I concluded it was reasonable for Lloyds to 
decline the claim under the accidental damage section of the policy, applying an exclusion 
for water entering the home. 
However, I also considered whether the claim was reasonably declined because of the 
same, gradually operating cause exclusion under the storm section of the policy.  I didnt 
agree the interior damage was automatically covered by the same reason for decline, 
because there was no indication of any interior damage prior to the storm. 
I then considered the views of Mrs D and Mr M, H and Lloyds surveyor. I concluded there 
were issues with brickwork and the sealant around the window frame. I was more persuaded 
these issues were pre-existing. So, the water ingress (and the internal damage) couldnt be 
attributed to the storm. I concluded Lloyds acted fairly in declining the claim.
On the question of compensation, I thought Mrs D and Mr M suffered substantial distress, 
upset and inconvenience  more than just inconvenience, disappointment, or loss of 
expectation. I concluded the figure of £475 awarded by Lloyds was reasonable and in line 
with what Id expect.
Because I considered the issue of the claim for internal damage (which our investigator had 
thought settled), I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to 
consider matters further. This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My role here is to decide whether Lloyds has acted fairly towards Mrs D and Mr M.
The two main issues in Mrs D and Mr Ms complaint are that Lloyds unfairly declined their 
claim, firstly for the external damage to the property and, secondly, for the internal damage. 
While there was bad weather at the time of the incident, it wasnt the main cause of the 
damage. Rather, it was due to pre-existing issues with the timberwork of the awning and the 
sealant and brickwork around the window, which allowed water ingress into the interior of the 
property over a period. As such the bad weather only highlighted existing issues and the 
accidental damage section of the policy also had an exclusion for water ingress.
Mrs D and Mr M dont agree, saying the damage was caused by the storm. They say there 
was no indication of a problem with the awning before the bad weather, nor with the sealant 
or brickwork. They say the internal damage should be covered as a result of the storm. 
Ive first considered the decline of the claim for the external damage. In cases involving 
storm damage (and whether the damage resulted from a storm or from pre-existing issues) 
there are three key issues we consider:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?On the first question, the policy includes the following definition of Storm:
A period of violent weather defined as:
Strong winds with gusts of at least 55mph, and/or
Hail or snow of such intensity or weight that it causes damage to hard surfaces 
or breaks glass.
We will take into consideration the condition of your home. A storm can highlight 
damage rather than cause it and damage that happens gradually through wear and 
tear or due to lack of maintenance is not covered. Rain alone is not a storm.
In their initial final response, Lloyds say they dont dispute there were storm conditions at the 
time of the incident. The data from the weather firm this service uses indicate a peak gust of 
56mph (described as Dry Storm) on the day before the first date for the data from Lloyds 
weather source. And a peak gust of 53mph (again described as Dry Storm) for the 
following day. On balance (using the approach this service takes in considering what would 
reasonably be thought to constitute a storm) Ive concluded there were storm conditions 
around the date of the incident. 
On the second question, from the description of what happened and the photographs, the 
awning came away from the frame and timberwork by which it was attached to the external 
wall (above the kitchen window). As I understand it, the awning was retracted at the time of 
the incident. Mrs D and Mr M say high winds are likely to have blown into the awning frame 
(rather than the timberwork, which they say was there to space the awning from external 
waste pipes on the wall) and detached it (though it didnt completely detach from the wall). 
Lloyds surveyor says it would be unusual for an awning, to be damaged in that way (if 
retracted and solidly fixed to the wall) so isnt typical of damage to be expected in a storm 
(high winds). While I havent seen any clear, definitive evidence on this point, I dont think its 
unreasonable to think the high winds could have detached it from its frame/fittings. So, I 
think its reasonable to conclude the damage is consistent with that a storm can cause.
The third question is therefore the key issue, where Mrs D and Mr M and Lloyds disagree. 
Ive considered both views carefully, together with the report from H as well as the further 
representations made by Lloyds surveyor in response to our investigators view (and the 
further points made by Mrs D and Mr M in response to our investigators view and the points 
made by Lloyds surveyor). Taking all these points into account, Ive concluded Lloyds acted 
fairly in declining Mrs D and Mr Ms claim for external damage. I know this will be 
disappointing to Mrs D and Mr M, so Ill set out why Ive come to this conclusion.
Firstly, as a general principle, where a policyholder makes a claim for damage or loss under 
a policy, the onus is on them to show there was an insured event that caused the damage or 
loss. In this case, given my conclusions there were storm conditions at the time of the 
incident, and the damage is consistent with that wed expect to see in a storm, I think its 
reasonable to conclude there was an insured event (storm) that caused damage. 
However, where an insurer relies on an exclusion in the policy to decline a claim (as Lloyds 
have done) then the onus is on them to show the exclusion applies. Looking at the available 
information and evidence, I think Lloyds have done so in the specific circumstances of this 
case, so Ill explain why Ive come to this view.
In their initial final response, Lloyds refer to the following policy exclusion, in the General 
exclusions section:
This policy does not cover:A gradually operating cause. This is something that happens gradually over a 
period of time, for example corrosion, damp, condensation or decomposition.
Wear and tear
Lloyds also refer to their surveyors report, which states:
It was noted the framework [of the awning] was decayed. Loose brickwork was 
noted to the wall above the window where there was evidence of re-pointing to 
brickwork above the lintel. None of the damage identified or inspected could be 
attributed to a single event storm and had been a result of gradual operation.
Ive also considered in detail the points made by Lloyds surveyor about the awning and the 
timberwork, as well as Mrs D and Mr Ms detailed comments about the condition of the 
awning, that it was in good condition prior to the incident and there was no visible evidence 
of rot to the timberwork. And that exposure of the detached timberwork between the incident 
and Hs visit would have caused it to deteriorate. 
However, on balance, Im more persuaded there was an existing issue with the timberwork, 
given the degree of rot from the photographs taken after the incident (which I dont think 
would have only occurred between the incident and Hs visit). And I think this would have 
affected the strength of the awning and its ability to withstand the high winds. That is, had 
the timberwork not had rot, it is less likely the awning would have suffered damage in the 
high winds.
Based on these points, then Ive concluded on balance that Lloyds have shown enough that 
theyve fairly applied the exclusion for gradual operating cause and wear and tear to decline 
the claim for the external damage.
Having reached this conclusion, Ive gone on to consider the question of the internal 
damage. 
First, Ive considered what appears to be some confusion over whether the internal damage 
claim has been settled. Part of Lloyds representations in response to our investigators view 
gives the impression it has been settled. However, looking at the evidence and the clear 
statement from Mrs D and Mr M that theyve received no settlement, Im clear the internal 
damage claim remains declined and no settlement has been made.
Coming back to the substantive issue with the internal damage claim, Lloyds declined the 
claim on the same gradually operating cause grounds as the decline of the external damage. 
They also say the accidental damage section contains an exclusion from cover for water 
ingress. They say accidental damage has to be caused by sudden, unintentional and 
unexpected one-off incidents. It doesnt include damage caused by wear and tear, lack of 
maintenance, mechanical faults or damage which occurs gradually over time. Mrs D and Mr 
D say the internal damage was the result of water ingress through loose brickwork caused 
by the damage to the awning.
The exclusion referred to by Lloyds is set out in the Accidental damage cover section of the 
policy, which states:
What we dont cover
Damage caused by water entering your home.
I think this exclusion is clear (and theres no dispute there was water ingress following the 
incident). So, Ive concluded it was reasonable for Lloyds to rely on the exclusion to decline 
the claim for internal damage under the accidental damage section of the policy.However, Ive also considered whether the claim for internal damage was reasonably 
declined because of the same, gradually operating cause exclusion (under the storm section 
of the policy).  Mrs D and Mr M believe the storm not only damaged the awning, but also the 
brickwork to which it was attached, that meant rainwater was able to enter the interior of the 
property and cause damage. So, the internal damage was a direct result of the storm. 
Ive considered this issue carefully, In doing so, Ive also considered whether (as Lloyds 
maintain) as the proximate cause of the external damage was gradual deterioration, then the 
internal damage could be seen to be a direct result of that gradual deterioration (and 
therefore subject to the same exclusion). Having considered this point, I dont accept this 
means the interior damage is also, automatically covered by the same reasons for decline. I 
say that because theres no indication Ive seen of any interior damage prior to the storm. 
Ive then considered the differing views from Mrs D and Mr M, H and Lloyds surveyor. Mrs D 
and Mr M say the brickwork was damaged by the detachment of the awning. Lloyds maintain 
there were issues with brickwork and the sealant around the window frame. Ive considered 
both views (and the supporting arguments) in detail, together with the photographs. On 
balance, I agree with Lloyds view. Ive come to this view for several reasons. First, looking 
at the photographs of the brickwork to which the awning was attached, Im not persuaded 
the awning coming away (given the retaining bolts remained in place) would have caused 
the observed damage and cracks, including the gaps in the sealant that Lloyds surveyor 
refers to. That being the case, then the damage to the brickwork or the sealant gaps 
(through which the water ingress is likely to have happened) wasnt a result of the storm. 
Im more persuaded these issues were pre-existing (and which the presence of the awning 
may have covered). Without the awning in place, the brickwork would have been directly 
exposed to the weather (and the subsequent ingress of water). 
This being the case, then the water ingress (and so the internal damage) cant be attributed 
to the storm. As such, Ive concluded Lloyds have acted fairly in declining the claim for 
internal damage.
On the question of compensation, Lloyds acknowledge the standard of service provided to 
Mrs D and Mr M fell short of the standards they should expect. The case notes Ive seen 
from Lloyds support this conclusion, including a lack of communication with Mrs D and Mr M 
(particularly from H) and the change of decision. I agree the way the claim was handled, the 
change of decision (which led to a loss of expectation on the part of Mrs D and Mr M) and 
lack of communication would have been stressful. 
Considering all the circumstances of the case, I think Mrs D and Mr M would have suffered 
substantial distress, upset and inconvenience  more than just some inconvenience, 
disappointment, or loss of expectation. Considering this, the figure of £475 awarded by 
Lloyds is in line with what wed expect in these kind of situations, so I wont be asking Lloyds 
to increase that figure.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision not to uphold Mrs D and Mr Ms 
complaint.
Mrs D and Mr M responded to make several points. They didnt think the provisional decision 
had adequately considered how they could have been reasonably aware of the damage 
happening gradually. In doing so they referred to a case study published by this service.They also said they thought the storm conditions exerted force on the awning sufficient to 
pull out loose the retaining bolt holding the awning to the wall (and the brick in which the bolt 
was secured), causing the awning to sag (as shown in photographs). Had the issue been 
with the timber, they would have expected it to break and fall away from the awning before 
damage to the bolt and brick occurred.
They also referred to Lloyds surveyors mention of gaps in the sealant above the window in 
their response to our investigators view. But this wasnt included in the surveyors original 
report, which simply referred to sealant having been applied above the window (not to gaps). 
Mrs D and Mr M maintained there were no gaps in the sealant. They also thought that 
should water have entered through the sealant, it wouldnt have affected the internal window 
reveal (as had occurred). They maintained the water ingress was caused by the mechanical 
forces exerted on the bolts during the storm. And that they experienced no water ingress, 
either before or since the incident  which supported their view the ingress was a direct 
result of the storm (no pre-existing issues).
Lloyds did not respond by the date requested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Lloyds have acted fairly towards Mrs D and Mr M.
Ive considered each of Mrs D and Mr Ms points in turn.
On the issue of whether Mrs D and Mr T could reasonably have been aware of the damage 
happening gradually. Ive looked at the case study provided by Mrs D and Mr T. It refers to a 
case where there was damage from a leak affecting a ceiling, where the leak was concealed 
between the ceiling and the floor above. However, this isnt the same situation as that in this 
case (where its an awning fixed to an outside wall). And as a service, we consider each 
case based on the specific circumstances. So, dont think the case study circumstances (and 
the outcome) read across to Miss D and Mr Ts case. As such, the case study doesnt 
change my conclusions.
On the issue of whether the storm conditions exerted force on the awning sufficient to pull 
out loose the retaining bolt holding the awning to the wall (and the brick in which the bolt was 
secured), Ive considered this carefully. But Im not persuaded this is, on balance, likely to 
have been the case. Thats because Im not persuaded that the storm conditions described 
would have been of such strength to pull out a retaining bolt and brickwork that was securely 
fixed in place  particularly as the awning was retracted at the time of the incident. Also, 
given my conclusion about the rot in the timber, while it was in place to space he awning 
over pipework, I think the fact it had rotted would have compromised the rigidity of the 
awning as a whole, making it more susceptible to damage in bad weather. So, I havent 
changed my views on this point.
On the third point, whether there were gaps in the sealant above the window, Ive again 
considered this carefully. In my provisional decision I concluded the damage to the brickwork 
or the sealant gaps (through which the water ingress is likely to have happened) wasnt a 
result of the storm. This indicates that the water ingress could have occurred through either 
the brickwork or the sealant. While Mrs D and Mr T maintain there were no gaps in the 
sealant (so it couldnt have been the cause of the water ingress), this would imply the water 
ingress was through the brickwork. And I considered this in my provisional decision, when I 
concluded I was more persuaded these issues were pre-existing (and which the presence of 
the awning may have covered). Without the awning in place, the brickwork would have been directly exposed to the weather (and the subsequent ingress of water). This conclusion isnt 
affected by what Mrs D and Mr M have said about the condition of the sealant. So, I havent 
changed my view on this point.
Given these considerations, I havent changed my conclusions in my provisional decision, so 
my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mrs D and Mr Ms 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman