DRN-2842493
The complaint
Ms W complains about the service she received from PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA 
(PayPal) after she complained to it about the non-receipt of an item she had purchased.
What happened
An item Ms W purchased was delivered to a previous address she had resided at, rather 
than her current address.
Because of this Ms W says PayPal should refund the £105 she paid for the item and £500 
for the distress and inconvenience the whole matter has caused her.
Ms Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded it shouldnt be 
upheld. She concluded that PayPal had done nothing wrong in refusing to refund the £105 
paid for the item (because it had been delivered to the address Ms W asked it to be 
delivered to) and that it had dealt with her complaint in respect of the same in a fair and 
reasonable manner.
Ms W didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
I would also like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
PayPal has provided our service with various evidence in support of the stance it has taken 
in this case. And having reviewed this evidence, I can confirm that I find it to be both 
plausible and persuasive and evidence that I can rely on as being an accurate reflection of 
what happened.
PayPal has provided evidence which show that Ms W asked (whether intentionally or in 
error) for the item in question be delivered to a previous address at which she resided at, 
rather than her current address. And evidence to show that that is where the item in question 
was delivered to. So, Im not persuaded that PayPal should have to refund the £105 Ms W 
paid for the item she didnt receive.
I can see that Ms W says that her claim about the non-receipt of the item she had 
purchased, and then her complaint about the same, was handled poorly by PayPal. 
Notwithstanding that complaint handling in itself, and in isolation, is something that Ive no 
power to consider a complaint about, I can confirm that I cant see that PayPal did anything 
other than try to assist Ms W when she raised her concerns with it. And for the avoidance of 
doubt, this includes what PayPal said and explained to Ms W in a call that Ms W has kindly 
provided our service with a recording of.
Although I dont dispute that Ms W didnt receive the item she paid £105 for, Im not 
persuaded that this was a result of anything that I can reasonably hold PayPal liable for. And 
although I can understand Ms Ws frustration, Im satisfied that PayPal did its best to assist 
Ms W when she claimed, and then complained, about the non receipt of the item she had 
paid for.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman