DRN-2895474
The complaint
Mr C complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc didnt tell him that his account card needed 
activation before a balance transfer could be made.
What happened
Mr C says he applied for a Sainsburys credit card account and applied to make a balance 
transfer to it. He says he works abroad and several months later noticed the balance transfer 
hadnt been made. Mr C says he was given conflicting information from Sainsburys, but it 
accepted it hadnt told him that he needed to activate the account card before the balance 
transfers could be made, He would like Sainsburys to pay the interest on his other accounts 
and pay further compensation. Mr C says he didnt receive paper account statements and 
didnt notice what had taken place until about June 2020.
Sainsburys accepts it didnt tell Mr C he needed to activate the account but says he ought to 
have noticed before June 2020 that the balance transfers hadnt been made. It says it gave 
Mr C incorrect information when he called it and has apologised and paid £100 
compensation and £30 for the delay. It also says it will pay one months interest for Mr Cs 
other credit card accounts.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld it. The investigator thought 
Sainsburys had given Mr C incorrect information on two occasions and hadnt told him about 
the need to activate his account. She recommended Sainsburys increase its compensation 
offer by £75 but thought Mr C ought to have noticed the issue before he did.
Sainsburys doesnt accept that view and maintains its compensation offer appropriate.
Mr C doesnt accept that view and says the compensation doesnt go far enough. He says 
he works away, has a busy life and couldnt be expected to have noticed what had taken 
place before he did.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I have come to the same overall view to that of the investigator and for 
similar reasons. 
There is no question here that Sainsburys made a number of mistakes. Im satisfied it didnt 
tell Mr C that he needed to activate his account card before the balance transfers could be 
made within a time period. And Im also satisfied that Sainsburys gave Mr C incorrect 
information about the process on two separate occasions. I accept that Mr C was caused 
inconvenience as a result of what took place and spent some time trying to sort matters out. 
I also accept that Mr C wasnt given key information about the balance transfers.
I appreciate that Sainsburys has fairly apologised for what took place and has paid 
compensation as well as making a fair offer in respect of the interest payments. But I agree 
with the investigator that the compensation offer of £100 doesnt go far enough or reflect the 
level of inconvenience Mr C was caused and that the information was important. It follows 
that I think Sainsburys should pay a further £75 compensation and I find the total award fair 
and reasonable.
I also appreciate Mr C says Sainsburys should pay the interest he was charged as a result 
of the balance transfers not being made up to June 2020. But Im satisfied that Mr C would 
have had access to all of his credit card account statements and ought reasonably to have 
noticed the error far sooner than he did.
Mr C has provided me with his account statements, and I can see that in February 2020 he 
paid £153.63 and £70.92 interest on his other credit card accounts. No doubt Sainsburys 
can be given a copy of those statements if it wishes to see them and confirm the interest 
payments it agreed to cover.
Putting things right
Sainsburys should pay a further £75 compensation and pay the interest of £224.55 as it 
previously agreed to do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Sainsburys Bank Plc to pay 
Mr C £75 compensation and pay his interest charges of £224.55.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman