DRN-4182881
The complaint
Mr D complains that Nationwide Building Society wouldnt stop charges and interest being 
added to his credit card account when he was out of work. 
What happened
Mr D was made redundant in December 2022. In late January 2023 Mr D called Nationwide 
and told them of this. Mr D told Nationwide he was actively seeking a new job and 
Nationwide agreed a one-month breathing space arrangement. In March, Mr D updated 
Nationwide and agreed a further one-month breathing space. Nationwide defaulted the 
account later in the year and the account has now been passed to a third-party.
Mr D complained that Nationwide didnt treat him fairly and that they continued to add 
charges and interest to his card balance. Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint and said 
that they cant freeze or refund any interest charges on an account without completing an 
income and expenditure form and fully discussing options with a customer. 
Mr D brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Services and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought Nationwide hadnt treated Mr D 
unfairly. Mr D asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr D will be disappointed with my final decision, but for very much the 
same reasons as our Investigator Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will now explain 
why.
Mr D called Nationwide on 28 January 2023 to tell them hed been made redundant in 
December. Nationwide asked Mr D if he had any savings or other income and asked him to 
complete an income and expenditure form so they could agree a payment plan with him  
and also confirmed with Mr D that he wasnt vulnerable. Mr D told Nationwide he didnt want 
a payment plan so Nationwide agreed a one-month breathing space on the account and 
agreed to waive late payment fees and interest to Mr Ds account during this period. 
Nationwide didnt apply a late payment fee or apply interest to Mr Ds account in January.
Mr D called Nationwide on 10 March and explain that he hadnt yet found a new job. 
Nationwide offered to complete an income and expenditure form with Mr D so that it could 
consider a fair and reasonable payment plan. Mr D said he didnt want to do this as he had 
no available funds and said he wanted an extension to the breathing space already provided 
agreed. Nationwide explained that it only allowed customers two periods of breathing space 
each year and that they couldnt fairly consider a payment plan without first completing an 
income and expenditure form. Nationwide gave additional information to Mr D about how it 
could default the account if four payments were missed, that this could impact his credit file 
and that the account could be sent to a third-party to recover any debt. Nationwide also 
offered Mr D details for a debt management charity. Mr D declined to complete an income 
and expenditure form and Nationwide agreed a further one-month breathing space but 
explained it could not stop interest and charges unless Mr D completed an income and 
expenditure form.
I understand that Mr D was going through a difficult time; hed lost his job, had no savings 
and the only income he had was Universal Credit.  Id expect Nationwide to have listened to 
Mr D and get an understanding of his individual circumstances and discuss what help is 
appropriate. I dont think its unfair or unreasonable that Nationwide asked Mr D about his 
income and expenditure and asked him to complete a form about this. Id expect Mr D to co-
operate with Nationwide and provide any reasonable information asked for  such as details 
of any other borrowing or details of any savings and investments. In the telephone call in 
January, Nationwide agreed a specific request from Mr D to allow him some breathing space 
and also agreed to waive a late payment fee and interest for a month. I think in the 
circumstances Nationwide treated Mr D fairly at this time.
In the second telephone call in March, Nationwide explained to Mr D the potential 
consequences of further missed payments if he didnt allow them to assess his ability to 
make a repayment. Nationwide again explained the possibility of a default being recorded on 
his credit file and said the account could be sent to a third-party for collection. Nationwide 
again pointed Mr D to a charity organisation that may be able to provide assistance to him. 
Mr D said he was still unwilling to complete an income and expenditure form and that he 
wanted further breathing space. Nationwide agreed to this and said it was the final breathing 
space it would allow as it had a limit of two breathing spaces per year.
Im satisfied that in the telephone call in March, Nationwide again listened to Mr D and 
offered to consider stopping interest and charges to the account if he completed an income 
and expenditure form. Nationwide explained charges would continue if Mr D was given 
another breathing space and explained the consequences of missed payments. I appreciate 
Mr Ds unemployment went on for longer than he would have hoped, but I think that 
Nationwide took reasonable steps to help Mr D and I cant say Nationwide treated him 
unfairly in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has commented that Nationwide incorrectly reported the missed payments and default 
to credit reference agencies. For completeness, Ive looked at the account statements and 
Im not persuaded Nationwide did anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided that Nationwide Building Society didnt treat Mr D 
unfairly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman