DRN-4185725
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc sent a transfer he instructed in UK Pound Sterling 
(GBP) rather than in US Dollars (USD).
What happened
Mr C instructed a transfer from his HSBC USD account to another USD account based in the 
UK. However, Mr C found that HSBC had sent the money in GBP. This meant that the sent 
USD amount had been converted to GBP by HSBC before being sent, and that it had to be 
converted back to USD when received by the recipient party. 
Mr C wasnt happy about this because of the exchange rate loss incurred on the two 
unnecessary currency exchanges. So, he raised a complaint.
HSBC responded to Mr C and confirmed that hed instructed them to send the money as 
GBP and that therefore they didnt feel theyd acted unfairly by doing so. Mr C wasnt 
satisfied with HSBCs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel HSBC had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
Like all banks, HSBC are expected to process transfers in line with the instructions given to 
them by their account holders. In this instance, HSBC have been able to demonstrate that 
Mr C instructed them to transfer the money in GBP. As such, while I appreciate Mr C may 
not have intended to provide such an instruction to HSBC, I dont feel I can reasonably or 
fairly say that HSBC did anything wrong by following the instruction that Mr C gave to them. 
Mr C has said that he didnt instruct HSBC to transfer the money in GBP and has provided a 
screenshot which he feels confirms that he issued the instruction to transfer the money in 
USD. But the screenshot that Mr C has provided confirms the debiting amount, and because 
the transfer was being made from a USD account, this debiting amount was in USD. 
Importantly though, the screenshot doesnt show the currency which the transfer was to be 
made in. But the screenshot does confirm that a HSBC Exchange Rate will be applied to the 
transfer, which Im satisfied confirms the transfer was being instructed to be sent in a non-
USD currency  because otherwise a currency exchange rate wouldnt be required. 
HSBC have also sent screenshots of the customer journey Mr S would have experienced 
when instructing the transfer online. And this includes that the specific currency that the 
transfer is to be sent in would be listed, as would any applicable exchange rate  for 
instance, from USD to GBP.
HSBC have also confirmed that their systems automatically default the transfer currency to 
the currency of the country in which the recipient account is located. And, because the 
recipient account was based in the UK, this meant the transfer currency defaulted to GBP 
and would have needed to have been amended by Mr C if he wanted the transfer to take 
place in USD.
Mr C feels that HSBC acted unfairly by defaulting the currency to GBP as they did. But I 
dont agree, and I feel its reasonable for HSBC to default to a native currency as they do. 
And Im also satisfied that this information would have been clearly presented to Mr C, as 
explained above.
Ultimately, I dont feel that HSBC have done anything wrong or acted unfairly here. Instead, I 
feel that whats happened is an unfortunate consequence of a mistake or misunderstanding 
on Mr Cs part. 
I reach this position because Im satisfied that Mr C could have instructed the transfer in 
USD, but unfortunately didnt do so. And while I accept that this was unfortunate, I feel that 
because the responsibility for issuing an accurate instruction rested with Mr C, I dont feel 
that HSBC have acted unfairly.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr C was wanting, but it follows that I wont be upholding 
this complaint or instructing HSBC to take any further action here. I hope that Mr C will 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman