DRN-3416721
The complaint
Mr O complains that Project Imagine Ltd trading as Dozens blocked and closed his account 
and retained his funds. He would like his funds returned and compensation.
What happened
Mr O had an account with Dozens. Mr O received a credit of £3,600 into his account. 
Following this Dozens blocked his account and asked Mr O for further information about the 
payment. 
Mr O said he provided Dozens with a letter from a university. Dozens werent satisfied with 
the information provided so they continued to block the account. The account remained 
blocked from 2 October 2020 until 17 November 2020 when the account was closed. 
Dozens said they wanted to know the source of the £3,600 and werent satisfied with the 
documents provided by Mr O because of this they retained the funds in the account.
Mr O complained to Dozens. They said they were complying with their legal and regulatory 
obligations when they reviewed and closed Mr Os account. They said they would retain the 
funds in the account.
Mr O was unhappy, so he complained to our service. One of the investigators looked into the 
complaint he said that Dozens had acted in line with their terms and conditions when they 
blocked and closed Mr Os account. So, he didnt think they had acted unfairly. He also said 
Mr O hadnt provided sufficient information for Dozens to release the funds in the account.
Mr O was unhappy with the view. He said he had a chronic condition and he really needed 
the money in his account. He said he had provided Dozens with the information they had 
asked for. He also said he was entitled to borrow money from family and friends He also 
mentioned he thought he would not be treated this way if he was a white person.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Os account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Dozens were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Mr Os account. 
I know Mr O was unhappy with the blocking of the account and it caused him inconvenience. 
But I can see that in blocking the account the bank were following an internal process which 
they carried out in order to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations. This was a 
legitimate exercise so I cant say Dozens was unfair. 
Dozens proceeded to close the account on 17 November 2020. Ive first considered whether 
Dozens acted fairly when it closed Mr Os account. Its generally for banks to decide whether 
or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular 
customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a 
bank must keep a customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their 
account closed.
Ive considered whether Dozens acted fairly in closing Mr Os account. Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of his account and Im satisfied they did. The terms and conditions 
outline that the bank can close a customers account with two months notice, and in certain 
circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this case Dozens closed Mr Os 
account without notice. For Dozens to act fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to 
apply their terms for immediate closure  and having looked at these terms and all the 
evidence Im satisfied the bank has applied the terms fairly. And it was entitled to close the 
account as its already done. 
Mr O provided Dozens with information regarding the money he had received in the account. 
Dozens werent satisfied with the explanation provided and requested more information. 
Mr O has said that he has provided sufficient information to show that the funds are his. And 
he wants the funds released. Mr O has told us about his health condition and how he needs 
the money.
I am very sorry that Mr O is unwell, and I know he would really like his funds returned to him. 
But in order for me to ask Dozens to return the funds to him, I have to be satisfied that the 
funds are his. Mr O hasnt been able to provide any further evidence to Dozens or to this 
service that shows he is entitled to these funds.
I accept that Dozens have withheld Mr Os funds, but I havent seen any evidence so far to 
demonstrate that they have acted unfairly in doing so. I understand this will be frustrating for 
Mr O but Im unable to say that Dozens should return these funds to Mr O without evidence 
that Mr O is entitled to them. And to date Ive not seen sufficient evidence to indicate this. 
And therefore, I wont be asking Dozens to do anything else. 
Mr O has suggested that the reason why his funds were not returned to him is because of 
his race or ethnic origin and he thinks he has been discriminated against. 
While I appreciate this is his perspective, it is not my role to decide whether discrimination 
has taken place as a matter of law  only the courts have the power to decide this.
I have, however, considered the relevant law in relation to what Mr O has said when 
deciding what I think is the fair and reasonable outcome. Part of this has meant considering 
the provisions of The Equality Act 2010. But after doing so Ive not seen evidence to indicate 
Mr O was discriminated on the grounds of his race or ethnicity, so I havent found that 
Dozens behaviour was improper.
In summary, I recognise Mr O feels unhappy about the blocking and subsequent closure of 
the account as well as the monies not being returned to him. I realise Mr O will be 
disappointed by my decision, but overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say 
Dozens have acted unreasonably and treated Mr O unfairly when they blocked and closed 
his account and withheld his funds. My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman