DRN-3319956
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy because Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt refunded 
the premium they paid for a travel insurance policy.
 
All reference to URV includes its agents.
What happened
In February 2020, Mr and Mrs M bought an annual travel insurance policy, underwritten by 
URV (the policy). They paid around £610 for the policy.
Mr and Mrs M say they contacted URV in mid-March 2020 to ask if they would pause the 
policy due to Covid-19 until it was safe to travel abroad. They say URV declined to do so but 
offered around £300 to cancel the policy at that stage. Mr and Mrs M say they declined the 
offer and didnt cancel the policy, thinking that the impact of Covid-19 wasnt likely to last 
long.
In mid-October 2020, Mr and Mrs M contacted URV to enquire about pausing the policy 
again. Due to the global impact of Covid-19, they didnt think theyd have any reason to use 
it as they hadnt travelled abroad and didnt intend to at that stage. 
URV says this type of policy cant be paused. So, instead it cancelled the policy and offered 
Mr and Mrs M a partial refund of the premium in accordance with the policy terms. That 
amounted to around £91.
Unhappy with the amount refunded, Mr and Mrs M complained to our service. And after the 
complaint was brought to our service, URV offered to increase the amount of the refund to 
around £203 in a letter dated December 2020.  
Our investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this case. The investigator also explained that its a fundamental 
principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a 
time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to 
keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. The investigator also 
explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be 
performed because cover under the policy started in early February 2020 and the policy 
covered various risks during that time  up until it was cancelled. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19 
and thought that the increased offer made by URV in its letter dated December 2020 was fair 
and reasonable.  
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. So, this complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case.
The terms and conditions of the policy set out their cancellation rights. When the policy is 
cancelled outside of the 14 days cooling off period, it says: 
Annual Multi trip policies  Provided you have not made a claim on the policy
(irrespective of whether your claim was successful or not) and you confirm in writing 
that there is no claim pending, should you choose to cancel and understand that all 
benefits of the policy will be cancelled, we will refund 5% of the total premium paid, 
for each full calendar month remaining on the policy from the date of cancellation. If 
you are intending to, or have claimed (irrespective of whether your claim was 
successful or not) we will not consider refunding any proportion of your premium.
I dont uphold this complaint. In the circumstances of this case, I think URVs offer to refund 
to refund Mr and Mrs M around £203 of the total premium theyd paid for the policy is fair 
and reasonable. Ill explain why.
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so theres no requirement
under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a full refund  
or pause the policy as Mr and Mrs M first wanted.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that where cancellation is more
than 14 days after payment of the premium, and subject to certain conditions, it will 
refund 5% of the total premium paid, for each full calendar month remaining on the 
policy from the date of cancellation. URV has now offered more than this. As a 
gesture of goodwill, its offered to refund Mr and Mrs M one twelfth of the premium 
paid for each month left on the policy after the date of cancellation in October 2020.
By doing so, URV has gone beyond what its required to give under the contract of 
insurance.
Ive taken into account whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the
complaint, including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding 
Covid-19. Mr and Mrs M were covered under the policy from early February 2020 to 
October 2020, when the policy was cancelled, for a number of listed events insured 
under the policy for any number of trips. Because of the way annual multi-trip 
insurance policies work, an insurer has no way of knowing how many trips Mr and 
Mrs M took or had booked (unless theyd made a claim under the policy). There may 
have been many trips or, as Mr and Mrs M say is the case here, there may have 
been none. However, URV was covering the risk of a claim during the time the policy 
was in force  and the price they paid for the policy reflected this. But once the policy 
was cancelled (due to the global impact of the Covid-19 pandemic), URV didnt bear 
any risk under the policy and no claims had been made or accepted by URV. 
If Mr and Mrs M wish to take up URVs offer of an increased refund in the approximate sum 
of £203 they should contact URV directly.
My final decision
Union Reiseversicherung AG doesnt need to do anything more. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman