DRN-2009141
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way PRA Group (UK) Limited (PRA Group) has handled his 
account. 
What happened
In October 2018 PRA Group acquired Mr Cs account from the original lender. On 
24 October 2018 both PRA Group and the original lender wrote to Mr C to confirm the 
change in ownership. Mr C had been making payments of £250 a month towards the credit 
card balance and continued to make payments to the original lender. The original lender 
then forwarded the payments to PRA Group each month. 
PRA Group has explained it received a duplicate payment from the original lender in March 
2019. 
In July 2019 PRA Group started to call Mr C about the account. Due to an administrative 
error, PRA Group didnt add Mr Cs existing arrangement to pay £250 to his account and 
called him around ten times over a period of about two weeks. Mr C complained and PRA 
Group responded on 29 July 2019. PRA Group upheld Mr Cs complaint and explained that 
an administrative error had led to him being called in July 2019. PRA Group apologised and 
explained the £250 arrangement had been added to its systems. To apologise, PRA Group 
reduced the outstanding balance by £25 and confirmed the outstanding balance. 
Mr C continued to make payments but complained again as he thought the outstanding 
balance had been fully repaid. PRA Group responded on 7 October 2019 but didnt agree 
the outstanding balance was wrong. PRA Group confirmed that Mr C had £225 to pay to 
close his account. Mr C referred his complaint to our service. Hes told us that PRA Group 
continued to pressure him to make a payment, despite the fact he was disputing the 
outstanding balance. PRA Group reported missed payments on Mr Cs credit file for 
October, November and December 2019. Mr C subsequently settled the outstanding 
balance as he was concerned about the impact of a default on his credit file. 
Our investigator looked at Mr Cs complaint but thought PRA Group had dealt with it fairly. 
Mr C asked to appeal. He remained of the view that PRA Group had used aggressive 
collections tactics, falsely reported the outstanding balance, continued with collections 
activity and registered missed payments on his credit file. As Mr C asked to appeal, his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr C for his detailed submissions and responses to our investigator. Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues in this case. I havent addressed each individual 
point Mr C has made, but I have taken everything both he and PRA Group have said and 
sent us into account when reaching my decision. 
Ive reviewed the letters both PRA Group and the original lender sent Mr C in October 2018. 
Im satisfied they correctly explain that the original credit agreement had been terminated 
and the account was sold to PRA Group. PRA Groups letter dated 24 October 2018 
confirmed the outstanding balance at that date was £3,124.82. I understand Mr C feels he 
was working towards a settlement with the original lender. But its clear that the account was 
sold to PRA Group in October 2019 and the balance at that time was £3,124.82. 
Whilst I understand Mr C continued to make his monthly payments to the original lender, 
they were forwarded to the PRA Group and used to reduce the outstanding balance. 
It appears that the calls Mr C received in July 2019 came as a result of a duplicate payment 
that was sent to PRA Group by the original lender due to a systems error. The duplicate 
payment wasnt returned to Mr C because it was caused by a systems problem, not because 
he paid too much. PRA Group have explained that this was a known systems issue for 
accounts acquired from the original lender. 
The systems error had a knock on effect with PRA Group that led to Mr C receiving several 
calls from its collections department. I can understand why Mr C found this upsetting and 
why he complained. But I havent been persuaded that PRA Group acted aggressively in its 
attempts to contact Mr C. The contact records Ive seen show PRA Group phoned Mr C 
around 10 times across a period of about two weeks. The contact notes show that Mr C 
didnt answer any of the calls and they went through to an answerphone. After Mr C 
complained on 29 July 2019 the calls stopped. PRA Group accepts that it shouldnt have 
called Mr C and reduced the outstanding balance by £25 to apologise. Im satisfied that the 
£25 balance reduction fairly reflects the impact of PRA Groups contact with Mr C in July 
2019 and the errors it made. 
Mr C has raised concerns that PRA Group registered missed payments after he disputed the 
final £225 outstanding on his account and complained. From the information Ive seen, Im 
satisfied that Mr C did owe PRA Group £225 in October 2019. And theres nothing in the 
rules PRA Group operates under that says it has to suspend collections activity or 
registering missed payments because a customer has complained. Our service cant force a 
business to suspend collections activity or reporting how an account has been handled to 
the credit reference agencies. Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but as he didnt make a payment 
to clear the outstanding balance in October, November and December 2019, Im satisfied 
PRA Groups decision to record them as missed on his credit file was accurate. 
I understand my decision is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr C. But whilst I agree 
that PRA Group did contact him unnecessarily in July 2019, Im satisfied it dealt with his 
complaint fairly and the £25 compensation it used to reduce the outstanding balance was 
reasonable. As I think PRA Group has dealt with this complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take 
any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman