DRN-3882865
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC have been sending letters to their address 
in the name of an unknown third-party.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K have been receiving letter from Lloyds  and from third-party agencies 
engaged by Lloyds  to their address. However, these received letters arent for Mr and Mrs 
K, but are addressed to an unknown third-party (TP) who also held accounts with Lloyds. 
Mr and Mrs K werent happy about this, so they raised a complaint.
Lloyds responded to Mr and Mrs K and explained that they rely on their account holders to 
provide accurate contact information, which in this instance it appeared the TP hadnt done. 
Lloyds also explained theyd taken steps to ensure that no further correspondence 
addressed to the TP would be received by Mr and Mrs K. Mr and Mrs K werent satisfied with 
Lloyds response, especially as they did continue to receive letters addressed to the TP, and 
so they referred their complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that, as per the rules by which 
this service must abide, Mr and Mrs K werent eligible complainants in regard to the Lloyds 
accounts held by the TP, and that the only aspect of Mr and Mrs Ks complaint that it was 
within the jurisdiction of this service to consider was whether Lloyds had enabled or 
facilitated the TP using Mr and Mrs Ks address by providing the address information to the 
TP in some way. 
However, our investigator didnt feel there was any evidence or reasonable suggestion that 
Lloyds had either deliberately or inadvertently provided Mr and Mrs Ks address information 
to the TP, and so didnt uphold that aspect of Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. Mr and Mrs K 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement that much of what Mr and Mrs K complain about here 
doesnt fall within the remit of what this service is permitted to consider.
This service doesnt have a free hand to consider any complaint referred to us. Instead, we 
must follow the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules found in the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) Handbook. These rules say what we can and cant look at. Importantly, we dont 
have any discretion in this matter  were duty bound to follow the rules.
 
For our service to consider the aspect of Mr and Mrs Ks complaint about how Lloyds have 
allowed the TP to apply their address to the TPs Lloydss accounts, I would have to be 
satisfied that Mr and Mrs K are eligible complainants. 
The relevant rule here is DISP 2.7.6, which sets out that this is a two-part test. The first part 
of that test says that an eligible complainant can be a consumer, which Mr and Mrs K are.
But the second part of the test requires that Mr and Mrs Ks complaint be one that arises 
from one of a number of specified relationships with Lloyds  the business being 
complaining about. The rule goes onto list the acceptable relationships, and Mr and Mrs Ks 
complaint doesnt arise out of any of these relevant relationships with Lloyds. 
In short, this is largely because Mr and Mrs K are complaining about actions  the use of an 
address  on accounts which arent their accounts. And while Mr and Mrs K do hold a 
relevant relationship with Lloyds in regard to their own accounts, they dont hold such a 
relationship in regard to the accounts owned by the TP  which is that accounts about which 
Mr and Mrs K complain.
 
This means that Mr and Mrs K are not eligible complainants in regard to these aspects of 
their complaint as per the DISP rules. And in turn, this means that this service is unable to 
consider these aspects of their complaint.
What it is within the remit of this service to consider is whether Lloyds have acted unfairly 
towards Mr and Mrs K in regard to Mr and Mrs Ks own relationship with Lloyds. But the 
scope of this permissible remit is fairly narrow, given the context of this complaint  which as 
explained is largely about actions taken on the TPs account  and is essentially reduced to 
a consideration of whether Lloyds have somehow provided Mr and Mrs Ks address to the 
TP which would have enabled that TP to then use Mr and Mrs Ks address.
But Lloyds have confirmed that there is no record that Mr and Mrs Ks personal or contact 
information has been breached or disclosed, or any evidence that this may be the case. And 
I dont feel that it does reasonably or necessarily follow that because the TP has used Mr 
and Mrs Ks address that they received this address information from Lloyds. Rather, I feel 
that there are several other plausible possibilities as to how Mr and Mrs Ks address became 
associated with the TP that dont involve any provision or breach of information by Lloyds, 
including that it was as a result of the actions and intentions of the TP themselves.
So, while I appreciate this will be frustrating for Mr and Mrs K, I dont feel that there is any 
compelling evidence or suggestion that Lloyds have acted unfairly against them here, as per 
the limited scope and remit within which Im permitted to consider. 
Finally, Ive noted that in Lloyds response to Mr and Mrs Ks complaint, dated 9 September 
2021, that Lloyds explained to Mr and Mrs K that they had taken steps to ensure that they 
wouldnt receive any further letters addressed to the TP. And so, given that Mr and Mrs K 
have continued to receive such letters, Ive considered whether this aspect of their complaint 
might be one which this service is permitted to consider.
However, upon review, I dont feel that any complaint Mr and Mrs K may have that Lloyds 
didnt abide by the statement they made in the September 2021 complaint response letter is 
one which this service is permitted to consider.
This is because the content of Lloyds complaint response letter would be considered as 
being Lloyds handling of Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. And the DISP rules referred to 
previously also include that this service can only look at complaints about regulated 
activities. And complaint handling  even where the complaint is about a regulated activity  
is not itself a regulated activity. In short, the DISP rules dont permit this service to consider 
complaints about how a business has handled a complaint.Ive also considered the scenario whereby Mr and Mrs K might raise a new complaint with 
Lloyds about the continuing letters received by them following the September 2021 
complaint response letter. But in this scenario, the complaint is once again about the 
address on the TPs account, and so again isnt with the remit of this service to consider for 
the reasons explained towards the beginning of this section. 
This isnt to say that I cant understand and appreciate Mr and Mrs Ks frustration at the 
letters addressed to the TP which they continue to receive. But it is to say that, unfortunately, 
because of the circumstances here, this complaint largely sits outside the jurisdiction of this 
service. And, for the narrow aspect of Mr and Mrs Ks complaint that this service can 
consider, I dont feel that there is any evidence or information that does reasonably suggest 
that Lloyds have acted unfairly towards Mr and Mrs K.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr and Mrs K were wanting, but it follows from all the 
above that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Lloyds to take any further action. 
I hope that Mr and Mrs K will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the 
final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman