DRN-4278459
The complaint
Mr L has complained that The Co-operative Bank Plc (trading as Britannia) has cancelled his 
mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy that covered him for accident, sickness 
and unemployment.
What happened
The Co-op wrote to Mr L informing him that the policy would be cancelled in May 2023. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint because The Co-op had made a business 
decision to withdraw this policy and had provided Mr L with sufficient notice of the 
cancellation, in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr L disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Co-op stopped selling this policy in 2012 and so it was only held by existing customers 
who had taken it out before then and who had continued to renew it on an annual basis. The 
Co-op has now taken the decision to withdraw this product altogether.
The Co-op is entitled to take a view on whether it wishes to continue to offer certain products 
and this service would not normally involve itself in the commercial decisions of a business 
in deciding to offer or withdraw particular products. Im only looking at whether The Co-op 
has acted fairly and reasonably in the way that it has undertaken the cancellation.
Under the terms of the policy, it states that The Co-op must give 90 days advance notice of 
the termination of the policy. Based on the available evidence, Im satisfied that it did this.
The cancellation is particularly problematic for Mr L because he made a claim on the policy 
in 2018 for a medical condition that would now be classed as pre-existing and therefore most 
likely not covered under any new policy that he might buy.
Mr L was able to go back to work after treatment in 2018. However, the condition is incurable 
and, given its nature, Mr L has an expectation that he will need to make a claim for it again 
before the end of his mortgage term.
He says that, after his claim ended in 2018, he rang The Co-op to confirm that he would be 
covered if he had to make another claim. He says he was assured that he would be. He says 
that, if the possibility of the policy being withdrawn had been made clear to him, he would 
have cancelled the PPI himself and saved the premium payments to cover any future time 
off work.
I think its probable that the call handler did tell Mr L not to worry about making a further 
claim. That was an honest answer at the time. They wouldnt have known that the business 
would take a decision five years later to stop providing the policy.
I wouldnt expect the call handler to have drawn Mr Ls attention to the clause in the policy 
about possible termination of the policy. As our adjudicator has said, this is a very common 
clause that most insurance policies contain.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr L has said. But Im not persuaded that he would have 
cancelled the policy if he had been told about the clause. Because, in weighing up the 
likelihood of the PPI being cancelled against the possible benefit he might receive if he were 
to fall ill again, I find it more likely than not that he would have elected to keep the PPI. It 
would be inaccurate to say that the policy did not continue to meet his needs at that point 
because of a standard term about The Co-ops rights to withdraw the policy. Mr L has had 
the PPI for a further five years since his last claim and could have claimed again during that 
time had he needed to. As he had active cover, he would not be entitled to a refund of 
premiums.
I understand Mr Ls anxiety about wanting to protect his family from missed mortgage 
payments at a time when he is unable to work and have a great deal of sympathy for his 
situation. But The Co-op hasnt singled Mr L out. It has cancelled the policies of all the 
remaining policyholders, in accordance with the terms and conditions. I appreciate the 
impact for Mr L will potentially be greater than for others. However, as it has applied the 
withdrawal across all of its customers, Im unable to conclude that it has treated Mr L 
unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman