DRN-4489220
The complaint
X is unhappy with Protector Insurance UKs (Protector) handling of a claim made for damage 
to his property.
Where Ive referred to Protector throughout, this also includes any actions and 
communication by agents appointed by Protector to act on their behalf.
What happened
X is a leaseholder of a property. He is a beneficiary under the freeholders building insurance 
policy underwritten by Protector. X complains about Protectors handling of a claim for 
damage to his leasehold property.
Following water damage to Xs property, he made a claim to Protector. There was a delay in 
a loss adjuster attending and when they did attend, X was unhappy with how the visit was 
being handled and it was terminated as a result.
X complains that there were delays, the loss adjuster didnt have any company identification 
and asked him questions about the property. He is also unhappy with how he was spoken to 
during telephone conversations with Protector and their agents. X wants Protector to cash 
settle his claim and provide compensation.
One of our investigators looked into things but she didnt uphold the complaint. She said the 
loss adjusting company didnt provide their adjusters with company identification, but she 
thought they had acted reasonably during the visit to try to alleviate Xs concerns. She also 
didnt think the questions being asked were unreasonable, and Protector had offered a 
reasonable alternative.
The investigator recognised there was a delay in the first visit, but overall, she didnt think 
this had impacted on the claim timescale as X doesnt want Protectors agents to return, so 
they are unable to move the claim forward. The investigator also didnt think the calls shed 
been able to listen to had been handled unprofessionally. 
X didnt agree so the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to X, Ive reached the 
same outcome as our investigator.
I recognise that X is unhappy the loss adjuster didnt have company identification. They have 
confirmed this isnt something they provide their loss adjusters. I appreciate X is unhappy 
with this, but we arent the regulator, so it isnt the role of this service to decide Protector or 
their agents wider business practices. The regulator of Protector is the Financial Conduct 
Authority, and they are responsible for the wider operating practices of Protector.
However, X was told the loss adjusters name and contact details prior to the appointment. 
And when X raised concerns during the visit, the loss adjuster provided his driving licence 
photographic identification to demonstrate who they were. X also contacted the loss 
adjusting company office via phone who confirmed the loss adjuster was an employee and 
provided a description of them.
Whilst X is unhappy with this, I think reasonable actions were taken in an attempt to resolve 
Xs concerns about the identity of the loss adjuster.
X was also unhappy with the questions being asked about the ownership and occupancy of 
the property. Its not unusual for an insurer to ask questions about property ownership and 
occupancy, the policy owner, and other information they need whilst validating a claim. 
To try to resolve Xs concerns around being asked questions during a visit, Protector has 
offered to rearrange the visit and provide the questions in advance. Whilst I recognise X 
doesnt want a further visit to go ahead and wants the claim cash settled instead, if he wants 
to proceed with his claim, I dont think Protector is unreasonable in requesting a further visit 
in order to validate the claim. And I think they have provided a reasonable alternative in 
providing the questions ahead of the visit.
I recognise there was an initial delay in the visit being arranged. But taking into account the 
visit was terminated during the pre-arranged appointment, and X hasnt allowed a further 
visit to take place to give Protector an opportunity to validate the claim, I dont think that early 
delay has impacted the claim timescales overall.
I also note that X is unhappy with how Protectors agent handled a specific phone call with 
him. However, unfortunately there isnt a recording of that call and only notes, so I cant 
comment on it specifically. But from the other calls Ive been able to listen to, I havent found 
any points where these were handled unprofessionally. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman