DRN-4328480
The complaint
Mr R complains that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA allowed for recurring payments to be 
set up using his details, without his consent.
What happened
Mr R complained to Paypal because recurring payments were set up using his details, which 
at the time he said he didnt authorise. Mr R thinks Paypal aided the disputed payments by 
storing and sharing his details with a third party. He says he doesnt have a Paypal account, 
and that the payments were initiated via a guest account, so recurring payments should 
never have been set up.
A few days after Mr R flagged the payments, Paypal refunded him £138.12  which I 
understand was the most recent payment made via the recurring payment agreement. 
Paypal also offered Mr R £20 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Remaining unhappy, Mr R asked this service to consider his complaint. He says he was left 
without funds in his account, so he was unable to make essential payments, causing him 
embarrassment. Mr R added that he wants Paypal to be punished by paying him £500 
compensation.
After one of our investigators got in touch with Mr R, he clarified that he did in fact authorise 
the initial payment that was set up. Mr R says he signed up for a service at the time which 
directed him to make payment via a guest account on Paypal. But he says that he never 
agreed for this to be a recurring payment. Mr R says hed be happy to accept £100 
compensation.
Our investigator concluded that Paypal had acted fairly. The investigator decided that Mr R 
had set up the recurring payment and only received a refund from Paypal because, at first, 
Mr R said all the payments were unauthorised. So Paypal was fair to issue a refund even 
though it had recently transpired that Mr R initiated the payments. The investigator also felt 
that Paypals compensation offer was reasonable.
Mr R doesnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I share the investigators conclusions on this complaint  Ill explain why.
Its no longer a concern that the set-up of the payments was unauthorised or were carried 
out as part of fraudulent activity. Mr R recently told us that it was him that set up the 
payment. Although Mr R disputes setting it up as a recurring payment, he confirmed that he 
was directed to Paypal via the merchant to make payment and he did so via a guest 
account, rather than as a Paypal account holder.
Paypals records show that the recurring payments were set up in January  the initial 
payment in January seems to have processed successfully, with the two payments that 
followed failing to go through. The final payment in April appears to have debited 
successfully. After Mr R raised a dispute, Paypal says it refunded this payment and 
cancelled the recurring payment arrangement. I can see from Paypals records that the 
refund was issued within a few days of Mr R raising the dispute.
Mr R denies setting up the recurring payment. But Paypals records show otherwise  that 
this was arranged alongside the initial payment in January. Its possible that Mr Rs 
recollection of what happened at the time may have been diluted, given his version of what 
happened has changed since he asked this service to get involved. Mr R confirmed he 
authorised the first payment and theres nothing Ive seen to suggest his details were 
compromised in any way  so its unlikely that a third party arranged the recurring payment 
without his consent. Im persuaded by the records Paypal sent us, so I think its more likely 
than not that Mr R set up the recurring payment  even though he doesnt recall doing so.
Mr R thinks Paypal doesnt allow for recurring payments to be set-up via a guest account, so 
Paypal shouldnt have allowed for it to be set up in the first place. However, I havent seen 
anything to confirm this. Nevertheless, based on Paypals records, it seems that he set up 
the initial payment as a recurring payment. Paypal says this wouldve been apparent at the 
checkout stage of the payment. This seems plausible to me, so I dont think that Paypal did 
anything wrong by allowing the set-up of a recurring payment.
Mr R says Paypal didnt act quickly enough and made things difficult for him when he raised 
the dispute. However, Paypals information suggests otherwise. I can see a recurring 
payment was processed on 30 April and, following Mr R raising a dispute, a refund was 
issued on 2 May. Given this, Im satisfied that Paypal acted within a reasonable period. 
Mr R wants Paypal to pay him more compensation because he wants Paypal to be punished 
for what happened. Its not this services role to deliver punitive measures as part of 
resolving complaints. Our role is to provide fair and reasonable outcomes and, if the 
business has done something wrong, I have the power to give it direction on what it needs to 
do to put things right. 
But I dont agree that it would be fair for Paypal to pay more compensation. Paypal has 
already offered Mr R compensation, even though it, in my view, has done nothing wrong. 
Moreover, Mr R confirmed he authorised the original payment and, in turn, the recurring 
payments. Paypal says it only issued Mr R a refund because he initially said the whole 
transaction was carried out fraudulently, without his consent. So it seems to me that Paypal 
has done more than it needed to in these circumstances.
In summary, Im satisfied that, based on the information Ive seen, Mr R most likely 
authorised the recurring payments when he went on to Paypals platform to pay for the 
service hed acquired. Paypal hasnt done anything wrong in my opinion, so it doesnt need 
to take any further action regarding this complaint. If Mr R wishes to accept Paypals offer, 
Id suggest he contacts Paypal directly to discuss arrangements.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 Abdul Ali
Ombudsman