DRN-1592600
The complaint
Mr C complains that a car acquired with finance from Go Car Credit Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In July 2019 Mr C was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
GCC.
Mr C experienced issues with the car including:
Driver seat lumbar support protruding
No soundproofing above wheel arch on passenger side
Intermittent fault with DPF
Poor repair/possible accident damage to area surrounding missing soundproofing
Mr C reported his concerns to GC. It offered to repair the seat and assess the DPF issue. As 
an alternative, it offered Mr C the opportunity to return the car and end the agreement.
Mr C wasnt happy with the response and brought his complaint to this service.
Mr C is now aware that the DPF light illuminates when the DPF is regenerating, so this no 
longer forms part of his complaint. The outstanding issues Mr C wants this service to look at 
are the soundproofing and the damage to the area surrounding the soundproofing. Hes also 
unhappy that hes had to have the brakes and tracking repaired and doesnt think the car is 
of satisfactory quality.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said the soundproofing issue and the damage to 
the area surrounding the soundproofing wouldnt have been apparent to Mr C at the point of 
supply and that GCC should arrange to have this repaired at no cost to Mr C.
GCC responded and said that a repair was uneconomical based on the cost of repairs and 
the current market value of the car. It said it was prepared to unwind the agreement, or that 
alternatively it would repair the soundproofing (but not the surrounding area).
Mr C said he wanted to reject the car and receive a refund of all payments.
GCC said it wasnt prepared to refund payments because Mr C had covered around 11,500 
miles since the point of supply which it felt was excessive in a period of 6 months.
Because Mr C didnt agree with the investigators view, Ive been asked to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because GCC supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would expect, taking into account factors such as (amongst other things) 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. I would expect a second-hand car  such 
as that supplied to Mr C  to have a degree of wear and tear and to require repairs more 
often than a brand-new car. So, in order to uphold the complaint, I would need to be satisfied 
that the car had an inherent fault as opposed to a fault caused by general wear and tear.
Mr Cs main concern is the soundproofing and surrounding area. Ive looked at the available 
information to decide whether this is a point of supply fault. The photos provide by Mr C 
show the extent of the damage. My assessment of the photos is that the damage looks as if 
it has been there for some time and based on what Ive seen, I think its likely that the 
damage was present at the point of supply.
GCC initially said that it wasnt responsible for repairing the issues with the soundproofing 
because the car was sold as seen. I agree with this insofar as a used car is likely to have a 
degree of wear and tear and that where damage is visible, a reasonable person is expected 
to notice it and decide whether or not to proceed with the purchase. I think the damage to 
the drivers seat would have been apparent to Mr C, but I dont think the missing 
soundproofing and surrounding damage would have been easily seen.
Ive thought about the issues with the soundproofing and Im of the view that this goes to 
satisfactory quality. Its more than just cosmetic, because it has resulted in excessive noise 
inside the car. So, I think its something that GCC should be expected to put right. Ive taken 
into account what GCC has said about the costs of repairing the soundproofing and 
surrounding area and Im persuaded that in these circumstances, it wouldnt be reasonable 
to require GCC to carry out these repairs because the cost of repairs exceeds the value of 
the car.
In this case, GCC has agreed to accept a rejection and taking all of the circumstances of the 
case into account, I think this is a fair and reaosbsale resolution. Mr C agrees, but says he 
wants his payments refunded. So, Ive considered this aspect.
In circumstances where a car is rejected, a business is allowed to make a deduction for fair 
use from any refund of payments. Theres no prescribed formula for calculating fair use, but 
in similar cases this service has found that its reasonable for a business to retain one 
months payment for every 1000 miles covered.
In this case I can see that Mr C covered around 11,500 miles from the point of supply to the 
point at which the investigators view was issued. This is around 2000 miles per month on 
average. Based on this, I dont think its fair to ask GCC to refund any payments. Mr C has 
had fair use of the car, despite the issues hes raised. 
Putting things right
Taking everything into account, Im of the view that GCC should allow Mr C to reject the car. 
But it doesnt need to refund any payments. However, if Mr C paid a deposit this should be 
refunded.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Go Car Credit Limited must: Allow Mr C to reject the car
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr C
Refund any deposit together with simple interest of 8% from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman