DRN-2167099
The complaint
Ms W has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) has discriminated against 
her, due to her being a transgender woman, when she went to open a bank account.
What happened
Ms W wanted to move her main current account to Barclays. She applied for an account but 
was only given a basic bank account without an overdraft facility. Ms W says Barclays hasnt 
properly explained to her why she wasnt provided with an overdraft and she thinks it is due 
to her being a transgender woman.
Ms W complained to Barclays about this and had a number of face-to-face meetings in 
branch, but she says this hasnt resolved the problem. Instead Ms W says this has caused 
her further upset as Barclays staff have been patronising and discriminatory. 
Ms W brought her complaint to this service and one of our investigators looked into what 
Ms W felt had gone wrong. They didnt think Barclays had treated her unfairly, so didnt ask it 
to do anything further. Ms W didnt accept that, but didnt ask for the complaint to be taken 
further at that stage as she was still talking with Barclays about changing her account.
Shortly after our investigator gave her view, Barclays upgraded Ms Ws bank account from a 
basic account, but still didnt offer Ms W an overdraft  again Ms W felt this was unfair. Our 
investigator reconsidered the complaint, but didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong 
in not offering the overdraft.
Ms W asked for her complaint to be looked at again by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms W has said that she wanted to switch her banking to Barclays because a fraud was 
committed against her and she was worried her previous bank wasnt secure enough. She 
explained that she had a good credit history and had been given an overdraft in the past and 
she also had a regular, monthly income. Ms W felt that the only explanation for her not 
getting an overdraft when she moved to Barclays was discrimination.
Barclays said its application process is automated and only once an application for a full 
bank account has been turned down will a basic bank account be offered. It said this 
process couldnt be influenced or altered by anything done by a staff member in branch and 
the process didnt consider Ms Ws gender. As this was an automated process, Barclays 
didnt accept there could be any discrimination in the way the application was processed. 
Instead it said the reason the application was turned down was due to Ms Ws credit history.
Barclays hasnt been able to provide me with a copy of Ms Ws application, but it has 
provided its customer records that show what details were recorded for her and used in the 
application. Ive seen that many personal details are recorded, such as her name, address 
and date of birth. But I cant see that Ms Ws gender status has been recorded, so based on 
the evidence available, I dont think that information was considered as part of the 
automated bank account application process. It follows, I dont think Barclays discriminated 
against her at the time of her first bank account application.
Ms W said that she had a good credit history with no outstanding debts or loans. We asked 
her to send in a copy of a credit report to show this, but unfortunately she wasnt able to do 
this  Ive also seen a note in Barclays files to say it asked for this in the past too so it could 
reconsider her application, but I cant see this was provided. I think Ms W was given the 
opportunity to send in any documentation that she thought would be helpful to her complaint, 
and its fair to decide this complaint based on the evidence that has been provided. But as I 
havent seen details of Ms Ws credit history, Im not able to say that the reasons Barclays 
gave why she was turned down for a full bank account and overdraft were wrong.
After Ms W first came to us, she returned to Barclays to apply for an overdraft again. This 
time her bank account was upgraded, but she wasnt offered an overdraft. Barclays has 
provided more details of why Ms Ws application was turned down and Ive seen it did a 
manual check on top of using its automated system. Barclays said that its decision not to 
lend was based on a number of factors, including her credit history and that Barclays needed 
to know more about her income and outgoings. At the time of the application, Ms Ws 
income was made up of benefits. Barclays explained that benefit payments themselves 
didnt stop a customer getting an overdraft, but in Ms Ws case, the type and level of benefits 
meant Barclays wouldnt offer her credit without more information. Barclays has said Ms W is 
free to make an additional application for an overdraft if she wishes to, but it needs to see a 
copy of any benefit award letters to see what the payments are intended for and get a better 
understanding of Ms Ws income. I understand Ms W might not accept that this is the case 
and Ive considered whether Barclays might have decided not to lend to her for one reason, 
but told us it was for another reason. But I think Barclays explanation is reasonable in all the 
circumstances and, having seen that Ms W failed both the automatic and manual lending 
test, I think Barclays decision not to lend is based on its assessment of Ms Ws ability to 
repay. So I dont think theres any evidence that Barclays discriminated against Ms W in 
making its decisions not to lend.
Ms W has explained that shes been offered credit by other businesses, some of which she 
thinks use the same credit reference agencies to check the credit worthiness of their 
customers. But just because another business has agreed to offer Ms W credit, doesnt 
mean Barclays has done anything wrong in not offering an overdraft. And theres no reason 
why Ms W has to keep her banking with Barclays, so if another bank is prepared to offer her 
an overdraft, shes able to take up that offer.
Ms W has provided a copy of a letter she received from the Banking & Credit team at the 
Treasury. Although the letter notes the difficulties that Ms W has faced, it explains that the 
decision to lend is a commercial one for Barclays to make itself based on affordability rules. I 
cant see that this letter suggests Barclays has done anything wrong in not granting Ms W an 
overdraft.
Ive also seen that a member of Barclays customer service team wrote to Ms W setting out 
Barclays final response to the complaint. In that response they apologised for misgendering 
Ms W during a phone call  unfortunately a copy of that call isnt available. I understand this 
would have been distressing for Ms W, but I think the apology in this response is genuine 
and sufficient and it appears Ms W accepted this at the time. I also think the letter makes 
clear that Ms W had been listened to by the customer service team member and, although I 
accept she may not agree, I do think the content and tone of the letter was appropriate given Ms Ws concerns. Given this, I dont think Barclays needs to pay any compensation for this 
mistake.
Ive also considered Ms Ws concern that staff in branch were patronising toward her. This is 
an extremely difficult matter to judge as one persons perception of what happened could 
vary considerably to anothers and I dont have the benefit of any recordings of what was 
discussed. Its clear that Ms W felt patronised and discriminated against, but I cant say what 
the intentions of the Barclays in branch staff were. 
Barclays wrote to Ms W in March 2020, setting out its response to Ms Ws concerns. 
Barclays was of the view that Ms Ws behaviour towards its staff hadnt been appropriate in 
these branch meetings. I think the relationship between Ms W and Barclays employees has 
broken down and both parties feel the other has shown challenging behaviour. Having seen 
Barclays internal records and listened to what Ms W has said, I dont think this breakdown 
has been intentional on either side. But based on the evidence Ive seen, I think Barclays 
has taken Ms Ws allegations seriously and dealt with them properly and I havent seen 
enough to say Ms W has been poorly treated.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint against Barclays Bank UK 
PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman