DRN-3631518
The complaint
Mrs D complains Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly recorded adverse entries on her credit file,
which made it difficult for her to get credit. 
What happened
Mrs D has a capital and interest repayment mortgage with Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(Barclays). She is self-employed. During the coronavirus pandemic Mrs D was unable to 
work and couldnt meet her contractual monthly payments (CMP). In line with Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance to lenders about how to treat their customers during 
the coronavirus pandemic, Barclays agreed Mrs D could defer payment of the CMP for six 
months between March and August 2020.
Mrs D wasnt able to resume her CMP in September 2020. She made a payment in 
October but missed payments in November and December. In December 2020, Barclays 
agreed with Mrs D she could make interest only payments for three months, backdated to 
November 2020.
In around September 2021, Mrs D was declined credit by another company due to adverse 
entries recorded by Barclays on her credit file. Mrs D felt Barclays had recorded missed 
payments unfairly given shed found it difficult to pay her CMP because of the pandemic 
and it was hard to get through to Barclays to discuss payment arrangements for her 
mortgage.
Barclays didnt uphold Mrs Ds complaint. They said theyd properly reported the position on 
her mortgage. Since Mrs D was unhappy with Barclays response, she brought her 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Our investigator agreed with Barclays position and 
didnt uphold Mrs Ds complaint. Since she was unhappy with that outcome, her complaints 
been passed to me to decide. I recently issued a provisional decision, an extract of which 
follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing a provisional decision to give the parties time to provide the further information 
I require, which Ill set out, and any further comments or information they may wish me to 
consider. Thats because I dont think all the potentially relevant information has been 
provided by either party.
Mrs Ds said she made payments towards her mortgage that Barclays didnt take into 
account when reporting on her credit file. But she hasnt provided evidence to show 
what payments she made and when she made them, other than direct debits in 
November and December 2020, which were both returned unpaid. She should provide 
evidence such as bank statements to show the payments she made, if available.
Barclays response to Mrs Ds complaint suggests they reported missed payments in 
November and December 2020, and January 2021  and possibly September 2020. But 
thats not clear. They should provide the documentary evidence we requested showing 
what they reported and the transaction history relating to Mrs Ds account.
Mrs D hasnt said which entries she disputes or provided any evidence of those entries 
herself. If she has evidence of the entries on the credit file shes unhappy with she 
should provide that too.
I appreciate Mrs Ds strength of feeling about what happened. And I can understand it will 
have been stressful and frustrating for Mrs D that she wasnt able to contact Barclays on 
the phone or by other means when she was finding it difficult to pay her mortgage. But I 
need to bear in mind that the pandemic made it difficult for businesses to operate while 
they implemented new ways of working and dealt with higher than usual volumes of 
contact from customers in financial difficulties. Its not unreasonable Barclays werent 
always able to respond when Mrs D tried to get in touch. And Barclays records show that, 
despite the situation, they were in fairly regular contact with Mrs D from around April 2020 
onwards to discuss arrangements for paying her mortgage.
Under the FCA guidance, lenders could agree up to six months of payment deferrals 
without reporting missed payments to CRAs. And they could rely on their customers own 
assessment of whether resuming payments was possible for them or not. After that, the 
guidance said where they werent able to resume full CMP, firms had to work with their 
customers to agree a tailored plan about their mortgage payments bearing in mind their 
best interests and their duty to treat them fairly.
When the six-month payment deferral came to an end in August 2020, Mrs D missed a 
CMP in September. She says she had difficulty in getting hold of Barclays in September 
and made two payments in October. Barclays say she could have paid other than over the 
phone and shed missed the September payment in any event. If she couldnt pay in 
September, Barclays would probably have been right to record a missed payment, whether 
or not she could have got in touch with them. But her mortgage statement or other records 
should confirm if and when she made that payment.
Mrs D missed a payment in November when her direct debit was returned unpaid. In 
December, Mrs D spoke to Barclays about paying interest only for a period. Barclays 
considered what was appropriate for her based on her circumstances at the time. They 
looked at her income and expenditure and what she told them about her work situation. 
Barclays agreed she could make interest only payments for three months. That was in 
line with the updated FCA guidance that firms should offer tailored support to customers 
once theyd had six months payment deferrals.
This arrangement was reached towards the end of December 2020. Mrs D had had a 
further direct debit returned for her December CMP before the arrangement was agreed. 
But Barclays agreed to backdate the arrangement to November 2020. I understand Mrs D 
made two payments in January 2021, which covered the interest only payments for 
November and December. The arrangement required her to make a further interest only 
payment for January. In February 2021, Barclays wrote to her to let her know that payment 
was outstanding.
The FCA guidance said firms should resume reporting to CRAs once customers had had 
six months of payment deferrals. Barclays say Mrs D knew from speaking to them on 23 
December 2020, she needed to pay the interest for November and December as a 
minimum since that was the arrangement they were discussing. They say they were right to 
report missed payments to the CRAs since she didnt make any payment at all.The FCA guidance also said if customers were unable to reach timely agreement with 
firms for appropriate forbearance due to the firms operational difficulties, and 
subsequently missed a payment, the firms should work with the customers and the 
CRAs to make sure any necessary rectifications are made to credit files so that no 
worsening status is recorded in respect of this period.
In light of that, I think it was unreasonable for Barclays to expect Mrs D to make any 
payment until theyd approved the arrangement, which theyd told her they needed to 
review internally. Mrs D was asking for help; Barclays needed time to review things; and 
the parties were discussing, and subsequently agreed, an interest only arrangement. Once 
the arrangement was approved at the end of December 2020, Mrs D paid two instalments 
in January 2021.
Its unclear exactly what Barclays reported. I dont think it would have been fair for Barclays 
to have reported arrears for November and December. But I think it would have been fair 
for Barclays to report the arrangement they reached with Mrs D.
The FCA guidance required Barclays to be clear about the implications agreeing the 
arrangement would have on Mrs Ds credit file. Barclays records suggest they told her, on 
23 November, the arrangement wouldnt impact her credit file. Im not aware they let Mrs D 
know the arrangement would, in fact, affect her credit file before it was put in place. 
Barclays say Mrs D missed the January interest payment in breach of what theyd agreed. 
On the face of it, Barclays would have been right to report a missed payment to the CRAs 
then. But their February 2021 letter said the missed payment wouldnt be classed as 
mortgage arrears and wouldnt impact Mrs Ds credit file at that stage. So, I can understand 
it will have come as a surprise when she found out later there were adverse entries on her 
file.
Ill consider things further once the parties have provided the additional information Ive 
identified, including the amendments, if any, I think ought fairly to be made to Mrs Ds 
credit file. But Barclays were obliged to report any arrears, and appropriately report any 
arrangement they made with Mrs D. So, I cant be certain, even if the position on her 
mortgage had been reported differently, and amendments are appropriate, it would have 
affected Mrs Ds ability to get credit.
Im not persuaded Mrs D would have acted differently even if shed been able to speak to 
Barclays more easily, or if shed known the arrangement she made with Barclays would 
impact her credit file. Given her financial difficulties at the time, and since she asked for 
further help in January 2021, it doesnt look as if she would have been able to meet her 
CMP in full. Ill consider any further information Mrs D may wish to provide in relation to 
that. But, on balance, based on what I know so far, I dont think it would be fair to ask 
Barclays to compensate Mrs D.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont currently intend to uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided the additional information about CRA entries and the payments 
Mrs D made towards her mortgage I asked them to provide. So, I have to reach my decision based on the information that is available. I set out my conclusions about why I 
dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint in my provisional decision. And since the parties havent 
made any comments on that, I see no reason to change my mind. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman