DRN-3541942
The complaint
Mrs D complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) unfairly declined 
her claim under her home insurance policy. Mrs D was represented throughout this claim, 
but for ease and simplicity I will only refer to Mrs D.
What happened
Mrs D made a claim under her policy in April 2019 for water damage caused by a leak from 
the toilet on the first-floor bathroom. 
Lloyds asked Mrs D to provide a cause of damage report to support the claim. Lloyds also 
appointed a surveyor to validate the damage. Based on the surveyors report and a 
subsequent report provided by Mrs Ds own plumber, Lloyds decided to decline the claim. 
Lloyds said a leak had been ongoing for some time, so it said it wasnt covered by the policy 
due a policy exclusion clause for gradual causes.
Mrs D appointed a contractor to repair a leak. Mrs D then commissioned a different plumber 
to attend to fix a different leak. Mrs D has provided a testimony from her plumber that the 
leak was long standing in nature. However, he believed it was likely this went undetected by 
Mrs D due to the nature of the leak and Mrs Ds own vulnerable circumstances. So, Mrs D 
felt that Lloyds had unfairly applied the exclusion clause as she hadnt detected the leak 
earlier.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought Lloyds had been fair in 
declining the claim as he thought there was evidence of staining on the ground floor ceiling, 
so thought Mrs D should reasonably have been aware of the leak. Mrs D disagreed, so the 
complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 4 May 2022. I said:
Mrs D escalated this complaint to our service more than six months after she received the 
final response from Lloyds. Normally this would mean our service doesnt have jurisdiction to 
consider this complaint. However, as Lloyds has consented to our service considering this 
complaint, I will consider whether I think it has been fair in declining the claim.
In escape of water claims, its normal for the policyholder to need to evidence that damage 
has occurred. And then, if an insurer has relied on an exclusion clause to decline the claim, it 
needs to provide evidence to support its conclusions.
I can see that there is no dispute whether there has been damage caused by the escape of 
water, so Im not going to look at this point. However, Lloyds has relied on an exclusion 
clause to decline the claim, so I have considered whether I think Lloyds has acted fairly in 
doing this.
Lloyds has evidenced the policy does include a general exclusion clause that applies to the 
whole policy. I have checked the policy, and it does have an exclusion in the policy for: a 
gradually operating cause. This is something that happens gradually over a period
of time, for example corrosion, damp, condensation, decay or decomposition. Therefore, if 
Lloyds has shown a gradual operating cause was likely to have caused the damage, then 
Im likely to conclude it has been reasonable in declining the claim.
However, I will also need to consider that Mrs D said she didnt notice the leak until a week 
or so before she reported it. If I think Mrs D shouldnt reasonably have been aware of the 
damage happening gradually  and that she made the claim, or took reasonable action, as 
soon as she became aware  Im likely to say that a fair and reasonable outcome is that 
Lloyds cant rely on the exclusion and should pay the claim.
Both Lloyds and Mrs D have provided reports where experts have shared their views on 
what happened. So, I have reviewed them, and any conclusions made to see if I think Lloyds 
has been fair in declining the claim.
I dont think the report provided by Lloyds expert surveyor is compelling as it concluded the 
damage had possibly been caused by failing sealant around the bath. This was contradictory 
to testimonies provided by two other contractors who worked at Mrs Ds property to stop the 
leak.
However, Lloyds did rely on some of the testimony from Mrs Ds plumber to decline the 
claim. The plumber said on further investigation I found the basin vanity unit was damaged 
beyond repair due to the long-standing leak. The only possibility being the tap connector as 
the damage had been sustained over a long period of time. This is evident as the MDF 
construction of the vanity unit is swollen and black in appearance. This happens after a long 
period of soaking. 
As Mrs Ds own plumber commented on the long-standing leak it does seem there was a 
gradual cause to the damage. However, for me to say Lloyds has been reasonable in 
declining the claim for this reason, I need to be satisfied that Mrs D shouldve been 
reasonably aware of the leak to take action to prevent further damage. I dont think this is 
clear. I dont think Lloyds has shown it was more likely than not this damage was evident 
earlier. Ill explain why.
Lloyds has relied on the plumbers testimony the vanity unit was damaged over a long 
period. However, its not clear that this damage was evident  no pictures have been 
provided of this damage. The damage may not have been easily visible. I have also seen a 
statement from Mrs Ds plumber it is perfectly possible a leak would not be detected as the 
floor is covered in vinyl and water could have run directly under the vanity unit. The plumber 
commented on Mrs Ds vulnerability. I think this vulnerability couldve made it harder for Mrs 
D to identify if or when a leak had started, including spotting some mild staining on the 
ground floor ceiling and subsequently concluding it was due to a leak.
Ive taken account that Mrs D commissioned two separate contractors in reasonably quick 
succession to fix leaks  I think this shows that she was keen to stop any further damage to 
her property once she was aware of a problem. I have also considered the confusion that 
there seems to be on what caused the leak  Lloyds surveyor and each contractor seem to 
have reached different conclusions, so I can see why it may have been difficult for Mrs D to 
make the right conclusions or have the ability to spot damage from a leak.
So, as I dont think Lloyds has proven Mrs D shouldve reasonably known the leak had 
started a long time ago, I dont think its reasonable in these circumstances that Lloyds has 
utilised the exclusion clause to decline this claim. Therefore, I intend to uphold this complaint. I intend for Lloyds to settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. Mrs D has said she has suffered mental and emotional stress over 
an extended period and [her] bathroom as a result of the damage is left in a pitiful state 
causing heartache. I can understand how these conditions wouldve been difficult for living 
in. Therefore, I intend to award £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she 
has suffered.
Responses to my provisional decision
Lloyds accepted my findings and didnt have anything more to add.
Mrs D replied. She was concerned the costs of labour and materials had increased recently 
and she asked our service to contact her contractor for updated costs. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional decision concluded that Lloyds should settle Mrs Ds claim. To explain, this 
means that Lloyds are required to settle the claim in line with the terms and conditions of its 
policy. So, Mrs D should expect Lloyds to carry out the remedial repairs at her property in 
respect to the claim or to provide a cash settlement of equivalent value. In other words, 
Lloyds need to settle the claim in todays prices.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint, I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited 
to:
Settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions
Pay Mrs D £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman