DRN-2423530
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy Nationwide Building Society held funds back on her account for a 
transaction she was told had failed. 
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Miss W made a payment to a third party. They took her details but told her the 
transaction had failed. Miss W then authorised them to make a further payment 
which was successful. 
The third party used a payment platform to call for the money from Miss Ws account 
and forward that to the receiving account. Nationwide has shown that both payments 
were called for by the platform.
It held the funds for the first payment but as they werent taken after a period of time, 
the funds became available again in Miss Ws account. I dont think Nationwide acted 
incorrectly here. 
Nationwide has explained pending transactions currently only show on its banking 
app but Miss W would have been able to see a difference between her account 
balance and available balance on her online banking. I can see Nationwide has taken 
on board Miss Ws feedback here as it made it difficult for her to understand what 
had happened. But, its not within the scope of my role to direct Nationwide to make 
such a change to the way it operates its banking services. 
  
I realise it would have been a shock to Miss W to realise there were two payments on 
her account however I cant see Nationwide has done anything wrong here. Both 
payments were authorised by Miss W and therefore they were correctly dealt with by 
Nationwide.  The fault for the original transaction not completing correctly was not 
Nationwides. 
I understand Miss W transferred money into her account as she was concerned 
about being overdrawn. However, it was her choice to do this before speaking to 
Nationwide. And, as I dont think it has done anything wrong here, I wont be asking 
Nationwide to make a compensation payment to Miss W. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman