DRN-1855714
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (Amex) recorded 
a default against him when he was declared bankrupt. He says the bankruptcy was annulled 
so the default should be removed.
What happened
Mr B had a credit card with Amex. In February 2019 Amex was made aware that there were 
potential bankruptcy proceeding against Mr B. It tried to call Mr B but wasnt successful. A. 
That same month, a credit reference agency made Amex aware that Mr B had been made 
bankrupt. The following day Amex wrote to Mr B giving him 14 days notice of its intention to 
default the account. It didnt hear back from Mr B so it defaulted the account,
Mr B complained to Amex about this in October 2019. He said the bankruptcy had been 
annulled and the default was causing him difficulty in obtaining credit elsewhere. He wanted 
it removed from his credit record. Amex didnt think it had done anything wrong. Mr B 
referred the complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into things and agreed with Amex that it was entitled to apply 
the default. Mr B didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to review and issue a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amex is entitled to close Mr Bs credit card account for a number of reasons, including Mr B 
being declared bankrupt. When Amex was notified of potential bankruptcy proceedings 
against Mr B, it tried to contact him, as I would expect it to. But it wasnt able to reach Mr B. 
Again, when it was notified Mr B had been made bankrupt, it wrote to Mr B to confirm its 
intention to default his account and what Mr B needed to do. Again, Mr B didnt get in touch. 
Amex also wrote later in February 2019 asking Mr B for payment of £700. This wasnt 
received or responded to. So, Im satisfied Amex did try to get in touch with Mr B a number 
of times. Had Mr B responded to these letters, he couldve discussed his options with Amex, 
but he didnt. So, Amex took further action and defaulted the account. And I dont think this 
was unreasonable given that it hadnt heard from him.
Even if Amex hadnt defaulted Mr Bs account when it did, Mr B hasnt made a payment to 
the account since. I cant see that Mr B got in touch with Amex before October 2019. Ive 
seen nothing to suggest Mr B was in a position to settle the debt at the time the account was 
defaulted either. And given that Amex still hasnt received a payment from Mr B it seems 
most likely to me that, one way or another, Mr Bs account wouldve ended up defaulted.
Amex has a duty to accurately record a status of a credit card account. Im satisfied it has 
done so correctly here, so Im not going to ask it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2020. 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman