DRN-4466546
The complaint
Mr C complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money irresponsibly gave him a 
credit card he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In August 2020, Mr C applied online for a credit card with Virgin Money. He was given a 
credit limit of £6,000. As part of the application Mr C asked for a balance transfer of around 
£4,800 to be made so that he could take advantage of a 0% interest free offer for 20 months.
Mr C complained to Virgin Money in July 2022 to say that it had been irresponsible to lend to 
him. He said that at the time of the application he held a significant amount of unsecured 
debt and was already struggling to meet the repayments on those debts. He said that had 
Virgin Money completed reasonable affordability checks it would have seen this credit card 
was unsustainable for him.
Virgin Money didnt think it had acted unfairly. It said it had completed appropriate 
affordability checks which didnt reveal any concerns.
I sent Mr C and Virgin Money my provisional decision on 3 November 2023. I explained why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. I said:
Prior to granting credit to Mr C, Virgin Money needed to complete reasonable and 
proportionate affordability checks to ensure he could sustainably repay the 
borrowing. There isnt a set list of checks it needed to complete, but in deciding what 
was proportionate Virgin Money needed to take into account things such as (but not 
limited to): the type of credit, the credit limit, the size of any regular repayment (with 
regard to the rules and guidance in CONC 5.2A.27R and 5.2A.28G), the cost of 
credit and Mr Cs circumstances.
As part of the application Mr C declared he was employed with an annual income of 
£35,000 and a household income of £65,000. He said that he wanted to open the 
credit card so he could take advantage of a 0% balance transfer offer. He said he 
wanted to transfer around £4,800 of debt from another credit card. He also declared 
that his monthly mortgage commitment was £270.
Virgin Money also completed a credit check to understand what Mr Cs existing credit 
commitments were and how he was managing them. It could see that he held a 
mortgage and around £39,000 in other unsecured credit commitments. There were 
no records of arrears or missed/late payments towards his other credit commitments.
I note Virgin Money says that as Mr C was utilising a balance transfer his overall debt 
wouldnt increase. However, that isnt quite right as it was still providing him with a 
further £1,200 of credit on top of the balance transfer amount Mr C had requested. 
Further, there appears to have been no requirement on Mr C to close his existing 
credit card with the other provider in order to qualify for Virgin Moneys credit card. 
So, Mr Cs overall available credit was increasing by the full £6,000.
It is also important to highlight that this application was made at the height of the 
global coronavirus pandemic, a time when many UK workers were on furlough and 
experiencing income shocks. The financial services regulator had put in place special 
rules and guidance to lenders to give consumers financial assistance at this time, 
including the option of taking payment breaks.
It appears Mr C had taken advantage of those payment breaks for his mortgage and 
that this break was active at the time he applied for the credit card with Virgin Money. 
I think this ought to have been evident from any reasonable credit check Virgin 
Money may have completed as it would have been obvious his outstanding mortgage 
balance hadnt decreased.
Mr C taking advantage of a payment break suggests that although there was 
currently no adverse information recorded on his credit file, he was likely struggling 
financially. Given this and the large amount of unsecured credit Mr C held, I dont 
think Virgin Moneys affordability checks were proportionate or reasonable. I think it 
should have done more to verify Mr Cs income and ask him more about his regular 
committed expenditure as there was a good possibility further borrowing could cause 
him financial difficulty.
I cant be sure exactly what evidence and information Virgin Money would have seen 
if it had completed proportionate checks. In the absence of anything done by Virgin 
Money, Ive relied on copies of Mr Cs bank statements from around the time of the 
application. Im not saying Virgin Money had to request statements as part of any 
check, but I think these give a good indication of what Virgin Money will most likely 
have found out about his financial circumstances.
Ive seen Mr Cs monthly income at the time was around £1,650 per month. This is 
much lower than the £35,000 annual income he had declared. I think any reasonable 
attempt to verify his income would have revealed this discrepancy to Virgin Money 
and caused them some concern, particularly because of the large amount of 
unsecured credit Mr C had at the time.
Ive seen that Mr Cs contribution to regular household bills and other essential living 
costs were around £1,000 per month (including his contribution towards the 
mortgage when it was being paid). On top of this Mr C was responsible for repaying 
at least three other credit cards and a personal loan which had monthly repayments 
of around £450. All of this combined exceeded his monthly income prior to Virgin 
Money granting him further credit.
Even if I accepted the balance transfer amount wasnt new credit, as Ive said above 
there was still at least £1,200 of additional credit Virgin Money were providing. As Mr 
C was already overindebted, this further credit was provided irresponsibly. I think had 
Virgin Money completed reasonable and proportionate checks, it would most likely 
have seen that Mr C was not in a position to be able to afford further credit. I 
therefore think Virgin Money acted unfairly in granting the credit card.
Ive noted that Virgin Money says that Mr Cs inability to repay the credit card 
stemmed from a change in circumstances. While I accept Mr C told Virgin Money that 
hed lost his job in 2022, I think this likely exacerbated his financial difficulty, rather 
than prompted it. From everything Ive seen, Mr C was already overindebted when he 
applied for the Virgin Money credit card and he continually refinanced a personal 
loan with another provider after taking out this card to try and manage his credit 
commitments.Lastly, while Mr C did pay off the credit card in full, hes told me this was done by 
borrowing money from family. Ive not seen anything to make me doubt that, 
especially as it was done not long after he told Virgin Money he had lost his job. I find 
it unlikely he would have been able to do this without borrowing money from 
somewhere.
It isnt possible to completely undo the effects of the lending. Mr C has spent money 
on the credit card so my starting position is that he should pay back what he 
borrowed. However, as I dont think Virgin Money should have granted the credit, I 
dont think it would be fair for it to benefit from that decision to lend. It should 
therefore refund all fees, interest, charges and insurances that were applied to the 
account. As Mr C has since cleared the debt, any refund should be treated as an 
overpayment by Mr C and Virgin Money should add interest on those refunds at 8% 
simple per year from the date he cleared the balance to the date of settlement. It 
should also remove any adverse information from his credit file.
Mr C had nothing further to add. Virgin Money disagreed with my provisional decision. In 
summary, it said:
There is no industry regulation to instruct customers to close their existing credit 
cards accounts when making a new application. Mr C has to take responsibility for 
his own finances. My suggestion was inappropriate.  
It has concerns about the suggestion that Mr Cs bank statements show his income 
was much lower than he had stated on his application and considers Mr C 
deliberately provided false information when applying for the credit card. 
It said that while Mr C may have taken payment breaks on his mortgage during the 
coronavirus pandemic, it is not uncommon for mortgage customers to take payment 
breaks on their mortgage and this doesnt necessarily mean they are experiencing 
financial difficulty. If Mr C had taken advantage of a payment break on his mortgage, 
this wouldnt have resulted in adverse reporting on his credit file. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same conclusion I reached in my provisional decision and 
for broadly the same reasons. However, Ill respond to the additional points Virgin Money 
has made and explain why these dont change my view on what a fair and reasonable 
outcome ought to be. 
Virgin Money appears to have misunderstood the intention behind my comment concerning 
closure of Mr Cs existing credit card facilities. The point I was trying to highlight was that 
Virgin Money ought not to have assumed that Mr Cs credit commitments werent going to 
increase simply because he opted to make a balance transfer. This is because it had no 
reasonable basis to assume he was going to close his existing facilities, meaning he 
continued to have access to the same amount of credit as before, plus the additional £6,000 
Virgin Money was lending to him. Therefore, his overall exposure and access to credit was 
increasing by the full amount Virgin Money was lending to him. 
Ive noted Virgin Moneys concerns about what Mr C declared as his income. However, 
I should stress that Mr C declared an annual income figure on the application, not a monthly 
one. Ive only seen what income was coming into his bank account. Its possible £35,000 was his true annual income, but that there were a number of deductions made from his pay. 
I dont have enough information to say for certain, so I dont think Virgin Money can fairly say 
Mr C had knowingly provided false information. 
In any event, I dont think it makes any difference to the outcome here even if he had 
provided an incorrect income figure. I say this because Im satisfied Virgin Money didnt 
complete reasonable and proportionate affordability checks before lending, and if it had, it 
would most likely have uncovered this discrepancy in his monthly take home pay which 
would have ultimately led to it not lending to Mr C. My role here is to consider whether 
Virgin Money acted fairly and reasonably when lending, and for the reasons Ive set out here 
and in my provisional decision, I dont think it did. 
Lastly, I accept that any payment break provided to Mr C on his mortgage during the 
coronavirus pandemic wouldnt have resulted in adverse information being reported on his 
credit file. However, it would have shown that Mr C wasnt making his regular repayments as 
the amount he owed on his mortgage would have gone up each month rather than down (as 
interest would have continued to accrue). Given the context of when this payment break took 
place (during the global pandemic) and the amount of unsecured debt Mr C already had, 
I dont think Virgin Money acted reasonably in not making further enquiries about his 
financial circumstances before lending. 
While its possible the payment break had nothing to do with Mr C having difficulty managing 
his finances, I think it was far more likely that it was, and this warranted further scrutiny from 
Virgin Money before granting him access to a further £6,000 of unsecured debt. As Ive set 
out already, Im satisfied reasonable and proportionate affordability checks would likely have 
led to it discovering that Mr C couldnt afford further borrowing. Im therefore satisfied it made 
an unfair lending decision when opening this credit card account.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Clydesdale Bank Plc trading 
as Virgin Money to:
Re-work the credit card refunding all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not 
already refunded).
As the credit card has now been paid off and closed, this means Mr C has paid more 
than he should have. Any overpayments should be refunded to him, along with 8% 
simple interest per year from the date Mr C paid off the credit card to the date of 
settlement.
Virgin Money should also remove any adverse information recorded against the 
credit card from Mr Cs credit file.
If Virgin Money considers tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award it 
should provide Mr C with a certificate showing how much it has taken off, so he can reclaim 
that amount, if he is eligible to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman