DRN-2842399
The complaint
Mr P complains that he was mis-sold a Select Account (SA) in November 2002 and a 
Platinum Account (PA) in June 2007 by TSB Bank plc (TSB).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P says he was told he had to take out the SA in order to get an overdraft and wasnt told 
about fee free accounts. He also says that he was told hed get a better interest rate on a 
loan if had the SA.
Mr P says that he was selected for the PA and was not given the terms and conditions of the 
account.
TSB says that it recommended the SA and the PA to Mr P as they were suitable for him in 
his circumstances at the time. And it says it gave him the full information about the products.
I wasnt present at either sale so I can only decide this case on the evidence available to me 
now.
The Select Account sale in 2002.
TSB has provided evidence that Mr P had a fee free account from 1996 to 2002, so in my 
view he knew these were available and that he didnt have to pay for an account. 
TSBs records show that Mr P went overdrawn very little before or after taking out the SA. 
So, I think it's unlikely that he took out the SA because he was told he had to in order to get 
an overdraft. I think its likely he was told that hed get a better interest rate on a loan with the 
SA, as it was part of the product and he took a large loan out as soon as he opened the 
account. But TSB has not done anything wrong in offering a better interest rate with a paid 
account, it is entitled to do this as a commercial proposition.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr P knew he had a choice whether to take out the 
SA and he chose to take it out for the benefits on offer.
TSB says it recommended the SA to Mr P, so it was required to provide him with enough 
information about it to make an informed decision, and to ensure it was suitable for him.
The SA enabled Mr P to make a substantial saving on the large loan he took out when he 
opened it. And TSB estimates that this would have come close to covering the cost of the SA 
over many years. Mr P also had a car, and I can see nothing in his circumstances to stop 
using many of the other benefits on offer.
So, in my view, I cant say its more likely than not that the SA was unsuitable for him, or that 
he would have done anything different if hed been given more information as I would have 
to if I were to uphold his complaint on this sale.
The Platinum Account sale in June 2007.
In my view Mr P knew he had a choice and chose to take out the PA as hed had a fee free 
account before and by this time was familiar with packaged bank accounts.
TSB has provided a record which shows that he took out the PA for additional car 
breakdown cover which he then went on to use twice. 
By the time of this sale he says he was travelling, owned a car and had a mobile phone. He 
seems to have been aware of the benefits as he used some of them. Mr P couldve closed 
the account but didnt for many years, through which TSB sent him copious correspondence 
about the PA. 
So, again, in my view I cant say its more likely than not that the PA was unsuitable for him 
or that he didnt receive enough information about it as I would need to if I were to uphold 
this complaint.
Conclusion.
So, my overall conclusion is that I think its more likely than not that TSB didnt do anything 
wrong in the sales of the SA or the PA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman