DRN-2913665
The complaint
Ms S complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt permit her to make a payment into 
her account after it said the account was open. She also complains about poor service.
What happened
Ms S opened a Start to Save account with Nationwide. She applied for the account online 
on 6 November 2020 and at the end of the application process she was informed that the 
account was open and ready to use. She was given the sort code and account number for 
the account. She says Nationwide also told her it would send her an email to confirm all 
the details and a Welcome letter would be posted to her.
Ms S says she didnt receive an email from Nationwide. When she tried to make a 
payment into the account from her bank account with another financial firm (L), she got a 
message which said, account does not exist. She made several attempts to pay money 
into the account between 6 November 2020 and 10 November 2020, but on each 
occasion, she got the same message. She was able to transfer money from another 
account she held with Nationwide into the Start to Save account.
She contacted Nationwide to ask it why she hadnt received an email and why she couldnt 
make a payment into the account. She says she had to contact it four times. Each time she 
says she received dismissive responses. She says she confirmed the email address shed 
given Nationwide was correct. It told her to check her spam folders and to whitelist the 
Nationwide domain name. She also says it suggested she should give it a different email 
address. Ms S says that she wasnt treated fairly, and she didnt get adequate responses 
from Nationwide.
Ms S complained to Nationwide. It investigated her complaint. It said it had not been at 
fault. It had sent an email, on 6 November 2020, to the address shed provided. It said it 
had reviewed the online messages and its responses and it didnt agree that these were 
unhelpful or that its service was poor. Ms S didnt agree. She referred her complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator looked into her complaint. She thought that Nationwide had provided 
satisfactory evidence that it had sent an email to Ms S using the correct email address. She 
thought Nationwide wasnt responsible if Ms S hadnt received the email. She also 
considered what Ms S had said about the attempts to pay money into the account. She said 
she hadnt seen anything to suggest that this had been caused by an error on Nationwides 
part. Having reviewed everything, she also thought the service Ms S had received was fair 
and reasonable.
Ms S didnt agree. She provided further evidence to support what shed said. But 
our investigator didnt change her view.
So, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision in which I 
said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
In her complaint to our service Ms S has raised a number of issues. Ive 
grouped the various points shes raised, and for purposes of clarity, Ill deal 
with these under separate headings.
Id just point out at the outset that in this decision Im only dealing with the 
complaint Ms S raised about her Start to Save account. Shes raised 
issues about a different account she subsequently opened with 
Nationwide. Those issues need to be dealt with separately  although 
some of the points shes raised about the subsequent account, she says, 
support what shes complained about here.
The email
Ms S says she was told that shed receive an email shortly after the 
account was opened to confirm everything to her. Nationwide says it sent 
an email to the address registered on its systems and its confirmed that 
that email address is correct. Ms S says she didnt receive the email. So, 
there is a dispute regarding this matter.
I can see Ms S received an online confirmation that her application had 
been accepted. This included information about the sort code and account 
number for the account. She received this as soon as shed submitted the 
application. Shes also confirmed she received a Welcome letter, a few 
days later from Nationwide. This letter confirmed all of the details she 
needed about the account.
Its not clear why Ms S didnt receive the email. Because of the passage of 
time Nationwide hasnt been able to send us an audit trail showing the 
electronic path for the email it says it sent. Such an audit trail would have 
shown each stage of the electronic journey that the email took. That might 
have put the matter beyond doubt. So, its unfortunate thats no longer 
available. But Nationwide has provided us with a copy of its contact log and 
a copy of a log of Ms Ss online activity.
Ive examined both of these records.
The online activity log has an entry, dated 6 November 2020, which I asked 
Nationwide to explain. The entry referred to Ms Ss email address as 
previous email address. Nationwide said it wasnt sure why this shows on 
the online banking activity log. It says the online log shows the members 
activity when she logs on. But it says its checked its records again and it 
does hold Ms Ss correct email address and has held this since October 
2017.
Ive then looked at the contact log. There is an entry on this log dated 6 
November 2020 which shows that an email was sent on 6 November 
2020, to the correct email address for Ms S. Nationwide has also sent us 
a copy of that email. So, on balance, Im satisfied its provided enough 
evidence to support what its said about sending the email.Ms S has sent us details to show that shes asked her Internet Service 
Provider (ISP) to confirm that her email account has been working correctly. 
She says she didnt get the email Nationwide has referred to. She says the 
information from her ISP shows the fault lies with Nationwide.
Having considered all the information weve received about the email, I 
accept what Ms S has told us about not receiving this email. But, as 
mentioned above, I also accept that Nationwide has provided evidence to 
show that it did send the email.
In these circumstances Ive thought about how Ms S was impacted when 
she didnt receive the email. Ive considered in particular the other 
information Nationwide sent to Ms S about her application. It sent her an 
online confirmation and a Welcome letter. Shes confirmed she received 
both of these documents.
Ive read the email Nationwide says it sent to Ms S on 6 November 2020. 
Having done so, I can see that there wasnt any additional information in 
that email about the account. The contents of the email and the contents of 
the Welcome letter are the same. The email didnt include the sort code and 
account number for the Start to Save account  but I can see those details 
were included in the online confirmation she got on 6 November 2020. So, 
the information she wouldve needed to operate the account was included 
in the online confirmation and the Welcome letter she received. Because of 
that I dont think she was disadvantaged because she didnt receive the 
email.
The payments into the account
Ms S has produced evidence that she did try to make payments into the 
account on 6 November 2020 and again on 7 November 2020. Ive looked 
at the audit log shes obtained from L (the bank she tried to make the 
payments from).
I can see that on both these dates she entered the correct sort code and 
account number for her Start to Save account. Before she entered any 
details of the amount she wanted to pay, L checked the status of the 
account details shed entered. It did this using the Confirmation of Payee 
process. This process checks that the name of the account into which 
money is being paid is in line with the name of the intended beneficiary. The 
payment couldnt progress on either occasion and the response she 
received was account does not exist.
Ms S thinks the payment may not have proceeded because she didnt 
include her middle name with the payment details. But, Nationwide has 
told our service that the payments wouldnt have been rejected because 
Ms S didnt include her middle name. It says that confirmation of payee 
doesnt require a middle name. So, Im satisfied that this wasnt the 
reason why she received the response account does not exist.
Ms S says she wasnt able to make a payment from her bank account with L 
into the Start to Save account until 10 November 2020. Nationwide hasnt 
been able to give a valid explanation for what happened here. And, having 
considered everything, Im satisfied on balance, that although payments 
could be made from another Nationwide account into the Start to Save account from the date it was opened, there was a delay before payments 
could be made from an external account.
I understand this wouldve been frustrating for Ms S. And, Nationwide hasnt 
explained why it told her she could make payments into the account 
immediately when it was the case that she experienced a delay before she 
could make a payment directly into the account from an account held with a 
different financial organisation. So, on balance, I think she was given 
incorrect information by Nationwide.
Its not our role to punish or fine a financial firm where it makes errors or 
provides incorrect information. Our role is to consider the action the firm 
took to try to put things right and whether its acted fairly and reasonably in 
the circumstances. That means we dont always require a financial firm to 
pay compensation when its given incorrect information.
I can understand why Ms S has complained about what happened. But, 
having thought about it, I dont think she suffered any significant financial 
loss as a result. I can see she potentially lost out on four days interest on 
£100. The interest rate was 1% each year  so, the amount of interest for 
four days would be around one pence. Given the amount of interest 
involved here, and the fact that she was able to make payments into the 
account from the date when it was opened, albeit indirectly through 
another Nationwide account, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to 
require Nationwide to compensate her for this loss of interest.
Ms S also says she potentially lost out on the opportunity to win the prize 
draw. The Welcome letter makes clear that she would only have been 
entered in the draw if shed grown her balance by at least £50 (and no 
more than £100) in each of the three months leading up to the draw. So, 
Im not persuaded that the short delay in being able to put funds directly 
into the account, from an external bank account, interfered with her 
eligibility to be entered for the prize draw.
The service
Ms S has also complained about the service she received when she 
complained. She contacted Nationwide on several occasions in the days 
after shed opened her account. She says that Nationwides advisers didnt 
answer the specific queries shed raised. She felt the responses were like a 
dismissal and abandonment.
She raised a concern about not being able to make a payment into the 
account. I can see that she confirmed to Nationwide, a few hours after shed 
first raised this matter, that it had been resolved and she was now able to 
make a payment into the account. So, although this wasnt specifically 
commented on when Nationwide first responded to her, it had resolved itself 
within a short period of time.
She also raised a concern about not having received an email about the 
account. Nationwide checked that it held the correct email address on its 
systems. It then sent a further test email. When that wasnt successful it 
suggested that she check her spam folder and whitelist the Nationwide 
domain name or provide an alternative email address. Ms S says this was 
technical language and shouldnt have been used when providing customer 
service.I agree that the language used does appear technical, but I think 
Ms S wouldve known what Nationwide meant when she was told to check 
her spam folder. She says nothing was received into her spam folder. And, 
shes told us that she still hasnt been able to receive emails which 
Nationwide says its sent to her.
In circumstances where one form of communication, in this case emails, 
arent being received I think its fair and reasonable for Nationwide to use 
an alternative channel to communicate with Ms S. She was still able to 
communicate with Nationwide by telephone and it was able to send 
letters, such as the Welcome letter, to her postal address.
Nationwide also suggested that Ms S may wish to provide an alternative 
email address  so that it could try to use that address to send emails to 
her. Ms S thinks that was unreasonable. But I think Nationwide was trying 
to provide alternative methods to communicate with her when she hadnt 
received the emails itd sent to her.
Having taken everything into consideration here, I think Nationwide has 
acted fairly and reasonably. I dont expect it to have to do anything more.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, my provisional decision is that I do not intend to 
uphold this complaint about Nationwide Building Society.
Nationwide didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
Ms S did respond. She didnt agree with the provisional decision. She made several 
comments which Ive summarised below:
Shed been disadvantaged and inconvenienced because she didnt receive the first 
email from Nationwide. She had to wait until she got the welcome letter about a week 
later before she thought it was safe enough to invest into the account.
She thought she should be compensated for the time shed wasted and the trouble 
shed been caused when she couldnt make an immediate payment into the account. 
She should be compensated for the delay in being able to make payments into the 
account. Shed paid money into the account thirteen days after it opened. She said 
shed lost four pence in interest as a result. Even though this was a small amount it 
was fair and reasonable, she said, to require Nationwide to compensate her for this 
loss of interest.
She thought there was insufficient evidence to say that Nationwide had misinformed 
her when it told her she could make payments into the account immediately.
She shouldve been given compensation because Nationwide had used 
unreasonable technical language when it told her to whitelist the Nationwide domain 
name.
Nationwide hadnt offered to post information to her about changes to her account or 
changes to the interest rate. And, it wasnt fair to ask her to open another email 
account just to receive emails.
Nationwide shouldve done an audit trail of the emails at the time and hadnt properly 
investigated her complaint.
The entry on the audit log about previous email address looked suspicious and she 
thought this was very likely the cause of her not receiving emails. She said this was a 
reason to rule in her favour.Nationwide was arrogant in its attitude and provided poor service  causing upset 
and distress. It was very unfair not to say that she should be compensated for what 
happened. This appeared to treat her complaints as being of no importance.
So, I now have to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the responses to my provisional decision, I have not changed my view 
about how this complaint should be resolved. I know this will disappoint Ms S  so Ill explain 
why.
When deciding how a complaint should be resolved our service does that by reference to 
what is, in the opinion of the Ombudsman, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case. 
In my provisional decision, by way of summary, I made the following findings:
even though I agreed that Ms S hadnt received the email, I was satisfied on the 
basis of the evidence Id seen that Nationwide had sent it to her;
Ms S did receive all of the information she needed to operate the account  she 
received the online confirmation and the Welcome letter;
Ms S wasnt able to make payments into the Nationwide account from an external 
bank account immediately  it took four days before she was able to do this. She was 
able to make payments into the account immediately from her other Nationwide 
account;
Nationwide had used technical language when corresponding with Ms S about what 
happened  but I was satisfied it had tried to offer alternative methods of 
communicating with her.
So, having considered everything I provisionally decided that Nationwide had acted fairly 
and reasonably in all the circumstances.
Ms S has provided several comments about my provisional decision. Ill respond to each of 
those comments separately, below. Shes also mentioned issues shes experienced about a 
different account she subsequently opened with Nationwide. As I said in my provisional 
decision, those issues need to be dealt with separately. So, although Ms S, in her response 
to my provisional decision, has made further comments about those issues, I wont be 
dealing with those comments here.
Shed been disadvantaged and inconvenienced because she didnt receive the first 
email from Nationwide. She had to wait until she got the welcome letter about a week 
later before she thought it was safe enough to invest into the account.
It is the case that Ms S spent time contacting Nationwide when she didnt receive the email. 
And, I can understand how frustrating it wouldve been when she didnt receive the email. 
But, she had received the online confirmation. She got that as soon as shed made her 
application. It provided the sort code and account number for her new account. That was the 
information she needed to start to pay money into the account. So, even though she didnt 
get the email and it was a few days later before she got the Welcome letter, I dont think 
Nationwide should have to compensate her because she spent time querying why she 
hadnt got the email.She should be compensated for the time shed wasted and the trouble shed been 
caused when she couldnt make an immediate payment into the account. She should 
be compensated for the delay in being able to make payments into the account. 
Shed paid money into the account thirteen days after it opened. She said shed lost 
four pence in interest as a result. Even though this was a small amount it was fair 
and reasonable, she said, to require Nationwide to compensate her for this loss of 
interest.
Ms S wasnt able to make payments (from her bank account with L) into the account 
immediately. In her complaint to our service Ms S said that it was 10 November 2020 before 
she could pay money (from her account with L) into the new account. That was four days 
after shed opened the account. 
In her response to my provisional decision Ms S says she lost out on thirteen days interest. 
But, that was because she chose not to pay money into the account, from her account with 
L, until several days after 10 November. 
She says the reason for the delay was because she had doubts about whether it was safe to 
put money into the account. But, shed received a secure message from Nationwide on 10 
November informing her:
Your Start to Save account is showing on my end as open and ready for you to use.
Shes also told us that after receiving this message she was able to confirm that she could 
pay money into the Start to Save account from her account with L.
So, even though she didnt get the email, I think she wouldve known it was safe to put 
money into the account, using the details shed been given.
I remain of the view that Ms S didnt suffer any significant financial loss as a result of the 
delay in being able to pay money into the account from her bank account. Shes told us that 
she wouldve been able to pay money (for her bank account with L) into the account from 10 
November (4 four days after she opened it). It was her choice to wait thirteen days before 
doing so. And, as I said in my provisional decision, she was able to make payments into the 
account from the date it was opened, albeit indirectly from another Nationwide account. So, 
in these circumstances, I dont think its fair or reasonable to require Nationwide to 
compensate her for any interest she says she lost out on.
She thought there was insufficient evidence to say that Nationwide had misinformed 
her when it told her she could make payments into the account immediately
When considering Ms Ss complaint, I took into account all of the information and arguments 
thatd been made available to me. Having looked at the information provided by Ms S from 
her bank (L), I decided, on balance, that the information Nationwide had given her about 
being able to make immediate payments from her bank account into her account with 
Nationwide was incorrect. 
Ms S says that theres insufficient evidence to form that view. She says that she doesnt 
think Nationwide wouldve provided incorrect information to its customers about this matter. I 
can understand why shes said that. But, insofar as Ms S was concerned, the information 
Nationwide provided to her was incorrect. She wasnt able to make immediate payments into 
the account. So, I remain of the view, based on everything Ive seen, that Nationwide did 
provide incorrect information to her.She shouldve been given compensation because Nationwide had used 
unreasonable technical language when it told her to whitelist the Nationwide domain 
name.
Its not always the case that when a business does something wrong, it is fair and 
reasonable to award compensation. We look at the impact that the businesss actions had 
on the customer. 
In this case, as I said in my provisional decision, Nationwides reference to whitelisting was 
technical language. But, having considered everything that Nationwide told Ms S, I was 
satisfied, on balance, that she wouldve understood the references to spam folder. I also 
think that if shed asked Nationwide to explain what it meant by whitelisting it wouldve 
been able to provide her with further details about what it meant. 
So, I remain of the view that its not fair or reasonable to ask Nationwide to compensate Ms 
S because some of the language it used when corresponding with her was technical.
Nationwide hadnt offered to post information to her about changes to her account or 
changes to the interest rate on her account. And, it wasnt fair to ask her to open 
another email account just to receive emails.
Id just point out that Ms S has raised a new issue here about how Nationwide 
communicates changes to her about her account. Shell need to raise this with Nationwide in 
the first instance. And, for that reason, I wont be able to deal with that matter as part of this 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I did note that even though Ms S hadnt received emails from 
Nationwide, it was still able to correspond with her by other means. So, for example it had 
posted the Welcome letter to her address. And she was able to correspond with it using 
Nationwides secure messaging service.  
In circumstances where she hadnt received emails sent to the email address shed 
provided, I thought it was fair and reasonable for Nationwide to ask her if she would consider 
providing it with an alternative email address. I remain of that view.
Nationwide shouldve done an audit trail of the emails at the time and hadnt properly 
investigated her complaint.
In my provisional decision, I commented on the fact that Nationwide hadnt been able to 
provide an electronic log of the path the email had taken. Its not a requirement that a 
business should make or retain such an audit trail. 
I said that the audit trail mightve helped explain why the email Nationwide sent to Ms S 
hadnt been received by her. But, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to conclude that 
because it failed to make or retain an audit trail, that means it didnt properly investigate her 
complaint. 
In circumstances where one form of evidence is not available, it is appropriate to consider all 
of the other evidence thats been provided. In this case, I had been provided with a copy of 
the email Nationwide says it sent to Ms S. The email address on that copy email was 
correct. I was also provided with a copy of Nationwides contact log. This showed that the 
email had been sent to Ms S. Having considered the copy email and the contact log, on 
balance, I was satisfied that Nationwide did send the email to Ms S. I havent been provided 
with anything further which would cause me to change that view.The entry on the audit log about previous email address looked suspicious and she 
thought this was very likely the cause of her not receiving emails. She said this was a 
reason to rule in her favour.
I had queried this entry on the audit log with Nationwide. It wasnt able to explain why it 
appeared. As I said in my provisional decision, Nationwide told our service that it had 
checked its records again and it confirmed that it held Ms Ss correct email address and had 
held it since October 2017. I also took into account the fact that the correct email address 
appeared on the copy email Nationwide had provided to us.
So, although I agree that Nationwide hasnt been able to explain the entry on the audit log, 
that doesnt change the position with regard to the email address which was used when 
Nationwide sent the email about the new account to her. So, I havent changed my view.
Nationwide was arrogant in its attitude and provided poor service  causing upset 
and distress. It was very unfair not to say that she should be compensated for what 
happened. This appeared to treat her complaints as being of no importance.
I know that Ms S feels strongly that she should receive compensation for what happened. 
But, when looking at how a business has acted, as mentioned above, we consider the 
impact of its actions on the customer. And, its not always the case that when things have 
gone wrong, as happened here, we think a business should pay compensation. 
That doesnt mean Ms Ss complaint has been treated as being of no importance.
I have carefully considered everything that both Nationwide and Ms S have said here. And, 
although I know it will disappoint Ms S, I havent changed my view about how this complaint 
should be resolved. I dont require Nationwide to have to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Nationwide Building 
Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman