DRN-3215825
The complaint
Mr A complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) delayed providing him with a courtesy 
car following an accident.
What happened
Mr A took out a car insurance policy with Aviva.  Mr As car was involved in an accident 
which Mr A reported to Aviva. Aviva booked Mr As car in for repairs and Mr As car was 
collected by the approved garage. Mr A contacted Aviva on 21 September 2021 to explain 
that he hadnt been provided with a courtesy car and Aviva agreed to get this arranged.
Mr A then contacted Aviva again on 23 September 2021 as he had still not received his 
courtesy car. Mr A didnt receive his courtesy car until 25 September 2021. 
Mr A complained to Aviva about the length of time it had taken to arrange the courtesy car 
and that he had been without a car during this period. Mr A also complained about the level 
of service he received and that he had had to chase Aviva for updates.
Aviva apologised to Mr A for the time it took to arrange the courtesy car and offered Mr A 
£10 per day for loss of use, totalling £80. They also acknowledged their lack of 
communication with Mr A and offered £50 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Mr A wasnt happy with Avivas offer and brought his complaint to this service. He didnt think 
that the level of compensation offered was fair. Our investigator agreed that Aviva had made 
mistakes but thought that their offer to settle was reasonable. Mr A didnt agree and asked 
for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva have accepted Mr As claim under his policy. This complaint deals only with the delay 
in providing a courtesy car and the level of service Mr A initially received from Aviva. 
Ive been provided with a copy of Avivas claim notes and can see the contact made by Mr A 
with Aviva in relation to the courtesy car. He first called Aviva on 16 September 2021, and I 
can see that he called Aviva again on 21 and 23 September 2021 to chase his courtesy car. 
Mr A also says he rang on a number of other occasions regarding his claim  possibly to the 
broker who Mr A had initially communicated with. 
Avivas policy booklet at page 14 says that a courtesy car will only be provided once a claim 
has been accepted and cover confirmed. It would seem that Mr As claim was accepted on 
16 September 2021 when Mr A telephoned Aviva to make his claim. The policy booklet says 
that Aviva aim to provide a courtesy car within one working day if the car is immobile or 
unroadworthy, which Mr As car was. He should therefore have received his courtesy car on 
17 September 2021. However, Mr A did not receive his courtesy car until 25 September 
2021. Im satisfied that he was therefore without a courtesy car for eight days. 
Mr A says that during the eight day period he didnt have the use of another car and had to 
use public transport to go shopping. He says that he was suffering from a minor injury as a 
result of the accident and that it was uncomfortable for him using public transport. I accept 
that he was inconvenienced by the lack of a car and that he should be compensated for this. 
Aviva have offered Mr A £10 for each day he was without a car - and I dont think this is 
unreasonable. 
Mr A also says that the service he received from Aviva was poor as he had to chase Aviva 
for his courtesy car. I agree that Aviva should have arranged for the courtesy car to be 
provided without having to be prompted by Mr A and that they should have kept Mr A 
informed of what was happening. I accept that Mr A was inconvenienced by having to chase 
Aviva. However, whilst I understand Mr As frustration, I think Avivas offer of £50 
compensation for the poor service he received is fair. 
I know that this is not the decision that Mr A wanted, but I think that Avivas offer of £130 
compensation is within the range that is reasonable. Im not making any additional award of 
compensation. I dont think that this compensation has been paid to Mr A, so my decision is 
that Aviva should pay the £130 compensation it offered.
My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £130 to settle this complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
My decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited should pay the £130 compensation it offered to 
Mr A, less any of this sum that may already have been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman