DRN-3638842
The complaint
Mr B and Mr W are representing the estate of X. They complain that Lloyds Bank PLC 
allowed transfers to be made from Xs account without her consent, and that Lloyds has 
been unwilling to provide full information about those transfers and about other aspects of 
Xs accounts. Mr B and Mr W are also unhappy that Lloyds issued a formal demand 
regarding one of Xs accounts.
What happened
Xs late husband held various accounts with Lloyds, in both personal and professional 
capacities. When he passed way X was the sole executor of his estate. Between around 
2014 and 2016 one of the accounts that was in Xs name was used, apparently without Xs 
consent, to pay interest due on a business account that formed part of her husbands estate.
Following Xs death, Mr W and Mr B were appointed as executors of her estate, and also 
took over as executors of her husbands estate. They discovered that the transfers had been 
made from Xs account without her knowledge or consent and asked Lloyds for information 
about what had happened. 
Lloyds provided some limited information, but was not able to provide everything that Mr B 
and Mr W had asked for. Lloyds says that the passage of time means that some of the 
information requested is no longer available. During this period Lloyds was also negotiating 
with Mr B and Mr W about settling debts that were owed on Xs accounts. A formal demand 
letter was sent regarding one of Xs accounts while these negotiations were ongoing. Mr B 
and Mr W questioned why such a letter had been sent and Lloyds retracted the formal 
demand, saying it had been sent in error. Lloyds ultimately agreed to accept a settlement for 
Xs account which meant that all the disputed payments from 2014-2016 and any charges or 
interest incurred as a result of those payments, were essentially waived. Lloyds also paid Xs 
estate £500 to recognise the impact of the delays and of the formal demand being sent 
incorrectly.
Overall, Mr B and Mr W were unhappy with what Lloyds had done. They felt that it had 
caused unnecessary delays and still had not provided adequate information in response to 
their requests, so they referred the complaint to us.
One of our Investigators looked into what had happened, but felt that Lloyds had done 
enough to put things right here. She considered that Lloyds had done what it could to assist 
Mr W and Mr B with their enquiries, and while she acknowledged that there were some 
delays, overall she felt Lloyds offer of £500 was appropriate in the circumstances.
Mr B and Mr W disagreed. They think Lloyds should cover at least part of the approximately 
£10,000 in legal fees they say Xs estate has incurred as a result of the delays in information 
being provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only summarised the findings and arguments above, I would like to reassure 
both parties that I have read and considered everything provided. Having done so Ive 
reached the same conclusion as our Investigator and for largely the same reasons. 
I appreciate that there do appear to have been some transfers completed on Xs account 
without her direct consent. Both sides seem to agree this is the case. But given that Lloyds 
has essentially made the decision to not ask Xs estate to pay any of these transactions or 
the charges and interest that were incurred as a result of them being made, Im satisfied that 
is a reasonable resolution to this aspect of the complaint. If X was still alive, then we may 
have considered whether any payment for distress was appropriate here. But her estate is 
not a person for the purposes of a complaint; it cannot be distressed, and so I dont think a 
further award for compensation is appropriate.
I acknowledge that, as executors of Xs estate, Mr W and Mr B wanted some more detailed 
information about exactly what had happened with these transfers. But from what Ive seen 
Lloyds did provide as much information and evidence as it could about what happened 
around these payments. I understand that Mr W and Mr B would have liked to see more 
evidence, but given how long ago these transactions took place, Im satisfied that its 
reasonable Lloyds has not been able to provide everything that they asked for. 
I acknowledge that there was some delay in providing information following Mr B and Mr Ws 
request. I also agree that it was not appropriate for the formal demand to be sent in May 
2020 when no notice of formal demand had been issued. But Lloyds has paid Xs estate 
£500 to recognise any impact of these errors, and overall I think that is appropriate. As noted 
above, Xs estate is not a person; it cant be distressed, so any payment would only reflect 
the inconvenience of any extra work the estate had to do to sort out these issues.  
Mr B and Mr W have said, via their solicitors, that the estate has incurred approximately 
£10,000 of additional legal fees at least partly because of errors on Lloyds part. But its 
difficult to see how whats happened here could have led to such a large amount of 
additional legal work. I also note that Mr B and Mr W did not initially rais the issue of these 
legal fees directly with Lloyds, despite the protracted correspondence between the parties. 
And lastly, I think its important to bear in mind that the nature of Xs and her late husbands 
estates means that they are complex and likely to require significant legal work to sort out. 
With what Ive seen, I dont think I can fairly say that Lloyds has materially contributed to 
increasing that legal involvement. And as set out above, Lloyds has already paid £500 
compensation. It follows that I dont consider it reasonable to ask Lloyds to make any further 
payment towards Xs estates legal costs.
So, in summary, I am satisfied that while there have been some issues with how Lloyds has 
dealt with Mr B and Mr W, it has done enough to put that right, and I wont be asking it to do 
anything more.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mr W 
and the estate of X to accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Sophie MitchellOmbudsman