DRN-1654902
 
The complaint
Ms Y complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on her behalf by a claims 
management company.
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in October 2003. The policy covered 
Ms Y for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Ms Y didnt agree. 
She said, in summary, that the PPI wasn't discussed and that, if it had been, she would have 
declined it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ys complaint.
Halifax doesnt have a full record of the sale, which isnt surprising given it took place so long 
ago. In cases like this, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ys complaint for the following reasons:
Ms Y says the PPI wasn't discussed. But this all happened so long ago that I wouldn't expect 
Ms Y to have a detailed recollection of exactly what was discussed. The policy sold to Ms Y 
had the option to include life and critical illness cover. And I can see that these elements 
were declined. So I think there must have had to have been some discussion to arrive at the 
decision to only take the accident, sickness and unemployment cover.  I'm not surprised Ms 
Y can't remember this. 
Overall, I think it more likely than not that Halifax made Ms Y aware that the PPI was 
optional and that she chose to take it. I say this because, although Ms Y's paperwork isn't 
available, a sample of what she would have, all likelihood, completed made it clear that the 
PPI was optional.
The bank advised Ms Y to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable for her 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Let me explain why.
Ms Y was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the terms and conditions.Ms Y told us she wouldn't have received any pay from her employer if she couldn't work due 
to sickness or an accident and that she didn't have any other means of meeting her 
mortgage repayments. The mortgage was a significant long term financial commitment and 
Ms Ys home was at risk if she didnt keep up with the repayments. The PPI would have paid 
out for up to 24 months in the event of a successful claim for accident or sickness. And it 
covered her - again for 24 months - if she'd become unemployed. So I think the PPI could 
have been a useful benefit.
Ms Y wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As she 
couldve benefitted from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely she needed better 
advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
I cant see that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Ms Y before she agreed 
to purchase it. I dont think she was told it would cost £21.67 each month until after the 
mortgage had started. For this reason I have considered whether clearer information about 
the cost would have affected Ms Ys decision to purchase the policy. She had chosen to take 
out the policy, knowing she would have to pay something for it. The policy was competitively 
priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely she would have made a different 
decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information the bank gave Ms Y about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Halifax recommendation was 
unsuitable and I dont think Ms Y would have made a different decision about taking out the 
policy if better information had been provided to her  overall, I think she would still have 
taken out the policy.
This means I don't think the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesn't need to refund everything 
Ms Y paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Ms Y back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I don't think it needs to do anything more.
I understand Halifax has already paid this to Ms Y. 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman