DRN-3026095
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs A have complained Shawbrook Bank Limited didnt fairly or reasonably deal 
with their claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Although Mr S and Mrs A are represented in their claim by a third party, I will refer to them 
throughout for ease.
What happened
In February 2017 when staying as guests, Mr S and Mrs A bought timeshare points from a 
supplier, who Ill refer to as D.
After being invited to a presentation, Mr S and Mrs A bought 7,500 timeshare points from D 
for £10,800. Mr S and Mrs A financed this purchase by taking out a fixed-sum loan 
agreement with Shawbrook for the full amount.
In 2019 Mr S and Mrs A submitted a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 that the sale had been misrepresented. Shawbrook didnt agree. As they remained 
unhappy, Mr S and Mrs A brought their complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence provided by both Mr S and Mrs A and Shawbrook. 
She didnt think D had misrepresented the timeshare points to Mr S and Mrs A. And having 
considered the complaint with Section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in mind, she 
wasnt persuaded that a court would find the relationship between Shawbrook and Mr S and 
Mrs A unfair because of its own acts and/or omissions or those of D.
Mr S and Mrs A remained dissatisfied and have asked an ombudsman to consider their 
complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 9 March 2023. This explained why I wasnt upholding 
Mr S and Mrs As claim under section 75. I also explained why it was necessary for 
Shawbrook to consider any complaint under section 140A first.
No comments were received by either party.
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and explain my thinking below. Despite 
neither party having submitted any further comments, I am satisfied both have been given 
sufficient opportunity to do so. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. 
I also take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and 
codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 means that, in certain circumstances, if Mr S 
and Mrs A paid for goods or services using certain types of credit (even in part), and there 
was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of those goods or services, the 
creditor can also be held responsible. 
Whilst the initial letter of claim referred to section 75, none of the allegations constitute 
allegations of misrepresentations or breaches of contract given the way in which theyre 
framed. 
Section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act allows a court to determine whether an unfair 
relationship exists between the creditor (Shawbrook in this case) and the debtor (Mr S and 
Mrs A) because of any of the terms of the credit agreement or of any related agreement; the 
way the creditor has enforced their rights under the credit agreement; or any other thing 
done by (or on behalf of) the creditor before or after the making of the credit agreement. 
Section 140A may be a relevant consideration, and I appreciate that our investigator went on 
to consider whether a court might conclude that the relationship between Mr S and Mrs A 
and Shawbrook was unfair, I cant see that Mr S and Mrs A (through their representative) 
has ever asked Shawbrook to consider this point or provided evidence or arguments to 
support it, or that Shawbrook has had a chance to investigate it. So, in the circumstances, I 
think it would be better dealt with as a separate complaint  should Mr S and Mrs A wish to 
make one to Shawbrook.
Mr S and Mrs A complain that:
During their sales presentation they were subject to a very long hard sell.
Theyve used the timeshare but have subsequently found it difficult to book holidays 
through D.
They also now believe the standard of the holiday accommodation isnt as good as it 
initially was. 
Theyve come to understand that they cant sell their points until they are 75 years of 
age leaving them with a considerable liability for future management costs.
When we consider cases of misrepresentation, we look at both whether the statements were 
made and whether they were false, and that then whether this information was relied upon 
by Mr S and Mrs A when deciding to purchase the timeshare points.
The claims Mr A and Mrs S have made are all to do with issues they subsequently 
discovered. These dont, I believe, relate to statements made at the time that they relied 
upon nor is there any evidence to suggest this.
Ive considered Mr S and Mrs As testimony that at the sales presentation they were subject 
to a hard sell. This suggests they may have been pressured into their purchase by D. But 
very little else has been said by Mr S and Mrs A on the subject. And based on whats been 
said and provided, Im not persuaded they made their purchase when they simply didnt want 
to.I acknowledge the possibility that the information provision may not have been completely 
balanced during the session Mr S and Mrs A attended. But Ive seen nothing to suggest the 
written evidence cannot be relied upon. 
Overall Im satisfied the claims Mr A and Mrs S made dont amount to claims the timeshare 
points were misrepresented. I dont believe Shawbrook acted unfairly in rejecting Mr S and 
Mrs As section 75 claim.
Having considered all the evidence presented to our service, I wont be asking Shawbrook to 
do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr S and Mrs As complaint against 
Shawbrook Bank Limited
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman