DRN-4195237
The complaint
Mr H complains Lloyds Bank PLC incorrectly told him his credit score wouldnt be affected if 
he agreed to a repayment plan.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our Investigator, for these reasons:
Mr H spoke with Lloyds in late July 2022 about his change in circumstances, and 
repayments plans were discussed. Ive listened to the recording of this call, and 
I consider Mr H made it clear he wanted to do all he could to manage his financial 
obligations, without negatively impacting his credit score. Therefore, while Lloyds 
were always obligated to provide clear information, the circumstances of this 
complaint mean it was even more important Mr H was given sufficient information to 
make an informed decision.
The adviser took steps to explain a default or missed payments could impact Mr Hs 
credit score. However, I dont consider he was as clear as he could be as he spoke 
quite quickly during the call, and at one point said there would be no impact 
whatsoever when explaining what would happen to Mr Hs credit score if a default 
wasnt applied. But given Mr H was being offered a no payment plan, I do think 
Lloyds adviser could and should have done more to clearly outline what this would 
mean for Mr H given the concerns hed raised throughout the call, and what hed 
explained about the steps he was considering to pay his debts.
I dont dispute Lloyds are obligated to report accurate information to credit reference 
agencies. And the evidence Ive been provided suggest they did exactly that. 
However, I cant ignore the fact Mr H may not have agreed to the repayment plans 
had things been better explained during his phone call with Lloyds. As such, I do 
consider its fair in the circumstances that Lloyds takes steps to put things right.
When deciding whats a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint, I must take 
all circumstances into consideration  including whether Mr H took steps to mitigate 
his losses. In doing that, I cant ignore the fact that Lloyds wrote to Mr H each time a 
plan was set up for him. Those letters explained his credit score could be impacted if 
he didnt keep up with his contractual payments. So, while Lloyds adviser wasnt as 
clear as Id expect during the call, Im satisfied Mr H was given information to make 
him aware his credit score might be impacted by the repayment plan  or at least 
gave him enough information to question if hed properly understood what hed been 
told by Lloyds adviser. As Mr H didnt do that until he complained in October 2022, 
I cant agree that Lloyds is solely at fault for the changes in Mr Hs credit score since 
the first plan was agreed. Had Mr H contacted Lloyds sooner, potentially, some of the 
impact hes complained about could have been avoided.
Mr H has also complained about the tone used by Lloydss adviser during the call. 
However, having listened to the call I consider the adviser was personable and 
professional throughout. As such, this doesnt change the way I consider Mr Hs 
complaint should be resolved.
With the above in mind, I consider £200 is a fair a reasonable award to recognise the 
distress and inconvenience Mr H experienced once he realised the repayment plans 
didnt work in the way hed expected. Ive taken on board what Mr H said hed have 
done had he known the true implications of the repayment plans. But as Ive said 
above, Im satisfied Mr H had enough information reconsider how he wanted to 
manage his finances once he received the first letter about the repayment plan in 
August 2022.
I appreciate Mr H has been through a very difficult time, and this isnt quite the answer he 
hoped for. However, I am still upholding his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mr Hs complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
To put things right, Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr H £200 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience their mistake caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman