DRN-2738462
The complaint
Mr M says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
In 1995 Mr M took out a mortgage with Bank of Scotland. It looks as if the mortgage 
combined two separate mortgage accounts which had previously been held by Mr M and his 
former partner.
Mr M took out a PPI policy to protect his monthly mortgage repayments against accident, 
sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr M disagreed with 
the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Bank of Scotland hasnt been able to provide us with copies of all the paperwork Mr M 
signed when he took out the mortgage in 1995. I dont think thats surprising or 
unreasonable, given how long ago this was. Where the evidence is incomplete or 
inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks most likely to have happened, based on the 
information I have.
Bank of Scotland needed to make it clear to Mr M that the PPI was optional. Mr M says 
he took out the PPI with his original mortgage in 1987. And he says he was told the PPI 
was necessary in order to get the mortgage. Bank of Scotland says it has no record of 
Mr M taking out any PPI on a mortgage before 1995.
It can be difficult to decide cases like this, where so little evidence remains from the time. 
Neither Mr M nor Bank of Scotland has been able to provide any evidence to show that 
Mr M had PPI on his mortgage before 1995. So for the purposes of this decision, Ive 
assumed that thats when Mr M took out the PPI.
I cant know exactly what was said to Mr M when he applied for the mortgage in 1995. 
But I cant fairly decide, based purely on Mr Ms recollection of what happened so many 
years ago that Bank of Scotland didnt make it clear that the PPI was optional. 
Bank of Scotland accepts that it recommended the PPI to Mr M. This means it had a 
responsibility to check that it was suitable for him. But it looks as if it was suitable, based 
on what Ive seen of Mr Ms circumstances at the time.
Mr M would have been entitled to some sick pay from his employer at the time. But if 
hed made a successful claim on the policy for accident, sickness or unemployment, it 
would have paid out for up to 12 months, after a 60-day waiting period. Thats longer 
than Mr Ms told us hed have been entitled to sick pay for. And it would have paid the 
same level of benefit if hed made a successful unemployment claim. Whats more, it 
would have paid out in addition to any sick pay or redundancy pay Mr M received from 
his employer. So he could have used that to meet other day-to-day expenses.
Ive also borne in mind that the mortgage was a significant, long-term financial 
commitment, secured on Mr Ms property, and the consequences of not keeping up with 
his monthly mortgage repayments could have been serious.
So taking everything into account, I think the PPI could have been useful to Mr M  
especially as hes told us that aside from payments from his employer, he didnt have 
any other means he could have used to make his monthly mortgage payments if he was 
off sick, or if he lost his job.
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it should have been. But based on what Ive seen of Mr Ms circumstances at the 
time, he wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover  for example 
provisions about unusual employment arrangements or existing medical conditions. 
The policy was competitively priced, and Ive seen nothing to make me think Mr M 
couldnt afford it. And as he was paying for it monthly, he could have cancelled it at any 
time if his circumstances changed, or if he decided he no longer wanted the cover. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mr M would have made a different decision 
about taking the PPI even if better information had been provided. On balance, I think its 
more likely than not that hed still have taken it.
Ive considered all Mr Ms comments, including what hes said about not having been told 
about his right to cancel the policy. I dont know what was said when the policy was sold. But 
if Mr M had wanted to cancel the cover, I think its likely hed have contacted Bank of 
Scotland to ask about doing so.
Mr Ms also mentioned that hes dissatisfied that the policy didnt cover him for the first 60 
days of sickness absence. But a 60-day waiting period wasnt unusual for this type of cover. 
And based on what Ive seen of Mr Ms circumstances at the time, hed have received sick 
pay from his employer for a few months. So he could have used his sick pay to live on while 
he waited for payments under the PPI to start. And I dont think the 60-day waiting period 
made the policy unsuitable for him.
Mr Ms commented that the given that the policy would only have paid out after 60 days, the 
cover it offered was effectively only for ten months. But Im satisfied, on balance, that thats 
not the case. Bank of Scotland hasnt been able to provide a policy document from 1995. But 
Ive seen a policy document from the following year, and I think its likely that the terms were 
similar. Payment would have been made for up to 12 consecutive months after the 60 day 
waiting period ended. So Im satisfied, on balance, that the policy would potentially have paid 
out for a whole year.Mr Ms also pointed out that he was required to carry on paying the premiums when he 
made a successful claim. I dont know whether this was drawn to Mr Ms attention before he 
applied for the policy. But given that the premiums were relatively modest compared with the 
benefit payable on a successful claim, and given Mr Ms lack of alternative means of making 
his mortgage payments once his sick pay stopped, Im not convinced that better information 
about this would have put him off taking out the PPI.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M. I realise that its frustrating that Im having to reach my decision 
without sight of all the paperwork from the time. I am aware that he feels strongly that he 
took out PPI with the original mortgage in 1987, and he also considers that Bank of Scotland 
wasnt as helpful as it could have been when he complained. But Im satisfied that Bank of 
Scotland has searched thoroughly for records or evidence about any such cover, and its 
provided us with everything that its found. 
Based on the evidence provided and what Mr M and Bank of Scotland have told us, I cant 
fairly conclude that the PPI was mis-sold. And I dont consider that it would be appropriate to 
require Bank of Scotland to pay Mr M redress for the way its handled the complaint.
This means that Bank of Scotland doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr M. But Bank of Scotland will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because:
When the policy was sold, Bank of Scotland expected to get a high level of commission 
and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr M about 
that. Because Bank of Scotland didnt tell Mr M, that was unfair.
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that 
offers fair in this case.
What the business needs to do
Bank of Scotland has to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium if it hasnt already done so. Bank of Scotland should also 
pay back to Mr M any extra interest he paid because of that.
Bank of Scotland should pay back to Mr M the extra he paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of the PPI. Bank of 
Scotland should also pay Mr M 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay 
tax.
My final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland UK Plc (trading as Halifax) does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Bank of Scotland UK Plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back to Mr M any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, as it has 
offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 Juliet Collins
Ombudsman