DRN-2917411
The complaint
Mr B complains that he shouldnt have to pay a fee for investment advice he received from 
Tilney Investment Management Services Limited. He says they didnt make it clear hed 
have to pay ongoing fees, and because of this, he didnt agree with their recommendations.
What happened
Mr B wanted to review his pensions and investments as they hadnt been reviewed for some 
time. In June 2020, he contacted Tilney who agreed to review his pensions and investments. 
Tilney completed a factfind with Mr B and obtained details of the existing pensions and 
investments he held with other providers. In an email dated 15 June, Tilney outlined their 
discussions with Mr B and told him the proposed cost for the work they would complete. Mr 
B was told the cost would be £4,000 with VAT being applicable in some circumstances. The 
email said ongoing fees will also be payable, but these would be confirmed in the financial 
report to follow.
Mr B responded to Tilney the following month and asked for a better price. He told them he 
didnt want to pay VAT. Tilney responded the same day and agreed to reduce their overall 
fee to £3,600 plus VAT. They said VAT would only be payable on the proportion of the fee 
related to the pensions work, which they estimated would cost £1,200. Tilney confirmed their 
fee for the investment work would be £2,400 with no VAT payable. Mr B emailed Tilney on 
17 July to agree the fees in the Tilney email. Shortly after Mr B agreed their fee, Tilney wrote 
to each of the businesses that Mr B had products with. 
In late November 2020, Tilney issued a financial report to Mr B. The report recommended re-
structuring eight of the nine investments Mr B held and provided advice on how the 
investments could be made more tax efficient. The report contained details of how the funds 
would be actively managed and explained the ongoing fees in this regard. Tilney explained 
how Mr B could pay the initial fee for the report. They confirmed Mr B had agreed his 
preference was for the fee for the pension work to be deducted from the transfer value. And 
that the fee for the investment work would be paid by Mr B from the proceeds of some of his 
investment bonds. Tilney issued invoices for the work theyd completed on 11 December.
Mr B complained to Tilney on 17 December. He said he didnt want to go ahead with the 
suggested charges (£3,840) as he hadnt been made aware of the ongoing charges prior to 
the report being issued. Mr B said hed been notified the fee had been reduced again to 
£3,200 inclusive of VAT in a letter dated 11 December, but because of the lack of notice he 
wanted the fees removed in their entirety. 
Tilney provided Mr B with a final response on 22 December. They said Mr B had been 
advised of the cost of the work they would undertake on his behalf and hed provided email 
confirmation agreeing to these fees. Tilney added the further reduction to £3,200 inclusive of 
VAT reflected they wouldnt be required to complete any further work to implement the 
investments on his behalf. Mr B didnt accept the offer made by Tilney to reduce the fee and 
brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into things for Mr B and thought Tilney had been clear about 
the cost of the work they had been asked to undertake. And, that there was nothing to 
suggest the fee agreed wasnt payable if Mr B decided to take up the recommendations. He 
thought that the offer from Tilney to reduce their fee from £3,840 to £3,200 (both figures 
inclusive of VAT) was a reasonable one and took into account Tilney wouldnt have to carry 
out any further work for Mr B.
Mr B didnt accept the thoughts of our investigator and asks that an ombudsman decides his 
complaint. He says he didnt know the recommendations made by Tilney would incur 
ongoing charges and that arent acceptable to him. And he says he didnt want to pay any 
further fees when re-investing his funds as hed paid initial charges when he invested some 
time ago. Mr B says he didnt receive details about the ongoing investment charges until he 
received the financial report in November 2020. He adds that Tilney didnt tell him he 
wouldnt have a choice about investing or not and that he would still be charged if he didnt 
take up the investments recommended by them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr B will be disappointed but for much the same reasons as our investigator, 
Ive decided that Tilney provided reasonable cost information to Mr B. I will now explain why.
The crux of Mr Bs complaint is that he didnt know Tilney would charge him a fee for the 
work they did if he didnt take up the recommendations they made. In his complaint to Tilney, 
Mr B also says he wasnt made aware of the ongoing charges until after the financial report 
had been issued.
There were two elements to the work Mr B asked Tilney to complete. The first was to carry 
out research and provide a financial report to him. This was so that he could review his 
investments, simplify them and ensure they were structured in a tax efficient way. The 
second, which would likely follow the financial report, was the implementation of any 
recommendations. Ive not seen anything to suggest that Mr B was told he had to implement 
any of the recommendations from Tilney, or that he wouldnt be charged a fee if he didnt. 
Ive therefore considered what work Tilney were entitled to charge for when Mr B decided 
not to implement the recommendations made by Tilney.
Ive seen the email exchange between Mr B and Tilney in June and July 2020. Im satisfied 
Mr B agreed a fee of £3,600, plus some VAT, for Tilney to complete some research, provide 
a financial report and implement any recommendations. The email Tilney sent to Mr B on 15 
June 2020, explained:
Costs and Charges
Our initial fee in respect of reviewing your plans and recommending a strategy for these 
going forward designed to simplify your affairs and improve tax efficiency of the investments 
including tax efficiency of income when it is required. 
Our fee for the research, written recommendation report and implementation of our 
recommendations will be £4,000. VAT may be applicable in certain circumstances. 
Ongoing advice fees will also be payable but these will be confirmed in our recommendation 
report once we know the direction of travel.Im persuaded that Mr B wouldve been reasonably aware the £3,600 fee, plus some VAT, 
was for research, written recommendations and implementation. Mr B says Tilney didnt tell 
him he would be charged if he didnt take up the investments they recommended. I dont 
agree with Mr B here as its reasonably clear what work Mr B was paying for. Tilney told him 
there would be ongoing fees and that these would be confirmed when the financial report 
was issued. This seems reasonable to me as Tilney hadnt yet reviewed Mr Bs investments. 
And having received Mr Bs agreement to their fee, I consider it was reasonable for Tilney to 
carry out the research agreed and prepare a financial report for Mr B.
When they completed the research and issued the financial report, Tilney told Mr B what the 
ongoing charges would be if he took out the investments they recommended. The financial 
report compared the charges Mr B was currently paying against the charges he would pay if 
he invested with Tilney. So, Im satisfied Tilney made Mr B aware there would be ongoing 
charges at this time, and that Mr B made an informed decision not to proceed because he 
didnt want to pay these charges. By this time, Tilney had provided Mr B with the financial 
report after theyd obtained details from his existing product providers. The financial report 
detailed the charges, capital gains tax allowances in respect of chargeable gains and 
guidance to Mr B about how he could make some of his investments more tax efficient. I 
consider this reflects what Mr B wanted from Tilney.
A key part of Mr Bs complaint is that the recommendations werent acceptable because of 
the ongoing charges. It may be worth explaining that financial advisers are no longer allowed 
to charge commission. Thats why I consider it was reasonable for Tilney to agree a fee with 
Mr B for the work they would complete. In my opinion, they completed most of the agreed 
work and provided a clear explanation of the ongoing charges when they presented their 
recommendations, as they said they would. The only aspect of the work they didnt complete 
was the implementation. Im satisfied it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to consider 
asking Tilney to waive their fee in full, but as their agreed fee included the implementation of 
investments Mr B didnt take up, I will now consider the impact of this on the agreed fee.
When Mr B told Tilney he didnt want to implement their recommendations, they reduced 
their fee from £3,840 to £3,200 (both figures inclusive of VAT). I consider this to be a fair and 
reasonable offer. The research and the preparation of the financial report will have taken 
considerably more of Tilneys time than the implementation wouldve. Ive also looked at the 
terms of business letter and fee schedule Tilney provided with the financial report. Tilney 
explained that more complex work would typically cost between £1,000 to £3,000 for a 
financial report. Mr B had nine different pensions and investments, some with different tax 
treatments. So, I dont consider a reduced charge of £3,200 inclusive of VAT for the 
research and a financial report is unreasonable. In my opinion it fairly reflects a reasonable 
adjustment to the fee when Mr B chose not to invest with Tilney.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I wont be asking Tilney Investment 
Management Services Limited to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman