DRN-2026748
complaint
Mr and Mrs W say that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy in 1996 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint but didnt think that it should be upheld. Mr and 
Mrs W disagreed with this  so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about MPPI on our website, and Ive 
taken this in to account when considering Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Having looked at the complaint, Ive decided that the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will 
be disappointing for Mr and Mrs W, so Ill explain the reasons why.
I should start by thanking Mr and Mrs W for their patience while their complaint was being 
investigated  I understand that the process has been frustrating for them, and it is clear 
they feel very strongly about their complaint.
Mr and Mrs W say that when they applied for their mortgage, that they were offered MPPI, 
and that it was presented as optional, but that they declined to take the cover. They say that 
it wasnt until they did a PPI check in 2019 that they discovered that a policy had been 
taken out. 
Unfortunately, Halifax hasnt been able to provide us with any paperwork from the time  but 
this isnt unusual for a sale that took place nearly 25 years ago - businesses arent required 
to keep records indefinitely. And I cant know what was said at the time.
Our adjudicator explained that as they didnt have enough to say that the MPPI was 
presented as optional  due to the lack paperwork available. But Mr and Mrs W say that the 
policy was presented as an optional product  but that they declined to take it  so it was 
added by Halifax without them knowing.
 I understand that this will be frustrating for Mr and Mrs W, and that they want to see 
paperwork where they gave their consent in taking out the policy. But this isnt possible. And  
for me to decide that Halifax set up the policy without their consent, I would have to find that 
it  completed the necessary paperwork for the policy, including choices about the split of 
cover between Mr and Mrs W, set up a direct debit to make the repayments for the 
insurance  and that Mr and Mrs W didnt receive any paperwork about a policy being set 
up. But I dont have enough to say that this was the case. So, I cant uphold their complaint 
for this reason.
Halifax says that it recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs W  so it had to make sure that 
the policy was right for them. And based on what they have said about their circumstances 
at the time, I think that it was. For example, they werent affected by any of the exclusions or 
limits on the MPPI policy due to employment circumstances, or pre-existing medical 
conditions for example  and they appear to have had a need for the cover as it provided 
more protection for them that what they already had in place. 
It is also possible that the information Halifax provided about the MPPI policy wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been  but as Ive explained above  they dont appear to have been effected 
by any of the limitations on the policy  and taking in to account the costs and benefits 
associated with the policy, it couldve been useful for them if something went wrong. And I 
dont think better information about the policy wouldve put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive given careful thought to everything that Mr and Mrs W have said, including what they 
have said about them never having taken out PPI with any other providers  and that this 
shows that they have never agreed to taking out any kind of policy. But this point doesnt 
change my decision. Whether or not Mr and Mrs W did or didnt take any other policies with 
other providers doesnt mean that Halifax mis-sold this policy. And each complaint is decided 
on its own merits.   
other considerations
Ive also thought about whether Bank of Scotland (trading as Halifax) needs to give back Mr 
and Mrs W some of the commission they paid on their MPPI policy.
But the Supreme Court ruling  and new rules and guidance only apply to credit agreements 
(in this instance Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage) taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements 
taken out before then which were still running on 6 April 2008. From the information Ive 
seen, Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage doesnt fit into these dates - and so I dont think Bank of 
Scotland have to refund any of the commission they paid.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman