DRN-2432088
The complaint
Mr W complains that Unum Ltd obtained his medical records without sending them to him 
first.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The consent form that Mr W signed confirmed that he consented to Unum being 
provided with copies of his medical information, including medical records.
Mr W specified on the consent form that he wanted to see any medical reports before 
they were sent to Unum, if those reports were from his GP and/or consultant. 
Unum asked Mr Ws consultant for a copy of his medical records, but didnt 
specifically request a medical report from her. The consultant therefore sent the 
medical records directly to Unum.
The consent form is for the medical specialist to satisfy themselves that the patient 
has given consent for their medical information to be released. If the patient specifies 
on the consent form that they want to see certain information before its sent to an 
insurer, then the medical specialist should comply with that.
If Mr W is concerned about his consultant sending Unum his medical records before 
he saw them, then he should raise his concerns directly with his consultant. 
However, I agree with our investigator that Unum didnt do anything wrong here. It 
had Mr Ws consent to obtain his medical records, and thats what it did. Unum had 
no control over whether or not his consultant sent him the medical information before 
it was sent to Unum. 
Mr W has raised concerns about Unum requesting two separate consent forms. The 
first one was completed in 2018, and the second in 2019. Ive looked at the first 
consent form, and I see that where it asked for the date that hed signed the form, 
Mr W mistakenly put the year of his birth. I would therefore assume that Unum 
couldnt use that consent form, as medical practitioners wouldnt know when it had 
been signed. 
For the above reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman