DRN-1965716
The complaint
Mrs T, represented by Miss T, complains that she didnt receive items she had ordered and 
then didnt receive the service she should have from Shop Direct Finance Company Limited 
(trading as Littlewoods) when she raised her concerns. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, I have made my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities - that is what I consider is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. Having done so, I 
agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs T placed an order at the end March 2019. On 3 April 2019, she contacted 
Littlewoods to say that she had only received part of the order through her letterbox 
along with a blank delivery slip. Littlewoods tracked the order and said it had been 
delivered. Based on this it didnt initially uphold her complaint.
Given Mrs T had confirmed she had received part of the order through her letterbox I 
do not find there is any dispute that the delivery driver attended her property and so I 
do not find that GPS evidence provided by Littlewoods showed anything that wasnt 
already known. The issue was that not all items were posted through the letterbox. 
So, while I accept that the delivery was made, the issue is that Mrs T didnt receive 
the whole order.
Littlewoods said that the remaining items were left in Mrs Ts porch. Mrs T has said 
she doesnt have a porch. While I note this discrepancy, I accept that the driver 
attended the address and, based on the information provided, I find it more likely 
than not that the missing items were left outside. 
Mrs T has said that her account noted that deliveries shouldnt be left outside or with 
a neighbour. Littlewoods was unable to confirm why the delivery was left if there was 
an instruction not to do so. Unfortunately, I havent seen the note applied to Mrs Ts 
account about delivery instructions. However, on balance I find it more likely than not 
that the delivery was made with part being left outside and that these items went 
missing. Given this I think that Littlewoods should have accepted that part of the 
order wasnt delivered and refunded those items. It has now agreed to refund the 
cost of the missing items which I find reasonable. 
After raising the issue of the missing items, Mrs T tried to make a purchase on her 
account, but this was declined. Mrs T contacted Littlewoods and was told her account 
had been suspended with a view to it being closed when the balance was settled. It 
said that letters had been sent to Mrs T about this on 23 April 2019 and 4 May 2019. 
However, copies of these couldnt be provided. I can understand how upsetting this 
must have been for Mrs T.
Having looked at the issues Mrs T has experienced in dealing with Littlewoods, I can 
see why she is upset. Mrs T tried to place an order which was declined and while 
Littlewoods has said that letters were sent to say the account had been suspended 
copies of these havent been able to be supplied. Mrs Ts concerns werent fully 
addressed regarding the missing items and she struggled to get other information 
she had requested. Overall, I do not find that Littlewoods provided the service it 
should have. Littlewoods accepted that the service wasnt as it should have been and 
offered to pay Mrs T £50. However, I agree with or investigator that this wasnt 
enough to reflect the distress and inconvenience Mrs T was caused.
Our investigator thought compensation of £100 was reasonable. Miss T didnt think 
this was enough to reflect the upset that had been caused and didnt think that Mrs T 
had been put back in the position she would have been had the issues not arisen 
given she no longer had access to the account. 
While I appreciate the comments Miss T has raised, I find that by refunding the 
missing items Littlewoods acted reasonably. Littlewoods has also said that Mrs Ts 
account wasnt due to be closed once the balance was repaid and that instead the 
account was on hold while the issue of the missing items was being investigated. It 
apologised for any mis-information provided regarding this. Littlewoods has 
confirmed that Mrs Ts account remains open. 
However, at this stage I understand that new orders cannot be placed on Mrs Ts 
account due to the high level of arrears, I do not find it unreasonable that a block has 
been placed on the account if payments havent been maintained.
I have considered the upset caused by the service issues raised and based on the 
information provided, I find that compensation of £100 is reasonable.
Miss T said that Mrs Ts credit file had been affected by the issues with the missing 
items. I have looked through the statements provided, and Mrs T had several items 
on which payments were due (aside from the disputed items). Minimum payments 
were not always made and so I do not find it unreasonable if this was recorded with 
the credit reference agencies.   
I understand that this issue has caused Mrs T a great deal of upset. She had made 
use of the account over many years and felt let down by the service she received 
when her items went missing. However, in this case I find that refunding the missing 
items and paying £100 compensation is a reasonable resolution to this complaint. 
Based on the reasons above, I uphold this complaint and require Littlewoods to pay Mrs T 
£100 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (trading as Littlewoods) 
should, along with refunding the disputed items, pay Mrs T £100 compensation, as it has 
agreed, for the service provided in dealing with this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman