DRN-3784700
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) has handled 
a claim under his motor insurance policy.
 
References to LV include its agents. 
What happened
In mid-2022, Mr B was involved in an accident which resulted in damage to his car. He was 
stationary at traffic lights when his car was hit in the rear by another vehicle.
 
LV arranged for Mr Bs car to be repaired and provided a hire car while the work was being 
done. However, when Mr B went to pick up his car, he raised concerns about warning lights 
that he said werent there before the accident.LV said the issue causing the warning light to 
appear wasnt accident related. It arranged for an engineer to inspect the car. It told Mr B 
that the hire car needed to be returned in the meantime.
Following this and in response to his complaint, LV told Mr B that the engineer had 
confirmed that the warning light was not as a result of the accident. It said it was to do with 
normal wear and tear. LV said that if Mr B got his own independent inspection done and it 
confirmed the warning light was as a result of the accident, it would investigate further.
Mr B remained unhappy, so he asked our service to consider his complaint. Our investigator 
looked into his concerns but didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. She was 
satisfied that B had provided sufficient information to show that the warning light wasnt 
accident related.
Mr B disagreed with our investigators outcome. So, his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
According to the terms of the policy, Mr Bs car and/or accessories are covered for damage 
by accident or vandalism as well as fire, lightening, explosion, theft or attempted theft. 
The policy terms also make it clear that damage due to wear and tear isnt covered.
Mr B says there wasnt a warning light on the vehicle before the accident. So, I can 
understand why he believes that the issue was to do with the accident. However, LV has 
noted that the repairing garage said: the warning light is due to a front sensor (problems 
with a filter in the engine that has clogged up, usually happens through time) and the 
accident area was to the rear so are sure it is not accident related.
As Mr B disagreed with this, LV arranged for the car to be inspected by an engineer. I think 
this was a reasonable way forward.
The engineers report says:
On examination of the original impact images and reviewing the fault information from the 
vehicle ecu which has registered that the particulate filter has soothed up and requires a 
regeneration it is my opinion that this fault is not related to the claim on notice, no further 
action.
Given that the engineer had also determined that the fault wasnt accident-related, I think it 
was reasonable for LV to have concluded that it wasnt covered under the terms of the 
policy.LV also gave Mr B the opportunity to provide his own engineers report, but he doesnt 
appear to have done so.
I appreciate that Mr B is unhappy that he was left without a vehicle during the time the matter 
was being disputed. However, the policy only guarantees a hire car for the period your car 
is with (LVs) recommended repairer service until its fixed. So, I cant say it was unfair of LV 
to have stopped providing a hire car once repairs to the damage caused by the accident had 
been completed.
I can see that in his complaint to LV, Mr B also raised concerns that the boot and bumper 
were repaired and painted, rather than replaced. However, the policy terms say that LV can 
pay for (damage) to be repaired. And, I havent seen anything to show that the repairs to 
the boot and bumper werent satisfactorily completed. So, Im satisfied LV has done what it 
was required to do under the terms of the policy.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr B, but overall, Im satisfied that LV has acted 
fairly and reasonably.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman