DRN-2961115
The complaint
Ms A complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wouldnt allow her to take a new 
interest rate on her mortgage because of Japanese Knotweed near her property.
What happened
Ms A bought a property with the aid of a mortgage with Halifax in 2017. At the time of the 
purchase, Halifax commissioned a valuation from a surveyor who identified no issues with 
the property. So Halifax approved the mortgage and offered a two year fixed rate.
At the time she bought it, the property was in poor condition. Ms A has carried out extensive 
repairs and improvements. By the time the two year rate came to an end in 2019, she 
thought the value would have increased significantly.
Ms A therefore applied for a new rate  based on a lower loan to value (LTV). Because 
Halifaxs house price index estimation was based on the purchase price plus inflation  and 
so didnt take into account the home improvements  it agreed to instruct a new valuation. 
A surveyor  from a different firm to the one that valued it at the time of purchase  carried 
out a valuation report. The surveyor said that his firm had valued the property in 2016, a year 
before Ms A had bought it, and had noted the presence of Japanese Knotweed next door, 
very close to Ms As property. The surveyor said that unless there was evidence the 
Japanese Knotweed had been treated and evaluated since then, the property was not 
suitable for mortgage purposes and gave it a nil valuation.
Ms A complained. Halifax said it had to rely on the valuation. It was willing to consider a new 
interest rate based on the index valuation as an exception. But it couldnt offer a rate based 
on a higher valuation when that wasnt supported by the surveyor. Ms A didnt want to 
accept that, because she didnt want to accept that there was Knotweed on the property. 
She said there was none. She had called in specialist companies who hadnt found any. She 
couldnt prove a negative, and it was unfair that the valuation was based on out of date 
information.
Ms A complained, and moved her mortgage to another lender. Our investigator didnt 
recommend upholding the complaint, so Ms A asked for it to be considered by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Ms A bought her property in 2017, the valuation was carried out early in the year. Its 
possible that the Knotweed had been eradicated between 2016 and 2017  though Ms A 
hasnt been able to get proof of that from her neighbour. Or its possible that it wasnt visible 
outside the growing season. I dont think theres clear evidence that the valuation in 2017 
was wrong  and, in any case, Halifax was entitled to rely on the professional opinion of the 
surveyor in deciding whether to lend. Ms A has said she was told by the estate agent that 
there had been Knotweed in the past, but Im not aware she commissioned any report or 
inspection of her own before buying the property.
In 2019, Ms A had spent a considerable amount of money on the property and expected that 
to be reflected in the valuation.
When theres an application for a new rate, Halifax will look at the property value to decide 
the current LTV  since LTV is one of the factors that determines which rate it can offer. In 
general, the higher the property value the lower the LTV  and the lower the interest rate 
Halifax will offer.
Its standard practice to rely on an index valuation, since thats quicker and cheaper than 
carrying out a new valuation in every case. But where, as here, the index valuation isnt 
agreed and theres good grounds for considering it might not be a fair estimate, a formal 
valuation can be carried out.
It's part of Halifaxs lending criteria that where a property has been affected by  or adjacent 
to  Knotweed within the last few years, it wont consider a mortgage unless theres 
evidence of its eradication by qualified professionals. Given the impact Knotweed can have, 
thats not an unreasonable position.
In this case, Halifax already had the mortgage. But the existence  or not  of the Knotweed 
was relevant to the propertys value. So the valuer was right to bring up evidence of 
Knotweed that was in his possession from previous surveys. 
Halifax offered to consider a product transfer based on the index LTV. But Ms A wasnt 
prepared to go ahead with that. The index LTV was higher than the potential LTV taking into 
account the home improvements, meaning any interest rate would be higher too. And Ms A 
didnt want to go ahead on that basis as she felt that would mean accepting the presence of 
the Knotweed  which she didnt accept, and didnt think was a fair consideration, and was 
concerned that if it was recorded might affect the saleability of her property in the future. She 
said there wasnt any, and it was hard for her to prove a negative.
I understand Ms As concerns here. But I think it was reasonable for Halifax to be concerned 
about the impact of potential Knotweed on the property and its value. There was evidence it 
had been present within the last three years, and no evidence of its professional removal  
so it presented a risk.
I think it was a reasonable position for Halifax to take that it wasnt prepared to offer a rate 
based on a lower LTV given the Knotweed risk  but it was prepared to consider a rate 
based on the sale price plus index inflation. While the property improvements might increase 
the value, the presence of Knotweed might reduce it. And while there was uncertainty, it was 
willing to consider proceeding on the basis of the mortgage  including LTV  as it was 
before the valuation was carried out. 
I think that was fair. But Ms A decided not to go ahead on that basis and moved her 
mortgage elsewhere  as she was entitled to do.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman