DRN-2883066
The complaint
Mr Y complains HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) took too long recalling an international payment 
back into his bank account. 
What happened
Mr Y says he sent a large international payment for a property purchase in Egypt. Mr Y says 
he was made aware the payment hadnt arrived in the beneficiaries account, so he 
contacted HSBC to understand why this was. Mr Y says HSBC initially told him there were 
no issues with the payment reported by the beneficiary bank, but when he explained he had 
been told he had quoted the wrong beneficiary name on the payment, it was agreed to 
instigate a trace and recall of the payment. 
Mr Y says he had to make in excess of 20 telephone calls over a five-week period to HSBC 
to check where his monies were with differing timescales suggested and promises made. Mr 
Y says he lost over £800 in exchange rate differences and was told this would be 
reimbursed if the monies werent returned to his bank account promptly. Mr Y says the 
matter has caused him considerable stress and worry, not knowing where his money was, 
and HSBC failed to keep their promises when he would get these monies returned to his 
bank account. Mr Y has asked HSBC to reimburse the exchange rate loss and doesnt feel 
the £50 payment for the inconvenience caused is sufficient.
HSBC says the initial mistake was made by Mr Y when he quoted the incorrect beneficiaries 
name. HSBC says Mr Y was informed of the consequences of tracing and recalling the 
international payment and he would be liable for charges and any exchange loss as a result. 
HSBC says they feel they have acted fairly and have paid Mr Y £50 for the inconvenience 
caused.
Mr Y wasnt happy with HSBCs actions and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold Mr Ys complaint. 
The investigator felt the reason for the international payment failing to arrive at the 
beneficiary bank account was due to Mr Y quoting the incorrect name on the payment. The 
investigator says Mr Y was informed of the potential exchange rate loss when recalling the 
payment and saw no evidence to support HSBC had ever agreed to refund this. In the 
circumstances the investigator felt the compensation offered was reasonable.
Mr Y wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said : 
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a slightly different outcome to the investigator and I will 
explain how I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been a worrying and frustrating time for Mr Y not knowing 
how long it would be before he received the large international payment, he had made back 
into his bank account. Its worth mentioning at the outset here, the international payment in 
question was for a sizeable amount, in excess of ten thousand pounds, so its 
understandable why Mr Y would have been very anxious to understand the whereabouts of 
these monies.  
What is clear here is Mr Y, by his own admission, agrees he quoted the wrong payee details 
on the international payment. I am satisfied this is the reason behind why the payment didnt 
get to the bank account of the beneficiary in Egypt. With that in mind I cant hold HSBC 
responsible for that and I am satisfied the only practical solution was to trace and then recall 
the payment back to Mr Ys bank account. I have listened to a number of telephone calls 
between HSBC and Mr Y and in one of those calls Mr Y is made aware, recalling the 
payment from the bank in Egypt would result in charges and a potential loss due to any 
exchange rate movement. 
Mr Y has suggested HSBC had agreed to reimburse any loss on the exchange rate, but no 
evidence has been provided to support or deny that by either party. In these circumstances I 
need to consider what I feel happened here. I have listened to several phone calls between 
Mr Y and HSBC and on  balance, I am satisfied, its unlikely HSBC would have changed 
what they told Mr Y initially about the exchange rate loss, I say this as this is their normal 
process in those circumstances. 
Where I differ from the view of the investigator here surrounds the actions HSBC took when 
the monies were eventually returned to them. As I have said earlier, this was not an 
insignificant amount of money and HSBC were made clear by Mr Y the importance 
surrounding its timely return. While I accept HSBC are reliant on the beneficiary bank 
returning the monies to them, from the information I have seen these monies were back with 
them on 10 August 2020. Again, on listening to telephone conversations between their own 
internal departments, it becomes apparent that the conversion of these monies back to Mr 
Ys bank account was reliant on one particular department to organise and settle. During one 
of those calls a member of HSBC staff appears uncertain as to the reasons why the monies 
hadnt been returned to Mr Ys bank account. It then took a further 16 days from the monies 
arriving back to HSBC to being converted and credited back to Mr Ys bank account.  
Its important to say Mr Y had been telephoning HSBC on a regular basis over a period of 
around five weeks expressing his concerns over the return of the international  payment and 
I can see this was dealt with sympathetically and professionally by HSBC staff. That said, 
despite the numerous telephone calls, no one at HSBC could confirm to Mr Y when he would 
get his money returned, leaving Mr Y anxious and worried during this time. The fact that 
HSBC needed a specific team in their business to arrange for the monies to be returned, 
should not be to the detriment of Mr Y, especially given they were made fully aware how 
much trouble Mr Y had already gone through to establish the whereabouts of his payment, 
up until this point. 
I accept Mr Y was made aware of the potential risk of an exchange rate loss at the time of 
the trace and recall and the initial error wasnt of HSBCs doing. That said, this doesnt 
excuse HSBC for the unreasonable length of time it took them to eventually credit Mr Ys 
bank account, after they had received the payment back from the bank in Egypt. I say this 
because on balance, I am satisfied Mr Y was left to continually telephone HSBC without any 
idea when he would get his money returned even when the monies had been sitting with 
HSBC for 16 days. As I have said, this wasnt an insignificant amount of money involved 
here, and I am satisfied this would have only added to the anxiety and frustration Mr Y 
experienced over this matter. Given all this, I dont support the investigators view that £50 compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused to Mr Y is sufficient in the circumstances. 
So, while I understand both Mr Y and HSBC might be disappointed with my decision, I am 
satisfied this is a fair outcome given the situation here, for the reasons I have already given. 
Both Mr Y and HSBC responded to my provisional decision, so the case has been passed 
back to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Mr Y and HSBC until 18 June 2021 to accept or reject my provisional decision. 
Mr Y has accepted my provisional decision and although HSBC says they dont accept all of 
my findings, they havent explained why - but they have agreed to the level of redress I 
instructed them to pay. 
With that in mind I see no need to change or add to my provisional decision and so my final 
decision remains the same. 
Putting things right
I instruct HSBC UK Bank plc, to pay Mr Y a further £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct HSBC UK Bank plc, to pay Mr Y a further £200 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman