DRN-4051302
The complaint
Mr A complains about West Bay Insurance Plc trading as Zenith Insurance (West Bay) 
declining a claim under his pet insurance policy for treatment of his dog.
References to West Bay include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
Mr A took out a pet insurance policy online for his dog with West Bay In December 2021, 
coming into force in January 2022 (the day before their previous policy with another insurer 
was due to expire). In the summer of 2022 Mr A took his dog to the vet as it had an issue 
with cloudiness in one of its eyes. The vet couldnt reach a conclusive diagnosis, so the dog 
was referred to a specialist vet (V) in July 2022. After examining the dog, V diagnosed 
endothelial dystrophy and began a course of treatment. However, the condition didnt 
improve, and the dog subsequently had surgery to remove the eye in October 2022. 
The total cost of treatment, including the surgery, came to £2,039.95. Mr A made a claim 
(through the vet) for the cost to West Bay, who acknowledged receipt. However, after further 
exchanges and elapsed time, West Bay decline the claim in January 2023. They said there 
were symptoms of the endothelial dystrophy noted in the dogs clinical history in January 
2022 (a reference to Suspect endothelial dystrophy/keratitis on the day before the policy 
came into force). West Bay said this indicated the dog had a pre-existing condition and 
under the terms of the policy, was excluded from cover. 
Mr A was unhappy about West Bays decline of his claim and appealed against it. He 
thought the reference in the clinical notes wasnt a conclusive diagnosis (which only came 
later when the dog was examined by V) and the visit to the vet at the time was for a routine 
booster vaccination. So, it was unfair of West Bay to decline the claim based on their view 
the dog had a pre-existing condition.
West Bay treated Mr As appeal as a complaint but didnt uphold it. In their final response 
they said review of the dogs clinical history when the claim was received showed (on the 
day before the policy started) the dog had corneal opaqueness in its eye. As part of their 
assessment of the claim, West Bay contacted Mr As vet to ask whether this was related to 
the subsequent diagnosis of endothelial dystrophy. The vet responded to refer to the clinical 
notes reference in January 2022 to endothelial dystrophy and keratitis being the suspected 
diagnosis. West Bay took this to indicate a diagnosis of endothelial dystrophy before the 
start of the policy, which they considered would be a pre-existing condition under the terms 
and conditions of the policy (they referred to the policy definition of pre-existing conditions). 
Based on this, West Bay confirmed their decline of the claim.
Mr A then complained to this service, unhappy at West Bay final response and their decline 
of his claim. Hed had to pay for the full cost of the fogs treatment and surgery, when he 
thought the policy should have covered the cost up to £2,000 (the policy limit). He wanted 
West Bay to accept the claim and reimburse him for the £2,000 limit  or at the very least 
cover the cost of the surgery (£1,149.81).
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint, concluding West Bay had acted fairly and 
reasonably within the policy terms and conditions in declining the claim under the exclusion 
for pre-existing conditions. The wording of the exclusion referred to diagnosed or 
undiagnosed (conditions) or had been identified or investigated or otherwise known prior to 
the start of the policy. And the clinical notes mentioned Suspect Endothelial dystrophy on a 
visit immediately before the start of the policy.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators conclusions, and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. In disagreeing, he acknowledged the wording of the policy terms and 
conditions but felt defining a pre-existing condition as any symptom of an as-yet-
undiagnosed illness was unfair. And it was unreasonable for West Bay to say he knew 
endothelial dystrophy was a pre-existing condition before he took out the policy (in 
December 2022, coming into force in January 2023). And at the visit to the vet in January, 
the condition was only suspected (and the vet wasnt certain). And given the age of their 
dog, it was more likely to be displaying symptoms of a condition. West Bay had also declined 
to say whether they would cover the condition should it occur in the dogs other eye. If hed 
provided the dogs clinical history before taking out the policy, West Bay wouldnt have 
advised him what theyd have considered a pre-existing condition. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether West Bay have acted fairly towards Mr A. 
The key issue in Mr As complaint is whether West Bay acted fairly in declining his claim for 
treatment of his dog, on the grounds the dogs clinical history indicated a pre-existing 
condition (endothelial dystrophy). Mr A says a clear diagnosis wasnt made by the vet, prior 
to the subsequent diagnosis by V. West Bay say the clinical notes refer to Suspect 
endothelial dystrophy/keratitis on a visit the day before the policy started. So, they consider 
this indicates a pre-existing condition.
 
Ive considered both views carefully, including the relevant terms and conditions of the policy 
together with the supporting information and evidence, including the clinical history of Mr As 
dog. Starting with the terms and conditions of the policy, West Sands refer to the following 
definition in their final response:
Pre-existing condition: Any illness or injury or complication directly resulting from 
another injury or illness, whether diagnosed or undiagnosed or that has been 
identified or investigated by a vet or is otherwise known to you prior to the start of the 
insurance. If an illness or injury has gone longer than 2 years without any symptoms 
being shown/documented and no veterinary advice sought, we will not treat that 
illness or injury as a pre-existing condition.
Section 1: Veterinary fees of the policy terms and conditions then (under a heading of What 
is not covered) includes the following:
7. Any illness arising prior to or within the first 10 days of the inception date of the 
insurance or a pre-existing condition.
Ive then considered the question of whether the dog did have a pre-existing condition (the 
endothelial dystrophy diagnosed by V in July 2022). Or whether the condition was diagnosed 
or undiagnosed or identified prior to the start of the policy. Looking at the clinical notes, the 
key reference (referred to by West Bay in their final response) is that from the visit to the vet in January 2022, on the day before the policy started. Given its significance in deciding 
whether it indicated a pre-existing condition, Ive set out the full comment:
Clinical Info: eyes comfortable, hyperaemia settles when Bp drops in consult, rt eye 
corneal opaqueness apparent, plr+, no dye uptake bilateral, STT 25mm L/Rt, been 
getting viscotears tid. Suspect endothelial dystrophy/keratitis rt eye but not severe 
enough for tx, if red eye returns then add in Optimune, otherwise cont. viscotears tid 
and recheck 3 mths.
I think the key here are the reference to suspect endothelial dystrophy and the corneal 
opaqueness. I think the latter indicates symptoms leading the vet to think the former may be 
the condition. And which was subsequently diagnosed formally by V. Ive considered what 
Mr A has said about the diagnosis in January 2022 not being definitive  the reference to 
suspect  but given the policy definition of pre-existing condition and the wording of the 
exclusion, Im persuaded, on the balance of probabilities, this does indicate a pre-existing 
condition at the date of the policy start (even though the visit was the day before the policy 
started and wasnt specifically for the issue identified). And that the policy terms are clear 
that this wouldnt be covered. 
Turning to the specific points made by Mr A when responding to our investigators view, I 
recognise why he feels defining a pre-existing condition as any symptom of an as-yet-
undiagnosed illness is unfair, but in this case while the diagnosis by the vet wasnt definitive I 
think it was based on the symptoms observed, and subsequently formally diagnosed. On the 
point about it being unreasonable for West Bay to say he knew endothelial dystrophy was a 
pre-existing condition before he took out the policy, I dont think the evidence supports this 
being West Bays view. I say that because West Bay havent sought to justify their decline of 
the claim on the grounds Mr A made a misrepresentation when he took out the policy, nor 
have they sought to apply any of the remedies available to them had they thought Mr A had 
made a misrepresentation (such as avoiding the policy from its inception).
I note what Mr A says about the age of their dog, it being more likely to be displaying 
symptoms of a condition. But that would seem to be the case here  it doesnt invalidate 
West Bays conclusion the symptoms and suspected diagnosis indicated a pre-existing 
condition. On the point about West Bay declining to say whether they would cover the 
condition should it occur in the dogs other eye, this isnt something that would fall within the 
scope of this complaint, as its a potential future event. Should it occur, then it would be for 
West Bay to assess any consequent claim under the terms and conditions of the policy.
 
Similarly, if Mr A had provided the dogs clinical history before taking out the policy (though 
West Bay didnt require it) I cant say what West Bay may, or may not, have done. In other 
cases Ive seen, insurers have said that had they been aware of a pre-existing condition (or 
what they considered to be a pre-existing condition) they would have applied an 
endorsement to a policy specifically excluding cover for treatment of that condition (or 
associated conditions). In that scenario, the endorsement would have meant any claim for 
treatment of that condition would have been declined. 
Ive also considered the general principle, where an insurer relies on an exclusion, the onus 
is on them to show its reasonable to apply it. Given the points noted above, Im persuaded 
West Bay have shown enough to apply the exclusion for a pre-existing condition in the 
circumstances of this case. So, Ive concluded West Bay acted fairly in line with the policy 
terms and conditions to apply the exclusion to decline Mr As claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman