DRN-2108954
The complaint
Mrs F says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mrs F took out a Barclays credit card in 2000. At the same time, Barclays sold her PPI to 
protect her card repayments if she couldnt work due to disability or unemployment. It also 
included life cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Mrs F didnt agree, so the case was 
passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Fs case. 
Having done so, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Barclays needed to make it clear to Mrs F that she had a choice about taking out PPI and 
get her agreement before adding it. I gather the sale took place at a branch meeting, and its 
now difficult to say with any certainty what happened at the time. 
Ive carefully considered what Mrs F says about how the PPI was sold, including that she 
didnt knowingly agree to take it. That may be the case, but Ive seen a copy of her signed 
credit card application form. In it, she was given the option to either request or decline PPI. 
The box to take PPI was marked with a printed X while the box to decline it was left blank. 
In addition, its now many years since the PPI was sold. In my view that makes it more 
difficult for me to rely on what Mrs F remembers from the time. It could be that  
understandably after all this time  she was told about the PPI but simply doesnt recall 
taking it.
Overall, I havent seen anything to make me think Barclays didnt make it clear to Mrs F that 
she had a choice about taking out PPI. And I think she chose to take it. 
Ive gone on to see if there are any other reasons why I should uphold Mrs Fs mis-sale 
complaint, but I dont think there are. Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Mrs F. That 
favours her because it meant Barclays, among other things, should have looked into whether 
it was right for her. 
I cant say for sure what checks Barclays made. But, from what I know of Mrs Fs 
circumstances, I think the PPI was right for her. I say that because:
It seems Mrs F would have been eligible for the cover. And there was nothing to 
suggest she was significantly affected by the main exclusions to, or limits on, the 
policy. 
While Mrs F says shed have got full sick pay for a time, the PPI would have paid out 
for longer and in addition to it. The PPI covered her for unemployment too. Although 
she says she could have relied on her partner if necessary, there was no way of 
knowing for sure theyd have been in position to help, whereas the PPI benefits were 
guaranteed. Overall, I think the PPI provided Mrs F with useful extra protection. 
 
The PPI appears to have been affordable to Mrs F. And it was flexible in that she 
could have cancelled it at any time, and at no extra cost, if she decided she no longer 
wanted it.
As well as checking if the PPI was right for her, Barclays also should have given Mrs F clear 
information about the policy so she could make an informed decision about buying it. I dont 
know what steps Barclays took to do this. And its possible some things werent explained as 
clearly as they should have been. But, as Ive said, I think Mrs F agreed to the cover and it 
looks to me as if it was right for her and was affordable. So, I dont think better information 
would have affected her decision to buy it.
Putting things right
I note that Barclays accepts it could have handled Mrs Fs complaint better and, for that, has 
offered her £50 as compensation. I gather Mrs Fs accepted the offer. As such, I see no 
need to comment on the offer in detail now  other to say I believe it was fair in the 
circumstances and that Barclays should pay it now if it hasnt already.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mrs F £50 as compensation 
for its handling of her complaint, if it hasnt already done so. I make no other award.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman