DRN-3541466
Summary and background to the complaint
Miss S has complained about overdraft charges and interest Barclays Bank UK PLC added 
to her current account. Shes said Barclays was irresponsible to offer her overdraft facilities
given her financial circumstances, and that Barclays didnt treat her fairly when she asked for 
help.
Barclays looked at Miss Ss complaint and offered to refund charges and interest applied to
Her account from June to August 2015 and from June 2017 to August 2019. But Barclays 
said it wouldnt be looking at any charges applied prior to 2015 as any complaint about those 
charges had been made too late. Miss S was unhappy with Barclays offer and so she 
referred her complaint to us.
An adjudicator looked at Miss Ss complaint and said that he felt the offer Barclays had 
made was fair, he also explained that he agreed with Barclays that any complaint about what 
happened before 2015 was made too late. Miss S disagreed with our adjudicator so the 
complaint was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 12 May 2022. Barclays has confirmed it 
agrees with the findings set out in that decision, Miss S has not made any further comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said the following:
Barclays will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges and regarding the affordability of overdrafts. So I dont consider it 
necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Barclays acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after June 2015. 
By this point, it ought to have been clear that Miss S overdraft was no longer affordable to 
her and so Barclays should have stepped in to offer proactive assistance at that stage. 
I say this because Miss Ss statements showed evidence of hardcore borrowing. In other, 
words, by June 2015 she hadnt seen or maintained a credit balance for an extended period 
of time. And Barclayss own literature suggests that overdrafts are for unforeseen 
emergency borrowing not prolonged use so this alone should have flagged to Barclays that 
Miss S was potentially struggling to manage her overdraft facility.
I also note that in its final response letter to Miss S of 27 August 2021 Barclays 
acknowledged that, when her account was downgraded to a standard current account in 
2015, it should have reviewed whether her overdraft facility of £5,000 was still appropriate 
and affordable. In fact, in that letter, Barclays confirms that it feels the overdraft facility is 
unaffordable and unsustainable. 
With all this in mind, I think that if Barclays had taken action to review Miss S account usage 
and overdraft facility in June 2015, it likely wouldnt have continued offering the overdraft on 
the same terms. As Barclays didnt react to Miss Ss overdraft usage and instead continued 
charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
I acknowledge that Miss S was able to repay her overdraft on a couple of occasions over the 
years, but this seems to have been as a result of transferring funds from her joint mortgage 
reserve account  essentially just moving the debt between different Barclays accounts. And 
I dont think this changes the fact that I think Barclays should have taken action regarding 
Miss S overdraft facility in June 2015.
Miss S ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this 
ended up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that 
Barclays didnt treat Miss S fairly and she lost out because of what Barclays did wrong. And 
this means that it should put things right.
As Barclays has agreed with my provisional decision, and as Miss S hasnt said she 
disagrees with my decision, I see no reason to depart from the findings set out in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ss complaint for Barclays to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Ss current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it since June 2015 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Barclays should contact Miss S to arrange a suitable repayment plan, 
Miss S is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Barclays to reach 
a suitable agreement. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information 
on Miss Ss credit file, Barclays should reflect what would have been recorded 
had it started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in June 
2015. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss S along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Barclays should remove any adverse information from Miss Ss credit file. 
Barclays has said it will not be reducing Miss S overdraft facility by the amount of any 
refund, but I would encourage Miss S and Barclays to discuss what an affordable level of 
overdraft facility (if any) would be appropriate for Miss S going forwards. HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Miss Ss complaint. Barclays Bank UK Plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman