DRN-4207380
The complaint
Mr R is complaining about how long it took Tesco Personal Finance PLC to give him access 
his junior individual savers account (JISA) once he turned 18.
Mr R has been represented by his father in this complaint. But for ease of reference I shall 
refer to anything his father has said as being said by Mr R. 
What happened
In 2017 Mr Rs father set up a JISA which Mr R would gain access to when he turned 18. 
Four days before Mr Rs 18th birthday, Tesco wrote to him sending out a maturity pack 
asking what he would like to do with the account, giving two options:
1. Transfer to an adult ISA; or
2. Close the account and it would send him a cheque with the money or it could send the 
money to a different bank account.
Tesco also asked him to send some information to enable it to verify his identity. 
Mr R complained to Tesco that he didnt gain access to the money until around two months 
after his birthday. He set out another bank he had a JISA with had handled the process 
much more smoothly. Tesco didnt uphold this complaint. It acknowledged that there may 
have been a delay in Mr R receiving the maturity pack, but it said this may have been down 
to postal strikes that were happening at that time. And it said its normal and in line with the 
JISA terms and conditions that Mr R would need to verify himself by providing relevant 
documentation. It didnt think it had acted unreasonably.
Mr R didnt agree with Tescos response. He thought Tesco should have been aware of the 
postal issues and made alternative arrangements to send the paperwork through a different 
means.
I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint and I said the following:
Under the terms of the JISA, Tesco says it will write to the child shortly before their 18th 
birthday to let them know the options available to them once they turn 18. Tesco wrote to 
Mr R four days before his birthday, but I think it should have contacted him slightly sooner 
than then. However I need to consider whether this is the reason Mr R has lost out. I dont 
think it is.
While I do think Tesco could have sent the maturity pack a few days earlier than it did, Im 
conscious that it took around two months for Mr R to be able to access the account. And it 
seems to be that this delay is the root cause of Mr Rs unhappiness and he would have had 
these issues whether Tesco sent the maturity pack a few days earlier or not.
It should be noted that, during this time there were significant delays in the postal system 
and it seems to me that this is the reason for the issues Mr R faced. I can see Tesco sent 
the maturity pack to Mr R on 24 November 2022 setting out what Mr R needed to do to 
access the account. It set out that Mr R needed to decide whether to open an adult ISA or to 
have the money sent to him separately. It also asked him to provide a set of identification 
documents.
Tesco didnt receive these documents until 21 December 2022. I recognise Mr R has said 
this is because of the length of time it took him to receive the initial letter. But I cant fairly 
hold Tesco responsible for that. Further to this, when Mr R returned the documents he didnt 
set out what he wanted to do with the account. I can see Tesco wrote to Mr R again three 
working days later asking Mr R to make contact. But it didnt hear from Mr R again until 
10 January 2023. And I can see that Tesco sent the relevant security pin number to him on 
the same day.
I can fully understand and appreciate why Mr R was frustrated by the process, but I cant 
reasonably say Tesco has treated him unfairly. I acknowledge Mr R has queried why Tesco 
sent the correspondence by post, given the issues with the postal system at the time. Its 
unfortunate that there were issues with the postal systems at the time Mr R turned 18. But it 
was standard practice to send this information by post and I cant say that this was 
unreasonable.
Finally, I note Mr Rs father has said hes unhappy that Tesco removed the JISA from his 
personal online banking at the beginning of November 2022. But, I cant say this was 
unreasonable as it wasnt his account and, due to Mr R turning 18, he was no longer the 
lead correspondent on the account.
I naturally sympathise with the situation Mr R found himself in. I can fully understand why 
Mr Rs father would have wanted everything in place by Mr Rs 18th birthday. But, for the 
reasons Ive set out above, I cant hold Tesco responsible for this.
Mr R didnt agree with my provisional decision. He said I hadnt taken into account that hed 
not had access to his account during that time. He said JISA transfers are supposed to be 
completed within 67 days, not 30 days. He didnt think it was fair that I implied he was 
responsible for the delays as he set out that it was his father who was continually chasing 
Tesco to get the matter resolved. 
Tesco responded to say it didnt have anything further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Rs response to my provisional decision, but Ive come to the same 
conclusion as I did in my provisional decision. I should first set out that I have not said I 
consider Mr R to be at fault for whats happened and Im sorry if this is what he thought I was 
saying. But for me to require Tesco to compensate Mr R I need to be satisfied Tesco has 
acted unreasonably. But for all the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, Im not 
persuaded it has done so.
I do not dispute that the process took longer than it would normally do and I acknowledge 
Mr R didnt have access to the account during that time. But I remain of the opinion that the 
delays are likely to be down to the national postal issues the UK was experiencing at the 
time. It seems to me that Mr R lost out due to this, but I cant hold Tesco responsible for this 
as it was out of its control. Ultimately, Im satisfied Tesco processed the transfer in a fair and 
reasonable way.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman