DRN-3649197
The complaint
Ms G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc misled her about a foreign transaction.
What happened
Ms G says she was in the process of buying a property abroad and asked HSBC staff about 
its exchange rate. She says she was misled by HSBC staff and told the exchange rate would 
mirror the exchange rates of a business I will call X. Ms G says she had obtained quotes 
from other companies which she would have used if had been properly advised. She says as 
a result of using HSBC she lost about £8,000 and would like it to pay compensation for some 
of that loss.
HSBC says it uses its own exchange rate on the day of the transaction. It says Ms G agreed 
to the transaction and agreed to the rate used. It also says its not responsible for the 
exchange rates used by the different businesses Ms G had received quotes from.
Ms G brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought HSBC used its exchange rate on the transaction date in May 2022 and 
that Ms G agreed to it.
Ms G doesnt accept that view and says if she received correct information, she would have 
used a different business to process the transaction.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I appreciate Ms G says she was given information about the likely exchange rate that HSBC 
would use. But I am sure Ms G appreciates that there can be no guarantee about what 
exchange rate will be used until the time of the transaction. HSBC has no control over 
exchange rates. Im satisfied that Ms G attended a HSBC branch and instructed it to make 
the transaction. I can see that Ms G was given details of the rate to be applied as well as the 
amounts involved. So, Im satisfied that it was Ms Gs choice to decide if she accepted the 
rate offered or decided to use a different business. And can see that Ms G agreed to the rate 
offered and authorised the transaction.
I appreciate Ms G says she felt she had no choice but to proceed with the transaction using 
HSBC. I dont think it clear why that is the case and can see that Ms G had spoken to other 
businesses about the transaction. I think Ms G could, when given HSBCs exchange rate, 
have instructed one of those businesses if she wished. I would have expected Ms G on the 
day of the intended transaction to have checked with HSBC in advance what the exchange 
rate was that day, as it would have been able to provide far more accurate information than it 
had done.
Overall, I find that Ms G instructed HSBC to carry out the transaction and agreed to its terms 
and conditions which included the exchange rate. I cant fairly hold HSBC responsible for the 
exchange rates elsewhere as its up to it to decide on such matters and equally Ms Gs 
choice who she instructs. I have not seen any evidence that HSBC staff misled Ms G and 
think all they could do in these circumstances is provide general information about an 
intended foreign transaction.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman