DRN-2298715
The complaint
Mr N complains about the level of service provided by Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) during the 
Covid-19 pandemic. 
What happened
Since March 2020, Mr N has called BoS several times to carry out a number of transactions. 
Hes had to wait on hold for around 15-30 minutes each time. Unhappy with the wait times, 
Mr N complained. He said BoS was using the Covid-19 pandemic as an excuse to provide 
poor service. He wants them to provide clearer detail around future wait times, employ more 
staff and compensate him for the calls he made.  
BoS responded to Mr Ns complaint and apologised for any frustration it caused him. But it 
said its phone lines are extremely busy due to the Covid-19 pandemic, and it was advising 
customers they may experience long wait times. It said that it couldnt provide specifics on 
future wait times, as these can change regularly. 
Unhappy with BOS response, Mr N brought his complaint to our service for an independent 
review. 
An investigator considered Mr Ns complaint. He said it wasnt his place to comment on BoS 
staffing levels, and he didnt think the call wait times Mr N experienced were unreasonable. 
So he didnt recommend BoS do anything more to resolve the complaint.
Mr N remained unhappy with the service BoS provided. So as no agreement was reached, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr N is unhappy with how long he had to wait. But I dont think a wait of around 
15-30 minutes is unreasonable, when considered against the backdrop of the current 
pandemic. Mr N has said he feels BoS is using the pandemic as an excuse to provide poor 
service. And I appreciate he may be frustrated. But the pandemic still remains. And it 
continues to put a strain on businesses. So for these reasons, I dont think the wait times 
Mr N experienced were unreasonable. 
BoS has explained that due to the Covid-19 pandemic its lines are particularly busy. It said it 
was, and still is, advising customers that they may experience a long wait. This is set out 
clearly on the contact us page of its website. And a message is provided on its automated 
phone service when customers call in. So I think BoS did enough to let Mr N know he might 
have to wait longer than usual to speak with someone. 
Mr N has confirmed that he has online banking, but says he prefers to use the phone and 
feels he should be able to transact in the way he chooses.
I agree its Mr Ns choice as to how he chooses to bank. But he chose to use telephone 
banking rather than online banking  seemingly knowing (from both BoS messages, and his 
own experience from his earlier calls) that a lengthy wait was likely. Given that BoS has 
provided Mr N with other ways he can transact on his account, I dont think its fair to hold it 
responsible the time Mr N spent on the phone.
Mr N has also asked BoS to provide more detailed information on its call wait times. But BoS 
has said that wait times were changing frequently, and it couldnt accurately predict how long 
customers may have to wait moving forward. I dont think this is unusual for call centres, as 
they are demand led, and wait times can vary widely from day to day. So I think BoS was 
right not to provide Mr N with information that may be inaccurate.
Mr N has also said that BoS should recruit more people, including those made redundant as 
a result of Covid-19. But the investigator has rightly set out that its not for us to tell a 
business how it should run its operation  this includes areas such as staffing levels or 
recruitment. 
In summary, I understand Mr Ns frustration with long call wait times. But I dont think BoS 
has treated him unfairly. So Im not instructing it to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman