DRN-1301836
The complaint
Miss N complains that ITC Compliance Limited (ITC) mis-sold her a cover that provided life, 
accidental death and critical illness life cover for some borrowing for a car. 
  
What happened
In 2009 Miss N took out a hire purchase loan for a car. The cash price for the vehicle was 
£7,251.00 and the amount of credit was £6,551.00. The Hire purchase loan ran for 3 years 
there was an option to purchase at that time. 
At the time Miss N was aged 25 and was employed as a nanny and had been with her 
employers for two years. Miss N told us she did not live in the home in which she worked as 
a nanny; she was single, lived alone and had no dependants. As part of the sales process 
for the loan Miss N was advised to take out cover for life, accidental death and critical illness. 
The life and critical illness covers were designed to pay off the balance of the loan in the 
event of her death or upon the diagnosis of any one of a number of specified life-threatening 
illnesses. The accidental death cover provided for a lump sum in the event death occurred 
through accidental bodily injury.
In 2019 Miss N complained about the policy. But ITC concluded it had been a suitable 
recommendation. It felt Miss N had been provided with sufficient information to decide 
whether it was something she wanted to proceed with, and it noted that she could've 
cancelled it if she'd not been happy. 
Miss N didn't accept this and referred the complaint to this service. Our investigator 
disagreed with ITC and concluded that the complaint should be upheld, with a full refund of 
the premiums, plus interest. She thought that Miss N had not needed the life cover as she 
was single with no dependants. 
ITC responded to say, in brief;
The Demands and Needs document shows that Miss N wanted to protect 
her family if she died. 
Whilst Miss N had no dependants and may not have benefitted from the life 
cover, she could have benefitted from the critical illness cover.
There were declaration points on the payment protection application which state 
that Miss N was aware of what she was buying and that she could have cancelled 
the policy if she thought it was not suitable.
The investigator wasn't persuaded to change her view. So, the case has been referred to me 
to decide. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Ive reached the same decision as our adjudicator reached and for the 
same reasons. So, I have proceeded to a final decision in this case.
I have considered Miss Ns circumstances at the time of the sale. Miss N was 25 years old, 
single, lived alone and had no children at the time of the sale. And theres no evidence that 
she was beholden to anyone for the deposit or that anyone elses income had been used in 
calculating whether the loan was affordable. And the loan was modest and over a short term. 
In such circumstances I am not persuaded that Miss N had a need for life cover. And Im not 
persuaded that Miss N would have seen much value in taking out life cover to protect 
against what she would have thought was a very low risk, most likely.
When Miss N brought her complaint to us she told us that she felt she had been misled into 
thinking that she needed life cover or her debt would be passed to her parents. I cant know 
what Miss N was told during the meeting held in 2009 and Ive been shown no scripts which 
may have shed light on how the representative was supposed to position the cover. But 
even if I had I couldnt know how closely such a script had been followed in any specific sale. 
So, I have looked at the documentary evidence I do have from the sale and Ive noted that 
the Demands and Needs document asks Miss N,
If you were to die, would you prefer a third party to pay off any outstanding finance 
balance rather than burden your family or beneficiaries with the debt?
The yes box was ticked on Miss Ns application form against this question and ITC told 
us this shows that Miss N wanted to be covered for life cover. But was the question put 
as fairly as it could have been put? I think not and Ill explain why I say that. 
The question in the Demands and Needs document provides two scenarios, either 
outstanding credit is repaid by life cover or any outstanding finance would become a 
burden to Miss Ns family. But the likelihood of any outstanding balance being pursued 
against her estate would've been unlikely and pursued against any beneficiaries of her 
estate even less likely than that. So, whilst I think that Miss N most likely knew she was 
taking out life cover at the time of the sale, I do not consider that the Demands and 
Needs document demonstrates that Miss N wanted life cover for reasons of her own or 
that she needed that cover. And for the same reason, I dont think the documentation that 
explained her cancellation rights would have made up for misleading or missing 
information elsewhere in this process.
Did the critical illness cover make an otherwise unsuitable policy suitable? I think not. Ill 
explain why I say that. 
ITC told us that the policy provided cover for critical illness which could have been useful 
to Miss N. So, it thinks the policy was still suitable. Miss Ns attitude to critical illness 
cover is not recorded in the questions in the Demands and Needs document, so its not 
clear that the critical illness cover met an agreed demand or need for Miss N. In any 
event, ITC made a professional recommendation to Miss N to buy the whole policy and 
she was entitled to rely on the recommendation made by her adviser. 
There is no evidence of ITC explaining to Miss N at the time of the sale that the policy it 
recommended was unsuitable because of the life cover, but that it was recommending it 
to her as it included critical illness cover which could have been useful. So, it seems unfair that ITC is trying to rely on this argument now when it wasnt one that ITC seems 
to have made to Miss N at the time of the sale.
I considered everything that ITC has said including that Miss N would have received 
documentation after the sale that emphasized the importance of reading the full policy 
documents and notifying her of her cancellation rights. But Im not convinced that it has ever 
represented good industry practice to rely on post sale documentation to make up for 
missing or misleading information at the point of sale. So, this doesnt change my view of the 
case.  
For the reasons given above, I consider that ITC failed to make a suitable 
recommendation and failed to adequately inform her that the policy was unsuitable at the 
time of the sale. Because I think that the policy was miss-sold, I think ITC needs to do 
something to put things right.
 
Putting things right
In thinking what a fair redress should be I have thought that the policy was sold with 
three benefits. I have asked both the business and the insurer if the policy benefits were 
severable and whether the premium Miss N paid for the policy could be attributed to the 
three different types of cover it offered. Neither party has been able to provide that 
information. For these reasons, ITC should repay to Miss N the full premiums she paid 
for the policy.  
ITC should put Miss N in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The policy 
should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and ITC should:
Pay Miss N the amount she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year. 
If Miss N made any successful claim under the PPI policy, ITC can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires ITC to take off tax from this interest. ITC must give Miss 
N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
 For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct ITC 
Compliance Limited to pay compensation to Miss N as set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 January 2021. 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman