DRN-2414918
The complaint
Mr M has complained Dick Lovett (Bristol) Limited didnt carry out their duties as a credit 
broker properly. This resulted in Mr M taking out a hire purchase agreement he couldnt 
afford.
What happened
In 2016 Mr M held a hire purchase agreement for a high-performance car. He was paying 
£1,660 a month on this finance agreement.
Mr M  along with his wife Mrs M  had been looking at cars at a dealership (which hed 
used previously). After a few visits, Mr M decided to purchase a car which was valued at 
£103,600. His new hire purchase agreement (with the same finance provider as his existing 
agreement) entailed him paying £1,520.64 for a four year period.
Mr M subsequently believed this agreement was unaffordable and Dick Lovett had ignored 
his requirement to only pay £300 a month on any agreement. Mr M complained to Dick 
Lovett. They confirmed that the sale of Mr Ms car had been completed with the appropriate 
diligence.
Mr M brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. At the same time a complaint was 
opened for Mrs M who was making the same complaint about a hire purchase agreement in 
her name.
Our investigator reviewed whether Dick Lovett had taken Mr Ms circumstances into 
consideration and shared these with the finance provider, along with their assessment into 
suitability. He didnt believe Dick Lovett had done anything wrong. He noted Mr Ms personal 
circumstances including his health but overall didnt think these alone meant that Dick Lovett 
couldnt have recommended Mr M for further finance.
Mr M remained upset with this outcome. Hes asked an ombudsman to consider his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I explain below why Ive reached the decision I have.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than either of the two 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point 
made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed 
on what I think are the key issues here. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If 
theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
Im also aware of the detail contained in our investigators view of 26 October 2020 and his 
further response to Mr M of 8 December 2020. This covers what happened in detail. Its also 
provides a response to the issues Mr M raised in his response of 4 December 2020 to our 
investigators view.
Firstly I note Mr M was going through a personally turbulent time in 2015 and this continued 
throughout the period when he was deciding to buy another car. Im also aware of evidence 
weve received from Mr Ms doctor confirming Mr M has suffered from chronic depression 
since 2008. This must have had a very debilitating effect on him. But its also true that Mr M 
must have taken out other financial agreements since 2008 so I dont think those factors 
suggest Dick Lovett couldnt have introduced Mr M to a finance provider.
At the same time I can see Mr M wasnt a stranger to the car market and what this entailed. 
He was a director of a related business. He said he had fixed views on what he did and 
didnt want when he entered the dealership. He made sure they were aware of his personal 
circumstances and his health. Hes told us he also confirmed his financial limits.
I therefore find it extremely surprising that Mr M made more than one trip to the dealer and 
continued to confirm his willingness to purchase a car that cost more than £100,000. I cant 
see he was unaware what this would be costing him in terms of his monthly financial 
commitment.  
I have considered Dick Lovetts obligations as a credit broker. These are laid out in rules 
made by the Finance Conduct Authority.  
Its worth stating upfront Dick Lovett made no affordability assessment as this was 
conducted by the finance provider based on the information that was provided. Ive seen no 
evidence Dick Lovett held back on any of the information provided to them by Mr M. So, for 
example, its the decision of the finance provider to set their own parameters for the 
information they consider when deciding whether to offer credit. In this case they could 
decide they werent obliged to consider information on Mr Ms wages but Im satisfied these 
were available for them to consider. Its also their responsibility to ensure the credit is 
affordable and sustainable, not Dick Lovetts.
Credit brokers arent required to give a detailed breakdown of every type of finance option 
available to a consumer. But they do need to explain the key features of a product so that 
the consumer can make an informed choice. Mr Ms signature is on the relevant documents 
to show he was aware of the key features. I know Mr M denies the signature is his. Whilst I 
agree dealers do short cut aspects of the purchase and credit approval process, I see no 
reason to believe this is what happened here.
I also note Mr M  prior to signing the hire purchase agreement which is the subject of this 
complaint  already held a finance agreement with the same finance provider. He was 
already paying a monthly amount more than £100 more than this new agreement.
Ive not seen evidence to show that Dick Lovett was suggesting finance that was unsuitable 
at the time Mr M took out the hire purchase agreement.  
Im aware Mr M did bring a complaint against the finance provider about the affordability of 
the finance agreement. He knows why our service was unable to consider his complaint.
My final decisionFor the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ms complaint against Dick 
Lovett (Bristol) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman