DRN-1674809
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that they got poor service from AXA Insurance UK Plc after Mrs W 
made a claim on her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ws car sustained storm damage whilst abroad. It was taken to a UK garage for 
an estimate for the repairs on 19 August 2019. They were without a courtesy car for a few 
weeks and the repairs to their car werent authorised by AXA until 20 September 2019. 
Mrs W wanted to see AXAs garages estimates before the work by it was authorised. She 
had an estimate from a garage already and thought the cost of the repairs would affect her 
future premiums. She had to chase AXA and the garage until October 2019 about that. In 
the meantime, the repairs were authorised, and AXAs garage charged £800 more than her 
repairer had quoted. Meanwhile, Mrs W had faced long holding times on calls and a lack of 
response to her emails. 
Mrs W later had to complain to the garage and to AXA about the damage to the car (and the 
lack of fuel in it) when the car was returned to her on 11 October 2019.  Due to AXAs poor 
customer support, Mrs W arranged to have the damage rectified herself. She thought AXA 
was slow to acknowledge and respond to the complaints she made during the process.
AXA accepted that its service had been poor in relation to almost all the issues Mrs W 
raised. That included much poor communication from it and the garage, the late provision of 
the courtesy car, the damage to Mrs Ws car when she got it back and the delay in resolving 
her complaint. AXA offered Mrs W £425 compensation, which she said wasnt enough. She 
said paying the policy excess of £350 almost wiped it out. 
 
One of our investigators considered Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. She said the policy excess 
had to be paid on every claim, so it wasnt relevant to the compensation paid. But she also 
thought there were numerous examples of poor communication with Mrs W and a lack of 
updates from AXA. She thought the failure to provide a courtesy car promptly had caused 
huge inconvenience. And in her view, Mrs W was frustrated in believing that the cost of the 
claim would affect any future premiums. She thought AXA should pay Mrs W an extra £200 
compensation and refund any expenses incurred in having the rectification work done. 
Mrs W said she and Mr W thought £750 compensation would be fair, given the extent of the 
time and effort expended by them and the frustration caused as a result of AXAs poor 
service. They pointed out that repairs on the car had to be done twice and that the first 
repairs could have been done for less. AXA said that at £10 per day for the loss of use of 
their car for a month, £310 would have been payable. It thought the total sum it had offered 
was enough to compensate for that and the rest of the poor service  given that the cost of 
the claim wouldnt affect future premiums. As there was no agreement, the complaint was 
passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my opinion, Mrs W faced a substantial amount of distress and inconvenience throughout 
the entire claims process. I think the delays in moving matters on, combined with AXAs lack 
of contact, must have been very frustrating. The garage failed to keep Mrs W informed as 
well. So she and Mr W had to spend far more time and effort trying to find out what was 
going on than should have been necessary. That continued over a period of three months.  
In addition, I think the car should have been repaired properly and returned to Mrs W in good 
condition - with petrol in the tank. In my view, the garage should have taken particular care 
with Mrs Ws car, given that it had already provided poor service to her. Having to complain 
to the garage and AXA yet again (after raising a service complaint previously) must have 
been beyond distressing for Mrs W.
AXA says insurers consider the number of claims a consumer has made and whether theyre 
fault or non-fault claims, rather than the value of a claim, when setting premiums. Im not 
sure that all insurers entirely disregard the cost of all claims, although in general I think thats 
the case. So I think its very unlikely that the cost of Mrs Ws claim being higher than it might 
otherwise have been will make a difference to her future premiums. 
But I dont think AXA managed this issue well. There was confusion and delay before Mrs W 
saw the garages estimate. In the meantime (and afterwards) she was worried that AXA 
would (and did) authorise repairs at an inflated cost. I think AXA could have tried to put her 
mind at rest at the time by explaining the situation to her.   
In my opinion, although AXA tried to put matters right, its offer of £425 compensation wasnt 
enough. I think it would be reasonable for it to pay Mrs W a further £200 given the extent of 
the general poor service, the lack of a courtesy car from the outset and the fact that the 
garages work had to be rectified. Mr and Mrs W think more should be paid. But I think thats 
likely to be because, even after the investigator issued her view, they still thought their future 
premiums would be affected by the cost of the claim. 
Neither AXA nor Mr and Mrs W commented on the investigators proposal that AXA should 
refund the cost of the repair work that Mrs W had to arrange, so I assume that has already 
been done. If not, I think AXA should do so now. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to do the 
following:
Pay Mrs W a further £200 for distress and inconvenience (£625 in total)
Refund the cost of the rectification work if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman