DRN-2166986
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 1997, Mrs B took out a PPI policy for a loan secured on her home. She paid for the PPI 
with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered her loan repayments 
if she was off work sick or became unemployed.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. Mrs B didnt agree 
saying, in summary, that:
She never wanted, or knowingly had, PPI.
The adjudicator cant say what she would have done if the full information had been 
given to her.
Nationwide underhandly provided something she knew nothing about and had to pay for.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.
Neither party has been able to provide the original paperwork from the time of the sale, 
which isnt unreasonable or unsurprising given this took place more than two decades ago 
and the loan account has long since closed. In cases like this, where the evidence is 
incomplete or contradictory, I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that 
is, to decide what is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.
While I know this will disappoint Mrs B, I cant conclude this particular PPI policy was mis-
sold  Ill explain why.
Nationwide has provided samples of the documents Mrs B would, in all likelihood, have 
completed at the time. From those, it looks like the PPI would have been described as 
optional and its cost wouldve been set out separately to that of the secured loan  rather 
than as something that was necessarily included. And it looks like Mrs B would have been 
given the option to take PPI if she wanted it, or to leave it if she didnt want it. So I think its 
most likely that Nationwide gave Mrs B a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to 
take it at the time  even if, understandably, she no longer remembers doing so after so 
long.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her or check her existing arrangements. But it did have to give Mrs B clear information about 
the PPI, so she could decide for herself whether it was right for her.
It looks like the cost of the PPI would have been set out clearly, along with the total monthly 
payment that it protected. So I think Mrs B probably would have understood what the PPI 
cost and what it could pay out. And it looks like the policy would have been affordable, 
costing just £6.53 each month at the time of the sale.
Its possible that Nationwide didnt adequately point out the main things the policy wouldnt 
cover. But Mrs B wasnt affected by any of those things, so I dont think knowing about them 
would have made a difference to her decision to take the PPI.
I have taken into consideration Mrs Bs strong statements about not ever wanting PPI and 
not ever knowingly taking it. And its understandable that she says that now, in view of the 
publicity about the mis-sale of PPI. I appreciate Mrs B will disagree with me, but Im not 
persuaded that this was the case in 1997 when she took the PPI. Whist shes told us she 
was entitled to generous sick pay and did have medical insurance, the PPI covered secured 
loan payments. If Mrs B didnt meet her loan repayments, her home was at risk. The PPI 
covered her repayments for 24 months if she couldnt work due to sickness or an accident. It 
also covered her for up to 12 months for unemployment. So, taking into account the serious 
consequences of not being able to meet the monthly repayments, I think the PPI could have 
been a useful benefit for Mrs B  in addition to her existing arrangements.
For these reasons, I don't think Mrs B lost out as a result of anything Nationwide might have 
done wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman