DRN-3455799
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as N, complains that errors by HSBC UK Bank Plc left it 
unable to obtain a loan under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme.
One of Ns directors, Mr P, brings the complaint on the companys behalf. 
What happened
N banks with HSBC. On Ns behalf, Mr P applied to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan on 
29 September 2020.
When completing the application, Mr P was asked to provide an email address. On 
submission of the application, HSBC emailed Mr P at that email address to confirm receipt of 
the application.
Having not heard anything further, Mr P began to chase HSBC for updates on Ns 
application in November. 
Unbeknownst to Mr P, HSBC had assessed and approved Ns application. It had emailed a 
facility offer letter to N at the email address it held on file for the company  rather than to the 
address Mr P had given when making the application. That offer subsequently lapsed and 
the application was cancelled.
Having not heard anything from HSBC and with the deadline for the processing of loan 
applications approaching, Mr P made a number of enquiries in April and May 2021 which 
ultimately led to a complaint being raised. It was only then that Mr P became aware of what 
had happened. But by this time, it wasnt possible to reissue the facility offer letter or allow N 
to reapply  as the Scheme was closed to new applications.
Mr P says that he updated Ns email address prior to applying for the loan. And in any event, 
he says he was led to believe by the banks email confirming receipt of the application that 
HSBC would contact him using the details hed provided when applying.
HSBC says it didnt do anything wrong in how it processed Ns application. It says it emailed 
the facility offer letter to the registered email address it held for N for security reasons  and 
that a message informing applicants of this was displayed within its online application 
process. It has, however, accepted that it couldve investigated things more thoroughly in 
light of Mr Ps queries and has offered £200 compensation for this.
On initial review, our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld and recommended 
that HSBC allow N to reapply through an exceptions process in view of the circumstances. 
But the bank maintained its stance, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I sent a provisional decision to both parties earlier this month, setting out why I thought the 
complaint should be upheld and how HSBC should put things right. I said:
Applications for Bounce Back Loans were completed online, in keeping with the aim of 
processing them and providing funding as quickly as possible.
When completing Ns Bounce Back Loan application, Mr P was required to provide an 
email address. I think it wouldve been a reasonable assumption that contact thereafter 
would be through the email address he provided. 
That assumption would then have been reinforced by the email acknowledgement that 
HSBC sent Mr P on receipt of Ns application. The bank emailed Mr P at the email 
address hed provided in the application, and said:
Your request will be reviewed by HSBC and you will be contacted using 
the details you provided to progress further. (emphasis added)
Despite telling Mr P that it would be in touch with him through the contact details hed 
provided, HSBC actually sent correspondence about the loan to a different email 
address. It says this is the one it held on file for N, although its provided very little 
evidence  despite our requests  to demonstrate this, or refute Mr Ps assertion that 
he amended this prior to the application. 
HSBC says it made applicants aware of this aspect of its process, through a message 
displayed on its website that said:
Its important we hold the correct information for you to prevent delays in your 
application. The email address you use should match the one we hold on file 
for you. To check these details, please 
The bank says Mr P wouldve seen this before submitting his application. But, again 
despite our requests, it hasnt been able to demonstrate how this information wouldve 
been presented. So I dont know at what point  if any  this message wouldve been 
displayed to Mr P, or how prominently. The message would also have been 
superseded by the email acknowledgement that Mr P received after applying. 
So based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think HSBC made N aware that 
correspondence about the loan would only be sent to the email address that it held on 
file for the company. 
As a result, N didnt receive correspondence about the loan  most notably, the facility 
offer letter that was issued after the application was accepted. So N was entitled to the 
Bounce Back Loan and, had things gone as they should have, it wouldve had these 
funds around the end of September 2020. But ultimately it was left without them, as a 
consequence of how HSBC handled its application as well as how the bank dealt with 
Mr Ps enquiries and subsequent complaint in May 2021. There was still time for 
HSBC to remedy the situation when our investigator recommended that the bank 
process Ns application as an exception even after the Loan Scheme had closed  but 
it declined to do so. That mechanism no longer exists.
Matters have moved on while the complaint has been ongoing and I understand from 
Mr P that N does not now wish to borrow any money. So Im not recommending that 
HSBC take any action to replicate or replace the Bounce Back Loan that shouldve 
been provided to the company. However, in addition to the £200 that HSBC has 
already offered to pay N in respect of how it handled Mr Ps queries, I am also 
intending to require the bank to pay a further £300. This is to compensate the 
company for the inconvenience it was caused in having to pursue the matter for several months in an ultimately unsuccessful attempt to access the loan to which it 
was entitled.
I invited both parties to let me have any comments or information they wanted me to take 
into account before I made a final decision. Both parties accepted my provisional decision 
without making any further submissions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with both parties having accepted my provisional findings without 
submitting anything further for me to consider, I see no reason to reach a different 
conclusion to that of my provisional decision.
This decision, therefore, simply confirms my provisional findings as set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
pay N compensation of £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman