DRN-3863444
The complaint
Mr W complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) didnt properly 
deal with a claim he made under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr W says in November 2021 his car was parked on the drive outside his house when it was 
hit by another vehicle. 
Mr W reported the damage to LV who arranged for the repairs to be carried out. Mr W says 
LV failed to repair his vehicle correctly. As a result of this Mr W says water leaked into the 
rear of the car which caused the seats and boot to become saturated. Mr W says hes had 
issues with the electrics on his car because of the water, as well as corrosion to parts of the 
vehicle. 
Mr W says he complained to LV. He was told to have his vehicle inspected and obtain a 
report to support his claims. 
Mr W took his vehicle to an official repair centre where he says the rear bumper was 
removed and the car was inspected. Mr W says the repair centre identified a loose air vent 
where the water was able to enter the vehicle. The vent was immediately next to the point of 
impact. 
Mr W says he sent the report to LV but the repair to the vent was declined. LV said the vent 
wasnt covered by the policy since it was damaged in the accident. Mr W disagrees. He 
believes LV were aware of the issue with the loose vent when his car went in for repairs 
initially. And so should have addressed the repair at that time. 
Mr W says LV failed to repair his vehicle under the terms of the insurance policy, withheld 
information in order to avoid repairing the vent, failed to respond to his complaint in a timely 
manner, failed to respond to an information request under data protection law, and failed to 
respond to his latest complaint. 
Mr W complained to LV who said the water leak wouldnt be covered by the policy as the 
damage caused wasnt from an area that was related to the claim. LV said because Mr W 
was unhappy with that decision one of its engineers re-examined the photographs and 
concluded that the problem wasnt caused by the accident. Following receipt of Mr Ws 
complaint the claim was discussed with another engineer who said the leak had likely been 
occurring for some time and it wasnt accident related. And so the complaint wasnt upheld. 
LV did acknowledge Mr Ws distress and inconvenience and paid him £200 to reflect the 
same. 
Mr W remained dissatisfied so he referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into things for him. He said he didnt think LV made an error in refusing the claim. He 
said LV had requested information from Mr W to determine the cause of the damage but it 
hadnt been provided. He also said there was no evidence to suggest the damage to the 
vent was accident related. And so he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr W didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Id like to reassure Mr W that Ive considered all of his points, including what hes said in 
response to our investigators view. However, Ive focused on what I believe is most relevant 
to the outcome of this complaint, rather than addressing each of his points individually. 
Mr Ws policy says, if your car and/or its accessories are damaged by accident or vandalism 
well either pay for it to be repaired.. it then goes on to detail alternatives to repairing the 
vehicle.
Mr W believes the damage to the vent was related to the incident in which the side of his car 
was hit by a third party. 
When looking at complaints relating to claims for damage to a vehicle, our service cant 
determine how the damage occurred. Instead what we look at is the information the 
insurance company relied on to make its decision and whether it treated the customer fairly 
in doing so. 
In this case LVs in-house engineer reviewed the information provided to him by the repairing 
garage. On review of the notes I can see there is reference to the water coming in through a 
loose vent, and there is also reference to water from the tailgate. There are images to 
support this. The engineer said the ingress of water was unlikely to be accident related. And 
so the repairing garage didnt have any approval to repair the source of the leak. All 
accident-related repairs were authorised and carried out. 
I know Mr W feels LV didnt carry out an adequate inspection or provided him with detailed 
evidence of its findings. But since the engineers are the experts in this matter they will carry 
out an inspection as they see fit. Im satisfied LV used the engineers professional opinion to 
inform its decision to decline that part of the claim. There is no specific evidence proving with 
100% certainty that the cause of the leak wasnt due to the accident. But there doesnt need 
to be. The engineer provides his opinion on whats most likely given the evidence before 
him. 
Mr W has provided evidence from an accident repair centre which confirms, Water present 
on the o/s/r seat and boot area. The air vent in the o/s/r wing is loose and could cause the 
water leak. The fact there is water ingress likely caused by a loose vent is not in dispute. 
According to LVs engineer the damage to the vent was not due to the accident. 
Mr W has said LV were aware of the damaged/loose vent but failed to address the repair 
when his car was being repaired. But it isnt the insurers responsibility to repair all issues 
identified on the vehicle. Its responsibility is limited to repairing the accident-related damage 
only. The terms and conditions of Mr Ws policy are clear the insurer will cover the costs of 
repairing damage caused by an accident only. Since LV said the water leak wasnt accident-
related its repair isnt covered by the policy.I can see Mr W believes LV turned down the repair to the vent because the water ingress 
was from the tailgate. But thats not the case. LV have declined the claim because the water 
ingress, regardless of whether its from the vent or the tailgate, is unlikely to have been 
caused by the accident. And since its not caused by the accident it isnt covered by the 
policy.  
I can understand Mr W feels its unfair his insurer wont cover the cost of repairing the vent. 
But the insurer is entitled to rely on the professional opinion of its inhouse engineer. And 
when the claim was declined by the insurer it did explain that Mr W could get an independent 
report at his own expense. And if that report showed the cause of the leak was accident 
related then it would cover the cost of the repairs and the cost of obtaining the report. Mr W 
hasnt done this. And the estimate he has provided isnt sufficient since it only states the vent 
is loose. Not that the loose vent is likely to have been caused by the accident. I dont think 
LV have acted unfairly here. 
I believe LV made a fair decision not to cover the damage to the vent and is entitled to rely 
on the information provided to it by its engineer. 
Mr W is also unhappy about LVs handling of his complaint but complaints handling isnt a 
regulated or other covered activity and so falls outside of our compulsory jurisdiction. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr W but overall I think LV has acted in line with 
the policy terms and conditions. And so I wont be asking it to do any more to resolve this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman