DRN-2577679
The complaint
Mr C, Miss W, Mr S and Miss P, the complainants, have complained about their property 
insurer Fairmead Insurance Limited because it declined their claim for water damage but 
they believe it gave poor advice in doing so, which caused them further loss.
What happened
The complainants advised Fairmead that water was affecting the floor and some walls of 
their property. Fairmead recorded this as a water leak claim and sent out a leak detection 
team. The tests found seals around the bath were leaking. Fairmead told the complainants 
that their claim was declined because the water damage cover on the policy excluded 
damage caused by faulty or failed sealant. 
The complainants repaired the sealant but further damage occurred. They asked Fairmead 
to assist but it declined. Ultimately the complainants found causes of damp at the property, 
not related to leaking pipes and which they accepted Fairmead wasnt liable for under the 
policy. But they believed Fairmead had failed them when initially trying to source the cause 
of the problems at their home as, in their view, the leak from sealants clearly wasnt an issue 
and the other causes of water ingress werent found. They say this caused a delay in 
identifying and rectifying the real causes of the damp, meaning they incurred more costs 
than they would if Fairmead had provided a better service. 
Our investigator said it was reasonable that Fairmead hadnt assisted when the 
complainants had asked it to following the discovery of more damage. But he said even if it 
should have done, he couldnt see that its failure to do so had changed anything as the 
complaints had acted quickly at that stage to rectify things themselves.
The complainant remained unhappy. They said as a matter of good customer service 
Fairmead should have listened when they told it an expert said there were issues at the 
property not related to the bath sealant. They feel if it had its likely, given this was a water 
damage issue, it would have attended in short order, found the problems and allowed them 
to be repaired earlier than they actually were. Their complaint was passed for an 
ombudsmans consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this was a frustrating time for the complainants. But Im not persuaded Fairmead 
failed them. Ive seen Fairmeads leak report. I think it clearly shows there were issues with 
the bath sealant. The fact it has been shown since that there were other issues at the 
property  issues Fairmead never had any liability for under the policy  doesnt mean its 
findings about the sealant were wrong. And in my experience, its not unusual for properties 
to sometimes suffer from more than one cause of damage. 
Insurance policies dont offer cover for any and all damage or causes of damage a property 
might suffer from. So if there is a problem at a property and the insurer assesses that, it only 
has to satisfy itself in respect of liability as far as the policy is concerned  it isnt responsible 
for checking for things not covered by the policy. 
I dont disagree that an insurer should listen to its policyholders. But in terms of claims it 
often isnt unreasonable for an insurer to want to see proof before taking action. Here 
Fairmead had completed its own investigations but the complainants thought they were 
flawed and asked it for further assistance. I think Fairmead acted reasonably when it said it 
wouldnt assist further because it hadnt seen proof against its findings.
Even if Fairmead had agreed to act at the point the complainants told it of further damage, 
Im not persuaded that would have changed anything. I say that as the complainants had 
their own expert visit and complete an assessment within eleven days, problems were 
identified, a contractor appointed to repair them and the necessary repairs were all done 
within about one month. If Fairmead had agreed to re-visit its unlikely it would have done so 
immediately, I expect it would have been several days. But even if it had been quicker, the 
most it would have said, I think, is that there were likely causes of damp at the property not 
covered by the policy and the complainants would have to appoint their own specialist to 
determine exactly what they were and what was needed to resolve them. In my experience 
an insurer would not advise on issues that are outside of its policy liability. So Fairmeads 
involvement at that time would not have progressed matters, if anything it would have 
delayed them further. 
I see that Fairmead had taken an excess from the complainants. But I also see it agreed it 
should have returned this at the point it declined the claim, and it has since done this. Im not 
persuaded that Fairmead otherwise did anything wrong or that its actions caused the 
complainants to incur losses.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Fairmead Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C, Miss P, Mr S 
and Miss W to accept or reject my decision before 21 May 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman