DRN-3477011
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy because HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct did not reimburse 
the money she transferred to a fraudster.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 22 March 2022. I wanted to give both 
parties a chance to consider and respond to my findings before issuing a final decision. That 
provisional decision forms part of my final decision and is copied below.
What happened
In March 2021 Miss M was moving home  selling her existing property and 
purchasing a different one. Her solicitor was employed to handle both transactions.
Early that month Miss M contacted her solicitor and asked when a completion 
statement would be ready. A response was received with an attached completion 
statement which contained account details Miss M was instructed to pay.
Unfortunately, this email hadnt come from Miss Ms solicitor but rather a fraudster who 
had accessed her email account. Over the next two weeks  through manipulation of 
Miss Ms email account  the fraudster was able to continue the email conversation 
between her and her solicitor  but changing responses from the solicitor where required 
to maintain the deception.
On 16 March 2021, Miss M was due to make a payment of £309,128.90 to complete the 
purchase. Because of the fraudsters deception, she called first direct and asked it to 
make a payment to account details provided by the fraudster.
During this call (the Call), it is undisputed that first direct advised Miss M to confirm the 
account details shed been provided with over the phone with her solicitor. The adviser 
she spoke to also let her know they were unable to confirm whether the name on the 
account matched that of the solicitors. Neither is it disputed that Miss M attempted to call 
her solicitor but was unable to get through.
What is disputed is the significance of the Call and its impact on Miss Ms liability in 
this matter. As such, the contents of that call will be discussed in more detail later on 
in my provisional decision.
Following a second, brief, security call, the payment was allowed to proceed. The 
following day the solicitor advised Miss M that the payment hadnt been received and the 
scam came to light. The matter was reported to first direct the same day and it, in turn, 
reported the scam to the bank which received the money.
Over the next several months, Miss M was in frequent contact with first direct. She was 
unhappy with a number of aspects of how her claim had been handled  particularly the 
communication she received from the banks fraud team and a substantial delay in 
returning funds which hadnt been spent from the beneficiary account (a matter Miss M 
also complained about to the receiving bank).
On 6 April 2021 first direct declined Miss Ms claim. It said it and the beneficiary bank had 
sufficient fraud prevention measures in place and Miss M ought to have conducted 
further checks before making the payment. Eventually, on 19 July 2021, £141,070.60 
was returned to Miss M from the receiving bank.
First direct is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model Code (CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been 
the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. In this case 
first direct said Miss M had ignored an Effective Warning given during the call to set up 
the payment (an exception to reimbursement under the Code). It also argued that Miss M 
hadnt carried out sufficient checks and, while this isnt an exception to reimbursement in 
itself, it implies that first direct also think Miss M falls foul of another exception  that she 
didnt reasonably believe that the recipient of the payment was who she was expecting to 
pay.
Unhappy, Miss M referred the matter to our service. One of our investigators upheld the 
complaint. They were of the view that warnings given during the phone call werent 
impactful enough and didnt go into enough detail about how email interception scams 
work. They also thought that the email conversations would have been particularly 
convincing, and Miss M had tried to do as the bank advised but was unable to.
So, they upheld Miss Ms complaint and asked first direct to refund her losses. They 
also thought that the service first direct had provided to Miss M warranted a 
compensation payment of £150.
First direct didnt agree, in summary it said:
-The warning was clearly impactful  as Miss M took notice of the advice she 
was given and attempted to contact her solicitor. Its also clear that she 
understood that account details could be changed by fraudsters and that she 
ought to check them.
-The warning was intended to make Miss M stop and think  and there was 
an opportunity for her to reconsider making the payment between the initial 
call and follow up security call.
-Overall, the warning met the definition of an Effective Warning under the Code.
-It was also of the view that Miss M lacked a reasonable basis for belief in 
making the payment  as she didnt follow the banks instructions and failed to 
wait for a verbal confirmation of the account details  despite not needing to 
make the payment until the following day.
-She only contacted the solicitors mobile number, rather than contacting the 
main office  whod have been able to confirm the account details.
-It didnt think Miss M was reasonable to have been reassured by the fact the 
adviser was able to confirm the bank account was held at a particular bank  as 
Miss M had no independent evidence that the solicitors held an account with 
that bank.
-It also pointed to discrepancies in the emails and address they were received 
from as additional reasons why Miss M ought to have been suspicious.
-It also challenged the award of interest at 8%. It didnt think this was fair in the 
circumstances  considering the Bank of England base rate at the time and 
the fact that the courts were routinely awarding lower interest rates.-Finally, it argued, that even if our service were to conclude that an Effective 
Warning had not been provided, it was clear that one of the exceptions did 
apply and, under the provisions of the CRM Code, its liability should be limited to 
50% of Miss Ms loss.
Despite a further response from our investigator, no agreement could be reached, so 
the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered this matter carefully, Im minded to reach a different outcome to that 
of the investigator. I know this outcome will be extremely disappointing for Miss M, but I 
hope shell understand my reasons for reaching it.
Under the provisions of the CRM Code, both the bank and customer have obligations. If it 
can be shown that the customer has met their Requisite Level of Care then they will 
receive full reimbursement. If the customer has not done this, then it is for the firm to show 
that it has met its obligations under the Code. The most relevant obligation here is to 
provide an Effective Warning. If a firm has not met its obligations then it, subject to any 
liability by the bank which received the money, will be liable for 50% of the customers 
loss.
Did Miss M meet her requisite level of care?
Ive first thought about whether Miss M had a reasonable basis for believing the recipient 
of the payment was who she was expecting to pay. In doing so, Ive considered both 
whether Miss M had such a belief before the Call and whether the Call ought to have 
challenged that belief.
Prior to the Call I think Miss M had every reason to believe that she had received the 
account details from her solicitor and had been communicating with her and nobody 
else over the course of many months.
While first direct point to slight discrepancies in the emails and the differing address, I 
dont think its particularly fair to expect Miss M  as a layperson  to have identified such 
differences. In fact, Im struck by the way the fraudster didnt simply request a payment 
from Miss M but was able to maintain the conversation between her and the solicitor. So, 
when Miss M came to make the payment, shed received multiple emails  all from the 
same fraudulent email address  many of which dealt with the detail of the sale and 
purchase.
So, I think Miss M had a reasonable basis for belief up to the point of the Call.
During the Call, the adviser asks how the account details had been received and, after 
Miss M confirms they have been received over email, the adviser says the following:
the reason Im asking is that we are aware of instances where information has been 
changed fraudulently in the likes of texts messages, emails, perhaps letters as well. 
So, I want to give you the opportunity to check the details verbally with the beneficiary 
before sending the money.
Miss M clarifies that the adviser wants her to check the details verbally and, in response, the adviser says:
We do recommend it, checking them verbally with a trusted source, so with your solicitor, 
over the phone. As I said, its because were aware that information can be changed, or 
has been changed, fraudulently in the likes of emails and texts before. So, just to check 
that the details are from who you expect and they are correct
Miss M responds that she is happy if a check of the account details shows the payment 
is going to the particular bank which the fraudster had specified.
The adviser then asks further questions in an attempt to establish whether Miss M might 
be falling victim to other types of scam  confirming that shed seen the property and 
hadnt been told to mislead the bank about the true purpose of the payment.
The adviser then explains that they will check that the name on the account matches 
the name given by Miss M but, in this case, they are unable to do this. The adviser then 
says:
If youre unsure that the details you have are correct, please check the information 
with a trusted source before proceeding. How would you like to proceed?
And, after Miss M appears to show some concern, the adviser continues:
Some banks, not all banks are signed up for it. And what it means, if they are signed up 
for it, we can check if the sort code and account number matches the name on the 
account. But, as I said, not all banks are offering the service and certainly they are not, 
perhaps not, offering them on all account types. It just means that we cannot confirm that 
that is the name on that account. So, its how would you like to proceed with that 
payment? If the details arent correct and we send the payment, we may not be able to get 
the money back. It is a lot of money
At this point Miss M decides to call her solicitor, which is audible on the call recording 
Ive heard.
The adviser adds  Yes, its also because youve only had them by email and not had 
them confirmed verbally I think that is, perhaps, a good way to go. To double check.
After Miss M is unable to get through to her solicitor the following exchange takes 
place between Miss M and the adviser:
Miss M: So, do I need to check with her and then come back to you? Is that what I need 
to do?
Adviser: If you do want to check, then absolutely check and then come back its just, 
as I said, its up to you what youd like to do but it is a lot of money and.. just... I think 
making sure that it is going where it should be going to.
Miss M: But what is she likely to say? That they dont subscribe to this payee service? 
And then what? I come back to you and [inaudible]
Adviser: Absolutely, but certainly at that point you could always confirm the details as 
well verbally that you have been provided as an email to kind of reassure that is the 
correct details.Miss M: But the account and everything is fine, right? You can confirm that is a 
TSB account?
Adviser: I can confirm that it is a TSB account from the sort code, but all I can do is 
confirm that that sort code belongs to TSB, I cant confirm that account number belongs 
to the solicitor.
Miss M: OK. I have it in writing from her. So and its on her headed paper. So, you 
know, its on her headed paper. So, I guess if they are wrong I can sue the solicitor for it, 
right?
Adviser: Again, its because we are aware that information can or has been 
changed fraudulently in emails. Thats if someone had been able to intercept 
those emails.
Miss M: Look, just go ahead, Im sure its fine. Im sure its fine. You know, I realise its a 
large sum of money but I cant see, Ive been dealing with my solicitors for six months 
now and I cant imagine, this has been so painful I just cant do any more on this. This is 
the final hurdle.
Adviser: Absolutely, I understand that you are so close to that completion as well but it is, 
as I said, to make you aware if it isnt correct then we may not be able to get the money 
back. If you want to go ahead.
Miss M: Oh hang on, shes just replied to me. Hold on. Let me call her now. Shes 
saying have you sent the funds and Im like [inaudible].
Miss M tries to call her solicitor again but is unable to get through.
Miss M: Its gone to voicemail again, I really want to get it sorted. I think it will be 
fine, honestly.
Miss Ms attempts to reach her solicitor continue in the background of the Call. The 
adviser says shell need to call Miss M back and Miss M says she hopes shell have 
spoken to her solicitor before then. But this hasnt happened by the time the brief follow 
up call has taken place and the payment goes ahead.
The response Miss M refers to receiving during the Call is an email received at 
11.19am. It simply says:
Good morning Miss M
Please let me know if funds have now been 
sent                      Regards
It appears that Miss M then sent the email below at 11.23am  between the end of the 
first call and the call back to confirm the payment:
my bank saying TSB not subscribed to pay in service so they cannot check the details 
on your account!!
So i need to verbally check them with you to avoid 
fraud: a/c [account number redacted]
sort: [sort code redacted]She is setting it up now and then calling me back to confirm once I pass security again.
Miss M did not receive a response before the payment went ahead.
To make a finding that Miss M held a reasonable basis for belief, I need to be satisfied not 
only that she thought that the account details were more likely to have come from her 
solicitor than not. She clearly did believe that. Rather, I need to be satisfied that such a 
belief was reasonable.
In considering that question, there are a number of factors which are relevant. One is 
the amount of money involved  in this case a huge sum. Also relevant are the actions 
which could have been taken by Miss M but werent and, in particular, the practicality 
of taking such steps.
Given the amount involved here, I dont think it can be said that Miss M held a 
reasonable basis for belief where she had at least some doubt about the authenticity of 
the recipient unless she took all reasonable steps to confirm the accuracy of the 
account details that were:
-Practical, but not onerous to undertake; and
-She was aware of.
While, as noted, Miss M may not have had any doubts about the transaction before the Call 
 
she did during it. That, I think, is what caused her to pause and try and contact her 
solicitor a number of times and follow up with an email. The language she uses when 
deciding to go ahead with the payment also displays this doubt.
Its also evident Miss M was aware of the action she needed to take to remove the risk 
that had been identified. That action was practical and wasnt onerous, but Miss M 
decided to proceed without having taken it. While it sounds as if the sale and purchase 
were stressful experiences for Miss M, her mention of this fact towards the end of the 
Call, hints at reasons for proceeding with the payment other than full confidence in its 
authenticity.
Ultimately, Im afraid, I think Miss M knew she was taking a risk in proceeding with the 
payment and I dont think that was a reasonably acceptable level of risk in the 
circumstances  particularly given the amount involved and the relative ease at which that 
risk could be dispelled. So, I dont think she held a reasonable basis for believing she was 
paying who she was expecting to pay.
Did first direct provide an Effective Warning?
In considering whether first direct provided an Effective Warning Ive taken into account 
the Call as a whole and whether that conversation met the definition set out in the Code. 
For a warning to be Effective under the Code it must be: understandable, clear, 
impactful, timely and specific.
The adviser correctly identified what the scam risk was here and was able to tailor her 
comments to that specific risk. When it became clear that not only had the account 
details been obtained over email but also the bank was unable to confirm whether the 
account was held in the name of the solicitors, the adviser repeated her earlier warnings 
and was able to clarify and reinforce the reason why Miss M should confirm the details over the phone. As such, her interventions were timely and she tried to make sure that 
Miss M understood the risk of proceeding and importantly I think Miss M understood that 
there was some risk that her payment might not go to the correct account.
Ive thought very carefully about the impact of the warning. It clearly did have some impact 
 it was sufficient to alter Miss Ms behaviour and caused her to call the solicitor. And a 
warning doesnt fail to be impactful simply because it doesnt prevent a scam from taking 
place  it only needs to be likely to affect the customers decision making so that the 
prospect of the scam succeeding is reduced and thats clearly what happened here. The 
decision taken by Miss M to call her solicitor was directly brought about by the advisers 
warning. That warning could and would have prevented the scam had the solicitor 
answered.
I accept this is a finely balanced point but, overall, I think the warnings Miss M received 
were effective. Im satisfied that the adviser explained the risk, how to avoid it and what 
the consequences were of making the payment  all in a way which Miss M understood 
and actively took on board. Ultimately the payment proceeded not because of a deficiency 
in the warning but because her solicitor did not pick up the phone. Miss M chose to 
proceed regardless, and Im not persuaded that if the bank had said anything more  short 
of refusing to make the payment  it would have made a difference.
As Im satisfied the adviser did enough to warn Miss M and she lacked a reasonable 
basis for belief, Ive decided that first direct are not liable to refund her under the 
provisions of the CRM Code.
Are first direct responsible for refunding the payment for any other reason?
Im also mindful that first direct should fairly and reasonably have had systems in place to 
look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate that its customers were 
at risk of fraud (among other things). And in some circumstances, irrespective of the 
payment channel used, have taken additional steps, or make additional checks, before 
processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help 
protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Here, as described already, first direct did recognise the scam risk and this prompted the 
questions that were asked. For the reasons set out, Im satisfied first direct took 
appropriate steps to warn its customer about the risk of fraud. I cannot say that first direct 
ought to have done more as, though it identified there was a scam risk with the payment, 
it didnt know for sure that Miss M was actually falling victim to a scam and neither was it 
reasonable for it to conclude that possibility was more likely than not.
In other words, I cannot say first direct was on notice that Miss M was the victim of fraud 
such that it should have declined to make the payment. So, I think it acted fairly by 
providing the warnings it did.
Ive also seen evidence that first direct contacted the receiving bank on the same day 
the scam was reported and that no transactions debited the receiving account after the 
time Miss M first reported the fraud.
So, while I know there has been substantial correspondence in relation to the delays 
in recovering those funds, no action by first direct could have led to the recovery of 
more money.
Customer serviceFinally, Ive considered the customer service provided to Miss M. Ive reviewed a 
limited number of call recordings, Miss Ms testimony and the banks records.
I am of the view that first directs initial response to the claim ought to have been better. 
Ive heard the very first call Miss M had with the bank and dont think that the call handler 
dealt
with the call with sufficient care and urgency in the circumstances. They ought to have 
explained exactly what steps they would be taking  including logging the fraud claim and 
contacting the receiving bank straight away. Miss M was understandably distressed at 
the idea that nothing would happen until the following day (even if, in fact, first direct did 
contact the receiving bank that day).
There also appear to have been times when first direct did not call Miss M back when it 
ought to have done which, given the amount of money involved, inevitably caused Miss 
M distress.
I do note the considerable delays in returning Miss Ms funds from the beneficiary 
account, but much of this delay appears to be due to the receiving bank itself and, 
possibly, their attempts to trace funds. While first direct might have been more proactive in 
its pursuit of the money, I dont think it caused any unnecessary delays.
I realise this will be of little consolation to Miss M, but I think first direct should pay her 
£150 in compensation to reflect the poor service provided.
My provisional decision
Im minded to uphold this complaint in part and instruct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
- Pay Miss M £150 in compensation.
First direct agreed with my provisional decision. Miss M, now represented by a firm of 
solicitors, didnt. Ive summarised their response below:
- The fraudulent correspondence between the fraudsters and Miss M was very 
sophisticated and it would have been difficult to spot that the emails received by her 
werent genuine. This level of sophistication hasnt been properly taken into account 
when considering Miss Ms actions.
- Miss Ms solicitors were extremely busy during this period due to the stamp duty 
holiday and the sale was close to collapse due to the number of sales the solicitor 
was dealing with. Many of its staff were working from home and both calls to Miss 
Ms solicitor, as well as to its office, often went unanswered. So, it wasnt fair to 
suggest that verifying the details over the phone was an easy step to take.
- Neither had Miss M been informed that she could contact the main office for account 
details or been provided with any guidance about how to do this. The Call was the 
first time shed ever been advised that verifying the account details in this way would 
be necessary.
- Email was the dominant form of communication between Miss M and her solicitor. It 
was unsurprising that her calls and voicemail went unanswered and Miss M 
reasonably assumed her solicitor was in a meeting and too busy to answer. 
- It was reasonable for her to believe that the email she received during the Call was a 
response to the missed calls and voicemail she had left. That email provided all the confirmation Miss M reasonably believed she required. 
- Miss M did not have any doubts about the legitimacy of the transaction itself, but 
rather whether her solicitor would want to be called.
- To be effective, a warning, as a minimum must meet all the criteria set out in the 
Code, namely to be understandable, clear, impactful, timely and specific.
- The banks reference to the account details being received unexpectedly (particularly 
at the outset of the call) as well as other types of scam, including those involving 
HMRC, made the warning less specific, timely and impactful.
- A warning should be effective for a particular customer  but the warning didnt take 
into account Miss Ms personal characteristics  including her age and lack of 
knowledge of scams of this type. She was also suffering from stress and sleep 
deprivation at the time, which again hasnt been taken into account. 
- The warning lacked enough detail to be effective  it should have gone further to 
explain the specifics of this type of scam. 
- First direct, with its expert knowledge and training, could have put a stop to the 
transaction until they were satisfied that the full risks had been understood. Instead it 
continued with the payment based on the shared belief that the account details had 
been confirmed over email.
- Miss M only understood that it was important not to make a mistake when entering 
the account details, not that there was a risk of fraud. And, she had no reason to 
doubt the bank details, particularly as the adviser could confirm they belonged to the 
bank she believed she had to pay.
- The discussion around Confirmation of Payee only confused Miss M and had first 
direct had such a system in place it would have been able to identify that the name 
on the account didnt match that of the solicitors. 
- Overall, the warning failed to meet several elements of the definition of an Effective 
Warning under the Code.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As noted by Miss Ms representatives, Ive already accepted that the scam would have been 
very difficult for Miss M to detect based on the emails alone and her belief that the 
correspondence was genuine up to the point of the Call was reasonable.
 
Yet, during the Call, Miss M was given new information. Shed been advised that there was a 
risk of fraud and the steps she needed to take to avoid that risk. Given the amount involved 
here, I cant agree it was reasonable for her to proceed with the payment without completing 
the steps the bank advised. Doing so was a risk, a risk that Miss M acknowledged. 
While I dont doubt her solicitors were busy and clearly Miss M normally communicated with 
them by email, confirming the account details over the phone was not an onerous or 
impractical step to take. Miss M tried to call her solicitor and requested a call back via email. 
Both actions indicate that she believed the prospect of speaking to her solicitor was both 
reasonable and realistic.
Neither can I agree that the one-line email she received during the Call ought to have 
provided her with any reassurance. If anything, it showed that the solicitor was available to communicate with her (if only by email) and the failure then to respond to Miss Ms 
subsequent email should have only caused further concern. 
I know there were time constraints here, but the payment did not need to be made 
immediately and Miss M did have the opportunity to take the steps the bank advised. 
Im not persuaded, as Miss Ms representatives argue, that she didnt have any concerns 
about the legitimacy of the payment during the Call. The steps she took to try and contact 
her solicitor, as well as both her comments and tone at points in the Call all indicate a certain 
amount of doubt. While I accept she thought it more likely than not the account details were 
correct, particularly as they were for the bank she (albeit mistakenly) believed she had to 
pay, given the risk of fraud was specifically mentioned several times during the Call (and by 
Miss M in the email to her solicitor), Im satisfied this risk was understood by her.
Unfortunately for Miss M, Im also satisfied that it was her wish to have the payment made, 
despite the risk, rather than the impracticality of contacting the solicitor over the phone that 
led her to instruct the bank to make the payment without a verbal confirmation of the account 
details having taken place.
In order to provide a specific warning, it is necessary for the bank to first identify the purpose 
of the payment. It is reasonable then for it to ask questions about scams which might be 
relevant to that type of payment, as well as try and ensure that the customer has not been 
asked to mislead the bank. 
As such, it was appropriate and necessary for first direct to cover off, not just email 
interception scams, but also other scams involving property and those where a customer 
might be asked to deceive the bank. So, I cant agree that by not focussing exclusively on 
email interception scams (as well as asking whether the account details were obtained 
unexpectedly) the warning, taking into account the conversation as a whole, was materially 
less specific, timely or impactful. 
In fact, after asking questions about other scams, the adviser correctly identified the main 
risk here and was able to reinforce the warning later in the call  specifically focussing on the 
most likely risk.  
While the warning could have gone into more detail about email interception scams, I dont 
think it was rendered ineffective by not doing so. Miss M may not have understood the 
technicalities of how a scam like this works. But, as Ive explained, the warning only needed 
to be likely to affect the customers decision making so that the prospect of the scam 
succeeding is reduced. The warning did that by explaining the specific risk, how to avoid it 
and what the consequences of proceeding with the payment were. So, Im satisfied, taking 
into account the whole conversation, that the bank did enough to warn Miss M.
In relation to Confirmation of Payee, it was the receiving bank, rather than first direct which 
did not have the ability to check the account details  so this was outside of first directs 
control. From the transcript quoted above, Im satisfied the advisers explanation of 
Confirmation of Payee was clear enough, after clarification, to be understood and Miss Ms 
email sent during the Call supports this view.  
This was clearly an extremely unfortunate set of circumstances. The fact the scam came so 
close to being prevented makes it all the more unfortunate. Its not possible to know whether 
an extra question, a slightly more detailed explanation of the scam or, perhaps, a little more 
reluctance by first direct to go ahead with the payment would have made a difference here.  
But I think that those suggestions go beyond what first direct was required to do  under the 
Code or otherwise and Ive got no grounds, based on what it knew at the time, to say that it 
should have refused to carry out Miss Ms instruction.So, my decision remains unchanged from the provisional decision set out above and I will 
only be asking first direct to pay £150 in compensation.
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and instruct HSBC UK Bank Plc to: 
- Pay Miss M £150 in compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman