DRN-2725519
The complaint
Mrs S complains that NewDay Ltd repeatedly increased her credit limit on two credit cards. 
She says none of that lending was affordable and caused her financial difficulties.
What happened
Mrs S had two credit cards with NewDay, one opened in 2013 and the other in 2015. The 
cards initially had limits of £250 and £900 respectively, with the credit limit on both accounts 
increased several times. 
By 2016 Mrs Ss total indebtedness across both accounts had increased to £7,800. She 
contacted NewDay to say she was in financial difficulty, and a payment plan was discussed 
but only one further payment was received. NewDay recorded defaults for both credit cards 
on Mrs Ss credit file in 2017, after the accounts had been in arrears for 180 days, and sold 
the debts.
NewDay applied limit increases to the accounts as follows:
Card 1  opened with £250 credit (Jan 2013)
May 2013  increased to £600
October 2013  increased to £1,000
February 2014  increased to £1,600
June 2014  increased to £2,600
October 2014  increased to £3,400
March 2015  increased to £4,150
Card 2  opened with £900 credit (June 2015)
August 2015  increased to £4,900
September 2015  increased to £1,500
January 2016  increased to £5,650 January 2016  increased to £2,100
On 28 June 2020 Mrs S raised a complaint with NewDay about the lending. She said she 
had other debts elsewhere and was struggling with her finances so it shouldnt have kept 
increasing the limit. Mrs S added that had the proper checks been done NewDay would have 
seen she couldnt repay the amounts lent within a reasonable amount of time. 
NewDays response said it couldnt reasonably be expected to investigate Mrs Ss concerns 
about the opening of the account and the first few lending decisions, as these had happened 
more than six years ago. For the first card NewDay defended most of the other limit 
increases, saying it reviewed Mrs Ss eligibility at each one and its records also showed she 
hadnt opted out of them. On the second credit card NewDay pointed to a high annual 
income on the application and no arrears showing on her credit file. NewDay did accept it 
shouldnt have approved the limit increases in January 2016 for either card, as those had 
been unaffordable. So offered to refund the charges and proportionate interest.
Mrs S wasnt happy with the offer, so referred her complaint to our service. An investigator 
here reviewed everything and agreed we could only consider the lending that took place in 
the six years prior to the complaint being raised. In her view NewDays checks werent 
sufficient  and had the lender verified Mrs Ss income it would have seen she couldnt afford 
the borrowing from May 2015 onwards. So the investigator recommended NewDay refund all 
interest and charges back to that date, and remove any adverse data recorded on her credit 
file after that.
NewDay didnt agree. It said it wasnt required to verify Mrs Ss income for this type of 
lending  and the affordability model it used, along with data provided by a Credit Reference 
Agency (CRA), indicated the lending would be affordable. As no agreement could be 
reached, the complaint was passed to me for a decision on the matter. 
I issued a provisional decision, upholding the complaint but increasing the redress. Ive 
quoted my rationale below:
Firstly, though, I want to clarify the scope of our jurisdiction in this complaint. The rules that
govern the complaints our service can and cant look into are called The Dispute Resolution
Rules (DISP), and these are found in the FCAs handbook. They include time limits  and
DISP 2.8.2 says we cant consider a complaint if its referred to us more than six years after
the event complained about, or (if later) more than three years from when the complainant
ought reasonably to have been aware they had cause for complaint. All of the lending
decisions in the six years prior to the complaint being raised on 28 June 2020 are in scope
under the first part of that time limits rule  meaning we can consider all of the lending
decisions after the limit increase on 3 June 2014 (as that took place more than six years
prior to the complaint being raised). The first one we can consider being in October 2014.
When looking at the lending decisions that happened more than six years ago, Ive
considered whether the three-year part of the rule allowed Mrs S more time to complain. But 
I can see that the accounts were defaulted in April and May 2017, and I consider that to be
the latest point Mrs Ss ought reasonably to have been aware she might have cause for
complaint. By that point the lending had become unaffordable for her, and being defaulted
ought to have prompted Mr S to assess how she got there  and question whether NewDay
had lent her too much. So the three years started ticking down from that point.
As Mrs S didnt raise her complaint until June 2020, none of the older lending decisions
(more than six years prior to her complaining) have been referred within the three years
allowed. There arent any exceptional circumstances that explain the delay, and NewDay
hasnt consented to us looking at those lending decisions. So a complaint about them is out
of time, and not something our service has the power to consider. I can, however, look at the
limit increase in October 2014, and the lending decisions that took place after.
Various pieces of guidance were available to NewDay at the time of the lending decisions in
question  including the Office of Fair Tradings Irresponsible Lending Guidance and the
FCAs Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Both regulators said that at each limit
increase NewDay was required to carry out proportionate checks to satisfy itself Mrs Scould afford to repay the credit in a sustainable way. That meant repaying it without undue
difficulty, while being able to meet other commitments and without having to borrow further.
The checks needed to be a borrower focussed consideration of the impact of the lending on
Mrs S, rather than an assessment of the likelihood of being repaid. There was no set list of
checks NewDay had to do, but they could take into account several different things such as
the size of the increased limit, the amount of the monthly repayments and Mrs Ss overall
circumstances.
NewDay told us that to approve the limit increase in October 2014 it relied on scoring from
an internal affordability model and information from a CRA. NewDay commented generally
that prior to the increases in 2014/15 there were no late payment, over limit or cash advance
fees charged on the accounts  and the CRA it used reported no external accounts in
arrears. Overall NewDay considered Mrs S to be managing her finances well until 2016.
Ive reviewed the statements covering the six months leading up to the October 2014 limit
increase. Before the previous limit increase in June 2014 Mrs S routinely paid off the (often
quite large) balance in full  and usually left a large proportion of available credit. But
following the limit increasing to £2,600 there was a marked change in how she managed the
account. Within two months Mrs S was up to the top of her new limit, and in August 2014
she paid just above the minimum payment towards the balance. There was no spend on the
account in September 2014, as Mrs S was all but at the limit, and another payment just
above the minimum was made. The same happened in October. Having seen those four
months of account management, NewDay increased the limit by more than 30%. But I dont
consider that activity demonstrated Mrs S was managing the previous limit increase
comfortably (let alone she could afford more credit). I think the change Ive noted indicated
the opposite might be true.
NewDay said it reviewed information from a CRA, and Ive also looked at Mrs Ss credit file
to see what other borrowing would have likely been evident. I accept there may not have
been any arrears reporting at that stage, but Ive seen at least two other credit card
accounts, a loan and at least ten mail order/catalogue accounts. I think its likely some of
those catalogue accounts had significant balances  as the statements show a large
proportion of the spending on this credit card in the months preceding the October 2014 limit
increase was toward them.
The last time NewDay had asked Mrs S for information to assess her affordability, like her
income or other financial commitments, was during the initial application almost two years
before, and when approving a £250 credit limit. I dont consider NewDay could have known, 
from the checks it did at the October 2014 limit increase, that Mrs S could afford any
additional lending or a credit limit of £3,400. So, particularly given what her account
management and credit file were indicating, I find that the affordability checks NewDay
performed werent reasonable and proportionate for large amount of credit being considered.
Mrs S has told us her circumstances had changed and she wasnt working during this period
(her bank statements show she was receiving benefits). So had extra checks been carried
out they would have shown that further lending (and potentially her existing borrowing)
wasnt affordable.
Ive considered that a year later, when applying for a second credit card with NewDay, Mrs S
lied about her income. But Im persuaded, on balance, that wouldnt have happened during
the further checks Im saying should have been done in October 2014. By the time Mrs S
was applying for another card in 2015 her finances had become unmanageable, and shes
told us she was desperate to get credit from wherever she could to try and stay afloat. While
I can see the signs in 2014 that things were becoming unsustainable, I dont think she was
yet in the kind of difficulty that might have caused her to lie about her income.Ive gone onto think about the lending on the second card Mrs S took out with NewDay in
2015  and I dont consider that account should have been approved. Based on how Mrs S
maintained the existing account she had, and that I think NewDay ought to have realised she
couldnt afford a £3,400 limit the year before, I dont think any additional lending was
affordable. Its also difficult to know whether that application would have even taken place
had NewDay not approved the limit increases from October 2014 onwards for her first credit
card account. But by the time the second account was opened Mrs S was near the top of her
limit on her other card (around £350 left on a now £4,150 limit) and had been paying not
much over the minimum payment on that account for the preceding few months. I appreciate
she put a high salary on the application, but Mrs S also said she had unsecured debts of
around 60% of her annual income (a high percentage by anyones standards). Mrs Ss credit
file also supported that she had lots of borrowing elsewhere  with four other credit card
accounts, a loan and fourteen mail order/catalogue accounts being reported at the time.
Applying for another card just as the first one was maxing out with a high limit should have
prompted further enquiry about her circumstances anyway. But that, combined with the
growing overall debt picture and consistently paying little more than the minimum on an
existing account, ought to have signalled that more checks were needed to determine
affordability. Based on what we now know about Mrs Ss monthly outgoings at the time, even
if the stated salary was considered I think its likely that proportionate checks would have
showed the lending wasnt affordable. So the second account shouldnt have been opened.
Mrs S responded to say she accepted my provisional findings. NewDay said it didnt agree, 
and made the following points:
At the time of the limit increases on the first account Id said were unaffordable 
(October 2014 onwards), NewDay used its own internal data based on Mrs Ss 
account management and data received from one CRA. The lender said there was 
no requirement before that time to use multiple agencies. Neither was it required to 
request evidence Mrs Ss income and expenditure.
The risk and affordability data it had sent me showed Mrs S did not exceed her credit 
limits or make any late payments before the credit limit increases took place. 
NewDay also said she met the terms and conditions of her credit agreement by 
making at least a minimum payment by her due date. So while the lender agreed 
Mrs S had changed the way she managed her account, it did not follow she was 
having problems making payments.
 With regards to the second account, NewDay said it had accepted the second 
account based on its assessment Mrs S had managed the first account extremely 
well. She hadnt exceeded her limit and was maintaining her payments in line with 
the terms and conditions of her credit agreement. There also wasnt any evidence of 
affordability issues reported externally. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything afresh and considered NewDays response, I havent been 
persuaded to depart from the outcome I reached in my provisional decision. So Im 
upholding Mrs Ss complaint  and for the same reasons I set out above. 
NewDay has argued that the change in the way Mrs S used her account wasnt necessarily 
evidence of financial difficulty. But I consider it ought to have prompted further checks from the lender, as it could have been an indication she was struggling. It certainly wasnt 
evidence she could afford more borrowing. NewDays checks needed to be borrower 
focussed  and only paying the minimum payment each month wasnt a sign Mrs S was 
managing that level of debt comfortably. Therefore I dont agree NewDay had enough 
information from the checks it carried out to determine whether Mrs S could afford any 
additional lending. 
Had NewDay carried out further checks to determine Mrs Ss affordability I consider those 
would have revealed she couldnt afford any further borrowing. Im also persuaded that had 
her circumstances been realised in October 2014, a lender with due regard for its customer 
and the regulators guidance wouldnt have approved another account a few months later in 
2015 either. Unless there was sufficient evidence those circumstances had significantly 
improved  and in this case there wouldnt have been. 
Putting things right
I consider that NewDays affordability checks across both accounts from October 2014
werent proportionate  and had they been, theyd have highlighted the lending was
unaffordable. I dont think it would be fair for NewDay to profit from those mistakes, or for
Mrs Ss credit file to be adversely affected as a result.
So, in order to put things right, Im directing NewDay to:
Buy back both accounts from the business they were sold to, so the balances can be
reworked. NewDay should ask that business to remove any data related to the
accounts from Mrs Ss credit file.
Rework the first account as if no interest was applied to the portion of the lending
above the limit of £2,600, and to refund any other charges applied to the account
after the October 2014 limit increase. If the account is in credit once those refunds
are applied, NewDay should add 8% yearly simple interest on that amount from
when Mrs S wouldnt have started accruing a positive balance until she gets it back.
Remove any adverse data it has recorded on Mrs Ss credit file about the first credit
card account after October 2014.
Rework the second credit card account, that shouldnt have been opened, so that all
interest and charges were never applied. If those refunds mean Mrs S would have
been in credit, then 8% yearly interest should be applied from the point the positive
balance would have started accruing until the date settlement is paid.
Remove all data about the second credit card account from Mrs Ss credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ss complaint about NewDay Ltd, and direct the lender 
to put things right in the way Ive explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman