DRN-3546382
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy because she says that ActiveQuote Limited mis-sold her a private medical 
insurance policy. 
What happened
ActiveQuote sold Mrs C a private medical insurance policy, underwritten by an insurer Ill 
refer to as A. They provided her with advice about which policy was most suitable for her. 
After shed taken out the policy Mrs C learned that she could have protected her no claims 
discount (NCD). A said it wasnt possible to add that option on mid-way through the policy 
year. Mrs C complained to ActiveQuote because she said she hadnt been told she could 
add this feature on to her policy. 
In their final response ActiveQuote acknowledged that Mrs C hadnt been made aware she 
could protect her NCD for an additional cost. They explained that they would review the 
situation at the point of renewal and sent Mrs C a £25 voucher. Unhappy, Mrs C complained 
to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened, including the impact on Mrs Cs renewal 
price. He thought that Mrs C was £252.98 out of pocket as a result of not having the 
protected NCD. So, he thought ActiveQuote should put things right by paying this financial 
loss together with £600 compensation to reflect the ongoing impact on Mrs Cs premiums. 
ActiveQuote didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. They offered to 
pay £100 compensation, £252.98 to reflect Mrs Cs financial loss and to review the policy at 
each renewal (and deal with any further detriment at that stage). Mrs C didnt want to accept 
this offer. She said that she accepted our investigators proposed settlement of the complaint. 
So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ActiveQuote gave Mrs C advice about the policy. So, the relevant rules and industry 
guidelines say that they had a responsibility to make sure that it was right for her. And they 
also needed to make sure that they gave her enough information about the policy so that 
she could decide if it was right for her. 
Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint because: 
Its accepted that Mrs C wasnt told about the option to protect her NCD or advised to 
take it out. I think Mrs C should have been told about this. It was an important feature 
of the policy and it should have been discussed with Mrs C when ActiveQuote was in 
the process of identifying her demands and needs and when providing her with 
information about the policy. Im satisfied it is most likely Mrs C would have selected 
the protected NCD if shed been told about it, particularly bearing in mind that it was 
a relatively small additional cost. 
I think Mrs C has lost out financially as a result of what went wrong during the sales 
process. Thats because Mrs C claimed on the policy and now her premiums have 
increased because the NCD wasnt protected. This is also likely to have an ongoing 
impact on her premiums at each renewal. 
ActiveQuote has agreed to cover the £252.98 that Mrs C is out of pocket as a result 
of the protected NCD not being applied. This takes into account that Mrs C would 
have paid more for the protected NCD but reflects that, as a result of not having a 
protected NCD, her premiums have increased by around 30% for this specific 
reason. 
Mrs C has had a lot of worry because shes been unwell and needed to make a 
number of claims on the policy. Shes also left in a position where she cant now add 
the protected NCD, because shes made a claim. And because her NCD isnt 
protected, claims will have an impact on her premiums at renewal due to the way in 
which A structures its NCD and premiums.
I dont think its fair for Mrs C to have to approach ActiveQuote at each renewal to 
see what the impact of the lack of protected NCD has on the premiums. Thats more 
worry and uncertainty on top of the frustrating experience Mrs C has had to date. So, 
I think the fairest way to put things right is to make a payment for the distress and 
inconvenience Mrs C has been caused, acknowledging the longer-term impact on 
Mrs C. 
Mrs C says she is angry about having been placed in this position. Its clear from her 
testimony that shes found the uncertainty worrying and frustrating. Thats been 
ongoing because she also is worried about the longer-term impact on her premiums, 
particularly as shes told us that shes needed to make a number of claims. So this 
also places her in a more difficult position because it will be more difficult to move to 
a different insurer, as it is most likely shell have to pay higher premiums and/or for 
the insurer to place exclusions on the policy. So, I think £600 more fairly reflects the 
distress and inconvenience caused. I dont think £100 is enough to put things right. In 
reaching my decision Ive taken into account that Mrs C may chose to cancel her 
policy. But I think this is the fairest way to put things right in the circumstances of this 
case.    
Putting things right
Mrs C has already received the voucher so ActiveQuote needs to put things right by paying 
Mrs C: 
£252.98 which is the direct financial loss caused by the increase in Mrs Cs 
premiums
£600 to reflect the distress and inconvenience that the issues during the sales 
process have caused her.
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint against ActiveQuote Limited and direct them to put things right 
in the way Ive outlined above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman