DRN-3348014
The complaint
Mrs H complaint is about the service provided by The Co-operative Bank Plc when dealing 
with her international transfer.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
When a mistake is made, we require the business to put the consumer back in the 
position they would have been had the mistake not been made. In this case this has 
now happened. The Coop refunded Mrs H the amount lost due to the exchange 
differences arising from the failed first transaction on 31 December 2021 and Mrs H 
has confirmed that the transaction has now been completed. I also note that Mrs H 
wasnt charged for the transaction to reflect the inconvenience of having to go 
through this twice.  
As well as putting the customer back in the same position, we also consider the 
distress and inconvenience the mistake caused and where appropriate we award 
compensation. In this case I agree that Mrs H has experienced stress and upset due 
to the failure of the initial transaction and that compensation should be paid.
The outstanding issue relates to the amount of compensation. I appreciate the 
comments that Mrs H has made and why she doesnt feel £400 is enough, but in this 
case, I agree with our investigators recommendation. I say this because our role isnt 
to penalise the business but to compensate where mistakes have caused upset and 
distress. In this case the payment Mrs H was transferring was her pension lump sum 
and so when the money wasnt transferred correctly, I can understand this would 
have caused her a lot of distress. Mrs H has provided evidence of the stress the 
issue caused, and I can appreciate that for three weeks she was unaware of where 
her money was. However, the Coop did acknowledge its error in and refunded her 
the money lost due to the exchange costs on 31 December 2021. It also offered 
compensation. Therefore, while I appreciate that Mrs H was very upset by the issue 
with her transfer, I also acknowledge that her funds were returned within the month 
and her loss refunded around three months later. Taking all the evidence into 
account I think that compensation of £400 is reasonable.
I understand that Mrs H may not be happy with this outcome and I am very sorry to hear of 
the upset and embarrassment she was caused by the issue with her transfer. But taking 
everything into account I think compensation of £400 is fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
Our investigator recommended that the Coop contact Mrs H to make the second payment 
and that no charges be applied for this. I understand this has happened. 
Additional to this, the Coop should pay Mrs H £400 compensate her for the distress their 
error with the initial payment caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. The Co-operative Bank Plc should take the 
actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman