DRN-3367178
The complaint
Mr Gs complaint relates to the transfer of pension benefits from a defined benefits (DB) 
occupational pension scheme to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). Mr G thinks the 
advice provided was unsuitable. He says he was advised to transfer by an appointed 
representative of Sanlam Partnerships Limited (Sanlam) and another financial business 
(which Ill call Firm J). 
Sanlam is responsible for answering complaints about its appointed representatives. So, for 
simplicity, Ill largely just refer to Sanlam throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr G was a member of the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS). In March 2016, Mr Gs 
employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure its business, including 
decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund, or a new defined-benefit scheme. 
Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to a private pension 
arrangement. In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter  
saying they needed to make a decision regarding their pension benefits.
Mr G says he spoke to Sanlam in late 2017 to review his pension. Sanlam didnt have the 
requisite permissions from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to advise on transferring 
Mr Gs benefits from his DB scheme. So, Sanlam referred him to Firm J who were 
authorised to provide this type of advice. Mr G subsequently transferred his pension benefits 
from the BSPS to a SIPP.
Sanlam says Mr G became a client in December 2018, when it became the servicing agent 
for his SIPP, after the transfer had taken place. It says this was the first time Mr G entered 
into any agreement with it. Ive seen a copy of a letter, bearing Mr Gs signature, authorising 
the SIPP provider to transfer servicing rights to Sanlam, which was dated 10 December 
2018. Ive also seen a letter from the SIPP provider confirming that this had been actioned 
several days later as well as a plan summary indicating all adviser charges, including for 
ongoing servicing, prior to this were paid to Firm J.
Sanlam has continued to provide ongoing servicing since December 2018. And has provided 
copies of correspondence between Mr G and it in the years since, relating to that servicing.
In 2021 Mr G complained to both Sanlam and Firm J about the advice to transfer, as he felt it 
was unsuitable. 
Sanlam said it hadnt provided Mr G with any advice to transfer his pension. It agreed its 
representative had spoken with him. But it said it had verbally introduced Mr G to Firm J as 
Sanlam was unable to advise on pension transfers. And it said that Firm J had provided the 
advice to transfer and was the sole party responsible for this. 
Mr G asked our service to consider his complaints about both Sanlam and Firm J. He said 
hed been told a transfer was a no brainer and he was advised to transfer to protect his 
money and enable his children to benefit. He said I felt that this was my only option to 
defend my pension for my children. My pension would not be safe if (my employer) were to 
close. 
In respect of his complaint about Sanlam, Mr G said he went to Sanlam for advice. He 
acknowledged it had told him it couldnt complete the transfer as it wasnt regulated to do so. 
So, it introduced him to Firm J. He also acknowledged that Firm J provided advice but says 
he used Firm J on Sanlams recommendation and wasnt given the option of using another 
regulated business. 
Firm J is no longer authorised by the FCA, and I understand was declared in default  so 
unable to meet its liabilities  by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). So, 
Mr Gs complaint about Firm J has been referred to the FSCS.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint about Sanlam, but he didnt think it 
should be upheld. He was satisfied that Sanlam wasnt authorised to provide transfer advice 
and had referred the matter to Firm J  which Mr G had acknowledged. And the Investigator 
was satisfied that Firm J had provided, and was responsible for, the advice Mr G received. 
Mr G said he didnt think our service had been provided with all of the relevant information. 
He said he was concerned that Sanlam had said he had not become a client until December 
2018 and hadnt retained any records prior to this. Mr G felt this didnt accurately reflect what 
had happened and the prior interactions when hed been referred to Firm J. He said there 
had been a number of meetings and emails between he and Sanlam prior to December 
2018. He also said that some of the information recorded in a fact find which Sanlam had 
said was done in December 2018, after he became a client, was out of date for that time and 
in fact related to events in 2017, before Sanlam referred him to Firm J. So, he believed 
paperwork Sanlam said was from December 2018, mayve been altered and questioned how 
our service could reach a conclusion while these documents were disputed.
Our Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. They said that discussions 
between Mr G and Sanlam prior to the advice being given didnt alter that the advice itself 
was provided by, and the responsibility of, Firm J.
Mr G asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. As a result, it has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint our service was asked to consider, which Im looking at here, is about the 
transfer of Mr Gs DB scheme benefits. Specifically, whether the advice was suitable and, in 
this case, whether Sanlam has any responsibility for that advice.
More recently Mr G has talked about documents, which Sanlam has said refer to meetings 
and discussions relating to the ongoing servicing it has provided, being altered and not being 
genuine. The ongoing servicing of the SIPP, provided by the appointed representative while 
Sanlam was responsible for its actions, was not part of the original complaint we were asked 
to consider. And I cant and wont be looking at that here. If Mr G believes Sanlam has made 
errors while it was acting as servicing agent in respect of his SIPP, hell need to raise these 
issues as a separate complaint with Sanlam.Im aware that Mr G does not agree with Sanlams position on this complaint and there is 
some disagreement over the events that took place. Where information or evidence is 
unavailable, incomplete, contradictory or disputed I reach my conclusions on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the 
available evidence.
Mr G is unhappy that Sanlam has said he wasnt its client until December 2018 and that it 
says it does not have records of contact that took place prior to that point. I can see that 
Sanlam has told him via email that it doesnt retain records of enquiries where there is not an 
ongoing agreement, part of the reason for which it says relates to data protection. But, while 
it is unfortunate that Sanlam hasnt been able to provide a great deal of documentation prior 
to December 2018, I dont think that prevents me from making a decision in this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr G contacted Sanlams appointed representative about reviewing his 
pension, before the transfer took place. An email Ive seen from November 2018, relating to 
the provision of a letter of authority to enable Sanlam to act as his servicing agent indicates 
there had been contact prior to that point. And Sanlams final response to the complaint 
confirmed that its representative agreed that it had verbally referred Mr G to Firm J for 
pension transfer advice. Which had to occur before the advice was provided. But again, what 
Im considering is whether Sanlam is responsible for the advice to transfer Mr Gs DB 
scheme benefits.
It isnt in dispute that Sanlam did not have the required permission from the FCA to advise 
Mr G about a potential transfer of his DB scheme. Mr G said when he brought his complaint 
to our service that Sanlam had told him this was the case and that it passed the matter to 
Firm J. So, it is also agreed that Sanlam referred and introduced Mr G to Firm J.
It also doesnt appear to be in dispute that Firm J advised Mr G to transfer his pension. Mr G 
indicated as much when he complained about Sanlam. And he has made a separate 
complaint to Firm J about the advice it gave him.
Given the transfer value of Mr Gs pension, he was required to take advice from an FCA 
registered adviser. And the trustees of the existing pension scheme required confirmation 
that this had been sought from an appropriate party before a transfer could take place. Not 
only was Sanlam unable to provide the advice Mr G needed, it also couldnt provide the 
written confirmation he required to satisfy the pension trustees. Whereas Firm J could 
provide the required confirmation.
As Ive said, I dont doubt that there were discussions with Sanlam prior to that advice being 
provided. And I dont doubt that these discussions involved Sanlam finding out information 
about Mr Gs circumstances and objectives, or potentially recording this  as it wouldve 
needed to know broad information relating why he was requesting advice in order to identify 
whether it could assist or, as was the case here, needed to refer Mr G another adviser. And 
information Sanlam noted may have in turn been shared with Firm J. But that doesnt, in my 
view, demonstrate that Sanlam gave Mr G advice to transfer his pension. And Im conscious 
Mr G could not have transferred his DB scheme, based on his interactions with Sanlam 
alone, as it didnt have the relevant permissions to enable this.
Sanlam mayve hoped that Firm J would advise Mr G to transfer so it could potentially later 
become the ongoing servicing agent. And its possible that Mr G believed Sanlam was 
advocating for the transfer of his benefits. But I havent seen evidence that Sanlam provided 
a recommendation to Mr G. Or that it did so in writing - as was required at the time where a 
business provided pension transfer advice. 
Ultimately, Im satisfied Firm J gave the advice for Mr G to transfer his pension benefits. And I dont think Sanlams earlier involvement should automatically make it liable for the 
suitability of the pension transfer advice provided by Firm J. It is my view that Firm J remains 
fully responsible for the advice it gave Mr G to transfer.
Mr G has said that he only took advice from Firm J because Sanlam introduced them. And 
he says he wasnt given the option of taking advice from another regulated business. 
Sanlam putting Mr G in touch with Firm J doesnt make it responsible for Firm Js actions. 
Firm J was a separate, independent business to Sanlam. And I dont think Sanlam could 
reasonably be expected to carry out further due diligence on Firm J, particularly as Firm J 
was regulated by the FCA and authorised by it to provide pension transfer advice.
And while I appreciate that Sanlam introduced Mr G to Firm J, he wasnt under any 
obligation to use their services. As Ive said, I understand Mr G approached Sanlam. When 
Sanlam informed Mr G it didnt have the required permissions to provide pension transfer 
advice, he was free to approach alternative regulated businesses.
In light of what Ive said above, its my decision that it was Firm Js advice that ultimately 
enabled Mr G to transfer his pension benefits. If this advice was unsuitable, then I think 
Firm J is responsible for Mr Gs losses flowing from the transfer. I havent seen any evidence 
that it was Sanlams advice that ultimately led to the transfer taking place, without the actions 
of Firm J. I am also not persuaded that Sanlam made an error or treated Mr G unfairly in the 
role it carried out. Because of this, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require Sanlam to pay compensation to Mr G or to take any further 
action in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman