DRN-2096688
The complaint
Mr M says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to him. 
What happened
In July 2020 I issued my provisional decision. In it I explained why I was intending to reach a 
different conclusion to the view expressed by our adjudicator, and uphold Mr Ms complaint 
about loans 3 and 4, which he took out with MYJAR in July 2017 and March 2019 
respectively.
A summary of my provisional decision is set out below and forms part of my final decision.
This complaint is about four loans MYJAR provided to Mr M between May 2017 and March 2019. Mr 
Ms borrowing history is set out on the table below as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 24/05/2017 27/05/2017 3 months £100.00 £52.19
2 09/06/2017 22/06/2017 3 months £400.00 £207.84
3 03/07/2017 11/07/2017 12 months £1,325.00 £198.59
4 10/03/2019 outstanding 6 months £450.00 £134.36
I understand loan 4 is still outstanding. There was a significant gap in lending between loan 3 and 
loan 4 of around 20 months and our adjudicator said hed considered this to be a new chain of 
lending.
In its final response letter to Mr M, MYJAR said it would not uphold his complaint. It said that it 
completed appropriate and proportionate affordability checks. Based on the application information, 
the income and expenditure details, and for each loan the subsequent checks it carried out, it could 
not uphold the complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term 
lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M could repay the loans 
in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as 
how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With 
this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have done more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
 the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a higher 
repayment from a particular level of income);
 the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the 
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish whether Mr M 
could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is the case. This is because 
the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular the 
customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; 
as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should 
realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. Im provisionally intending to uphold this complaint about 
loans 3 and 4. I will explain why.
For the first two loans I think the checks MYJAR did were proportionate. For loans 1 and 2 Mr M told 
MYJAR that his income was £1,400 and his expenses were £647. MYJAR has sent a copy of a credit 
report it carried out before agreeing to lend. There was no record of any bankruptcy, debt 
management plans or other indicators so that MYJAR might have been alerted to any problems with 
Mr M managing his money for the first two loans.
For loan 3 Mr M told MYJAR he had an income of £1,400. His expenses were reported as £697. Mr M 
borrowed loan 3 only eleven days after hed repaid loan 2 early. This time it was for substantially more 
(over three times the amount) and it was also to be repaid over a much longer period of 12 months. 
So, for this loan I think the checks MYJAR carried out should have been more in depth.
MYJAR could have done this is a number of ways - including asking for bank statements. In this 
instance I have a copy of Mr Ms credit report. I dont think its unreasonable for me to consider the 
information that I can see contained within this report.
I have carefully looked through this report. I can see that Mr M had three short-term high cost credit 
accounts open when he took loan 3. And Mr M had been using short-term lending in the previous 
month. So, I think by now MYJAR ought to have been concerned that Mr M was coming back for 
lending quickly and might therefore have been having problems managing his money. I dont think it 
should have given Mr M loan 3. Im therefore intending to uphold Mr Ms complaint about loan 3.
When MYJAR gave Mr M loan 4, I accept that there had been a long gap between the loans Mr M 
had taken out and this was now a new chain in lending. But based on MYJARS own checks, I think it 
was becoming more apparent and a picture was starting to emerge that Mr M was becoming more 
reliant on credit.I can see from the checks, that information about Mr Ms finances had been gathered for some time 
before this loan was given. It could have been that Mr M had been applying for other loans with 
MYJAR which had been declined but even if he hadn't been making frequent applications for short- 
term loans with MYJAR, it still had information about Mr Ms financial situation and would have been 
made aware from its own enquiries that Mr M was likely becoming reliant on short-term loans.
I say this as based on its own checks I think MYJAR would have seen that Mr M had opened around 
three new accounts in the preceding three months (that is on average one account per month); that 
Mr Ms balances on eight accounts had also increased in that time, and that his unsecured debt had 
gone up substantially. On this basis I think MYJAR should have looked to verify the information it had 
received from Mr M.
It could have done this in a number of ways  including asking to see bank statements. But as above, 
I think it is reasonable to rely on the credit report Mr M has provided. I have looked carefully to see 
what Mr Ms credit report revealed about his financial situation when MYJAR provided loan 4.
Based on the credit report, I can see Mr M still had eight short term loans which he was funding every 
month, a revolving credit account, and he had an unsecured loan, a current account and a credit card 
all in default. He had also opened and closed a number of accounts not long before he took out loan 
4. So, I think it was apparent that he had likely been having problems managing his finances and in 
reality was reliant on high cost short term credit when it provided loan 4. By now I think MYJAR should 
have been alerted to Mr Ms likely financial problems.
In addition, Mr M told MYJAR he had an income of £1,600 per month. For loan 4 it looks like his 
expenses had increased to £1,392. After payment of the loan repayment for loan 4, this left Mr M with 
just over £73 per month. I dont think this was likely enough money for Mr M to be left with for any 
unforeseen expenses or day to day living costs.
So as things stand, Im provisionally intending to uphold Mr Ms complaint about loans 3 and 4 and 
asking MYAR to put things right.
I asked both MYJAR and Mr M to come back to me with any further information they wanted 
me to consider before issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of short-term loans on our 
website and Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.
Both parties confirmed they received my decision, were happy to accept my findings and 
had nothing further to add. So, I see no reason to depart from the findings set out in my 
provisional decision, so therefore I uphold this complaint about loans 3 and 4.
Putting things right
 MYJAR shouldn't have lent loans 3 and 4 to Mr M.
I understand loan 4 is still outstanding. If that is the case and MYJAR has sold the 
outstanding debt, it must buy it back if it is able to do so. If it is not able to buy it back, it must 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below:
a. MYJAR must add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M towards interest, 
fees and charges on loan 3, not including anything that has already been refunded;b. MYJAR must calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr M 
which were considered as part of paragraph (a) from the date Mr M originally made the 
payments to the date the complaint is settled;
c. MYJAR must remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 4, and treat 
any repayments made by Mr M as though they had been repayments of principal on loan 4. 
If this results in Mr M having made overpayments, MYJAR should refund these 
overpayments with 8%* simple interest calculated on the overpayments from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen to the date the complaint is settled. It must then refund the 
amounts calculated in paragraphs (a) and (b) and move to step (e);
d. If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in (a) and (b) should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this results in a surplus, 
then the surplus must be repaid to Mr M. However, if there is still an outstanding balance, 
MYJAR should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr M. It must not pursue 
outstanding balances made up of principal it has already written off;
e. MYJAR must remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in respect of 
loan 3 and 4.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint about 
loans 3 and 4. MYJAR Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
  
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman