DRN-4113493
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited trading as Moneybarn irresponsibly granted 
her a conditional sale agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In June 2022, Mrs A acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Mrs A paid a deposit of £2,000 and was required to make 59 monthly 
repayments of around £210. The total repayable under the agreement was around £14,395.
Mrs A says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, 
it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included a full credit check and verifying Mrs As 
income. It said it recorded Mrs As credit commitments based on the results of its credit 
check and used third-party statistical data to assess her non-discretionary expenditure. 
Based on its checks it said the agreement was affordable.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Moneybarn didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mrs A didnt agree and as a resolution hasnt been reached the case has been passed to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Moneybarn hasnt provided a copy of the credit check it completed although it has noted the 
results showed that Mrs A had no recent missed payments, no defaults or county court 
judgements recorded and moderate borrowing levels. Ive considered this against the credit 
file and other information provided on behalf of Mrs A which shows her active accounts were 
up to date. Given this, I do not find that the credit information provided raises concerns that 
meant the lending shouldnt have been provided or that additional checks aside from those 
assessing the affordability of the repayments, were needed. 
Moneybarn has explained that it verified Mrs As income through a credit reference agency. I 
find this reasonable. It has also said that it used estimates for Mrs As expenditure from a 
third-party statistical source, alongside the information about her other credit commitments 
from her credit file. While estimates from third-party data can provide an indication of a 
consumers expenses, given the outcome from these calculations showed that Mrs A would 
have limited funds available after the repayments of the agreement (and noting the 
repayments were required over a five-year term), I think it would have been reasonable to 
have verified Mrs As expenses in some way to ensure that the lending was affordable over 
its term.
One of the ways that Moneybarn could have verified Mrs As expenditure was by reviewing 
bank statements. In the absence of anything else, Ive reviewed three months of statements 
which I think give a good indication of what Moneybarn would likely have found out had it 
completed proportionate checks. 
The statements show that Mrs As regular committed monthly expenditure at the time was 
around £1,000. In calculating this figure, Ive included cost for utilities and associated costs, 
credit commitments, and other regular memberships. Additional to these costs, Mrs A was 
paying for food and other living costs. While I note Mrs As income had been verified as 
being £1,600 a month had her bank statements been checked for her expenditure these 
would have shown her income was lower, averaging round £1,490 a month. Additional to 
this there were transfers into the account (and out) from individuals which I havent included 
in the calculation. However, taking the lower income figure and the amounts identified for 
Mrs As expenses into account, I do not find I have enough to say that further checks would 
have shown the agreement to have been unaffordable for Mrs A. For this reason, Im not 
persuaded that Moneybarn acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman