DRN-2937682
The complaint
Mrs C complains a car she bought using finance from RCI Financial Services Limited (RCI) 
which was misrepresented to her. She has since part-exchanged the car and settled the 
finance agreement. She asks for a refund of her deposit.
What happened
In November 2020, Mrs C purchased a brand-new car through a hire purchase agreement 
with RCI. The cost was £23,036 which was to be paid over 49 months.
Mrs C says the car was misrepresented by the sales representative at the dealership. She 
says he told her the car was the same size as her previous car. But when she drove the car 
away from the dealership, she realised this wasnt the car she thought she had ordered. Mrs 
C called the dealership on the same day, but it said, it was not possible for her to return the 
car.
Mrs C thought she had 14 days to change her mind and was unhappy the dealership didnt 
agree. Soon after, the tyre pressure fault light came on. When she returned the car to the 
dealership, it was found to have nails in all four tyres.
Mrs C remained unhappy and so she took the car to another dealership and part exchanged 
it. The dealership settled the finance agreement, but Mrs C made a loss of £4,000. So, she 
complained to RCI.
In January 2021, RCI issued its final response. It didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint. It said 
there was nothing wrong with the car and so it couldnt support a rejection of the car. It said it 
had spoken with the original dealership. It said, it had offered to accept a return of the car 
and to settle the finance agreement as a gesture of goodwill.
Mrs C didnt agree. She said the dealership had not made this offer and as she had now part 
exchanged the car and made a loss, at the very least she wanted a return of her deposit.
An investigator looked into things for Mrs C. He didnt find any evidence to reach a view that 
the car had been misrepresented to Mrs C. He said he couldnt comment on the service Mrs 
C received from the dealership but in his view RCI had been fair and reasonable in its 
approach and so he didnt ask it to do anything further.
Mrs C disagreed. She feels very strongly she has been treated unfairly by the dealership and 
so she asks for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider having been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
The hire purchase agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement  
therefore this service can consider a complaint relating to it. There are various rules and 
protections about how hire purchase agreements operate, including those set out in the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) The CCA is therefore relevant law in this complaint. 
Firstly, Ive considered whether the finance agreement was mis-sold to Mrs C. In order to 
find that theres been a misrepresentation, I would need to be satisfied that the supplying 
dealer made an untrue statement of fact which induced Mrs C to enter into the agreement.
Mrs C has said she had specific requirements for the new car and only realised the car was 
unsuitable and didnt meet those requirements when she took receipt of the car and drove it 
away from the dealership.
There are no notes of the conversation between Mrs C and the retailer and because I wasnt 
present, I cant be certain of what was said. In circumstances like this, I need to look at the 
documents which came into existence at the time to decide whats most likely to have 
happened.
The retailer has confirmed Mrs C attended the dealership and looked at the car and sat in 
the car in the showroom. I have looked at the order form and the requirements Mrs C has 
mentioned were not present on it.
Ive considered whether Mrs C ought to have known, or reasonably known whether the car 
met her requirements. As she both sat in the model of car she wanted and signed an order 
form with the detail of the specification of the car, Id have expected her to have read it 
before signing and raised any concerns or queries then.
I can see there was just over a month from ordering he car to acquiring it and the email Mrs 
C sent wanting information comparing the new car with her old model was on the day of 
collection. Im in agreement with the investigator when I say I would have expected any 
discussion regarding the specification of the car to have been undertaken at the point of 
ordering.
But when Mrs C complained to RCI, it spoke with the dealership and it agreed to allow her to 
return the car and settle the finance. I appreciate Mrs C refutes this and said no such offer 
had been made and so she traded the car in at another dealership. All these events 
happened rather quickly. Mrs C could have waited for the response to her complaint from 
RCI and returned the car, but she chose to trade the car in with another dealer. Mrs C was 
entirely within her rights to do so, but I cant fairly hold RCI responsible for any loss she 
made, nor can I say it should refund her deposit.My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman