DRN-3790805
The complaint
Mr R complains about the time taken by HSBC UK Bank Plc to reimburse him after flight 
arrangements hed paid for using his credit card were cancelled due to the Covid-19 
pandemic.
What happened
Mr R arranged flights with a third party booking agent, E. The flights were with several 
different airlines. He paid using his HSBC credit card. Unfortunately, the flights had to be 
cancelled for a couple of reasons, but primarily due to the global pandemic. Mr R was told to 
claim the money back from his bank. So between March and June 2020, Mr R emailed 
HSBC asking for refunds and providing details of the different flight arrangements.
It took HSBC some time to acknowledge the refund claims. Mr R complained to the bank, 
which prompted it to take action to raise chargeback claims for the cancelled flights. Much of 
the money was received  either through the bank or directly from the airlines  and the 
claims closed by August 2020. But there remained a significant sum outstanding (over 
£1,000) which prompted a further complaint from Mr R in November 2020 after efforts to 
chase up the outstanding balance.
It took HSBC several more months (and Mr R several more emails) before the final amounts 
were refunded to Mr Rs account in June 2021. HSBC acknowledged the delays Mr R had 
experienced, saying that due to the pandemic it had been dealing with an unprecedented 
volume of claims. It offered Mr R £150 compensation for his time and trouble.
Our investigator initially felt that was a reasonable sum to reflect the stress and 
inconvenience to which Mr R was put due to the banks handling of the claims. Mr R didnt 
feel it went far enough, and on reviewing matters further the investigator proposed that 
HSBC increase its settlement offer to £225. The bank agreed to this, but Mr R did not. He 
felt the problems hed experienced warranted a higher amount, referencing typical awards 
shown on our website.
Mr R said that as a compromise hed be willing to settle matters if HSBC would pay him 
£275. HSBC wasnt willing to agree to a further increase and the complaint has been passed 
to me for review and determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its acknowledged by all concerned that HSBC should have dealt with Mr Rs claims more 
quickly than it did. While I understand the pressures the bank faced in dealing with higher 
volumes of claims, by any reasonable standard the claims ought to have been resolved 
sooner. To be fair, HSBC has acknowledged this. And  albeit belatedly  Mr R has had his 
money back. So the outstanding issue for me to determine is the appropriate level of 
compensation to reflect the frustration and difficulties Mr R experienced because of the 
banks delays.
I appreciate that Mr R was kept waiting and ended up sending many emails. Hes clearly 
unhappy about that and has strong feelings about the standard of service he expects from 
the bank. I should be clear that none of the awards we make are intended as a fine or to 
punish the businesses we cover. Our investigator pointed Mr R to the information we publish 
on our website about the compensation awards we make for distress or inconvenience.
I share the investigators opinion that HSBCs original proposal to pay Mr R £150 was a little 
too low, given what happened and where that sits within the range of our awards. I consider 
the £225 the investigator subsequently recommended to be a fair way to resolve matters. I 
understand why in Mr Rs view it should be more. But based on what happened in this 
individual case Im comfortable with the current proposal and see no reason to require a 
higher payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that to settle this complaint, HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr R £225.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman