DRN-2630684
The complaint
Miss H has said Everyday Lending Limited (Everyday) lent to her irresponsibly. Miss H has 
said she was accepted for two personal loans, when Everyday should have known these 
werent affordable for her.
What happened
In April 2019 Everyday lent £1,000 to Miss H. This loan agreement was for a period of 18 
months  with Miss H due to repay £2,046.78 by the end of the term. Its my understanding 
this loan was taken out to pay off some bills Miss H needed to make payment for.
Around five months later Everyday lent to Miss H again. Everyday lent Miss H £2,800  
repayable over 36 months. By the end of the payment term, Miss H was due to repay 
£8,308.08. This cleared the lending from the previous loan in April 2019. And the remainder 
of the loan was to help with paying for repairs to Miss Hs car. 
Miss H feels Everyday was wrong to lend to her on both occasions. Miss H has said when 
she was provided with the loans, she had existing credit commitments already in place. And 
that if Everyday had fully reviewed statements for her two bank accounts, it would have seen 
she was struggling to meet the repayments on these existing commitments. So, it should 
have known the borrowing would have been unaffordable for her.
Because Miss H was unhappy with this, she raised a complaint with Everyday. Everyday 
responded and said it was satisfied it had carried out a number of checks before it agreed to 
provide Miss H with both loans. And it explained it had carried out these checks to make 
sure the loans were affordable, and the repayments would be sustainable for Miss H. It 
noted the checks included credit file, affordability and employment checks. And based on 
those checks it was satisfied that the loans were affordable.
Miss H was dissatisfied with Everydays response. So, she referred her complaint to this 
service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. In respect of 
the loan provided in April 2019, our investigator said he was satisfied Everyday had carried 
out proportionate checks to see whether the loan would be affordable for Miss H. And that 
the information Everyday gained from the checks didnt show anything of concern, to make 
him think Everyday should have completed further enquires before agreeing to lend. In 
summary, our investigator didnt think the information provided suggested that Everyday 
made an incorrect decision that the loan was affordable or sustainable.
In respect of the second loan, our investigator noted that he found the checks Everyday 
completed on this loan to also be proportionate. And, he noted that having looked at the 
income and expenditure information provided, the loan was also sustainable. Our 
investigator also thought the checks Everyday did, didnt show anything that would suggest 
Everyday should have carried out any further checks than it did. 
Miss H didnt agree. She said that whilst she was willing to agree that the loan provided to 
her in April 2019 might have been affordable  she was still concerned about the loan 
provided in September 2019. Miss H explained there were elements of her situation at the 
time of applying for the second loan that should have raised concerns with Everyday, and 
meant it shouldnt have lent to her. 
Miss H said she had a number of financial commitments she was in arrears on at the time of 
the second loan  as well as having a lot of other borrowing  such as credit cards that had 
been used to their limit. And Miss H said she was making the minimum payments on these 
commitments. Miss H also noted that her bank statements showed she was transferring 
money out to another account, and that if statements for this additional account had been 
requested it would have shown Everyday the payments she was needing to make from that 
account. Our investigator said they had considered the transfers Miss H had been making 
from one account to another, when considering the outcome of the complaint. 
Because Miss H didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Its important to highlight that when coming to my decision Ive taken into account the 
relevant law, rules and guidance in relation to concerns about irresponsible lending. And, 
having considered these, and the circumstances of Miss Hs complaint, I think Everyday lent 
to Miss H responsibly, in respect of both loans. So, I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
Ive explained why below.
When considering Miss Hs complaint, Ive needed to consider the below key issues;
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks, to satisfy itself that 
Miss H would be able to make repayments on the loans in a sustainable way?
If Everyday did complete the above  was a fair decision made, in respect of whether 
to lend to Miss H?
If Everyday didnt complete the above, would reasonable and proportionate checks 
have shown Miss H would have been able to make repayments in a sustainable 
way?
Did Everyday act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss H in any other way?
Ive done this in relation to both the loans provided to Miss H and have addressed these 
separately below.
April 2019 loan
At the point Everyday provided this loan to Miss H, it was required to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of whether Miss H could afford to make the loan repayments in a sustainable 
way. And, when carrying out checks to make sure this was the case, the checks had to be 
borrower focused. So, this means Everyday had to considering the impact the lending 
would have on Miss H  not just how likely it was that Everyday would receive its money 
back by the end of the term.As above, Everyday also had to make sure the checks completed were proportionate to the 
circumstances of the loan. Whether a check is proportionate will depend on the 
circumstances of the loan being applied for. So, checks could include a number of things, 
including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower (e.g. their 
financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial 
difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
So, Ive considered this in relation to the loan agreed in April 2019. To do this, Ive looked at 
what checks Everyday completed, and what information it gathered at the time of lending, to 
see whether the checks it made were proportionate enough for Everyday to be confident the 
lending would be sustainable for Miss H.
And having done so, Im satisfied Everyday did make proportionate checks, before agreeing 
to lend to Miss H in this instance.
I can see that for this first loan Everyday considered Miss Hs income and expenditure and 
worked out what disposable income she should have at the end of each month, taking into 
account the monthly repayment Miss H would need to pay for the loan she was applying for 
too. 
Everyday checked what Miss Hs income was  and this was verified by a bank statement 
Miss H provided, showing her income to be £2,687.90. 
In terms of expenditure  Everyday looked into Miss Hs expenditure. It established the cost 
of Miss Hs rent each month, and the cost of this was verified by a copy of Miss Hs tenancy 
agreement. And, Everyday took into account the possibility Miss H may need up to £757 
every month for other essential living expenses, based on office of national statistics data 
(ONS)  such as utility bills and travel. 
As Miss H had a number of credit commitments at the time she applied for this loan in April 
2019, Everyday also did an audit of those credit agreements. These credit commitments 
equated to £412.25. Everyday took this into account and worked out what Miss Hs credit 
commitments would be each month  including the monthly payment she would need to 
make for this loan. And, it was established that Miss H would have £404.74 disposable 
income after this. 
Given the amount Miss H was asking to borrow, the term of the loan, and the level of checks 
Everyday completed, I do think it acted proportionately, and in a borrower focused way when 
checking that this loan would be sustainable for Miss H. 
Ive also thought about whether Everyday acted fairly in the decision it made to lend to Miss 
H on this occasion. And I think Everyday did make a fair decision to accept the application 
Miss H made. There wasnt anything recent within the checks completed that I think was 
concerning, or should have raised further questions for Everyday, before it made a decision. 
So, I dont think Everyday did anything wrong in this respect. And I dont require it to do 
anything more in terms of this loan. 
September 2019 loan
Ive thought about whether Everyday completed proportionate, borrower focused checks and 
at the point Miss H was applying for this loan. As with the previous loan, Everyday did check 
Miss Hs income  again with this being verified with bank statements. And, Everyday saw 
payslips evidencing Miss Hs income too. 
Everyday did also review Miss Hs expenditure. It considered a bank statement for a bank 
account of Miss Hs, which appeared to be her main account, with her salary going into it, as well as it showing day to day spending on this account. And when thinking about whether to 
lend, Everyday also took into account Miss Hs rental costs, and allowed £757 for other 
general living expenses each month.
Everyday also went through Miss Hs credit commitments at the time she applied for this 
loan. It reviewed her credit file from September 2019. And Ive seen this too. The credit file at 
this time showed five outstanding credit commitments  one of which was the April 2019 
loan Miss H was going to pay off with this one. Everyday worked out what disposable 
income Miss H would have, taking these commitments into account. This disposable income 
was calculated as £381.83.
Based on these checks, which included a generous allowance for living expenses (excluding 
rent), the amount of lending being asked for, and the term of the loan, I do think Everyday 
completed proportionate checks into whether the borrowing would be sustainable for Miss H. 
So, I dont think it did anything wrong in the way it completed checks at the point this loan 
was sold.
Ive also needed to think about whether Everyday acted fairly and reasonably by making the 
decision to lend in this instance. And based on the information Ive seen, I do think it made a 
fair decision. Everyday had completed checks that were proportionate. And I dont think the 
information it gathered raised concerns that meant Everyday should have asked further 
questions  or probed into Miss Hs circumstances further than it did. 
Miss H has said that she was in arrears on a number of other commitments at the time she 
took out this second loan. And she feels that Everydays expenditure assessment didnt give 
a realistic picture of her true expenses. 
But I dont think it was unreasonable for Everyday to rely on the information contained in 
Miss Hs credit report. And having reviewed the bank statements Everyday saw, alongside 
the credit file and audit, I dont think Everydays expenditure assessment was unreasonable. 
It took into account all unsettled debts on the credit file, when it calculated how much 
disposable income Miss H should have.
Miss H said that at the time of the lending, she had a large number of payment 
arrangements with other credit providers. And I accept that she may have had additional 
commitments. But I dont think there was anything within the information Everyday gathered 
that suggested this might be the case. As above, it took into account all credit commitments 
reported. If there was anything else Miss H did have commitments towards, that didnt show 
on these checks, she would have been able to explain these at the point the loan was sold. 
But, I cant see anything else was disclosed to Everyday. 
I understand Miss H has said her bank statements showed she made transfers from one 
bank account to another. And that seeing these transfers ought to have suggested to 
Everyday that it should ask for evidence of the other accounts. Miss H says if it had asked 
for this information it would have seen she had a number of other commitments she was 
paying from the second bank account. I havent seen copies of statements for this other 
bank account, at the time of the lending. So, I cant be sure of the status of this account. But 
I dont think this makes a difference to the outcome of this complaint.
I say this because I dont think the bank statements Everyday reviewed in September 2019, 
should have raised concerns in reference to transfers leaving the account. There werent a 
large number of transfers, and these could have been for any reason. The bank account 
Everyday saw appeared to have been Miss Hs main account  and Everyday had already 
taken into account all of the credit commitments noted on the credit file. So, I dont think 
there was cause for concern about Miss Hs situation, given the information gained.Miss H has said she took out some other loans and has raised complaints about the 
affordability of these. And those complaints have been upheld. So I understand why Miss H 
has highlighted this. But, I need to consider the individual circumstances of this complaint. 
And, in light of the above, Im satisfied Everyday acted fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
In light of the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Everyday Lending Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman