DRN-3435888
The complaint
Mr R complains Metro Bank Plc have a limit on the number of transactions he can make in a 
day using his bank account. Mr R wants the limit to be removed and doesnt think its fair for 
Metro Bank to tell him when he can access his money. 
What happened
Mr R says he has been told by his bank he can only use his debit card for a limited number 
of transactions per day. And this includes continuous payments on his card. He has been 
told the reason for the limit is security. But Mr R doesnt think the bank should be allowed to 
say when he can and cant use his card.
Mr R says he attempted to put petrol in his car and when he went to pay for it his card didnt 
work. It took him an hour to resolve and in the end he had to use his wifes card. 
Mr R says he has been told that the card use limit can be increased but not permanently and 
only on a case by case basis. Mr R isnt happy the card limit cant be removed and so 
complained to the bank.
Metro Bank said the usage limit on his card is in line with its terms and conditions. It said its 
card limits are regulated and approved by the Financial Conduct Authority. Mr R wasnt 
happy with the response received and so referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for him. He said he thought Metro Bank had acted within 
its terms and conditions and had dealt with Mr Rs complaint fairly. Mr R didnt agree and so 
the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to note my role here is to look at whether Metro Bank has acted within its 
terms and conditions and treated Mr R fairly and reasonably. I am not able to address the 
wider issues of how Metro Bank organise its internal processes as thats not my role. 
I can certainly empathise with Mr R as it is embarrassing and frustrating when ones card is 
declined at the point of sale. However what Im required to consider here is whether Metro 
Bank have acted unfairly or unreasonably here. And I dont think it has. 
The reason I say this is because I have looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Rs 
account. Ive considered these and they provide that Metro Bank may limit transactions 
carried out using certain cards. In Mr Rs case Metro Bank confirmed it did so because there 
are usage limits to debit cards and point of sale transactions in order to mitigate risk. It says 
the limit can be temporarily increased. Metro Bank said the measures have been 
implemented to prevent any type of fraud or misuse on the account. It said it doesnt offer a 
permanent increase and its systems are not able to override this. 
When Mr Rs card was declined at the petrol station Mr R contacted Metro Bank. During the 
course of the call the bank offered to temporarily increase the limit on his account in order for 
him to make the payment. Mr R didnt do this since he used his wifes card to make the 
payment. But the option was there should he have required it. I think that is a fair and 
reasonable process in order to help safeguard against fraudulent activity. 
Fraud is a significant issue for banks and financial institutions. And its clear Mr R wasnt 
aware of the usage limitations on his debit card until he contacted Metro Bank once his card 
was declined at the petrol station. Metro Bank are uniquely placed to know and respond to 
any likely threats and I think that a requirement to notify its customers in advance of any 
counter fraud measures it might be taking would be self-defeating. So I think its fair Metro 
Bank didnt notify Mr R in advance and in any event it is entitled not to do so by virtue of the 
terms and conditions applicable to the account. 
So I think Metro Bank have acted fairly in the circumstances; it declined a card transaction 
and offered Mr R a solution. That is reasonable in my view and so although Mr R will be 
disappointed with my decision I cant say Metro Bank has acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman