DRN-3262189
The complaint
Mr G complained that Starling Bank Limited wrongly debited money from his account twice, 
when hed only authorised one payment.
What happened
Mr G had a credit card with an organisation which Ill call C. On 25 November 2020, Mr G 
wanted to make a payment of £652.50 from his Starling account to his credit card. He tried 
doing this by phone, but he said the postcode verification failed. So he tried again, and this 
time it went through.
Mr G checked his Starling banking app, and saw the payment had been debited twice. He 
contacted C, which told him that the first verification had failed, so it hadnt taken the money. 
It told him the money might not be back in his account until the end of that day. This didnt 
happen, and C then told him it would probably be resolved over the weekend, but suggested 
he should contact Starling.
Mr G contacted Starling, saying his attempted payment to C said it hadnt gone through, and 
hed done it again but it had now gone through twice.
 
Starling replied that it had received an explicit instruction from C to authorise the amount on 
Mr Gs account. It said it was possible something had gone wrong on Cs side or with Cs 
processing organisation, meaning C couldnt confirm the transaction had been successful. It 
also said it was possible the payment had failed when Starling had responded to the original 
authorisation request. It said the transaction was still in the authorisation stage, so it would 
remain pending, then automatically revert at the end of that time, which could be from 8 to 
30 calendar days.  
Starling also said that if Mr G wanted the money released sooner, it would need written 
confirmation from C that it wouldnt be claiming the money. This could be either an email 
from C saying it wouldnt be claiming the money, with the date and amount mentioned, or a 
void receipt.
Mr G said he had multiple frustrating phone conversations and message exchanges with 
Starling. He said he told them, among other things, that withholding the money over 
Christmas would cause financial difficulty. Mr G said Starling refused to let him make a 
formal complaint, saying what had happened was company policy, until he said hed refer it 
to this service.
In its final response to Mr Gs complaint on 30 November, Starling said that it had received 
explicit instructions from C to hold the funds as pending. It said to that date it hadnt received 
confirmation from C that C didnt intend to finalise the payment. So Starling said it didnt 
uphold Mr Gs complaint because it had followed the correct processes.
Mr G wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. She said that the records showed that the 
first payment had indeed passed verification, so it was authorised to leave Mr Gs account, 
subject to C claiming it. She said she couldnt say why the payment had appeared to fail 
when Mr G was making it, but said it was understandable that Mr G had made another 
payment a few minutes later, because hed thought that it had failed. The second payment 
had been claimed by C the next day. And she saw that Starling had said it could remove the 
hold on the money if Mr G emailed a statement from C saying that C wouldnt claim the 
money. So she didnt think Starling had acted incorrectly.
Mr G didnt agree. He said that when hed tried to make the payment, it had been reported 
as rejected by Starling. He said that Starling had been dismissive and unhelpful when hed 
contacted it, including at one point refusing to allow him to make a complaint. As a result 
hed been deprived of Christmas during the worst pandemic in the last hundred years. Mr G 
said that, at best, Starling had been reluctant to offer further investigation, accept a 
complaint, or support his request as a customer in need. Mr G said that at worst it had taken 
illegal control of his money for a month and acted negligently by allowing unauthorised 
removal of his money.
Mr G said this was a breach of Starlings own terms and conditions, and was a direct attempt 
to mislead. He said he wasnt responsible for a banks back room or electronic processes, 
especially when money had been taken out even though the transaction had failed 
authorisation. Mr G said it was his civic duty to keep pursuing his complaint until Starling 
changed its operational and complaint processes. He asked for an ombudsman decision.
On 26 December, at the expiry of the holding period for payments, Mr Gs account was 
credited with the £652.50 which C hadnt claimed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr G feels very strongly about his complaint, and Im sorry hes upset. But my 
job is to look at what the rules are about payments, and what the technical evidence shows 
about what happened.
Regulations
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in November 2020 are the Payment Services Regulations 
2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, Starling) must show the 
transaction was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and in Mr Gs complaint, this is the 
important part.
What the system records show
Mr G told us that when he was trying to carry out the first transaction, he failed the post 
code verification part of the transaction and the payment verification failed. I suspect that a 
digit error occurred, so I carried out the same process again and subsequently the payment 
went through as expected.
The information I have doesnt show exactly what happened with the first transaction, or why 
Mr G received an error message of some sort. But this service asked Starling for more 
information about the payment authentication, in order to establish whether what the banking system sent to Starling was what Starling needed in order to process both payment 
requests.
What Starling sent us shows that at 11:30:38, there was a successful authorisation for a 
payment to C for £652.50. Three minutes later at 11:33:35, there was a second successful 
authorisation for a payment to C for £652.50. As well as the different times, there are 
different numbers for the two payments. So there were two separate successful 
authorisations.  This means that the computer evidence shows that both of Mr Gs attempts 
to authorise the payment were successful.
Starlings actions
As both payments were successfully authenticated through the banking systems  not just 
Starlings systems - I cant say Starling was wrong to process both transactions. Starling has 
explained that how the payment system worked here is that after payments are 
authenticated by the account holder, they are reserved on the banks systems until the 
recipient  here, C  requests the funds. Thats what happened with the second payment, 
where C requested the money the next day. The first payment stayed on the system, 
because C never requested that one.
Ive considered whether Starling acted fairly towards Mr G when he reported that only one 
payment should have gone through. Technically, it was standard practice to reserve the 
money when a customer has successfully authenticated a payment. To do otherwise would 
be to refuse to honour what a customer has authenticated. 
Ive also considered whether Starling acted fairly towards Mr G. Hes told us that he had 
poor customer service, including being told he couldnt raise a complaint because it was 
Starlings policy. I can see that Mr G was very upset about what happened. Although I dont 
have any customer contact notes, or phone recordings, I accept that Mr G rang and 
messaged Starling multiple times. 
But I can see that, as early as the next day, 26 November, Starling said to Mr G that if hed 
like the pending amount released before the 30 days expired, he could do so if he provided 
written confirmation from C that it wouldnt be claiming the money. I think this was a fair 
offer. It was also repeated in Starlings final response letter. So Starling offered a way for Mr 
G to have had his money refunded before the 30 day period.
Looking at Mr Gs other points, I dont agree that Starling took illegal control of his money for 
a month, or that it acted negligently by allowing unauthorised removal of his money. Nor do I 
agree that Starling breached terms and conditions, or deliberately misled Mr G.  In essence, 
Starling received two successful payment authorisations through the banking system, which 
it held pending Cs claim on these funds. By doing so it followed standard banking 
processes. And, importantly, it had straightaway made an offer to Mr G about how it could 
release the money earlier. For whatever reason, Mr G didnt send Starling the written 
confirmation that C wouldnt claim the money. But this didnt mean that having to wait 30 
days was Starlings fault. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman