DRN-3851482
The complaint
Mrs S is complaining about the way Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc has handled a dispute she 
made regarding a summer house she bought and partly financed by a fixed sum loan 
agreement financed by Mitsubishi.
Mrs S has been largely represented by her son in this complaint but, for ease of reference, I 
shall refer to any submissions hes made as been made by Mrs S.
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to all parties so I wont set them out in detail. But, 
in summary, in June 2019 Mrs S bought a summer house from a third party supplier  who I 
shall refer to as J. Under the terms of the contract, J was required to supply and install the 
summer house. The invoice cost was £11,000. Mrs S paid an initial deposit of £5,500 and 
financed the balance through a fixed sum loan agreement financed by Mitsubishi.
Shortly after the summer house was installed, Mrs S raised a number of issues  particularly 
regarding water leaks. J visited Mrs Ss property numerous times over the following 
18 months and, ultimately, in November 2020 it replaced the following:
Two single windows
Laminate flooring
Returns between the windows and doors
Wall timbers
Two front U-Profiles
One internal top door facia
Two external bottom window facias
The front bottom weather bar
The guttering
Mitsubishi also offered Mrs S £80 in compensation and used this to reduce the amount 
payable on the finance agreement.
In December 2021 Mrs S contacted J again to say the summer house was leaking again. J 
didnt think the leaks were linked to the previous issues as over a year had passed since the 
previous repairs. However, it arranged for another engineer to inspect the source of the leak. 
The engineer concluded it was down to knots in the wood which it said fell under Mrs Ss 
responsibility to maintain the property. However, it said it would treat the knots in the wood 
given what had happened previously. But, it maintained that these leaks werent linked to 
what had happened previously. It said Mrs S could arrange to have a second skin put onto 
the property, but it said this would be at her expense  and it quoted around £4,600 to do so. 
Mrs S arranged for an independent inspection who said the issues are down to a 
manufacturing/installation problem. He said it became apparent that the manufacturers 
have used double tongue and groove system which has a 6/7mm tongue therefore the 
timbers have shrunk past the tongue allowing daylight inside in several places. 
Following this, J said it was willing to fit the second skin and pay a further £500 in 
compensation. It said the application of the second skin would enhance the building above 
contracted specifications.
Mrs S didnt accept Js resolution. She said she hadnt been able to use the summer house 
for around seven months, so she thinks shes entitled to a refund of the monthly payments 
she made during that time. She also thought £750 in compensation was a fairer offer.
I issued a provisional decision in November 2022 saying that I thought the compensation 
now being offered was fair and I said the following:
Mrs S partly paid for the summer house through a fixed sum loan agreement. Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) sets out that in certain circumstances, as the 
finance provider, Mitsubishi is jointly liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by 
the supplier  J. Im satisfied those circumstances apply here.
Under the contact with Mrs S, J had agreed to supply and install a summer house. 
Legislation  in this case the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  implied a term into the 
contract that J had to supply a summer house that was of satisfactory quality and then fit it 
with reasonable care and skill.
It's clear that Mrs S had numerous issues with the summer house from when it was installed. 
And I can see that J had to rectify numerous issues. However, it seems to me the most 
pertinent issue is water ingress. From what Ive seen, the issues were down to the 
installation of the summer house and I dont think Ive seen anything to show that it was 
down to the quality of the materials.
I dont think one would reasonably expect to see the issues Mrs S experienced shortly after 
the summer house was installed. So Im satisfied that the summer house wasnt installed 
with reasonable care and skill. Ultimately it took around 16 months to resolve these issues. I 
acknowledge that some of this was down to the Government national restrictions imposed as 
a result of Covid-19. However, Im also conscious that Mrs S has told us that she intended to 
use the summer house as an office, but she was reluctant to use electronics in there due to 
water ingress. I dont think this is unreasonable.
Im satisfied that Mrs S didnt get the use of the summer house as she intended during the 
summer. Mrs S believes she should be entitled to the monthly payments she made during 
that time back, but I dont agree. I think its important to highlight that the contract of finance 
and the contract to install the summer house are two separate contracts. The monthly 
payments she was making wasnt to use the summer house but were repaying the finance. 
So I need to think about whats fair redress. In doing so, its also important to highlight that 
Im only looking here at what Mitsubishi should be responsible for. Section 75 gives Mrs S a 
like claim against Mitsubishi if there has been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by 
J. In thinking about Mitsubishis liability in this case, I must give consideration to what losses 
Mrs S would likely be able to recover in court against J when considering what the like 
claim might look like. Im mindful when doing this that courts dont typically tend to make 
wards for non-financial losses such as distress and inconvenience for breach of contract 
apart from in limited circumstances (which I dont think would be likely to apply here). So I 
think its firstly important to set out that I cant require Mitsubishi to compensate Mrs S for the 
distress and inconvenience J has caused. 
However, the CRA does set out what Mrs Ss rights are where J breaches an implied term of 
the contract. As I said above, Im satisfied that J didnt install the summer house with reasonable care and skill. The CRA sets out that Mrs S may have two rights in these 
circumstances:
1. She can ask that J carries out the work again or rectifies the issues outstanding (the right 
to a repeat performance); and
2. If the repeat performance is not possible or, Mrs S has required a repeat performance, 
but J has failed to do it within a reasonable time and without significant inconvenience to 
Mrs S, she has the right to a price reduction.
Im satisfied that the rectification works were carried out to a satisfactory standard in 
November 2020 as Ive not seen anything to show any further water ingress occurred due to 
these issues after this time. But Mrs S first raised this issue with J in September 2019. So it 
took around 14 months to resolve. Even taking into consideration the impact caused by 
Covid-19, I dont think this was done within a reasonable time. So I think Mrs S is entitled to 
a price reduction.
However, Im conscious that Mrs S has already been offered £580 in compensation (£80 
reduction by Mitsubishi and £500 by J). As I said above, under the terms of the contract J 
was required to supply and install the summer house. So, the amount payable is broken into 
a combination of supply cost and installation cost. The contract is silent as to how this is 
broken down, so it falls to me to consider what I think is a fair breakdown.
From experience, I think around 20% of the invoice is likely to be for the cost of installation  
i.e. around £2,200. £580 equates to around 26% of the installation cost. Im conscious that J 
did install a fully functioning summer house which will last for a significant period of time. 
And following the rectification work, it seems the summer house has operated as it should 
(although I acknowledge Mrs Ss comments about further issues which I shall address later). 
So, I think its fair that Mrs S pays the majority of the installation costs. Ultimately I think a 
26% price reduction is a fair and reasonable remedy. So I dont think Mitsubishi needs to 
offer anything further. Although it should pay the £500 that J has offered Mrs S (or use it to 
reduce the amount on the finance) if J doesnt do so.
Ive now thought about Mrs Ss comments about the further issues that have arisen. As I 
said above, Ive not seen anything to show that this was linked to the initial issues. It seems 
accepted that the recent initially issues arose from water seeping through the knots in the 
timber. J has offered to treat the knots to resolve this issue which I think is fair. And it made 
this offer straight away, so I dont think it needs to do anything further to put things right in 
this regard.
Mrs S has also referred to the fact that there are now gaps in the timber. Ive reviewed the 
independent report and this has said that this was due to the wood shrinking. However, he's 
also said that some change in shape is to be expected. Im also conscious that J has said 
that the timber could have shrunk to a greater extent due to the extreme temperatures the 
UK experienced around that time.
I acknowledge Mrs Ss comments regarding the gaps in the timber, but I dont think I have 
enough to say that this was down to poor quality timber or down to J not supplying or fitting 
them with reasonable care and skill. Im also conscious that around 19 months had passed 
from J replacing the timber and Mrs S highlighting this issue. J has offered to fit a second 
skin to the summer house, which I think is more than reasonable. So I dont think Mitsubishi 
needs to do anything more to put things right.
Both parties responded to accept my provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given me anything further to think about, I see no reason to reach a 
different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision. So, for the reasons I set 
out previously, I remain of the opinion that the compensation now being offered is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I think Mitsubishi HC Capital UK 
Plcs £80 reduction on the finance, coupled with Js offer of £500, is a fair way to resolve 
Mrs Ss Section 75 claim. However, Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc should pay Mrs S the 
£500 directly (or use it to reduce the amount on the finance) if J doesnt do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman