DRN-2192283
The complaint
Mrs R complained about the rate of interest applied to her account with TSB Bank plc
What happened
Mrs R wrote to TSB, to ask for a tax statement in April 2018. She repeatedly asked it to 
provide an up to date statement, from early June 2018. There was then considerable 
discussion about her account again, when the next tax statement was due in 2019. 
Mrs R gets an annual interest summary from TSB in summer each year, for her savings
account. For 2018, it showed shed received £452.38 in interest for the preceding tax year.
For 2019, it showed shed received only £79.11.
Mrs R said TSB has since told her that she needed to renew the bonus rate on her account.
The interest rate had dropped sharply because she hadnt done that. But she said TSB had
never written to her to tell her this. And it hadnt mentioned this when she visited the branch
either.
TSB said that it wasnt able to give us a full set of documents for this case, because it wasnt
able to access the documents issued before April 2018. But it could show us what
statements had been sent. And it had records of letters having been issued to Mrs R, even if
it no longer had the letters themselves.
TSB said Mrs R opened the account in late May 2012. Then it paid 1.6% interest, which
included a 1.5% interest bonus for 12 months from the date of opening. It said that in May
2013 there was a product change when the account had a new annual bonus applied. This
happened again in 2014, 2015 and 2016, with slightly different dates, but all around the
anniversary of the account being opened.
TSB said that it thought Mrs R had acted to renew her bonus in previous years, but then
hadnt done so in 2017. It said it wouldve written to her before April 2017 about this.
TSB said Mrs R was paid 0.5% interest with 0.8% bonus in the previous year, running up to
April 2018. But in the year running up to April 2019, shed only been paid 0.3% interest. So
the amounts shed received were right.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said the evidence she had
suggested that Mrs R had renewed the bonus rate on her account each year after opening in
2012, but then hadnt in 2017. Our investigator thought it was likely that a letter about
renewing was sent by TSB, and also noted that Mrs R ought reasonably to have been aware
that she needed to renew her bonus in 2017, as she had each year before. Whilst our
investigator understood that Mrs R felt let down as a longstanding customer, she said that
she didnt think TSB had done anything wrong.
Mrs R didnt agree. Mr R replied on her behalf, and said theyd moved house in 2018, which
he thought was around the time TSB had written to Mrs R about reducing the interest on her
account. But he said she would still have got any letter sent then, as redirection was in place
for a considerable time after that. Mr R then sent a further reply, setting out that the interest
rates TSB had mentioned were wrong. And he and Mrs R were upset that we had chosen to
believe that TSB sent letters which it couldnt show us.
Our investigator didnt change her mind. She set out her response, and in summary, said
that she still thought the bonus wasnt renewed in 2017. Interest on Mrs Rs account was
paid at the start of the tax year, so this affected a payment made in June 2018, which in turn
reported in the 2018-9 tax year. She noted it was unfortunate that TSB couldnt provide
earlier documentation, but said that we would look at the evidence and decide on the
balance of probabilities. Our investigator said that a move in 2018 wouldnt have affected
whether Mrs R got a letter about renewing an interest bonus in 2017. And she wouldnt ask
TSB to pay any more, because she still didnt think TSB had done anything wrong.
Mr R on behalf of Mrs R didnt agree. He said because TSB cant prove it sent the letter, Mrs
R should get the lost interest. He said Mrs R wanted her complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Towards the end of the investigation into this complaint, Mr R said that hed started to
wonder if Mrs R had actually ever received a letter inviting her to renew her bonus. 
He said he couldnt find any letters like that, so he was now wondering if theyd 
increased the interest on the account each year after theyd just seen an ad in the 
bank, or possibly asked each year if they should apply.
Ive sought and obtained further information from TSB. Broadly speaking, Mr R was 
right. Ill set out below whats happened, as I now understand it.
TSB has shown us the document Mrs R signed when this account opened. That 
states that Mrs R will receive a low interest rate, plus a rather higher bonus rate, for 
the first year. After that, the bonus rate no longer applies. Im satisfied that, if Mrs R 
took no further action, her interest rate wouldve reduced to the lower rate after a 
year, so in May 2013.
Theres no suggestion, either in this original account documentation or the 
documentation I can now see online for the easy saver account, that once that bonus 
is up, TSB will offer to increase interest for the next year too. So I thought it was 
more likely that what TSB has done is to write to Mrs R to tell her interest rates were 
reducing.
I contacted TSB about this, and its confirmed that this is right. Mr and Mrs R have 
said throughout that they would not have ignored a letter that said would you like 
bonus interest for the next year?. As Mr R suspected, it wasnt as simple as that.
TSB writes to its customers when the annual bonus is ending on their accounts. Its 
shown us records that suggest to me that this letter was sent in early 2017. But that 
letter simply tells Mrs R that interest is reducing on her account. It doesnt invite her 
to reply, and add the bonus back on for a further year.
Mrs R could then ask TSB to re-designate the account  effectively, to open a fresh 
account for her, with a new one-year bonus. But TSB has also said, because a 
number of its customers did this every year, it didnt require them to go through the 
whole process of opening a new account each year.So I think its most likely that when Mrs R got the letter saying interest was reducing, 
or when she got her annual statement confirming the interest payment, she then 
usually took steps to make sure she got the bonus rate again, either by contacting 
TSB, or, as Mr R suggested, by simply asking in branch. At the end of each year, 
TSB would be obliged to write again, to tell Mrs R the bonus rate was ending, and 
she would have to take steps again to increase it. 
That conclusion seems to me to be in line with the notes I can see about the letter 
TSB sent Mrs R in 2017. And it seems to me to be in line with the times that the 
account type was renewed, which dont seem to me to cluster closely enough to the 
anniversary date to indicate that Mrs R was just responding each year to a letter from 
TSB asking her if shed like to keep a bonus rate. It also fits with what TSB has now 
said to our service.
Mrs R has told us she was receiving a higher interest rate up until the tax year ending 
in April 2019. The statements Ive seen show her interest is paid annually, around 
June. So the payment showing on the statement for tax year ending April 2019 was 
interest paid in June 2018. It represents interest accrued on Mrs Rs account from 
early Summer 2017.
So I think its likely that TSB wrote to Mrs R in Spring 2017, as its note suggests, to 
say the interest rate on her account would be reducing, as she was going to lose the 
bonus rate.
Thats well before the IT difficulties which affected TSB, and well before Mr and Mrs 
R moved house. I do think its likely this letter was sent.
Mrs R doesnt seem to have taken steps to renew the account bonus then. And 
because the terms of the account are clear that this bonus lapses after a year, then I 
dont think TSB had to keep paying the higher rate of interest. For that reason, I dont 
think that TSB has to pay Mrs R missed interest in this case.
I know that Mrs R will be disappointed, but I dont think this point of her complaint 
should be upheld.
However, I do think something else has gone wrong here. Mrs R was regularly 
getting an annual bonus up until 2017. She didnt realise this was missing for 2017-8 
until summer 2019. I know that TSB was hampered at this stage, because it didnt 
have access to Mrs Rs old statements and previous correspondence. But thats not 
Mrs Rs fault. She wanted to know what had happened on her account. She clearly 
hadnt understood TSBs explanations, and I think they werent particularly clear. 
Even at this late stage, I have had to seek further explanations from TSB about 
whats happened in this case.
I dont think TSB had to proactively write to Mrs R each year, to ask if shed like the 
bonus to be renewed. Thats not actually a feature of the account she had, it only 
offers a one-off annual bonus. But Mrs R had been getting the bonus each year, and 
this had been happening for some time by the time she complained. I think TSB 
shouldve explained clearly to Mrs R how this had happened, when she complained.
If TSB had set out clearly for Mrs R what had happened previously, what her interest 
rate had been, what it was now, and what had happened in the past to make sure 
that she kept getting an annual bonus, I think that shed have taken steps to either 
renew her interest rate for 2018-9 or wouldve moved her money elsewhere, earlier 
than she eventually did. Because it didnt do that, I think she missed out on interest she could otherwise have received. I also note that Mrs R has been put to 
considerable trouble by this complaint. For that reason, I think TSB should pay Mrs R 
£200 in compensation now.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mrs R wrote to accept my decision. TSB wrote to make some further points. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB said it would like me to review my understanding of the timeline and its evidence. It 
agreed that it shouldnt have to pay the interest, but wanted to clarify dates. 
TSB said it didnt think that Mr and Mrs R had understood that the interest they were 
complaining about was the interest paid in June 2018 and reported on the tax certificate for 
tax year 18/19 in July 2019. Mrs R said she wasnt aware of this before July 2019, but TSB 
said it had provided a copy of the statements sent to Mrs R in May and July 2018, which 
showed the lower amount of interest paid in June 2018. This is the same interest shown on 
the later tax certificate.
TSB said there was also an additional statement that year because of the IT upgrade. It sent 
all customers statements in May 2018 in case they couldnt access Internet Banking. That 
shows the prevailing rate of interest as well as what other interest rates had been applicable 
during the statement period. The same information for the relevant period would also have 
been provided on the annual statement from 2017 (which TSB cant access). But if Mrs R 
has that, shell be able to see that she was told the applicable interest rate in June 2017  
which is the key date. TSB was confident Mrs R would have been sent a letter to tell her the 
bonus rate was ending and said its likely they have responded either to that or to the annual 
statement previously.
TSB expressed surprise that Mr R couldnt recall what prompted him or Mrs R to contact the 
bank previously, but said it would be impossible for a member of staff to explain what 
prompted them before, as TSB simply wouldnt know. TSB said Id implied the bank has 
changed what it said and provided new information at this late stage, but TSB said that it 
had been clear from the first submission that Mrs R could have been prompted by the letter, 
or statement or their own reminder that the bonus was ending. 
TSB said it had also reviewed the final response and further letter to understand why Id 
reached the opinion it didnt explain sufficiently and that this would have made a difference. 
Both letters confirm the interest is correct and is lower because the bonus rate came to an 
end. TSB asked me to bear in mind that it was responding to the complaint received, not all 
the additional correspondence and comments since. It wasnt asked to explain what had 
happened historically and its reasonable to expect the customer to remember what theyve 
done on their own account. The terms and conditions make clear the bonus is for 12 months 
 it wasnt hidden away in any small print. TSB agreed that an explanation would have made 
Mrs R move the money earlier, but it said it had evidenced that it sent statements in 2018 
which showed the lower amount of interest and advised the prevailing interest rate.
TSB said it couldnt explain why Mr and Mrs R lost track of things. But it said that Id 
accepted it hadnt made an error with the interest, so TSB thought a payment of £200 for 
what amounted to not explaining something the customer should already have been aware 
of was somewhat excessive. It responded promptly to the complaint received in July 2019 
and again to the further letter in November 2019, but it could only answer what it was asked. Mr R had asked for evidence. Mrs R was told about the interest rate in her complaint 
response letter, but TSB said if Mr R had all the statements for Mrs Rs account then he 
already had this evidence. TSB said it felt I should change my decision, and not pay 
compensation in this case. 
Those are detailed representations. TSBs argument is, in summary, that Mrs R lost track of 
her account, although it had sent her all the information she needed. And it wasnt TSBs 
fault that this didnt get back on track.
TSB seemed to think there was confusion about dates in my decision. Ive reviewed that, 
and found one typing error that I have amended in the above. Ive also amended to make 
clear that Mrs R did start to ask about her account in 2018. She has shown me letters from 
2018 which first ask for that tax statement, then respond to correspondence shes received 
with ordinary statements included. So, although the core of this complaint was raised in 
2019, I think that there has been some degree of confusion since 2018.
TSB relies on these statements to say that Mrs R shouldve known what was going on with 
her account. I dont find those as clear as TSB suggests. And I also note that TSB doesnt 
seem to have been entirely clear on this either. These statements dont show the same 
interest rate that TSB then quotes in its complaint response letter.
I think the letters from Mr R show (and particularly the later letters) that Mr and Mrs R were 
unclear about what had happened on her account. TSB suggests that Mrs R had lost track of 
her account. 
I think once ongoing confusion is evident, its then TSBs responsibility to explain to Mrs R 
whats happening on her account. And I havent seen any evidence that TSB explained how 
her account worked to Mrs R in a simple and straightforward way. Rather, I think it made 
things a little worse, by saying that Mrs R had failed to renew her bonus.
TSB has referred to Mrs R failing to renew her bonus on the account (it is your 
responsibility to manage your account and renew any rates where applicable.). When this 
complaint came to us, TSB said For four years she renewed this bonus, but then didnt 
respond to our mailing I think that does rather suggest that TSBs mailing contained some 
sort of prompt to renew the bonus rate on Mrs Rs account.
But TSB recently accepted that there was actually no formal arrangement in place to renew 
rates, and certainly no direct prompt to Mrs R to tell her she needed to do so. Instead, she is 
supposed to infer, from notice that her interest rate is dropping, that TSB will add another 
year of bonus interest if she asks.
Mrs R has previously been one of the customers who had realised that she could get 
another year of bonus, by asking TSB to open a fresh savings account for her when the old 
bonus ran out. Thats why she was expecting more interest. Whilst I understand TSBs 
reluctance to set out for Mrs R how she could continue to take advantage of this, I do think it 
had a responsibility to set out for her clearly how her account had been operated. And it 
hasnt done that. It also took some time to clarify for our service that when it referred to Mrs 
R failing to renew her bonus, it wasnt actually suggesting it had ever invited her to do so.
And, in essence, my decision to award compensation on this case focusses on that failure to 
explain clearly what had previously happened on her account for Mrs R, and what it was that 
hadnt happened again in 2017 which then reduced her interest. It also arises from my 
understanding that if this had been done sooner, Mrs R wouldnt have lost out on as much 
interest. I still think thats the right decision. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc must pay Mrs R £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman