DRN-4051580
The complaint
Mr W has complained that ReAssure Limited has recorded the maturity date of his pension
plan incorrectly.
What happened
On 1 August 1982, Mr W established a with-profits pension policy with American Life 
Insurance Company (ALICO). The policy included a guaranteed annuity rate (GAR) of 
£106.80 per £1,000 per year to be paid annually in arrears. It also said that, upon death or 
maturity of the policy, the policyholder would receive a sum assured of £11,333.
In 2012, ALICO transferred some of its business to ReAssure, which included Mr Ws policy. 
At the time, the High Court determined that the policy would change from a with-profits fund 
to one with a guaranteed final value of £35,595.70, provided all the contributions were paid 
until July 2022. ReAssure has said that, in order to safeguard Mr Ws benefits, the sum 
assured of £11,333 was incorporated into that guaranteed value at that time, so that he 
wouldnt lose out.
The remaining terms of the policy remained unchanged  a GAR of £106.80 per £1,000 per 
year, and an annuity to be received annually in arrears with no guarantee period or 
dependants income.
Since 2016, Mr W contacted ReAssure on a number of occasions to initially query, and then 
complain about, the maturity date, along with the maturity value of his pension. ReAssure 
issued a final response letter dated 16 February 2021 in which it explained that, in 2004, 
ALICO changed the terms of his policy regarding the maturity date. 
Mr W remained unhappy and referred his complaint to our service in March 2021.
When providing its business file on the complaints, ReAssure objected to this service 
considering them, saying that they had been referred to this service too late.
The investigator who assessed the matter thought that Mr Ws complaints about both the 
maturity value and the maturity date hadnt been made in time. I issued a decision on both 
aspects of the above complaint on 15 March 2023, in which I set out that, although the 
complaint about the maturity value had been raised too late, as Mr W hadnt received an 
answer by way of a final response letter about the maturity date, that aspect was within our 
jurisdiction to consider.
As such, I then set out my view on that specific issue in a provisional decision dated 16 
March 2023. The below is an extract from that decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws policy was formatted in what I think would now be considered to be a slightly unusual 
way, in that, although the retirement date was Mr Ws 65th birthday  4 September 2021 - 
(which I note has been agreed by both parties) the date up to which contributions needed to 
be paid to capitalise on complete bonus years, and so to receive the guaranteed final 
benefit, was 1 July 2022.
And although Ive noted Mr Ws view that he feels the goalposts have been moved by 
ReAssure on this matter over the years, this was set out in the policy schedule issued when 
the policy commenced. The Normal Maturity Date was recorded as the 65th birthday of the 
pensioner. But it also said that regular (renewal) premiums were expected to be paid from 
1 September 1982 to 1 July 2022, both inclusive or until the earlier death of the pensioner.
The GAR of £106.80 per £1,000 of pension fund value would be payable annually in arrears, 
although the annuity format could be changed and a different annuity paid, according to the 
policy terms. 
And so it would have been possible for Mr W to retire at his 65th birthday, but in accordance 
with the terms of the policy, to receive the full guaranteed final benefit and capitalise on the 
GAR, he would need to pay premiums up to 1 July 2022, and receive his first annuity 
payment one year after the maturity date, on 4 September 2022.
Ive noted in the related complaint that ReAssure said it would send Mr W revised annuity 
options based upon the policy benefits being vested on 4 September 2021, although the 
maturity value would reflect the fact that contributions hadnt been paid up to July 2022 - and 
therefore that the full bonus year hadnt been achieved  with a quoted amount slightly lower 
than the guaranteed final benefit of £35,243. 
And this would seem to be aligned with the above policy conditions, to the extent that the 
format of taking the policy benefits could be changed, but this would have implications for 
the amount of pension which Mr W would receive.
As such, Im not currently of the view that ReAssure needs to take any corrective action with 
regard to the maturity date or the date to which premiums would need to be paid to receive 
the full guaranteed final bonus.
ReAssure made no further submissions.
Mr W responded with several comments, but as I can only consider the matter of the 
maturity date and issues related to it in this decision, Ive focussed on those comments, as 
summarised below:
The original policy schedule clearly stated that his normal maturity date was his 65th 
birthday, and it was clear that Alico either made a deliberate mistake with the last 
premium date of 1 July 2022, or it was just a clerical error.
His contract with ReAssure was that it would provide a GAR rate of £106.80 per 
£1,000 and the word arrears wasnt mentioned. It also said that he could give notice 
in writing that he wished to receive his annuity monthly from the normal maturity date. 
In these circumstances, it didnt mention that the GAR rate would change, only that 
the annuity may differ.
He didnt think that ReAssure could have paid his pension from his maturity date. It 
didnt have a copy of his policy, other than the one hed provided to it.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, although I know this will disappoint Mr W, my view on the outcome of 
the complaint is unchanged from that expressed in the provisional decision.
As I said in the related decision, its now agreed by both parties that the maturity of Mr Ws 
policy was his 65th birthday, but although Mr W considers the later final premium date to 
have been a deliberate mistake or clerical error in the policy schedule, I dont think I can 
fairly or reasonably conclude that this was the case  given that ReAssure has explained the 
reason as to why this date differs from the maturity date, in line with the requirement to 
qualify for the full bonus year.
Ive also noted what Mr W has said about the policy schedule not saying that the GAR would 
apply to a pension paid annually in arrears, but this was set out in the policy terms (and Id 
refer Mr W to my findings in the separate related decision for more detail, including the policy 
wording, on this). 
Further, although Mr W has said that the policy terms didnt say that the GAR would differ if 
he chose to take the annuity in a different format from that set out in the policy terms, but 
rather only that the annuity might differ, the actual annuity he would receive would be 
determined by the application of the GAR to the final guaranteed policy value. And so I think 
it was reasonably clear that any change to the manner in which Mr W would receive his 
annuity might affect the amount payable. 
Mr W has also said that ReAssure wouldnt have been able to pay him his pension from his 
maturity date due to the mistakes it had made, but hes also noted the £300 which it offered 
to him in respect of that. And I addressed this in the separate decision on the related case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman