DRN-3324137
The complaint
Ms E, as a representative for the Estate of Mr B, complains that The Society of Lloyds 
(Lloyds) has unfairly refused a claim for the accidental death of Mr B. 
What happened
For ease of reading where I refer to Ms E, I include both she and any representatives or 
administrators of Mr Bs estate.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
here. In summary, Mr B fell at home and was hospitalised overnight. A few days after leaving 
hospital he showed symptoms of Covid-19 and soon after was re-admitted to the same 
hospital where, sadly, he died.
Mr B had an insurance policy that would pay a certain amount should he die or be injured as 
a result of an accident. Ms E approached Lloyds to make a claim on the policy. Lloyds said 
it need not pay out as Mr B hadnt died as a result of an accident as defined in the policy 
terms and conditions.
Ms E didnt think that was fair and complained, but Lloyds didnt change its stance. One of 
our investigators reviewed the complaint, but didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly. He didnt 
think that what happened here was covered by the death benefit provisions of the policy.
Ms E doesnt agree. She says that if not for the accident Mr B suffered he would never have 
been to hospital where she believes he contracted Covid-19. She says theres a direct link 
between the accident and Mr Bs death, and that no-one could say that Covid-19 doesnt 
meet the definition of accidental defined in the policy. She believes Lloyds should meet the 
claim. Ms E asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint so it was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am very sorry to learn of the circumstances which led to this claim. I know Ive used a short 
summary to capture the events that led to Mr Bs death, but Im satisfied Ive captured the 
essence of what happened.
Policy terms and conditions
Lloyds provided a set of policy terms and conditions, which set out when it will  and wont  
pay a claim. The relevant parts of the terms and conditions say, in summary, that a benefit 
will be paid to the policy holder if he suffers bodily injury following an accident that results 
in accidental death. The words Ive highlighted in bold are defined as:
Accident - means a sudden, unexpected, unusual, specific, external event which occurs at 
an identifiable time and place during the period of insurance.
Accidental death - death that occurs within 12 calendar months from the date of the incident 
giving rise to bodily injury and where the bodily injury Is the sole cause of death, 
independent from other causes.
Bodily injury - means identifiable physical injury which is caused by an accident; and is solely 
and independently of any other cause (except illness directly resulting from, or medical and 
surgical treatment rendered necessary by such injury) results in your death or disablement 
within twelve months of the date of the accident.
Has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say the Lloyds has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not going to 
uphold this complaint because I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly or unreasonably. I say that 
because:
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every situation. An insurer will decide 
what level of risk its willing to cover and set out terms and conditions that reflect this. 
The onus is on the consumer or his representative to show a claim falls under one of 
the areas the policy covers.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) describes Covid-19 as an infectious disease 
caused by a virus. I cant conclude that this fits into the description of accident as 
defined in the policy. Ms E thinks it does, but her arguments appear to be about 
whether Covid-19 and its effects worldwide would be classed as accidental. I 
appreciate her argument, but Im afraid I dont think its relevant here, as I can only 
look at the specific circumstances of this complaint. 
The death certificate for Mr B shows that the main cause of death was Covid-19, and 
that a secondary contributor was the COPD hed been suffering from for many years. 
It doesnt mention Mr Bs recent fall as a contributory factor. Im satisfied Mr Bs 
death was caused by a disease, rather than by the bodily injury he suffered when he 
accidentally fell. 
I do understand why Ms E believes that Mr B caught Covid-19 whilst in hospital, and I 
think its a reasonable belief, even though he was tested and found not to be infected 
whilst he was there. But even if he had caught the virus whilst in hospital, the policy 
says that death must be caused by either the accident itself or any necessary 
treatment for this. Thats the fall Mr B had and any related treatment. I dont know 
what treatment Mr B received whilst in hospital, but I havent seen anything that 
suggests it led to his death.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mr Bs death was covered by the provisions in 
the policy, and Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the Executors for 
Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman