DRN-4333466
The complaint
Miss I complains about Haven Insurance Company Limiteds (Haven) handling of a claim
made by a third-party, under her motor insurance policy
What happened
Miss I says she wasnt aware that her broker had moved her insurance cover over to Haven.
She says it took £136.50 from her account without explaining what this was for. In addition,
she says Haven didnt inform her of a claim a third-party made against her.
Miss I contacted our service in August 2022. We referred the matter to Haven for it to
provide a response. It responded in September acknowledging its lack of correspondence
about the third-partys claim and the increase in Miss Is premium. It says the other issues
raised have been referred to her broker.
Haven says it took all possible steps to contact Miss I regarding the third-partys claim,
without success. It says it correctly settled the claim based on CCTV footage of Miss I
reversing into the third-partys vehicle. Haven says this incident occurred in March 2022 and
shouldve been declared when Miss I accepted her policy renewal in April.
With respect to the additional premium Haven says it made a mistake when amending Miss
Is no claims bonus. It says she had a protected no-claims, so this shouldnt have happened.
Haven says it instructed Miss Is broker to amend her no-claims back to the previous number
of years. But explains that this is no longer protected. It says Miss Is broker can advise on
the impact this will have on her premium.
Miss I didnt think shed been treated fairly by Haven and asked for our service to consider
the matter. Our investigator upheld her complaint in part. She says Miss I received a
welcome letter from her broker in April 2022 confirming her policy was with Haven. However,
she accepted Miss I had been confused - and thought Haven couldve done more to explain
its claims process. Our investigator says Haven should pay Miss I £50 compensation to
acknowledge this. It should also provide a copy of the CCTV footage or still images of the
incident.
Our investigator thought Haven had treated Miss I fairly regarding her no claims bonus. And
the images from the CCTV footage showed it had completed a full investigation into the
claim.
Miss I didnt agree with this outcome. She says the collision with the third-party didnt
happen in the way described. She says there was a slight impact when the third-party
vehicle collided with her car. But there was no damage, so she drove off. Because she didnt
agree with our investigator Miss I asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in August 2023 explaining that I was intending to partially 
uphold Miss Is complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my intention is to uphold Miss Is complaint in part. Let me explain.
We asked Haven for a copy of the CCTV footage it received from the third-party in support of
its claim. Ive watched this carefully. In the video Miss Is car can be seen reversing back
towards the third-partys vehicle, which has come to a complete stop. Miss Is car then
collides at a slow rate of speed with the drivers side of the third-partys vehicle.
I acknowledge Miss I has a different recollection of what happened. But Im satisfied from
watching the CCTV footage that she collided with the third-party when she was reversing.
Haven explains this is why she was determined to be at fault for the accident. I dont think
Havens decision to settle the claim in favour of the third-party was unreasonable based on
this evidence.
I can see that Haven contacted Miss I by email on 24 June 2022. This was the day after it
received the third-partys claim. It sent further emails on 1 and 5 July informing Miss I of the
claim and asking her to contact it. On 6 July the business wrote to Miss I to tell her she had
breached the terms of her policy by not assisting in its enquiries.
Haven emailed Miss I again on 15 July, referring to a call shed made on 7 July denying
involvement in the accident. In this email it asked for photos of her car and clarification as to
where she was at the time of the incident as claimed by the third-party. It chased a response
by email on 28 July. I can see that Haven wrote to Miss I on 23 August to say it had received
no response to its requests for information. As a result, it says indemnity has been
withdrawn and it has settled the claim with the third-party as per its obligations under the
Road Traffic Act.
Haven wrote to Miss I again on 31 August 2022 notifying her that her policy will be cancelled
as of 7 September, due to her non-cooperation with the claim.
I can see from the Statement of Fact document Miss I received from her broker, that the
email address listed isnt the one Haven used to contact her. A letter was sent to her on 6
July 2022. This appears to have instigated her call to Haven the following day. Havens next
letter was sent on 23 August explaining the claim with the third-party had been settled.
Based on this information, none of the email correspondence Haven sent, went to the
correct email address. I asked Haven to comment on this point. It says Miss I contacted it,
and her broker, with a new email address prior to the third party informing it of the claim. It
says an error was made and it used an older email address when contacting her. Haven
says Miss I changed her contact details several times. It suggests she shouldve been aware
that an incorrect address had been used and couldve checked.
I acknowledge what Haven has said. But it was made aware of Miss Is updated email
address and shouldve used it. I can understand why she was confused. The
correspondence she received told her she had breached her conditions as she hadnt
responded. But she received no requests for information and wasnt made aware of the
third-partys claim, because Haven was using the wrong email address.
However, I dont think this impacts on Havens claim investigation. The CCTV footage clearly
shows Miss I reversed into the third-party vehicle. So, I think it behaved reasonably whensettling the claim as it did.
That said, Haven did inform Miss I it would cancel her insurance because she hadnt
cooperated with its enquiries. It also failed to let her know a claim had been made. Because
of this I dont think it treated her fairly. Haven has since confirmed the policy wasnt
cancelled. The policy did later lapse, but it says there is no cancellation record.
Ive thought about the impact this has had on Miss I. Haven caused her confusion and worry
because it used the wrong email address. This meant it didnt make her aware of the claim
until a late stage. This was made worse when it informed Miss I it would cancel her policy
causing her further distress. To acknowledge the distress it caused her I think its fair that
Haven pays Miss I £150 compensation.
I said I was intending to uphold Miss Is complaint in part and Haven should:
confirm there is no record of the policy cancellation; and
pay Miss I £150 compensation for the distress, inconvenience and worry it caused
her.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Miss I responded to say that she wanted to see a copy of the CCTV footage of the collision. 
Haven didnt provide any further comments or information for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The CCTV footage Miss I requested has to be redacted in line with data protection rules 
before it can be issued to Miss I. Our service doesnt have the permission to amend the 
footage provided to us. Efforts have been made to request that Miss Is insurer provides this 
information. But it has also encountered difficulties with respect to data protection rules. As it 
stands it isnt clear that permission will be provided to allow the information to be redacted. 
Or that the CCTV footage can be provided by Miss Is insurer.   
Miss I has been informed of this situation. I explained that although we would usually expect 
evidence to be made available for her to see  there are good reasons why it cant in these 
circumstances. Having viewed the video, its clear that Miss I reversed into the third-partys 
vehicle. I cant reasonably delay issuing my final decision further, given its clear Miss I was 
at fault and there is no indication when or if the footage might be made available to her. 
Considering what Ive said above, and as neither party has made any further submissions or 
provided further evidence for me to consider, I see no reason to change my provisional 
findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
Haven Insurance Company Limited should:confirm there is no record of the policy cancellation; and
pay Miss I £150 compensation for the distress, inconvenience and worry it caused
her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman