DRN-2764699
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited declined her claim on her mobile 
phone insurance.
What happened
Mrs B had a mobile phone insurance policy that was underwritten by Assurant. In summer 
2019 her mobile phone was stolen and she made a claim.
Assurant requested some additional information in order to validate the claim. This included 
speaking to Mrs B on the phone to ask further questions.
Shortly after this Assurant wrote to Mrs B to say it was declining her claim. It said the phone 
belonged to her son, and as he was 29 years old, the policy didnt provide cover. 
Mrs B didnt agree this was fair. She said that while the phone used to belong to her son, he 
had given to her. And she sometimes lent it to him to use, but she was the primary user. She 
also said she felt interrogated by the staff member who called her to ask questions about the 
claim. She made a complaint.
Assurant didnt uphold her complaint. It said all the evidence provided showed that Mrs Bs 
son owned the phone, and the policyholders children are only covered if they are under the 
age of 22. As Mrs Bs son was 29, it said his phone wouldnt be covered on the policy. It also 
said it had listened to the call and didnt agree the staff member had acted inappropriately. 
Mrs B didnt agree and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said all the evidence 
provided showed that the phone belonged to Mrs Bs son. And as he was 29 at the time, his 
phone wouldnt be covered under the policy, so Assurant were fair to decline the claim. 
Mrs B didnt agree. She said Assurant shouldnt have spoken to her son on the phone as he 
had mental health problems so wasnt able to answer the questions correctly. She asked for 
the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Assurant has declined Mrs Bs claim as it said the phone belongs to her son and that means 
it isnt covered by the policy. I need to decide if it has treated Mrs B fairly and reasonably 
when making this decision. 
Mrs Bs insurance policy states:
This policy covers mobile phones owned by the account holder(s) and their Family 
members 
And it defines family members as:
You, your partner/spouse and all children (including legally adopted, foster and step 
children) of the account holder(s) who have not reached the age of 19 or not reached the 
age of 22 if in full time education, living at the home address and are unmarried or have not 
entered into a Civil Partnership.
Assurant has said that the phone belongs to Mrs Bs son who is 29. So I can see that if this 
is the case, then the phone wouldnt be covered under the policy.
Mrs B has disputed the ownership of the phone. She says her son gave it to her, so it 
belonged to her. She also said it wasnt fair for Assurant to speak to him on the phone as he 
had mental health problems that mean he is easily confused. 
Ive considered whether Assurant has acted fairly when reaching the conclusion that the 
phone belonged to Mrs Bs son. Mrs B provided it with a number of emails from the phone 
provider and each of these is addressed to her son as the owner of the phone. 
I have also listened to the call where the claim was discussed. During this call, Mrs B 
requests that Assurant speak to her son at certain times. However both Mrs B and her son 
are asked who the phone belongs to, and both confirm that it belongs to Mrs Bs son. 
Based on this I think Assurant acted fairly by concluding the phone belonged to Mrs Bs son. 
And as he wouldnt be covered under the policy, it acted fairly by declining the claim. 
Mrs B has also complained about the service she received from Assurant. She says the staff 
member that called her to ask further questions interrogated her and acted inappropriately 
by speaking to her son. 
Ive listened to the call and I dont agree Assurant acted unreasonably. While I can 
appreciate it would have been distressing for Mrs B to receive a phone call from the fraud 
department, I dont agree the staff member caused any unnecessary ditsress. She asked a 
number of questions about the loss and the ownership of the phone that would be required 
in order to validate the claim. And she remained polite and patient throughout.
During the call it was Mrs B who suggested that the staff member should speak to her son 
and gave permission for this to happen. So I cant say Assurant was unreasonable for doing 
so.
For these reasons, I dont think Assurant has treated Mrs B unfairly when declining her 
claim. So I wont ask it to do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman