DRN-2809250
The complaint
Mr R complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) cant locate his savings 
account. He wants it to return his money and any interest accrued.
What happened
In November 2020 Mr R contacted NS&I looking to recover funds after finding his old 
savings passbook. He explained the latest entry in the book was from January 1999 and 
showed a balance of over £600. But NS&I couldnt locate his account even though he 
provided all the information it requested.  
When he raised a complaint NS&I investigated further. It now says that Mr Rs account was 
closed in April 2004, and a cash warrant for £1,034.47 paid to him. It also explained that the 
existence of the original passbook doesnt mean the account is still valid as repayments can 
be made in the absence of a passbook if its satisfied that the registered account holder has 
been correctly identified. 
Mr R doesnt recall receiving this cash warrant in April 2004. And hes not sure how NS&I 
were able to provide this information about his account. So one of our investigators looked 
into the matter for him. 
On balance, from the evidence available the investigator felt it was more likely than not that 
Mr Rs account had been closed and the full balance paid to him in April 2004. 
Mr R doesnt agree, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete or not available, as is the case here, I have to make my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. That is, to say what I think is most likely to 
happened given the evidence that is available, and what weve been told by the parties. 
On balance, Im persuaded it is more likely than not that Mr Rs account was closed in April 
2004, and the balance paid to him in full. So Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I appreciate that in the absence of more detailed information confirming the closure of his 
account Mr R is concerned that he may not have received all the money hes due. However, 
given the amount of time that has passed I dont think its unusual that NS&I hasnt been 
able to provide this information. Businesses arent required to keep customer records for an 
indefinite period. 
NS&I has now been able to provide us with screenshots showing that it has carried out 
searches and has no record of any open accounts with details (postcode and initial of 
surname) matching Mr Rs. Its also provided evidence that it has searched its residual 
accounts and not found a record that relates to Mr Rs original account number. This 
persuades me that it is more likely than not Mr Rs account has been closed. If it hadnt 
been, Id expect NS&I to have found it when it searched its open and residual account lists. 
Further to this NS&I has given us a transaction summary for Mr Rs account showing 
account activity between December 1998 and April 2004. The latest transaction on this 
summary shows Mr Rs account balance was reduced to 0 following the issue of a cash 
warrant for £1,034.47. 
NS&I has provided us with a copy of this cash warrant dated 2 April 2004. I can see the 
name and address match the details Mr R has given us. And the account number matches 
Mr Rs. 
Further, NS&I has provided us with confirmation of withdrawal of this warrant, stamped 15 
April 2004. This has on it a copy of a signature pertaining to be by Mr R, which looks similar 
to the signature hes provided on the complaint form hes submitted to us. So I think its more 
likely than not that he did receive this money even though he cant specifically recall it. 
Mr R still had what is believed to be the original passbook for his account dated 1988. He 
sent this to NS&I as evidence of his account. Unfortunately its no longer available, and NS&I 
hasnt been able to provide a copy of it. But I dont doubt the details Mr R has told us about 
it, or that the last entries in it showed the account to be open and have a positive balance.
However, I dont think this means the account must still be open or dormant. It is possible for 
businesses to process transactions and to close accounts in the absence of a passbook. 
And NS&Is transaction records indicate that it issued a replacement passbook for the 
account in January 1999. So I think its likely that Mr R had a second passbook. And I have 
to consider that this second passbook could have been used to close his account.
For all of the reasons Ive detailed above, Im persuaded that, on balance, it is more likely 
than not Mr Rs account was closed and the full balance (including any interest accrued) 
paid to him. It follows that I havent found NS&I made any error here. So Im not upholding 
this complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Jenette Lynch
Ombudsman