DRN-4336129
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund a transaction he says he didnt 
make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
In late 2022, £4,800 was transferred from Mr Rs Lloyds account to a third party using his 
mobile banking app.
Mr R told Lloyds he didnt recognise the payment. But Lloyds held Mr R liable for it, on the 
basis that it was made using his mobile app, login details, and biometrics; and from what 
hed told them, his phone wasnt lost or stolen, no one else could unlock it, and no one else 
had access to his login details  indeed, he confirmed hed set the login details himself 
earlier that week.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R 
appealed, pointing out that another mobile device had been registered before the payment. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr R and Lloyds a provisional decision on 23 August 2023, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Mr R mentioned that hed been scammed, but he declined to elaborate on this. He also 
didnt answer our other questions about what happened, so Ive had to base my findings on 
the information I have so far.
Broadly speaking, Lloyds can hold Mr R liable for the payment in dispute if the evidence 
suggests that he authorised it.
From the technical data, I can see that at the time of the disputed payment, Mr Rs mobile 
banking had been logged into from his usual phone  the same device he used for his 
genuine activity before and after. Mr R told Lloyds he had this phone with him at the time 
and it didnt go missing. And the login was done using Mr Rs registered biometrics, which 
I understand was his Face ID. So we can be fairly satisfied it was him using it.
As Mr R pointed out, a new device was used as well, which had been registered the day 
before. But that device was set up using Mr Rs login details  which Mr R said he had not 
given to anyone and only he knew  as well as a code which was sent to the same phone 
number Mr R used before and after. Mr R was then called at his genuine number and asked 
to give over that code in order to register the new device. And he was then sent a text to his 
usual phone number to confirm the new device was set up. So as far as I can see, that new 
device was set up with Mr Rs consent and he was aware of it at the time.
Further, while this is a more minor point, I mightve expected a thief to try to take as much 
money as possible, as quickly as possible. But only one payment was made here, and a 
substantial sum was still left over in Mr Rs account. It would be unusual for a thief to leave 
such an amount untouched.
I also note that the disputed payment was funded by a large credit into Mr Rs account 
shortly beforehand  before that, there was no available balance. The person who made the 
disputed payment appears to have known this money was coming, as they set up the new 
device the day before, registered the new payee many hours in advance, then made the 
payment quickly after the credit came in. But Mr R said only he knew this credit was coming.
In summary, the disputed payment involved the use of Mr Rs genuine phone, a new phone 
which hed consented to setting up, the login details which only he knew, and his biometrics. 
There does not seem to be a likely or plausible way that the payment couldve been made 
without Mr Rs consent. So it seems fair that Lloyds can hold him liable for it. This is a 
difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Mr R to receive. But 
given the evidence I have so far, and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably 
reach any other conclusion.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it before 
6 September 2023. But neither Mr R nor Lloyds sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons as set out in 
my provisional decision above.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman