DRN-3838938
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) declined to meet his claim for a refund in 
respect of a property reservation fee he paid for using his credit card.
What happened
Mr A had an agreement with a company Ill call E to provide a bespoke property sourcing
service in return for a fee. Mr A paid this fee via bank transfer.
In September 2021 E sourced a property that Mr A wanted to purchase. Mr A entered into a
separate reservation agreement with E on 17 September 2021 and paid it a fee of £3,990
using his Lloyds credit card.
The terms of the agreement said the fee was refundable if Mr A withdrew from the
prospective purchase within 14 days of entering into it but not after this.
If withdrawal happened after this, and was the result of a survey result which deemed the
property unviable, the terms said E would offer a replacement property.
Mr A carried out a Homebuyers report in October 2021 which identified some issues with
the structure of the property. He engaged a structural surveyor shortly after which confirmed
there were serious issues.
Mr A asked E to re-negotiate with the seller for a lower price or for it to complete the 
structural work first. But the seller did not accept any of the new proposals.
On 25 October 2021 E agreed with Mr A that the purchase was not viable. It said it would
look to find a replacement deal for Mr A as soon as possible and at no cost to him. But it said 
it would not agree to any deadlines for this.
In around March 2022 Mr A asked Lloyds for help getting his money back. He said E hadnt
offered him a replacement property in reasonable time.
Lloyds looked at Mr As claim for a refund but declined to meet it. Lloyds said there had not 
been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by E so it wasnt liable to him.
I issued a provisional decision in November 2022 setting out why I thought Mr As complaint 
should be upheld in part. The relevant parts are summarised below and form part of this final 
decision. 
In deciding whether Lloyds had treated Mr A fairly, I considered its potential liability to 
him under relevant law such as Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75).
Subject to certain criteria having been met (which had been in this case), Mr A could 
bring a claim against Lloyds under Section 75 in respect of transactions it financed 
where there had been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by E.
Lloyds did not finance Mr As purchase of the services delivered under the property 
sourcing agreement. So, it had no liability to him under Section 75 for things that may 
have gone wrong with those services.
Mr As contract with E (the property reservation agreement) set out that if Mr A and E 
agreed a purchase was not viable following a survey, E would provide a replacement 
property to Mr A. 
Mr A and E agreed the prospective purchase was not viable following the results of a 
structural survey hed had completed. 
E was therefore contractually obliged to provide a replacement property. 
Replacement property had not been defined in the contract.
I couldnt be sure exactly how a court would have interpreted what was meant by 
replacement property. But I thought a reasonable interpretation, taking the natural 
reading of the clause, was that it meant something broadly similar to that of the 
original property that fell through.
E hadnt provided a replacement property over a year after saying it would do so. 
Either the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) or the Supply of Goods and Services 
Act 1982 (SGSA) (the former if Mr A could be considered a consumer under its 
definitions, the latter if not) set out that where no time had been fixed for a service to 
be performed, it was implied in the contract that it would be performed within a 
reasonable time. 
The test in both of the legislation as to what constituted reasonable time was a 
question of fact.
There had to be a cut off for what was not reasonable time and while it wasnt for me 
to determine that precise point, if there was one, it had been passed in the 
circumstances of this case.
It was likely therefore that E had breached the implied term in its contract with Mr A 
to provide its services in a reasonable time. 
Thinking overall about what was fair and reasonable, I didnt think Lloyds had 
handled Mr As request for a refund fairly. And hed lost out as a result as he didnt 
get a refund it looked like he was entitled to. 
I planned to tell Lloyds to pay Mr A 90% of the sum he paid to E  totalling A £3,591 
plus interest. I thought it was fair that a deduction of 10% was made for the small 
amount of work E had likely done with respect to original property.
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr A provided some comments in response to it. He said, in summary:
The sum he paid for the separate property sourcing agreement should be considered 
a consequential loss as it was associated with the property reservation agreement. 
The purpose of the property sourcing agreement is to find a property that then leads 
on to a property reservation agreement so the two are unavoidably linked.
E told him in an email it would source a replacement property at no cost to him. He 
shouldnt have to pay 10% of the cost of a service that did not fulfil its primary 
purpose. 
The matter has now therefore been returned to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Lloyds has not challenged the reasons for upholding Mr As complaint in my provisional 
decision. So, I see no reason to change them from those set out in the summary of my 
provisional decision above which forms part of this decision. Ultimately E likely breached its 
contract with Mr A by failing to provide the agreed services within a reasonable time. And he 
likely had a valid claim under Section 75, so Lloyds unfairly turned down his request for a 
refund. Its fair Mr A receives compensation for that. 
Where there is challenge from Mr A is on how much that compensation should be and 
whether he should also be paid the cost of the property sourcing agreement as a 
consequential loss. 
I dont consider the cost of the sourcing agreement to be a loss that flows from Es breach of 
contract. Its likely the agreement is still able to operate independently from the reservation 
agreement and the terms state it is to remain in force in perpetuity. 
The agreement was not entered into solely for the purposes of the exact property that was 
found for Mr A, and it looks to have been possible for a customer to continue to require E to 
source property after the successful/unsuccessful purchase of another. So, I dont agree the 
two agreements were unavoidably linked. I dont therefore find that Lloyds should pay the 
cost of the property sourcing agreement to Mr A. 
On Mr As point about the amount of compensation, its possible a court would have 
awarded 100% of the cost of the reservation agreement but its also possible E might have 
successfully argued that it should receive some payment for the work it likely completed. 
Ultimately, I need to decide what is fair and reasonable in this complaint. And I think its fair 
that any compensation reflects the fact that its likely E did carry out a small amount of work 
for Mr A in respect of the original purchase   such as securing his initial offer and 
renegotiating with the seller after the surveyors report had been completed. I see also in its 
communications with Mr A after the purchase fell through that it told him it was still searching 
for an appropriate replacement. 
Theres no science to putting a price on this work. Ive assessed this at 10% of the overall 
sum Mr A paid to E and I still find that to be a reasonable sum. 
Everything considered I still find Lloyds should pay Mr A compensation of £3,591 plus 
interest.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained above, I uphold Mr As complaint. To put things right 
Lloyds Bank PLC must pay Mr A £3,591 plus 8% simple interest from when it
declined his claim on 17 March 2021 until the date of settlement*.
*If Lloyds Bank PLC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr A a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman