DRN-3784519
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the way Halifax Share Dealing Limited (trading as IWeb Share 
Dealing) dealt with the set up and closure of her stocks and shares ISA. She is unhappy that 
it wasnt made clear her account was open and is now being asked to pay a registration fee 
to reactivate the account after it was closed. 
What happened
In late December 2020, Mrs S made an application to set up an ISA with IWeb. During the 
application process she was asked to provide documents to confirm her identification.  She 
says she provided the information but didnt hear back from IWeb. As she didnt receive 
confirmation of the account opening, she added funds to an existing ISA with another 
provider in March 2021.
In April 2022, Mrs S contacted IWeb to inquire about using the account, it informed her that 
since the account had laid dormant for 12 months, it had been closed. She was also asked 
to pay a £100 opening fee if she wanted to reactive the account. Following this she raised a 
complaint. 
She complained that IWeb has created and deleted an ISA account in her name without 
informing her at any stage  and then shut the account after 12 months without warning her. 
She was also unhappy with the way IWeb treated her personal data. 
IWeb responded to the complaint. In summary it is said:
- It closed the account in February 2022 because it had been dormant for 12 months 
and this was in line with the terms and conditions. 
- It had received all the relevant documents in January 2021 to open the account and 
provided confirmation in writing of this. 
- It was unable to waive the £100 fee required to reactive the account. 
- It retains data on closed accounts for 10 years, and after this it is destroyed as per its 
business policy. 
Mrs S didnt accept what IWeb said. As no agreement could be reached, she referred her 
complaint to this service for an independent review. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. She didnt uphold it. In summary she said 
she hadnt found that IWeb had done anything wrong when opening the account or in its 
decision to close it. She felt had Mrs S intended to use the account, she would have 
expected her to have made inquiries sooner than she did. 
Mrs S didnt accept the investigators findings and requested her complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not is dispute that Mrs S made an application and intended on opening an account with 
IWeb. What is in dispute is whether she should have been aware that the account had 
opened  and whether the subsequent request for her to pay a fee to reactivate the account 
is fair.  
There is limited information available to me from the time of application, so I need to decide 
on the balance of the evidence what is a fair and reasonable outcome. 
Mrs S made an online application to open an account in late December 2020. She has 
confirmed she received login details on the 2 January 2021. Initially she wasnt able to 
create an ISA, and she contacted IWeb and was asked to provide further identification 
documents, which she did. She says she called on 25 January 2021, and more identification 
was required before the account would be made fully operational  which again she sent on 
the same day. She says after this she received no communication from IWeb to say her 
account had been fully established. 
As part of our investigation IWeb has clarified it would only send an e-mail to a new 
customer about the account being open if they were still yet to sign in. It has searched its 
records and confirmed that Mrs S logged into her account on 17 January 2021 and 25 
January 2021. It says as she had logged in to her account, she would not have required any 
further contact.
On the one hand IWeb hasnt provided evidence that it contacted Mrs S to explicitly say that 
her account was open and fully functioning following her sending identification documents. 
But on the other hand, Im conscious that despite making an application and providing 
identification documents it doesnt appear Mrs S contacted IWeb for over a year after 
engaging with the account opening.
It is accepted that Mrs S logged in to her account in January 2021. I note her comments that 
she hadnt been able to fully complete her ISA set up. It is unclear why she didnt contact 
IWeb again after providing the second set of identification documents. But the fact she had 
been able to log in suggests to me that an account had been established. On balance, I think 
its fair and reasonable to say that the account was opened  and Mrs S ought to have been 
aware of this. 
The account terms and conditions do say that if an account is inactive and holds no assets 
for over a year it may be closed. I havent seen any evidence that Mrs Ss account was used 
for a year and no assets were held. So, on this basis I dont find it unreasonable or unfair 
that IWeb sought to rely on the terms to close the account in February 2022. 
IWeb says it can reactivate the account, but an opening charge is now payable (that wasnt 
previously). Mrs S believes IWeb should waive the current £100 fee for new accounts. But 
as Ive not found that IWeb has made an error, it follows that Im not asking for it to do 
anything further including waiving the joining fee. 
Having recently reviewed IWebs website, I saw it does have a current offer to get £100 
cashback (i.e. the equivalent of the £100 account opening charge) when you switch or fund 
an IWeb ISA with £5,000 or more in the first 6 months. Mrs S has previously said she had 
been intending to transfer another ISA balance. If she is still interested (although I appreciate 
she may not be) in holding an IWeb account she may want to discuss this offer with IWeb to 
see if it possible for her to receive this promotion and avoid the cost of the fee. Finally, I note Mrs S has raised concerns about how her personal data has been handled 
during the application process. IWeb says there is a regulatory requirement for all
Anti-Money Laundering identity verification documentation to be retained for 10 years after 
account closure. While I appreciate that Mrs S is worried about the security of her personal 
information, I havent seen evidence that IWeb has acted in a way to put her personal data 
at risk.
I understand Mrs Ss frustrations with what has happened, and I acknowledge that when 
answering the complaint IWeb incorrectly said it had contacted her in writing to confirm it had 
the required documents to activate the account. But for the reasons explained, I havent 
found grounds to uphold the complaint, so I do not require IWeb to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman