DRN-3601181
The complaint
Mr W complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) unfairly declined his claims under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (CCA).  
What happened
In or around January 2007, Mr W agreed to purchase a number of timeshare products from 
a supplier who Ill refer to as S. The total purchase price agreed was £24,734 which was 
funded under a regulated finance agreement with BPF.
In or around February 2021, using a professional representative (the PR), Mr W submitted 
claims to BPF under sections 75 and 140A of the CCA. The original letter of claim is detailed 
in its content, so it isnt practical to repeat everything said in full here. But I will provide a 
summary of the key points below.
The PR allege that Mr W purchased the timeshare products having relied upon 
misrepresentations made by S. And under section 75 of the CCA (S75), BPF is jointly liable 
for those misrepresentations.
The PR further suggest theres been a breach of contract as S entered an insolvency 
process and is unable to provide the service sold. And under S75, they think BPF are jointly 
liable for that breach.
The PR also allege that the misrepresentations, amongst other things, mean that an unfair 
debtor-creditor relationship exists under section 140A of the CCA (S140A). Included within 
the PRs allegations of unfairness was a suggestion that S didnt undertake a proper 
affordability check before the loan was granted.
In response, BPF didnt uphold Mr Ws claim/complaint. They thought Mr Ws claims had 
been submitted too late under the provisions of the Limitation Act 1980 (the LA). They also 
didnt agree thered been a breach of contract as the management company operating the 
timeshare product purchased had confirmed that timeshare owners could still book holidays 
and list their timeshares for resale subject to and in accordance with their agreement.
The PR didnt agree with BPFs findings and referred Mr Ws complaint to this service. So, 
one of our investigators considered all the information and evidence provided. Having done 
so, they thought BPF had a valid defence to the claims under the LA. They also didnt think 
there was any evidence that Mr W hadnt been provided with something he was contractually 
entitled to under the timeshare agreement. Or that there was any other reason to uphold Mr 
Ws complaint.
The PR didnt accept our investigators findings and asked for further time to consult with Mr 
W, consider his response and arrange for further submissions to be prepared by counsel in 
support of Mr Ws claim and resultant complaint. Mr W asked that his complaint be looked at 
again by an ombudsman. So, his complaint has been passed to me to consider further and 
reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant Considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP 3.6.4R of the FCA Handbook means Im 
required to take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, 
guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was 
good industry practice at the relevant time.
S75 provides protection to consumers for goods or services bought using credit. Mr W paid 
for the timeshare products under a fixed sum loan agreement with BPF. So it isnt in dispute 
that S75 applies here. This means that Mr W is afforded the protection offered to borrowers 
like him under those provisions. And as a result, Ive taken this section into account when 
deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
S140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between Mr W and BPF arising out of the 
credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement). And because the product 
purchased was funded under the loan agreement, theyre deemed to be related agreements. 
Only a court has the power to make a determination under S140A. But as its relevant law, 
Ive considered it when deciding what I believe is fair and reasonable. 
Given the facts of Mr Ws complaint, relevant law also includes the LA. This is because the 
original transaction - the purchase funded by a regulated loan with BPF - took place in 2007. 
Only a court is able to make a ruling under the LA, but as its relevant law, Ive considered 
the effect this might also have.
Its relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution Service 
(ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision of an 
ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we dont provide a legal 
service. And this service isnt able to make legal findings  that is the role of the courts. 
Where a consumer doesnt accept the findings of an ombudsman, this doesnt prejudice their 
right to pursue their claim in other ways.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my decision is 
made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what I 
think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence thats available from the 
time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt necessarily to address in my 
decision every single point thats been made. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to 
what I believe are the most salient points having considered everything thats been said and 
provided.
Was the claim of misrepresentation under S75 made in time?
The PR says S misrepresented the nature of the purchase agreement and benefits to Mr W 
when he agreed to purchase the products. And they believe this brings cause for a claim 
under S75.
But a section 75 claim is an action [that is, court action] to recover any sum by virtue of any 
enactment under section 9 of the LA. And the limitation period under that provision is six 
years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. So here, Mr W had to make a 
claim within six years of when he entered into the purchase contract and credit agreement. 
The PR confirm this took place in January 2007. Thats because this is when they say Mr W 
lost out having relied upon the alleged false statements of fact at that time.
Details of the alleged misrepresentations were submitted by the PR to BPF in February 
2021. But as this was more than 14 years after the purchase was completed and Mr W first 
says he lost out; I believe a court is likely to find that his claim falls outside of the time limit 
permitted in the LA. 
Was the unfair relationship claim under S140A made in time?A claim under Section 140A is a claim for a sum recoverable by statute  which is also 
governed by Section 9 of the LA. As a result, the time limit for making such a claim is also 
six years from the date on which the cause for action accrued. 
However, in determining whether or not the relationship complained of was unfair, the High 
Courts decision in Patel v Patel (2009) decided this could only be determined by having 
regard to the entirety of the relationship and all potentially relevant matters up to the time of 
making the determination. In that case, that was the date of the trial or otherwise the date 
the relationship ended.
So, having thought about this, I believe the trigger point here is slightly different. Any 
relationship between Mr W and BPF continued while the finance agreement remained live. 
So, that relationship only ended once the agreement ended and any borrowing under it was 
repaid.
BPF have confirmed that Mr W settled his loan on 14 October 2008. And as this was more 
than 12 years before his claim was submitted to BPF, I believe its likely a court would find 
that his S140A claim also falls outside of the time limit permitted in the LA
The claim for breach of contract under S75
BPF have said that whilst S may have entered an insolvency process, the current 
management company have confirmed that timeshare owners remain able to fully utilise 
their timeshare products subject to the associated agreements. So, in the absence of any 
specific explanation or evidence to support why Mr W believes theres been a breach of 
contract which resulted in a loss for him, I havent seen anything that would lead me to 
conclude there was such a breach.
Credit Assessment
Accepting that I believe Mr Ws claim was brought too late, there are certain aspects that 
could potentially be considered outside of S140A. In particular, in relation to whether a 
proper credit assessment was undertaken before agreeing the loan. BPF havent provided 
any explanation or evidence to support how and if a credit assessment was completed. And 
given the passage of time, its likely this information is no longer available anyway. 
If I were to find that BPF hadnt completed all the required checks and tests  and I make no 
such finding  I would need to be satisfied that had such checks been completed, they 
wouldve revealed that loan repayments werent sustainably affordable for Mr W in order to 
uphold his complaint here. However, I havent seen any information about his actual financial 
situation at the time. And theres no obvious suggestion or evidence that he struggled to 
repay the borrowing So, I cant reasonably conclude that the borrowing under the loan 
agreement was unaffordable for him. And given the loan was fully repaid in October 2008, 
there doesnt appear to be any evidence of loss here either.
Summary
Having considered everything available, and for the reasons mentioned above, I believe its 
likely a court would find that Mr Ws claims for misrepresentation (under S75) and unfairness 
(under S140A) were brought to BPF too late under the provisions of the LA. And, as such, 
BPF appear to have a valid defence on that basis. 
I also havent found anything that persuades me that a claim for breach of contract is likely to 
be successful either. So, I cant say that BPFs response to Mr Ws claim was unfair or 
unreasonable. And as Ive found no other reason why Mr Ws complaint should be upheld; I 
wont be asking BPF to do anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman