DRN-3995407
The complaint
Miss A complains about how esure Insurance Limited handled her claim on her car 
insurance policy.
What happened
Miss A had a car insurance policy with esure. In July 2022 she made a claim after the rear 
screen of her car was damaged and required replacement. 
esure instructed an agent to provide a replacement. An appointment was booked for            
9 August 2022, however the agent cancelled the appointment the day before it was due to 
take place and booked an appointment for a temporary repair in its place. esure say this was 
because the replacement screen wasnt in stock. 
Miss A cancelled the temporary repair and organised the replacement of her rear screen the 
following day with another company. Miss A says the replacement screen was branded with 
the same name as esures agent so felt it had incorrectly cancelled the appointment due to 
the screen not being in stock. 
Miss A complained to esure about the poor service she received. esure didnt uphold the 
complaint but did refund the excess applied for the replacement. Miss A wasnt happy so 
referred the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said she thought esure was 
responsible for making sure the claim was progressed reasonably and she didnt think it had 
been. She said the temporary repair could have been offered to Miss A sooner as she 
needed the car for work. She also felt esure could have contributed towards Miss As repair 
costs as set out in the policy. 
Miss A accepted our investigators recommendations, however esure didnt initially respond. 
So the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators outcome for the following reasons:
Miss As policy is with esure, so it is responsible for how claims are dealt with. When 
Miss A made the claim she was told the screen was in stock and a screen 
replacement appointment was booked. However, a day before the appointment Miss 
A was told the screen was out of stock. This would have been frustrating for her as 
she was expecting the replacement to take place. 
While I appreciate there can be some factors out of esures agents control, if the 
replacement screen wasnt initially available, she shouldnt have been told it was. 
And so in the circumstances I think she should either have been offered a temporary 
repair or allowed to source the screen elsewhere at the time she made the claim. If 
this had been done Miss A wouldnt have been without use of her car for this period.
Miss A says she was unable to get to work due to her remote location and so had to 
take unpaid leave. While I understand this would have been inconvenient for her, she 
did agree to go ahead with the original appointment date provided by esures agents. 
She was also able to get the replacement screen obtained elsewhere for the same 
date, so I dont think the poor service had significant impact on what she was 
planning to do. She could also have used other transport such as a taxi to get to work 
if needed.
Because Miss A decided to have the screen replaced elsewhere due to the delays I 
think its fair that esure has returned the excess payment she made. But the policy 
terms and conditions also say, If you choose not to use Autoglass who are our 
recommended repairers, we will not pay more than £100 towards each incident. So I 
dont think esure was fair or reasonable in the way it resolved Mis As complaint. 
For these reasons I agree that esure should reimburse Miss A £100 towards the payment of 
the replacement screen. It should also pay a total of £50 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I require esure Insurance Limited to:
Reimburse Miss A £100 towards the cost of the replacement screen. 
Pay Miss A a total of £50 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman