DRN-3985211
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complain that they 
were given unsuitable investment advice by Nationwide Building Society.
What happened
In July 2000, Mr and Mrs B sought financial advice from Nationwides adviser after Mrs B 
came into an inheritance comprising a property and over £80,000 in cash. The property was 
being sold and Mrs B would also receive proceeds from that sale in due course.
At the time, Mr and Mrs B had in excess of £90,000 on deposit in building society accounts, 
mostly from the inheritance money, and around £1,500 worth of shares through a work 
scheme. They were in their late thirties and both in paid work that offered them pensions at 
retirement. They lived in their own home, valued around £140,000, which was subject to a 
£97,000 mortgage. They had no dependants. Mr and Mrs B lived comfortably within their 
means, having disposable income of around £469 after paying all their normal monthly 
outgoings. 
Mr and Mrs B were basic rate taxpayers. They had no particular investment experience but it 
was documented by the adviser that they had a balanced attitude to risk. 
Mr & Mrs B invested as follows:
£7,000 each in stocks and shares ISAs
£6,000 jointly in unit trusts
£15,000 each in guaranteed equity bonds (GEBs) 
they put £39,000 into a Nationwide CashBuilder account for a better rate of return while 
retaining short term access. The remaining £4,500 in other deposit accounts was left where 
it was.
The GEBs matured in August 2006 and Mr and Mrs B each received back their original 
£15,000 investment lump sums. There are no details about the performance of the stocks 
and shares ISAs or the unit trusts. It looks like they had been surrendered sometime prior to 
2016. 
In January 2022, on behalf of Mr and Mrs B, the CMC complained to Nationwide that the 
likely interest rate paid on their mortgage was far in excess of the likely performance of the 
recommended investments. The CMC said Mr and Mrs B had no investment experience and 
should have been advised instead to pay off the bulk of their mortgage (or all of it when the 
further sum due from the inheritance became available) rather than investing 80% of their 
free assets into a number of speculative investments.
Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said:
the adviser had recommended Mr and Mrs B to consider reducing their mortgage 
but they had already decided they wanted to invest for possible greater returns and 
use the property sale proceeds to reduce their loan. 
They still kept £43,500 in cash, so could have paid more off their mortgage if they 
later changed their mind. 
Mr and Mrs B understood it wasnt guaranteed that investing would be more 
beneficial than paying down the mortgage and had taken an informed risk.
Nationwide said investing £50,000 out of Mr and Mrs Bs total £93,500 deposits 
amounted to just 53%.
Nationwide had no information about what happened to the ISAs and Unit Trusts but 
said these were flexible enough to have been left to recover and as most of 
Mr and Mrs Bs capital was guaranteed, the overall recommendation was a 
considered, affordable and proportionate investment, placing only £20,000 at capital 
risk.  
Regarding the Guaranteed Equity Bond, its brochure was very clear in explaining 
the risk of a zero return. The unexpected market downturn appears to be what 
prevented their bonds performing but this was something Mr and Mrs B understood 
and accepted could happen.The complaint was referred to this Service and our investigator reached the same conclusion 
as Nationwide and didnt uphold the complaint. She looked at the investment portfolio as a 
whole to determine if Nationwide gave suitable investment advice and felt that as Mr & Mrs B 
were in a position to risk the level of invested funds, it was likely to be suitable at that time. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept this. On their behalf, the CMC said they still believed the advice 
was unsuitable as Mr and Mrs B had no investment experience so investing more than 50% 
of their free assets (whilst owing what would have been considered a substantial mortgage 
in 2000) was unsuitable. It said that although some of the money was guaranteed, the return 
depended on the performance of various overseas indices that Mr and Mrs B had no 
understanding of.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
It looks like Mr and Mrs B were living comfortably within their means when Mrs B came into 
this inheritance. Their only significant financial liability was their mortgage which they paid 
out of income leaving them an ample monthly surplus. Even though the mortgage term ran 
beyond usual retirement age, they expected to be able to rely on pension income to cover all 
their costs. They also told the adviser they didnt want to use the initial cash portion of the 
inheritance to repay the mortgage as they planned to reduce it by half when they had access 
to the remainder of the inherited funds and they had no concerns about the remaining 
mortgage repayments being affordable.
So I find the inheritance provided Mr and Mrs B with the opportunity to be able to invest a 
lump sum The fact find records that Mr and Mrs B told the adviser they had  no plans for 
the funds other than security for the future and would like to tie up approximately £50,000 for 
a minimum 5-6 year term in order to gain the potential for capital growth.
Overall, I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs B were in a strong enough financial situation to be 
able to invest £50,000 and the fact this money wasnt applied towards paying their 
mortgage isnt a reason for me to uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs B needed to be comfortable that the level of risk associated with the 
recommended investments reflected their attitude to risk and I've thought carefully about 
their risk approach. 
Mr and Mrs B told the adviser they were not adverse to investment risk but would like to 
know that a large part of the invested capital was secure for the future.
Nationwide recorded Mr and Mrs B as having a balanced risk approach, based on a scale of 
risk as follows: Cautious, Prudent, Balanced, Ambitious and Adventurous. Theres no 
detailed information to help me understand how this risk approach was settled on but I can 
see that Mr and Mrs B signed to say they understood what had been recorded, including 
their risk approach. Ive seen nothing to suggest they were uncomfortable with this 
assessment of their attitude to risk at the time.Looking at the bigger picture, Mr and Mrs B were novice investors, so I wouldnt expect them 
to have had any particular understanding of investment risk beyond what the adviser might 
have explained. But their lack of investment experience alone isnt enough of a reason for 
me to uphold their complaint. I dont think there is any good reason for saying that only less 
risky products can ever be suitable for novice investors. To do so would be to effectively 
deprive Mr and Mrs B of the opportunity to make bigger investment gains than they could 
otherwise achieve, which seems unfair to me, given their investment objective of capital 
growth. 
Thinking about the stocks and shares ISAs and the unit trusts, I think it's fair to say 
Mr and Mrs B had capacity to potentially absorb loss from these investments  the 
£24,000 they invested this way was just less than half the £50,000 they invested in total 
and little more than a quarter or so of their overall potential investment pot. They still had 
ample cash reserves of around £43,500 to fall back on if needed, plus more inheritance 
money coming (which, if used to pay down the mortgage as planned, could benefit them 
financially by reducing their monthly repayments and freeing up more day to day cash 
and/or reducing the mortgage term). 
The stocks and shares ISAs were recommended for their greater flexibility and growth 
potential, using Mr and Mrs Bs ISA annual allowances for tax efficiency. The unit trusts 
offered similar benefits with the potential to switch into ISA wrappers in future tax years. 
Nationwide said Mr and Mrs B chose a 50/50 split between the Balanced and UK Growth 
managed funds, preferring active management to passive index tracking. 
As equity based investments, these carried a degree of risk. But given Mr and Mrs Bs 
objective was capital growth I think they needed to invest some of their money in a risk-
based investment. They were prepared to tie up their money over at least the medium 
term which improved the odds that their investment would show a return. On balance, 
I think Mr and Mrs B were comfortable taking some risk with a small proportion of their 
overall available funds and the advice to invest £20,000 in the stocks and shares ISAs 
and unit trusts was suitable. These investments broadly matched Mr and Mrs Bs 
investment objective of capital growth and fitted in with what I've seen of their overall risk 
approach, so I find this part of the advisers recommendation was suitable.
The CMC mainly voiced objections to our investigators view that the GEBs were suitable 
and didnt mention the stocks and shares ISAs or unit trusts further. So, I dont think 
I need to say more about these at this stage, having explained why I am not minded to 
uphold this part of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Based on the limited information about this product, I explained in my first provisional 
decision why I was concerned that investing in a GEB potentially exposed Mr and Mrs B 
to a level of risk that was unsuitable for them overall. Whilst Mr and Mrs B said they had nothing further to add, Nationwide Building Society 
disagreed with my conclusions and sent in detailed representations, set out under six main 
points. In brief, it said: 
it was unclear why the Guaranteed Equity Bond was considered unsuitable when it 
offered notably less risk than the Stocks and Shares ISAs and Unit Trusts which 
were considered suitable despite exposing Mr and Mrs B to a significantly higher 
level of capital risk. 
Mr and Mrs B had limited financial experience and it made sense for them to place a 
portion of their funds into a product with a capital guarantee to complement the other 
recommendations made, as part of a balanced portfolio. 
Nationwides sales process dictated that the product was fully explained verbally and 
within the documentation issued and made very clear that the plan may only return 
the original capital at the end of the term and thus offered a balance between capital 
at risk and capital protected. The detailed review that took place that spanned two 
separate meetings along with a Financial Planning Report that was discussed, 
reviewed, agreed and ultimately signed as a record of understanding showing that 
Mr and Mrs B made an informed investment decision. 
Whilst the adviser made Mr and Mrs B aware of the concept of risk and provided 
descriptions of risk profiles, Mr and Mrs B were responsible for choosing their own 
attitude to risk. In turn, the adviser could make recommendations accordingly. Had 
Mr and Mrs B not had a balanced attitude to risk, Nationwide would not have been 
able to offer them a Stocks and Shares ISA and/or Unit Trust. They would have been 
directed towards deposits and a Guaranteed Equity Bond as a low risk way of 
seeking investment market growth without capital risk. 
There is no evidence to state that the product, at the outset, had the real risk of 
producing little or no return when it had the scope to generate returns far in excess of 
the deposit based alternatives available at that time  many Guaranteed Equity 
Bonds generated substantial returns. Nationwide advisers explained to investors into 
this product that it may return less than a Building Society account depending on 
market conditions so Nationwide didnt agree that Mr and Mrs B were not sufficiently 
made aware of the implications of this product.
Its unclear how these funds can be identified as being the issue when they were the 
low risk bridge between deposits and the higher risk Stocks and Shares ISAs and 
Unit Trusts.
Nationwide concluded that the complaint was based on performance only but said no 
one could have predicted the turbulent economic climate that led to the product 
returning only the initial capital. 
I've thought carefully about everything again with the benefit of being able to reflect on 
the further comments sent in response to my provisional decision. I must look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely on a balance 
of probabilities. This means making some reasonable assumptions where theres only 
limited information. 
Whilst there is a lack of detailed product information about the particular GEBs the 
adviser recommended, this is unsurprising given these were sold to Mr and Mrs B over 
20 years ago. Nationwide said the GEBs were rated as Prudent Risk  lower risk than 
the Balanced Risk it thought Mr and Mrs B were willing to take and so offsetting the 
higher risk ISAs and unit trusts. 
It said Mr and Mrs B had understood that the return on the Bonds would be in the 
range 0-100%. 
In the absence of any product documentation, I have also relied substantially on the 
information recorded at the point of sale to help me understand the GEB product 
features. 
In the Financial Planning Report Part 1, prepared by Nationwides financial consultant for 
Mr and Mrs B in July 2000, the reason the adviser gave for recommending the GEB to 
both Mr B and Mrs B was as follows:
I am recommending the Guaranteed Equity Bond as it offers investment growth potential 
without risk to your capital The actual return you will receive is linked to a collection of 
stock market indices.There is a guarantee that your return will be a minimum of your 
initial investment 
In other words, the GEB offered Mr and Mrs B the possibility of a return based on stock 
market indices, whilst also guaranteeing they would always get back at least their capital.
Bearing in mind Mr and Mrs Bs particular circumstances and financial situation, and the 
hopes they had for their investment, I think the capital guarantee substantially met their 
investment needs and objectives, even though there was a risk that Mr and Mrs B might not 
make any capital return over the term. They wanted to keep a large part of their invested 
capital secure  the GEB provided that certainty and gave Mr and Mrs B the assurance that 
their capital was secure, whilst at the same time offering a chance it could grow in value. 
Ive kept in mind the risk that inflation would erode the real value of their capital if the GEB 
failed to increase in value - as happened here. But I think it's fair to say that at the point of 
sale, this was a risk at the lower end of the risk scale, compared to a product where the 
original capital amount of the investment was not preserved and Mr and Mrs B could end up 
with less than they invested. I think Mr and Mrs B probably understood this at the time - the 
advisers recommendation included the following:
Any maturity value stated above is a projected amount only. Please refer to the Personal 
Key Features Illustration for more information regarding growth rates...The maturity value 
stated above is only an example and is not guaranteed. It is neither a maximum or minimum 
amount. What you get back depends on how your investment grows. You could get back 
more or less than this.Ive thought very carefully about whether the investment in the GEBs resulted in too large 
a proportion of Mr and Mrs Bs money being placed at too high a level of risk and, looked 
at overall, I find the GEB provided a reasonable balance to their savings/investments. 
I say this because the way the GEBs were described suggests they were less risky than 
the unit linked options Mr and Mrs B invested in  which I have found were suitable for 
them. 
And after investing in the GEBs, Mr and Mrs B were still left with £43,500 in deposit 
savings accounts. 
All this leads me to think that I havent seen enough to be able to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint that the GEBs were unsuitable and mis-sold to them. 
So I am not now planning to tell Nationwide Building Society it needs to take any further 
action. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
On behalf of Mr and Mrs B, the CMC has reiterated its concern about the suitability of GEB 
products for Mr and Mrs B and asked me to take into account ombudsman decisions made 
in relation to other complaints that it says support its view that Mr and Mrs Bs complaint 
should also be upheld. 
Nationwide Building Society confirmed it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter. 
Where the information is incomplete, as some of it is here, I must make my decision based 
on the information thats available to me. I havent seen enough overall safely to be able to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint that Nationwide Building Society gave them unsuitable 
advice when it recommended GEBs to them. 
Each complaint is looked at on its own merits  no two complaints are likely to be identical in 
every way and the outcome on each will depend on its own facts. Ive looked at the 
circumstances that apply in this particular case and the information available - what 
happened on other cases doesnt change my conclusion here. 
As no further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I explained in more detail in my recent provisional decision. My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman