DRN-3546037
The complaint
Mrs E complains about Allianz Insurance Plcs decision to decline a claim made under her 
pet insurance.
What happened
Mrs E has pet insurance underwritten by Allianz, which she first bought in May 2021.
In January 2022, she made a claim relating to planned surgery for her dog due to her 
suffering from Brachycephalic Obstructive Airway Syndrome (BOAS).
Allianz declined the claim. They said pre-existing conditions werent covered under the 
policy. And they referred to veterinary notes provided by Mrs Es vet with the claim, which 
showed that the dog had issues with her breathing from April 2021, before the policy was 
taken out.
Mrs Es vet then wrote to Allianz to clarify that the dog hadnt been clinically affected by the 
breathing issues at the time of the consultation in April 2021. However, Allianz maintained 
their decision to decline the claim.
Mrs E complained to Allianz. They admitted there had been some avoidable delays in their 
handling of the claim and paid Mrs E £60 in compensation. But they said their decision to 
decline the claim had been correct and they wouldnt be covering the cost of the surgery.
Mrs E wasnt happy with this outcome and brought her complaint about Allianzs decision to 
decline the claim to us. Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Allianz had done 
anything wrong.
Mrs E disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute about what Mrs Es policy says. It says:
Your policy will never cover any injury that happened, or any illness that showed 
clinical signs, before your cover started
Theres nothing unfair or unreasonable about that. In principle, you insure yourself against 
the risk of something which may happen. You cant insure yourself against something that 
has already happened.
Most if not all pet insurance policies contain a similar condition or exclusion. And in this 
case, I can see that this particular exclusion is explained clearly  and with reasonable 
prominence  in the policy documents Mrs E received when she bought the policy.
So, the simple question for me, in making this decision, is whether it was reasonable for 
Allianz to conclude that the dog showed clinical signs of BOAS before Mrs E took out the 
policy in May 2021. If so, Allianz were entitled to decline the claim.
The vets clinical notes are obviously the key evidence here. There are three relevant entries 
in those notes.
In April 2021, before Mrs E bought the policy, the vet examined the dog. The primary issue 
appears to have been a possible ear infection, but the notes say that the dog had been 
snuffly and snorey recently. The vet notes stertorous breathing + (stertorous means noisy 
and/or laboured) and goes on:
Feel stertorous breathing likely due to BOAS, if allergy related then steroids will 
help
On a further visit in May 2021, days after Mrs E bought the policy, the vets notes again refer 
to stertorous breathing. And in November, the vet discussed BOAS with Mrs E, who reported 
her dog was snoring heavily and had difficulty breathing when playing. 
Mrs Es claim for the cost of the required surgery for BOAS followed in January 2022.
Allianzs claims team decided, not unreasonably on the face of it, that the vets notes 
showed a progression of the same breathing issue (BOAS) from April 2021  before Mrs E 
bought the policy  through to the surgery-related claim in January 2022. And so, declined 
the claim.
When Mrs Es vet provided further information and said that Mrs Es dog hadnt been 
clinically affected by BOAS in April 2021, Allianz referred the matter to an expert consultant 
vet. The expert confirmed that, according to the original vets notes, clinical signs of BOAS 
had been present in April 2021  before Mrs E bought the policy.
Put as simply as possible, everyone agrees Mrs Es dog had a breathing problem, which is 
noted by her vet in April 2021, before Mrs E bought her policy. Whether it was certain at that 
point that it was BOAS  or whether it was clinically affecting the dog - is largely irrelevant. 
Bearing in mind the relevant policy terms, the question is whether the issues that were noted 
in April 2021 were clinical signs of what everyone agrees turned out to be BOAS.
Logically, either those breathing issues were signs of BOAS (which the dog has now had 
surgery to address) or the dog had breathing issues for some entirely unrelated reason  
which at the time was undiagnosed and remains undiagnosed.
Im satisfied its not unreasonable or unfair for Allianz to conclude that the first of those 
possible explanations is very likely to be true. I note that they took expert advice on this after 
Mrs E raised her concerns about their decision to decline the claim. I think it was reasonable 
and diligent of Allianz to seek that expert advice. And I note the potential allergy explanation 
of the breathing issues has been discounted.
I know Mrs E has been trying to contact the vet who carried out the examination in April 
2021 and who has now left the surgery. She had hoped the vet might confirm that breathing 
issues werent in fact discussed during the consultation in April 2021. 
The vet cant be contacted, despite Mrs Es best efforts. But in any case, I dont think what 
she might have to say now about the consultation carried out more than a year ago would 
carry much evidential weight when set against the contemporaneous notes of the 
consultation. And those notes clearly indicate a strong suspicion that the dogs breathing issues were caused by BOAS, whether or not that was discussed with Mrs E at the time.
Im very sorry that Mrs Es dog has suffered these problems with her health. I know that must 
have been upsetting and worrying for Mrs E and her family. But I cant reasonably conclude 
that Allianz did anything wrong when they declined Mrs Es claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman