DRN-4289859
The complaint
Miss T complains that a car she has been financing through an agreement with Moneybarn 
No. 1 Limited, trading as Moneybarn, was of unsatisfactory quality and had been 
misrepresented to her.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss T, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss T acquired her car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Satisfactory quality
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss T. The car here was about 
nine years old and had already completed about 106,000 miles. 
An old car with a high mileage will not be expected to be as good as a newer car with a low 
mileage, but it should still be fit for use on the road, in a condition that reflects its age and 
price.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Moneybarn were responsible for the cars 
quality. But here the timing belt failed about a year after Miss T took receipt of the vehicle 
and in that time she had managed to drive more than 9,700 miles in it. If the timing belt was 
breaking when the car was supplied I think the fault would have become evident sooner. Im 
not therefore persuaded the car was supplied in an unsatisfactory condition.
Miss T has explained that the timing belt should have been replaced at 100,000 miles but as 
it wasnt I dont think the car could be considered not to have been suitably durable and, 
therefore, of unsatisfactory quality, either. 
Misrepresentation
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act explains that the pre-contractual acts or omissions of 
the credit broker or supplier can be deemed to be the responsibility of the lender. Thats 
relevant when I consider whether the agreement was misrepresented to Miss T.
Miss T says she was told by the broker that servicing was up to date before she took receipt 
of the car. If Miss T was provided with a false statement and if I was persuaded it was likely 
that false statement was a significant factor that induced her to enter into the agreement, I 
may think the car, and the associated finance agreement, had been misrepresented to her. 
But Miss T hasnt been able to provide any further evidence to corroborate her view that the 
car was provided with a full service history. In those circumstances, I dont think it would be 
fair to suggest I have sufficient evidence to support that view.
Ultimately, while I have a lot of sympathy for Miss Ts financial and transport difficulties, I 
dont think it would be fair to suggest Moneybarn need to take any action here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman