DRN-4517834
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Aviva) unfairly recorded a 50/50 split 
liability decision following a claim they made, under Mr Ss motor insurance policy. 
Ill refer to Mr S throughout my decision for ease.
What happened
On 25 July 2020 Mrs S was driving with Mr S in the car when they were involved in a 
collision. Mr S says the other vehicle changed lanes on a roundabout and was at fault. 
Mr S registered a claim with Aviva. He says its agent assured him there would be no issue 
with liability as the third party admitted to changing lanes. Mr S received a request for 
evidence the following day, including a request for CCTV footage. He thought this was an 
automated request from Aviva given its agents comments about liability. He was then told 
on 5 August 2020 that the third-partys insurer (TPI) had accepted liability. 
In September 2022 Aviva wrote to Mr S to tell him the TPI had disputed responsibility and it 
had agreed to a 50/50 split liability outcome. Mr S didnt think this was fair. He says the other 
driver changed her story and he wasnt notified of this or given the opportunity to obtain 
witness statements or CCTV footage. Mr S says his insurance premium is now much more 
expensive because of this. He says that he and his wife have also been caused 
inconvenience and been distressed by this matter. 
In its final complaint response Aviva says that the day after the claim was logged it 
requested a sketch and description of the accident from Mr S. It says it also asked if there 
were any witnesses or CCTV footage. It says Mr S was told it would proceed on a non-fault 
basis, but that this could change to a 50/50 split liability decision. Aviva says Mr S supplied a 
description and sketch, which it sent to the TPI. But he didnt mention CCTV or a witness. 
Aviva says the third party disputed liability for the accident. Because of the lack of evidence, 
it says it agreed to the split liability outcome. Mr S didnt think hed been treated fairly and 
referred the matter to our service. At this point Aviva decided to offer Mr S £200 
compensation. It says its agent had incorrectly told Mr S the TPI had accepted liability in 
August 2020. And it acknowledged its failure in not contacting him about the 50/50 decision 
until September 2022. 
Mr S rejected Avivas offer. Our investigator upheld his complaint in part. He says Avivas 
communication failings impacted on Mr Ss ability to provide supporting evidence. He didnt 
think itd been shown that there was evidence to support a non-fault liability decision. But he 
thought it was fair that Aviva should pay Mr S a total of £350 in compensation for the 
frustration and distress hed been caused.    
Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding Mr Ss complaint in part. Let me explain. 
Mr Ss policy terms and conditions state the following:
If we want to, we can take over and conduct in the name of the person claiming under the 
policy the defence or settlement of any claim or take proceedings for our own benefit to 
recover any payment we have made under this policy. We shall have full discretion in the 
conduct of any proceedings or the settlement of any claim.
This is a common term in motor insurance known as subrogation. It essentially means its for 
Aviva to decide how to settle a claim. It doesnt need Mr Ss permission to do this. We dont 
think this is unreasonable, as its the insurer that will pay the costs involved in a claim. 
However, this doesnt mean Aviva can do anything it wants. It still needs to treat its customer 
fairly. This is what Ive considered here. 
The claim records show that Mr S and the other driver both disputed liability for the collision. 
I note Mr S says the other driver changed their story. I can see that our investigator queried 
this with Aviva. But I cant see evidence that this was the case. The records show the third 
party admitted to changing lanes but said that Mr Ss car had also changed lanes.  
Ive listened to a call recording between Mr S and Aviva from 28 July 2020. During this call 
Mr S mentions the other driver had disputed being at fault and had acted aggressively. Aviva 
also says there was no change in the third partys account of events. Based on this evidence 
I cant see that the third party did change their account of what happened. So, I dont agree 
that Aviva disadvantaged Mr S by not informing him of this.  
The claim records show Aviva emailed Mr S on 26 July 2020. Ive seen this email. It says, 
this type of accident is often disputed and asks Mr S for more information. The email 
specifically asks for contact details of witnesses, dash cam footage, and CCTV footage. 
In the call recording Aviva provided, its agent says she will put the claim down as non-fault. 
But explains that there are often liability disputes. If the third-party disputes liability the agent 
says that they may have to settle the claim on a 50/50 basis as there is no evidence in the 
form of CCTV footage or witnesses. 
Aviva concedes that one of its agents made a mistake when noting a record on Mr Ss claim. 
This resulted in it telling him the TPI had accepted liability when it hadnt. It confirmed this in 
an email to Mr S dated 5 August 2023. I note his comments that he took no action to obtain 
evidence after this email. Had he known liability was in dispute Mr S says he wouldve made 
efforts to obtain witness details and CCTV footage. 
Ive thought carefully about this point. Mr S confirms he didnt obtain details from any 
witnesses at the scene of the accident. He says he took photos at the scene that showed 
registration plates of cars that had just passed. He says couldve tried to contact these 
drivers. I acknowledge what Mr S says, but I dont think its reasonably likely that he 
wouldve found an independent witness based on this. 
Mr S has supplied a map showing the road where the collision occurred. He points to icons 
that he says show CCTV cameras in place that monitor and record. I dont dispute what he 
says. But he hasnt provided information from the owner/operator of these cameras that confirms they were recording at the time, or that the incident was captured. I dont dispute 
that its possible there was footage of the collision. But I dont think it can be known with any 
certainty that there was, based on this information. 
I note Avivas comments that Mr S was initially asked to provide CCTV evidence and he 
didnt do so. Around ten days elapsed between Avivas email asking for this evidence until it 
informed Mr S the TPI had accepted liability. So, I accept he was asked for this information. 
But the window in which he couldve made enquiries about the existence of CCTV footage 
was effectively shortened. 
That said Mr S doesnt mention CCTV or the potential for witnesses in the call recording Ive 
listened to from 28 July 2020. 
In its submission to our service Aviva says its considered the circumstances of the accident. 
It says both vehicles were moving at the time of the collision, and there is no evidence to 
support either partys testimony. It says unless there was dashcam footage the liability 
decision was always likely to be a 50/50 split. It says this would likely be the case even if 
there was CCTV footage of the incident. 
Aviva says it allowed Mr Ss no-claims discount. I think this was reasonable. It also confirms 
Mr S hasnt had to pay his policy excess fee, which he should pay half of in these 
circumstances. 
Having considered all of this, I dont think Aviva handled the claim well. I say this because of 
the inaccurate information it provided that liability had been accepted by the TPI. In addition 
to the delay in communicating the 50/50 liability decision. Its fair that Aviva should 
compensate Mr S for the distress and inconvenience this has clearly caused him. I agree 
with our investigator that £350 is reasonable. 
I dont reasonably think its been shown that an outcome other than a 50/50 liability split was 
reasonably likely. Mr S shouldve had more time to query whether CCTV footage was 
available. But there is no guarantee that it was, or that this wouldve been able to support a 
non-fault outcome. So, although Im sorry to disappoint Mr S I cant reasonably ask Aviva to 
do anything more regarding how his claim was recorded.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Aviva Insurance Limited should:
pay Mr S £350 compensation, in total, for the distress and inconvenience it caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman