DRN-3557542
The complaint
Ms A and Mr D complain Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) refused to remove 
their charge over the property they were selling when the early repayment charge (ERC) 
wasnt paid. They say Halifax wrongly advised them theyd be able to port their mortgage 
without incurring an ERC. And theyre unhappy with the inconvenience Halifax caused when 
they provided the wrong information about how to pay the ERC.
What happened
Ms A and Mr D had a mortgage with Halifax. In 2020 they moved to a new property. They 
understood theyd be able to port their existing mortgage and wouldnt be liable to pay an 
ERC. But Halifax said since they hadnt ported their existing interest rate product, the ERC 
was due. And Halifax wouldnt remove their charge over the property until the ERC was paid. 
Ms A and Mr D complained theyd been wrongly advised. Halifax responded to that 
complaint on 11 February 2021. We couldnt consider the merits of Ms A and Mr Ds 
complaint about that as they brought their complaint outside the relevant time limits.
Ms A and Mr D attempted to pay the ERC in March 2021 since Halifaxs failure to remove 
the charge over the property theyd sold was causing problems with the buyers. 
Unfortunately, Halifax gave them incorrect details of which account they should send the 
payment to, so the payment was returned to them.
Halifax responded to Ms A and Mr Ds complaint about that in August 2021. They apologised 
for the inconvenience theyd caused by providing incorrect account details and paid Ms A 
and Mr D £100 compensation. Our investigator was of the view that was fair to put right the 
inconvenience theyd caused Ms A and Mr D. Since Ms A and Mr D didnt agree, their 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Ms A and Mr D were disappointed with the advice they had from Halifax about 
their mortgage and felt they shouldnt have had to pay an ERC. And I acknowledge Mr Ds 
said he was experiencing personal difficulties at the time. So, I appreciate finding out theyd 
been given wrong information about how to make payment and being asked to pay again 
when the payment was returned, will have been frustrating. 
Halifax realised theyd provided incorrect account information in March 2021. Their records 
show they tried to contact Ms A then to let her know. Ms A and Mr D didnt respond  
although they say they hadnt received a call or any correspondence. And they said they 
understood the payment had been received as theyd received a text to confirm payment. 
Halifaxs records suggest they wouldnt have sent a text. And they argue Ms A and Mr D 
didnt get in touch when the payment was returned. 
Im satisfied Halifax attempted to contact Ms A and Mr D when they realised theyd provided 
incorrect details about where to pay the ERC. Ms A and Mr D said they knew the payment 
had been returned but thought that meant Halifax had accepted the ERC wasnt payable 
after all. And they were surprised to find out in August 2021 Halifax were still requiring 
payment. Their solicitors said their buyers were threatening legal action because they 
couldnt register their ownership at the Land Registry as the ERC hadnt been paid.
Given Halifax had said the ERC must be paid, Ms A and Mr D had attempted to pay it and 
they knew the payment had been returned, I would expect Ms A and Mr D to have contacted 
Halifax to check what had happened. I understand they were reluctant to pay the ERC given 
their wider concerns about the advice theyd been given on their mortgage. And I can 
understand being threatened with legal proceedings will have been stressful. But I think that 
may have been avoided if theyd discussed things with Halifax sooner than August.
There are no grounds on which I think its fair to ask Halifax to waive the ERC based on the 
complaint I am able to consider - which is limited to Halifaxs administrative error in providing 
wrong account details. But I think its right Halifax should compensate Ms A and Mr D for the 
distress and inconvenience that issue caused. I think that was limited to the inconvenience 
of having to arrange payment a second time. 
Bearing everything in mind - and even if it was fair to take into account the stress caused by 
the buyers threatening proceedings - I think Halifaxs apology and compensation payment of 
£100 were fair and reasonable to put right the impact of their mistake. So, I dont uphold    
Ms A and Mr Ds complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms A and Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman