DRN-3014237
The complaint
Mr B complains about Acasta European Insurance Company Limited (Acasta) under his 
guarantee insurance policy. He believes Acasta unfairly declined a claim because he hadnt 
obtained a separate installer guarantee from the contractor that replaced his roof.
In this decision reference is made to Acasta as the insurer underwriting the policy. An 
administrator acted for Acasta in respect of the policy, together with an appointed 
representative of the administrator that assessed claims made under the policy. References 
to Acasta include both the administrator and the appointed representative. 
What happened
In June 2018, following a quotation from a contractor (S) Mr B had a replacement roof 
installed at his property. The quotation included reference to it being inclusive of a 10-year 
insurance-backed guarantee. On completion of the work Mr B completed a registration form 
and returned it to Acasta. Mr B received an email from Acasta confirming receipt of the form 
and registration of the policy.
In August 2020 Mr B discovered a leak in the roof. Mr B completed a claim form under the 
policy and returned it to Acasta. Acasta declined the claim because Mr B hadnt provided 
them with an installer guarantee from S. Mr B was unhappy at the decline of his claim and 
complained to Acasta. Mr B said that at no point during his completion of the registration 
form had he been asked to provide an installer guarantee. S had ceased trading since 
completion of the work on the roof, so Mr B wasnt able to obtain an installer guarantee.
Acasta rejected Mr Bs complaint. In their final response letter of September 2020, they 
stated that as S hadnt provided Mr B with an installer guarantee they werent able to cover 
Mr B under their guarantee insurance policy, as the purpose of the policy was to mirror the 
installer guarantee. 
Mr B was unhappy at his complaint being rejected and complained to this service. He said 
he hadnt known about the requirement to obtain an installer guarantee and hadnt been 
asked for one at the time the policy was registered. Mr B also thought it was unfair to only 
make the requirement known when a claim was made, and that the policy was effectively 
worthless without the installer guarantee. Mr B asked that his roof should be repaired under 
the policy, at no cost to him. Mr B said he obtained a completion certificate from his local 
council in respect of the roof. He also said a roofing industry trade body told him he didnt 
need an installer guarantee. Mr B also asked that it should be made clear to consumers that 
an installer guarantee was required at the time of policy registration.
Our investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint. The investigator concluded that while 
Acasta confirmed their policy was designed to mirror the installer guarantee and 
without it they couldnt determine if the defect with Mr Bs roof was covered, it wasnt 
fair for Acasta to say that Mr B should have to show whats covered. The investigator 
also concluded that Acasta should have known what the installer guarantee would 
have covered, so Mr Bs claim should be dealt with as Mr B had expected it to be 
under the policy. The investigator said this should include any consequential losses 
(damage) from the leaking roof in the time since the decline of his claim.
Acasta disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. Acasta said that if a customer hadnt been issued with an installers guarantee 
then that was a failing by the installer and there was nothing for Acastas guarantee to cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 My role here is to decide whether Acasta has acted fairly towards Mr B.
The main element of Mr Bs complaint is that he wasnt made aware of the requirement for 
an installer guarantee from S, at the time that he took out his policy with Acasta.
Mr B has said that having returned the registration forms to Acasta and then receiving 
confirmation of the insurance backed guarantee policy from Acasta, there was no indication 
that a separate installer guarantee from S was required. Ive looked at the email from Acasta 
confirming that his registration forms had been received and registered. I note it says that 
there is no further documentation that we need to send to you as the Guarantee 
Insurance certificate is incorporated within the original document. While this doesnt mean 
that (as Mr B understood it) Acasta didnt need any further documentation (as the email 
refers to documentation that Acasta needs to send to Mr B) I understand why Mr B didnt 
think that he needed to obtain or provide anything further to Acasta.
Acasta said that the purpose of their policy is to provide cover for the guarantee issued by 
the contractor, in the event the contractor ceases to trade within the period of the guarantee. 
As S didnt issue a guarantee, then Acastas view is that they cannot insure that guarantee.
In considering Acastas view Ive also looked at the policy documents provided to Mr B when 
he took out his policy. The terms and conditions confirm the purpose of the policy and that 
cover is provided for remedial works required under the terms and conditions of the 
suppliers own guarantee in the event of the supplier ceasing to trade. Other references are 
made to the installers original guarantee. Ive also noted that on the claims form theres a 
question asking for a copy of the Suppliers/Installers Guarantee (which Mr B left blank).
From these references I think its clear that the suppliers own guarantee is important. 
However, Ive also thought about the fact that Acasta issued the policy confirmation to Mr B. 
From what Ive seen, Acasta didnt ask for a supplier guarantee document as part of the 
registration process (nor ask Mr B for it when it wasnt provided by him). Acasta also 
confirmed they dont ask for an installer guarantee until a policyholder makes a claim. But I 
think its reasonable that the fact Acasta issued their own policy documents to Mr B would 
have indicated to him that he was covered.
 
Ive also considered Acastas point that without Ss installation guarantee, they wouldnt 
know what was covered in that guarantee, and therefore couldnt consider whether it was in 
turn covered by their own policy. However, Im not persuaded by this point. As Mr B had a 
replacement roof, which had developed a leak after just two years (when he had thought he 
was covered for 10 years), I think it would have been clear that there was some form of 
defect, unless there was an indication or evidence that the leak was the result of damage 
from a storm or other event that may have been covered under a separate buildings 
insurance policy held by Mr B. Even without a specific installer guarantee document, I think 
its reasonable to conclude that any installer guarantee would have provided cover for 
defects in the work carried out. Ive also considered Mr Bs point that he was told by the roofing contractor trade body that 
an installer guarantee could be a sentence on the contractor invoice or quotation stating that 
the guarantee is for 10 years. Ive looked at the quotation provided by S to Mr B, it states: 
This quotation is inclusive of a 10 year insurance backed guarantee. The quotation also 
includes a footer with an Insurance backed Guarantee symbol. I think its understandable 
Mr B thought that he was covered by a guarantee provided by S in the first instance, but also 
subsequently from the registration of his policy with Acasta.
Taking these points into account, Ive concluded that overall Acasta havent acted fairly 
towards Mr B in declining his claim. 
In terms of putting things right, our investigator said that Acasta should assess Mr Bs 
claim in line with Mr Bs expectation of the policy. And that Acasta should assess the 
claim and carry out the necessary inspection to determine the cause of the leak and 
then discuss the next steps and reach an agreement with Mr B to settle the claim. 
The investigator also said this should include any consequential losses (damage) 
from the leaking roof in the time since the decline of his claim.
I think its right that Acasta should assess the claim as they would have done had 
they not declined the claim because of the absence of a specific installer guarantee 
from S. I think Acasta should use a typical industry installer guarantee for the 
purpose, seeking advice from the relevant roofing contractor trade body. If Mr Bs 
claim is accepted, given the elapse of time since the leak occurred, I also think its fair 
that Acasta should also consider any linked consequential damage and loss incurred 
by Mr B as part of the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint. I require 
Acasta Europe Insurance Company Limited to:
Assess Mr Bs claim as they would have done had they not declined the claim 
because of the absence of a specific installer guarantee from S, using a typical 
industry installer guarantee for the purpose, seeking advice from the relevant roofing 
contractor trade association if needs be.
If Mr Bs claim is accepted, given the elapse of time since the leak, Acasta should also 
consider any linked consequential damage and loss incurred by Mr B as part of the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman