DRN-3660426
The complaint
Mr S complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) rejected his claim against it 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of some solar 
panels.
Background
In 2012 Mr S bought solar panels for his home and paid for them with cheques drawn on his 
RBS current account. He later realised that the panels were not performing as well as he 
had been told they would at the point of sale, and he says that this was evidence that a 
misrepresentation had been made to him by the supplier. In 2022 Mr S asked RBS to 
compensate him, the supplier having already gone into liquidation. RBS did not uphold his 
claim, and so Mr S referred this complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators considered this complaint, but he did not uphold it. He said that 
because the purchase had been made by cheque, there was no basis under which RBS 
could be held liable for what the supplier had done. Mr S asked for an ombudsman to review 
his case.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
I would not usually think it is fair or reasonable to hold somebody responsible for something 
a third party did. So, generally speaking, I would not hold RBS responsible for any 
misrepresentations that may have been made by the supplier of the solar panels.
An exception to that is where some law or code of practice makes them liable for what a 
third party did. One example of that is the Consumer Credit Act. Sections 56 and 75 of that 
Act, where they apply, make the provider of credit liable for any misrepresentation or breach 
of contract by the supplier of goods or services which were paid for with the credit. But RBS 
did not provide Mr S with credit, so those sections do not apply.
Another example is chargeback. Chargeback is not a law, but a scheme which credit card 
and debit card providers sign up to whereby payments made with such cards may be 
refunded if certain conditions are met. But this does not apply to Mr Ss cheque payments.
I am unaware of any other circumstances in which RBS could be help liable for the actions of 
the supplier of Mr Ss solar panels just because he paid them with money from his RBS 
account. It follows that RBS was not wrong to deny his claim for compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman