DRN-4202204
The complaint
Mr B the executor of the estate of Mrs B complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
(RBS) froze his joint bank account held with the late Mrs B without notification. Mr B is 
unhappy with the service received from RBS regarding this and its bereavement process. Mr 
B wants a total review of this monitored by the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B held a joint account with RBS, Mrs B died appointing her husband Mr B to be 
the Executor of her estate. Mr B is unhappy with RBSs bereavement processes and the 
service he received regarding Mrs Bs estate. In particular he says:
A period of obvious distress was made worse by RBS when he had to waste 
personal time and had additional travel due to RBSs incompetency which also 
affected Mr Bs professional work for a charity.  
There were long delays to respond to phone calls and letters, no single point of 
contact, lack of continuity and promises of delivery were not kept.
Communication between him and the local branch was inefficient and letters were 
received unsigned with spelling errors.
He attended RBSs branch five days in a row as hed lost access to his funds and 
had his debit and credit card cancelled as a result of RBSs errors.
Mr B complained to RBS about all this. RBS accepted that it made some mistakes and says 
it has taken steps to have the issues corrected as well as removing the blocks put on to Mr 
Bs cards. RBS offered £1,280 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused and 
£100 to compensate Mr B for the travel costs.
Mr B was dis-satisfied with this and brought the complaint to this service. In particular Mr B 
wants to be satisfied that RBS have reviewed and made modifications to its bereavement 
process as its claimed. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Bs concerns and reached the conclusion that RBS 
accepted the mistakes it had made and that these had now been rectified and they felt the 
compensation offered was a fair way to settle the complaint. 
The Mr B disagreed, although he accepted RBSs resolution to the matter, he wants 
evidence that RBS has changed its process and evidence that an audit of RBSs 
bereavement process was carried out by this service and has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all my condolences to Mr B on the loss of his wife, I sympathise at what must have 
been a very difficult time was made more difficult by RBSs failures. And I applaud Mr B for 
trying to ensure going forward RBS has an efficient bereavement process in place to 
alleviate some of the distress that is all too common for those taking on the role of an 
executor.
I understand to resolve the complaint Mr B would like our organisation to conduct an audit of 
RBSs bereavement processes to ensure that RBS has made sufficient changes to its 
processes so that going forward others dont have to suffer as he has. But we are not the 
regulator, I cannot make the bank change its policies or procedures  or tell it what 
processes it has to have in place for a bereaved customer or how it deals with an account on 
notification of a customers death. 
This service doesnt supervise, regulate or discipline the businesses we cover  thats the 
role of the regulator, in this case the Financial Conduct Authority. We offer an informal 
dispute resolution service and my role in this case is to look at the problems the consumer 
(in this case the estate of the late Mrs B) has experienced and see if RBS has done anything 
wrong or made a mistake. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put the consumer back in 
the position they wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable if I consider it warranted.
RBS has already accepted that it made a number of errors in processing Mrs Bs death  
one of which was blocking Mr Bs access to funds held in a joint account with his late wife. 
My understanding is that this has now been resolved and by all accounts there is nothing 
further for RBS to do to rectify this. On top of this RBS has paid £1,280 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused and reimbursed Mr B £100 for travel costs  which Mr B has 
accepted. 
Mr B hasnt made this service aware of any further mistakes RBS has made in relation to the 
administration of his late wifes account - and as we arent the regulator  I dont think there 
is anything more we can do. 
I also think the compensation paid is fair and reasonable as in cases such as these, I 
wouldnt usually make an award of compensation for distress and inconvenience because 
Mr B is not the complainant. Mr B is merely acting on behalf of the estate and so it is not in 
my powers to make an award for any distress and inconvenience hes suffered personally  
though I appreciate the difficult role hes taken on and the responsibilities that come with that 
So it follows that Im satisfied that RBS has already done enough to put things right for the 
estate of the late Mrs B and Im not going to ask it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided what The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has 
already done is a fair way to settle the estate of Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman