DRN-2679836
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC provided poor service in relation to a cheque shed 
deposited with it. She says this caused a delay to her having access to the funds and a lack 
of investment opportunity for that time.
What happened
Ms R paid a cheque into her account with Lloyds. The cheque was for approximately 
£180,000 and was drawn on another Lloyds account held be her brother in his capacity as 
executor.
Unfortunately, the cheque wasnt paid by Lloyds, so Ms R didnt receive the funds. Ms Rs 
brother was able to make a transfer from his account instead, but this meant Ms R received 
the money approximately two weeks later than she was expecting to. Ms R wasnt happy 
with this, so she made a complaint. She said shed experienced a lot of trouble in relation to 
how Lloyds had handled things.
Lloyds looked at Ms Rs complaint and said that the reason the cheque hadnt been paid 
was because there was no mandate in place to authorise its payment, which meant that 
Lloyds didnt have the necessary permission from the person issuing the cheque to pay it. 
Lloyds also said that the signature on the cheque didnt sufficiently match what was held on 
the payers accounts. So, Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms R wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that Lloyds, as the bank 
receiving the cheque, were dependent on information provided to them by the bank issuing 
the cheque  including the mandate to enable the cheque to be paid  and so they couldnt 
fairly be held responsible for why the payment had failed. So, they didnt uphold the cheque 
either.
Ms R remained dissatisfied, and so the complaint was referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must note immediately that this letter only relates to Ms Rs complaint against Lloyds as the
bank receiving the cheque in question. I have issued a separate decision letter regarding this 
complaint as it relates to Lloyds as the bank which issued the cheque.
When Ms R paid the cheque into her account, Lloyds needed to send it off to issuer of the 
cheque  in this case her brothers bank  to confirm that the cheque could be paid. And Im 
satisfied that Lloyds did that. 
However, whether a cheque is paid depends on several things including, for example, 
sufficient funds, a valid mandate that matches the signature on the cheque, and any other 
verification checks that the banks in question include as a part of their process. Ultimately, 
the decision whether or not to pay the cheque is made by the bank of the party which issued 
the cheque.
Here, while both the issuing and receiving banks were both Lloyds, the cheque wasnt paid 
because the issuing bank came back and said that it couldnt be paid. I make no comment 
on whether that was correct as there are limitations to what I have the power to consider, as 
has been explained previously. 
When the issuing bank informed the receiving bank  Ms Rs bank  that the cheque couldnt 
be paid, I would have expected the receiving bank to notify Ms R so that she could contact 
the party who had sent her the cheque and make alternative arrangements. And thats what 
happened here.
I note that Ms R has stated that she has seen the mandate in question and so doesnt think 
that its absence can be a legitimate reason why the cheque was declined. However, it must 
be noted that this was the information that her bank got back from the issuing bank, and so I 
cant see what else Ms Rs bank could have done here. The transaction in question was to 
receive Ms Rs deposit (the cheque), request confirmation from the issuing bank that the 
cheque could be paid, and to wait for an answer from the issuing bank which would either 
enable Ms Rs bank to credit Ms Rs account or not.
Ive thought about what Ms R has said about the overall service she received. But 
considering everything Ive seen, I dont think Lloyds treated her unfairly insofar as her 
transaction was concerned, for the reasons explained above, and also that Lloyds as the 
receiving bank did what Id reasonably expect them to have done in these circumstances. 
So, Im not going to require them to do anything further. 
It follows then that I wont be upholding this complaint as it relates to Lloyds as the bank 
receiving the cheque. I realise that this wont be the outcome that Ms R was wanting, but I 
hope that she can understand, based on everything I have explained above, why I have 
reached the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman