DRN-2948219
The complaint
Mr S complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited (II) changed the bank account 
where they usually took a regular investment payment without his express consent.
What happened
Mr S has an execution only share dealing account with II and set up a regular payment from 
his bank account to pay £400 into his share dealing account for future investment.
Mr S made a one-off payment of £10,000 on 16 March 2020 and used a different bank 
account to make this payment.
On 3 April 2020, Mr S noticed that his regular payment had been taken from a different 
account than usual and complained to II.
II investigated and said that as he had updated his card details in March, the new bank 
details were used for his regular payments. II said that the system had worked as designed.
Unhappy with IIs decision, Mr S referred his complaint to the service and one of our 
investigators reviewed his complaint.
The investigator didnt think that II had done anything wrong and didnt uphold Mr Ss 
complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr S has asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and 
wont be upholding the complaint. I know that Mr S feels strongly about his complaint and I 
will explain why I have reached this decision.
The service will look at complaints and where something has gone wrong, we will ask the 
business to put the consumer back into the position they should have been in had they error 
not occurred.
Mr S complaint is about the bank account that II used for his regular payments. Mr S says II 
should have used the same bank account that they had always used rather than to update 
his bank details with the bank account that he used for his one-off funding of £10,000.
The service cant tell a business how they should run their operation and its up to them how 
they choose to go about this. In looking at Mr S complaint, I have looked at what II said in 
their terms and conditions about how they would operate the service.
In his submission to the service, Mr S said that there was nothing on the website to suggest 
that his regular payment would be taken from another account to the one that he normally 
used to fund his share dealing account.
I can see from the documentation that Mr S made a one-off payment on 16 March 2020 and 
this has had the effect of changing the default bank account that II use to take his regular 
monthly payment.
In their submission to the service, II have said that when a client updates card details on 
their website, some important information is shown to the client before any changes are 
made.
I have looked at this information and it says:
Stored payment information (stored credentials) are used to process recurring or one-time 
payments that cannot be processed immediately. By accepting these terms, you authorise 
Interactive Investor to store credentials in compliance with payment processing regulations 
for use at a later time.
Your stored card details may also be used to pay your monthly charges if you dont have 
enough cash in your account.
You can only have one nominated bank account per currency
I think that the above information makes it clear that stored card details will be used for 
future payment processing and by using a different bank account to make his one-off 
payment, Mr S has, albeit inadvertently, updated his bank account details which meant that 
his regular monthly payments would be taken from this bank account.
Mr S argument is that the website information is not transparent, but I can also see that that 
there is a box that the client needs to tick which says, I agree to store my debit card. As Mr 
S has ticked this box, he has agreed to these terms.
I sympathise with Mr S that this was probably not his intention, but I cant say that II have 
done anything wrong in the way that they have handled payments from his bank account 
and Im not going to ask them to do anything further.
In his submission to the service, Mr S has suggested that II may have updated their website 
since his complaint was made. I have considered this, but I think that on the balance of 
probability, the same information was displayed when Mr S updated his bank account details 
in March 2020.
In summary, Mr S has said that II changed the bank account without his express consent but 
after reading the documentation available to me, I think that as Mr S submitted a one-off 
payment, he was responsible for the payment and it was his instruction that II acted on. This 
had the effect of changing the bank account that II took the regular monthly payment.
Ive also looked at the potential impact that this may have had on Mr S but as the monthly 
payment continues to be set to the account that was changed, I cant say that this has had a 
detrimental impact on him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman