DRN-3691767
The complaint
Ms D complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua have irresponsibly lent to her.
Ms D is represented by a claims management company in bringing this complaint. But for
ease of reading, Ill refer to any submission and comments they have made as being made
by Ms D herself.
What happened
Ms D was accepted for a NewDay branded credit card in March 2017 with a £300 credit limit.
This was later increased to £750 in December 2017. She says that NewDay mis-sold the
card to her and they didnt carry out sufficient checks prior to granting her credit. The debt
was later sold to a third party debt management company. Ms D made a complaint to
NewDay.
NewDay did not uphold Ms Ds complaint. They said that they had considered the
information she included on her application, such as being employed with a gross annual
salary of £25,000 and having unsecured debt of £2,800. They also said that external
information available to them showed that she had three defaults, totalling £1,300 with the
last one occurring 32 months prior to her application, no adverse public records, payday
loans with outstanding balances of £352 and no accounts in arrears.
Ms D brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator partially upheld her complaint.
He said that the initial lending decision was fair, but the credit limit increase was
unaffordable for Ms D as she had taken out unsecured loans in March and November 2017
which showed her total unsecured borrowings significantly increase.
Our investigator said NewDay should refund the fees and charges Ms D had incurred over
£300 and use this to reduce any outstanding balance. If there was a balance remaining then
NewDay should make an affordable arrangement plan with Ms D. He said if this creates a
positive balance then this amount should be paid back to Ms D, with 8% simple interest
added and any adverse information should be removed from her credit file when the
outstanding balance was repaid.
NewDay asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. They said they believed
sufficient checks had been completed and there was nothing to indicate that Ms D would
struggle with the credit card payments as although her total unsecured borrowings had
increased, NewDay said the repayments were still manageable based on her £25,000
income and they had only increased the credit limit by £450.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to approve the credit limit for Ms D, NewDay needed to make proportionate
checks to determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable for her. Theres no
prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I expect lenders to
consider include - but are not limited to: the type and amount of credit, the borrower's
income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well as the
consumer's personal circumstances.
Initial credit limit - £300
Ive looked at what checks NewDay said they did prior to accepting Ms Ds application. They
said at the time of applying for the credit card, they considered the information that Ms D had
given them, such as her being employed, earning a salary of £25,000 a year and they looked
at external data available to them. NewDay said that the data showed she was not in arrears
at the time of the application on any of her accounts.
So Ive considered if the checks that NewDay carried out were proportionate to the level of
credit that Ms D was given. And despite Ms D being approved for a relatively modest credit
limit, compared to the income she declared, Im persuaded there are other factors which
should have persuaded NewDay to make further checks and Ill explain why below.
NewDays data showed that Ms D had three accounts which previously defaulted with a total
of £1,300, with the last one being 32 months ago. The value of at least one of these defaults
would have been comparable to the initial credit limit of her NewDay card. The data also
showed that Ms D had payday loans outstanding, with balances totalling £352. This could
indicate that Ms D was not able to manage her finances well.
So, I would have expected NewDay, as part of a proportionate check, to ask for further
information from Ms D to ensure that a £300 credit limit would be affordable and sustainable
for her, especially as she had previously not maintained credit agreements which led to
defaults and she had outstanding payday loan balances of £352  which is more than the
credit limit NewDay initially accepted her for. They could have done this by contacting Ms D
to discuss her personal circumstances at the time, or they could have asked for information
about her income and outgoings, such as requesting her recent bank statements, to see
whether the credit limit would be sustainable and affordable for Ms D.
So I asked Ms D if she could provide her bank statements for the time period before her
NewDay credit card application was accepted, as Im persuaded this is something that
NewDay could have done as part of a proportionate check to see if the NewDay credit card
would be affordable for her and to ensure she could make payments in a sustainable
manner based on the reasons Ive already mentioned. But Ms D did not respond to any
requests to provide me with her bank statements.
While Ive considered the accounts and total balances which have defaulted, Ive also
needed to consider that a customers past behaviour would not always be indicative of how
they may manage an account in the future. Although Ms D had a history of not managing a
small amount of credit compared to her income, I cant say that this factor alone makes a
relatively low credit limit automatically unaffordable or unsustainable. Even though she had
outstanding payday loan balances of £352, this may be because she had an emergency and
needed money quick. Given her defaults, she may have not been able to meet an
unexpected expense through cheaper methods of finance.
So on the face of it, it does look like NewDay shouldve made further checks here. But as
my role is impartial, that means I have to be fair to both sides and although Im satisfied that
NewDay shouldve done more checks here  I cant say whether that wouldve revealed
further information which means they wouldnt have lent. So as Ms D hasnt provided me
with her bank statements, that means that it wouldnt be fair for me to say that NewDayshouldnt have lent here, because I dont know what further checks would reveal.
December 2017 credit limit increase - £300 to £750
Ive looked at the information that NewDay had available to them when they increased Ms
Ds credit limit to £750. They increased the credit limit by £450, which saw the credit limit
more than double. NewDay had gathered a lot of information of how Ms D had used her
account since she opened the account and they had gathered a lot of external data from
credit reference agencies, which showed how Ms D was managing her external finances
also. So, I would need to see that the data NewDay had available to them would support the
increase. But Im not persuaded that it did and Ill explain why.
NewDays data shows that Ms D incurred either late payment charges or overlimit charges
on four occasions in the seven months prior to her credit limit increasing. This may be an
indication that Ms D was struggling with managing her finances. But this is not all NewDays
data showed. The data also showed that Ms Ds unsecured debt had risen from £2,800
when she applied for the account to £16,333 in the month prior to Ms D being approved for
the account.
The data shows that on credit cards, Ms D had total outstanding balances of £3,129 against
a combined credit limit of £3,150. So this would indicate that Ms Ds financial situation was
not improving, and she was using virtually all of the credit available to her. In the space of a
number of months she had doubled the number of accounts she held from four at application
stage, to eight in the month prior to her credit limit being increased.
So Im persuaded that it wasnt a fair lending decision to more than double the credit limit on
Ms Ds account based on the combination of how she managed her existing NewDay card,
with frequent late or overlimit charges, a significant increase of her overall unsecured active
debt, rising nearly six times the amount from £2,800 to £16,333 (which would be 65% of her
declared gross annual salary) over the space of eight months and the number of accounts
she held doubling, showing that Ms D was hungry for credit and using an increasing amount
of debt, including utilising the majority of her credit card limits with third parties also.
So as NewDay had all of this information, and the fact that Ms D had defaulted on smaller
credit limits than the proposed credit limit increase from NewDay, Im persuaded that Ms D
would not be in a position to pay the credit back in an affordable or sustainable manner in a
reasonable timeframe. So it follows I intend to ask NewDay to put things right for Ms D.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Ms D accepted the provisional decision. NewDay said they had no further 
information to add to the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision, I said I intend to uphold the complaint in part and I intend to ask 
NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua to do the following:NewDay should arrange to transfer any debt back to themselves if it has been passed to a
debt recovery agent.
NewDay should also rework the account, refunding all interest and charges that have been
applied to any balances above £300. If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be
refunded to Ms D along with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each
overpayment to the date of settlement. NewDay should also remove all adverse information
recorded from December 2017 regarding this account from Ms Ds credit file.
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £300, NewDay should arrange
an affordable repayment plan with Ms D for the remaining amount. Once Ms D has cleared
the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded from December 2017 in relation
to the account should be removed from her credit file. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome 
for the reasons given previously.
*If NewDay considers that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income
tax from that interest, they should tell Ms D how much theyve taken off. They should also
give Ms D a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua should settle the complaint in line with 
the instructions in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman