DRN-3425370
The complaint
Mr M complains that because Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (Hitachi) were late delivering a 
car he was financing through an agreement with them, he had to pay for an additional 
service.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr M, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it. 
If Mr M was told something that was false and if that false statement led him to enter into an 
agreement he wouldnt otherwise have entered into, I would think the agreement had been 
misrepresented to him and Id ask Hitachi to take some action.
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) explains that finance providers are liable for 
what they say and for what is said by a credit broker or a supplier before the consumer takes 
out the credit agreement. So, if the dealership made a false statement of fact when 
arranging the deal, I think it would be fair to hold Hitachi responsible for that 
misrepresentation.
But here I dont think theres been any misrepresentation as Mr M was told the car had been 
pre-registered and he chose to accept that rather than wait even longer for a newly 
registered vehicle. 
Mr M says that has had implications on servicing costs, but hes also explained that he knew 
about the requirement to service this car every two years. In those circumstances, I dont 
think it would be fair to say Hitachi have done anything wrong. They advised Mr M that the 
car would need to be pre-registered if he was still to benefit from the discounted offer and 
Mr M was aware of the servicing requirements. 
Whilst I sympathise with Mr M who clearly had to wait a long time for his car to be delivered, 
I dont think Hitachi have done anything wrong here and Im not asking them to take any 
further action.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman