DRN-3485263
The complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plcs online mortgage application systems are 
inadequate. He says it took too long to complete an online application. He says there were 
various other problems, including being wrongly charged an £80 early repayment charge 
(ERC) and his contractual monthly payment not being taken. 
What happened
Mr Ws interest rate product was due to expire on 31 October 2021. He wanted to apply for a 
new product and to change the mortgage term. He did this online. Mr W says HSBCs 
systems had many problems, but he did eventually complete the application. 
Mr W wanted the new product to start when the existing product expired, but HSBC switched 
products in mid-September 2021. This caused a number of problems, including that he was 
charged an ERC of £80 to his credit card and his mortgage account. Mr W says HSBC took 
too long to refund this and sort out other problems. 
Mr W says HSBCs final response didnt explain what had happened or offer proper 
compensation and it took longer than necessary to put things right. He says it didnt take his 
September 2021 payment, meaning hes being charged extra interest. 
Mr W also raised concerns about his property valuation, which is being dealt with separately.
Our investigator said while HSBC had made errors, it had put this right and the £400 
compensation offered was fair. The investigator said it was Mr Ws decision not to make the 
payment due in September 2021. He said HSBC was fair to say it would refund the 
additional interest if Mr W made the payment. 
Mr W didnt agree. He said it was wrong that the effect on his mental health wasnt taken into 
account, and sent a list of the errors he says HSBC made. In summary:
HSBCs systems made it difficult for him to complete his application 
HSBC processed the product switch earlier than he wanted
HSBC took a payment of £80 from his credit card. He says this was a payment it wasnt 
entitled to, and it took a month to refund it
HSBCs call centre incorrectly told him the refund would be applied to his mortgage 
account and his credit card within two days. It was nearer to two weeks later
HSBC didnt take his contractual monthly payment in September 2021. It charged 
addition interest due to the missed payment, which it will only refund if he makes the 
payment. He says its not his responsibility to rectify HSBCs error 
HSBC sent a letter saying it had put his account on a variable rate. He says he hasnt 
been compensated for the additional interest  
HSBCs final response didnt deal with all the issues. HSBC only looked into and paid 
compensation for some of the problems he experienced.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W says HSBC only looked into and paid compensation for some of the problems he 
experienced. Ive read through the correspondence sent by HSBCs complaints team to 
Mr W and I think it responded fairly. 
Mr W applied for a new product and a change in the term of his mortgage (for ease, Ill refer 
to this as the product switch). Mr W wanted to apply online, but had problems using HSBCs 
online application system. HSBC offered Mr W an appointment with a mortgage adviser, as 
an alternative to the online system. I think this was fair.
Mr W decided to continue with the online application, on a non-advised basis. He says he 
had difficulty due to HSBCs systems, but managed to complete the application. He then 
found out HSBC had applied the switch in mid-September, instead of after his product 
expired on 31 October 2021. He made a complaint.
HSBC apologised for the problems Mr W had making an online application. It said it 
regretted these problems and that it had applied the switch sooner than Mr W wanted. HSBC 
said it couldnt see anything in Mr Ws application that said he wanted the switch to happen 
after his existing product expired. Mr W said the date for the product switch was auto-filled 
by HSBCs system and couldnt be changed, and its not his fault if HSBCs systems dont 
work properly. 
Either way, HSBC accepted there was an error with its system and said it would apply the 
switch on the date Mr W wanted. It said it would refund the ERC and make the appropriate 
adjustments to his account to make sure he wasnt affected by the early switch. It paid £200 
for the inconvenience. I think this was a fair response.
It took HSBC longer to make these adjustments and refunds than expected. It apologised to 
Mr W for not manging his expectations about timing, and said its response times were longer 
than usual due to the volume of applications at that time (due to the stamp duty holiday 
brought in by the UK Government). HSBC set out in writing the adjustments made to Mr Ws 
account during September and October 2021. It said it would tell Mr W what his new 
payments would be after the product switch was applied (after 31 October 2021).
HSBC did make errors here. As a result of the product switch happening in September 2021 
HSBC applied an ERC of £80. It applied the charge twice  once to the mortgage account 
and once to Mr Ws credit card. That was wrong. And it took too long (more than a month) to 
refund the charge to Mr Ws credit card. HSBC offered to cover any interest applied to 
Mr Ws credit card due to the £80 charge, which I think was fair. I cant see that Mr W has 
any outstanding loss as a result of the ERC being applied or the time taken to refund it.
One of the consequences of the time taken to reverse the product switch in September 2021 
was that Mr Ws contractual monthly payment wasnt taken in September 2021. HSBC 
offered to adjust the account if Mr W made up the missed payment. I think thats fair. HSBC 
left it to Mr W to decide whether to make the payment. If he didnt, the loan balance would 
remain higher and therefore more interest will be applied over the mortgage term. Mr W 
chose not to make the payment. I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to 
require HSBC to take any further steps in relation to the missed payment.HSBC made an error when it applied the switch on 4 November, instead of 1 November 
2021. It sent a letter to Mr W saying his mortgage was on its variable rate. HSBC corrected 
this and made the appropriate adjustments to Mr Ws account. It paid a further £200 
compensation. I think this was fair. 
Mr W says in addition to the financial loss, this caused him emotional stress. He said his 
desperation due to the numerous mistakes made him mentally unwell.
Sometimes things go wrong, and unfortunately that was the case here. Overall, I think HSBC 
acted fairly to put matters right. HSBC adjusted Mr Ws account as if the changes he 
requested were only ever applied on 1 November 2021. It offered to cover any interest Mr W 
incurred as a result of the £80 charge on his credit card account. It offered a fair solution to 
the missed payment in September 2021. And it paid £400 compensation for the 
inconvenience this has caused to Mr W. I think HSBC fairly addressed the issues Mr W 
expressed concerns about and explained how it would put matters right. It didnt need to 
itemise compensation amounts against each issue. 
HSBC did take too long to refund the ERC and put Mr Ws account into the right position. 
Ive taken into account what Mr W has said about the stress this caused him. Ive also taken 
into account that HSBC made it clear from the outset that it would adjust Mr Ws account and 
refund the ERC so that he wasnt out of pocket. While theres no doubt this caused Mr W 
stress and inconvenience, I think the compensation paid and the other steps taken by HSBC 
are fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. This is because I think the steps taken and 
compensation paid by HSBC UK Bank Plc are fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman