DRN-3739490
Complaint
Mr J has complained about personal loans Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Mr J with a loan for £2,501.00 in December 2019. This loan had 
an APR of 153.9% and a term of 36 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£7,545.24, including interest, fees and charges of £5,044.24, was due to be repaid in 36 
monthly instalments of just under £210. One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Js complaint 
and she that Everyday Loans ought to have realised that it shouldnt have provided Mr J with 
his loan. So she thought that Mr Js complaint should be upheld. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Js complaint. 
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr J could afford to repay any credit it provided. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out credit checks 
before Mr Js loan was provided. The results of which showed that Mr J already had a 
significant amount of existing debt and had taken out loans with payday lenders. 
Furthermore, the credit search showed that Mr J use of such credit wasnt a one off either.
Im also concerned that Everyday Loans own income and expenditure calculation showed 
that this loan would take Mr J right to the margin of his disposal income. And Everyday 
Loans relied on the use of average data to calculate Mr Js living expenses when arriving at 
its monthly disposable income figure. This is despite the fact that Mr Js credit file showed he 
didnt fit the profile of the average borrower. 
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Mr J has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time. And while its possible Mr Js financial position reflected his 
choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases 
suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from 
Everyday Loans, Ive been persuaded to accept Mr Js version of events here. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Js existing financial position meant that he was unlikely 
to be able to afford the repayments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing further. 
And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not have 
shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr J. As Everyday Loans 
provided Mr J with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably towards him. Mr J paid interest, fees and charges on a loan he shouldnt have 
been provided with. So Im satisfied Mr J lost out because of what Everyday Loans did 
wrong and it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr J
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Mr J by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr J paid on his loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mr J to the date of settlement;
removing all adverse information it recorded on Mr Js credit file as a result of this 
loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Js complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman