DRN-3869874
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited declined their 
home insurance claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P had a home insurance policy with AA. They noticed some damp in their 
property and a plumber located a leak from a pipe.
Mr and Mrs P claimed for the damage, but AA said it wasnt covered because the damp 
ought to have been evident for some time, and therefore itd be considered as gradual 
damage  which isnt covered by the policy.
An investigator here looked into the matter and felt that AA had been reasonable in declining 
the claim for the damage caused by the escape of water itself. But they felt the policy ought 
to cover the trace and access costs involved.
Mr and Mrs P agreed that was fair, but AA said the fact that the escape of water claim was 
declined means that the trace and access costs werent covered either.
Agreement couldnt be reached, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators conclusions, for largely the same reason. Mr and Mrs Ps 
policy says that it provides cover for trace and access costs. It doesnt stipulate that any 
further claim for damage caused beyond this needs to have been accepted for the trace and 
access to be covered.
So, while it may have been reasonable to reject the claim for damage caused by the escape 
of water, it doesnt follow that the damage caused by the trace and access work shouldnt be 
covered as well.
Specifically, the policy says:
We will pay for loss or damage to the building caused by the following:
3. Water or oil as a result of a burst, leaking or overflowing domestic water or heating 
installation, appliance or piping. This includes damage to any water installation caused by 
freezing or bursting.
We will also pay up to £5,000 in total for the costs we have agreed in advance for locating 
the source of the damage including the reinstatement of any wall, flooring or ceiling removed 
or damaged during the search.
So, while the policy excludes damage caused gradually it does not exclude damage caused 
by the above  what is commonly known as trace and access. The tracing and accessing of 
the leak wasnt caused gradually. Therefore it is only fair that AA ought to cover the costs set 
out above  up to the limit  for the work that was required in tracing and accessing the leak, 
as well as the reinstatement.
If damage was caused outside of that required to trace and access the leak and then 
reinstate the damage caused by that process, then that would not be covered as per the 
gradually operating cause exclusion.
While I note that the policy says it does not cover Loss or damage arising from gradually 
operating causes including deterioration, wear and tear, corrosion, rot or similar causes and 
that it could be said the trace and access damage arose from a gradually operating cause 
(the leak) AA has said itself that the trace and access wouldve been required inevitably. So, 
even if the leak had been identified earlier, AA would still have to had to cover that cost.
The purpose of the exclusion above is to prevent insurers from becoming liable for costs 
which arise  or are exacerbated  due to consumers ignoring the signs that damage may 
be occurring, and which can lead to costs increasing significantly.
But, if the trace and access (and reinstatement costs) were inevitable then it isnt fair or 
reasonable for AA to have relied upon that exclusion. And while I appreciate the policy says 
it provides cover for costs agreed in advance, AA cannot rely on that part of the term as they 
incorrectly declined the claim and removed that opportunity from themselves.
Putting things right
AA should cover the costs Mr and Mrs P have incurred in tracing and accessing the leak and 
the cost of reinstatement of the areas directly affected by that work. I understand
Mr and Mrs P have already paid for at least some of that work to be done, so interest ought 
to be added to that amount from the date they paid for it until the date the cost is reimbursed.
If any of the work on reinstatement remains outstanding then AA should cover the cost of 
that to Mr and Mrs P or arrange for it to be carried out by their own contractors.
AA previously offered Mr and Mrs P a compensation payment of £100 for claim handling. 
They should ensure that is also made unless it has already been made.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I uphold this complaint, I require AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited to resolve the matter by doing what I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman