DRN-3281424
The complaint
Mr S has complained that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFUM) unfairly turned down his business interruption insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr S held a business interruption insurance policy with NFUM. Mr S looked to claim on his 
policy after his business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the 
pandemic. 
NFUM said Mr Ss claim wouldnt be covered under the policy as Covid-19 didnt cause 
damage to property.
Unhappy with NFUMs response, Mr S brought his complaint to our service. He also 
complained that the policy had been mis-sold. 
Our Investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of his claim.
Mr S disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He thought the Supreme Court 
judgment in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case meant that his claim should 
be covered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has also complained about the sale of his policy. That is being dealt with separately. In 
this decision Im only commenting on NFUMs decision to turn down Mr Ss claim. 
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Mr Ss business. However, I wont be upholding his complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if NFUM have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Mr Ss claim. 
The core business interruption section of the policy covers loss:
arising from DAMAGE to PROPERTY used by YOU at the PREMISES arising 
from an INSURED PERIL during the PERIOD OF INSURANCE.
Damage is defined in the policy as Accidental physical loss, destruction or damage and 
Property is defined as Material property.
For this to provide cover Mr Ss loss would need to have arisen from accidental physical 
loss, destruction or damage to material property. I havent seen anything to indicate that 
Covid-19 caused damage to material property so this section of the policy doesnt cover     
Mr Ss claim. 
Prevention of access
This extension cover loss:
arising from DAMAGE to PROPERTY in the vicinity of the PREMISES arising 
from an INSURED PERIL which hinders or prevents access to the PREMISES.
This extension would require Mr Ss businesss loss to be as a result of damage, as defined 
by the policy, to material property in its vicinity which hindered or prevented access. I havent 
seen anything to indicate access to Mr Ss premises were hindered or prevented due to 
damage to property in the local area, so this doesnt provide cover for it.  
Public emergency
This extension covers loss:
arising from the actions or advice of a competent Public Authority, due to an 
emergency likely to endanger life or property occurring within the vicinity of the 
PREMISES, which prevents or hinders the use of or access to the PREMISES for 
a period greater than four consecutive hours.
WE will not pay for any loss resulting from infectious or contagious disease or the 
suspected or actual presence of an incendiary or explosive device.
I think Mr Ss premises closed as a result of Covid-19, which the World Health 
Organisations website describes as an infectious disease. So, this extension doesnt 
provide cover either.
Mr S didnt have the optional extension for human diseases on this policy. However, that 
wouldnt have provided cover either as it covered loss due to a specific list of diseases which 
didnt include Covid-19.
Mr S has indicated that he thinks the Supreme Court judgment means that his claim should 
be paid. However, whether the claim is payable still depends on the terms and conditions of 
the individual policy. And in this case the judgment doesnt impact Mr Ss claim. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr S was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I cant fairly require NFUM to pay Mr Ss claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman