DRN-2526441
The complaint
Mr E complains that he was unable to access his Clydesdale Bank Plc accounts for just over 
two months.
What happened
Mr E says he was unable to access on line banking on his five Clydesdale accounts from 5 
August 2020 until the middle of October 2020 using either his computer or mobile telephone. 
He says the problem was caused by Clydesdale changing its operating systems and as a 
result, he was caused significant inconvenience and anxiety. Mr E says he didnt receive 
appropriate service from Clydesdale during that time and didnt receive a response to his 
letters to its Chief Executive. He says he lives some distance from his nearest branch and 
would like appropriate compensation for what took place.
Clydesdale accepts it didnt deal with parts of Mr Es complaint as it should and has 
apologised and paid £75 compensation. It doesnt accept it was responsible for the account 
access problem but says the problem has now been sorted out.
Mr E brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended Clydesdale increase its compensation offer to £200. The investigator thought 
other customers of Clydesdale were affected by a similar problem and could have sorted 
matters out sooner.
Mr E doesnt accept that view and in summary says there should be a punitive element to 
the compensation and would like £200 per account. He says he couldnt check his account 
balances or carry out transactions for over two months.
Clydesdale hasnt responded to the investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Clydesdale compensation offer doesnt 
go far enough, and I agree with the investigator that it should be increased to £200. I 
appreciate Mr E will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no question here that Clydesdale didnt deal with this complaint as it should, and I 
can see that it accepts that in part. Mr E didnt receive promised call backs and ought to 
have received a response to his letters. I also think it likely Clydesdale was aware of an 
online access problem as other customers appeared to be affected. But Im satisfied 
Clydesdale has apologised, and that Mr E can now use online banking.
The key issue is the level of compensation, and whilst I appreciate Mr E says that should be 
per account, I disagree and think that its appropriate to look at the overall impact on him. I 
accept Mr E was caused inconvenience and spent some time trying to contact Clydesdale. I 
also accept that he lives some distance from his nearest branch and the issue took over two 
months to sort out. But I dont think Mr E suffered any financial loss and that he was still able 
to use his accounts at this time. I also think he could have used telephone banking to carry 
out transactions if he wished or check his balances if he had any concerns about them.
I have come to the overall view that I agree with the investigators recommendations of a 
total compensation award of £200. I find that amount fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr E says there should be a punitive element in any award. But I make clear to 
him that we are not Clydesdales regulator and its not our role to punish a business.
Overall, its difficult to be sure why Mr E suffered the access problem, but I accept 
Clydesdale didnt deal with the issue as it ought to have. I appreciate how strongly Mr E feels 
about what took place, but his acceptance of my decision would be in full and final 
settlement of this complaint.
Putting things right
I intend to order Clydesdale to pay Mr E a further £125 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Clydesdale Bank Plc to pay Mr E a 
further £125 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman