DRN-1271010
The complaint
Ms C complains about Domestic & General Insurance Plcs (DGI) settlement of her claim 
under her equipment protection policy. My references to DGI include its agents. Ms Cs 
partner represents her in the complaint. For simplicity Ill just refer to Ms C.
What happened
When Ms Cs television developed a fault she claimed on her equipment protection  
insurance policy, insured by DGI.
DGI said the television wasnt repairable and offered Ms C a choice of five different 
replacement televisions. Some replacements were offered free of charge and some came 
with an upgrade fee. Ms C chose a television of a different make to her original one with a 
£30 upgrade fee.
Ms C complains about the picture quality of the replacement television. She says DGI should 
have checked the quality of the television it offered and while her original television had a 
refresh rate of 60Hz the one shed chosen had a refresh rate of 50Hz, which would affect the 
picture quality, so the replacement wasnt an upgrade. Ms Cs also unhappy DGI delayed in 
responding to her. She wants another of the upgraded televisions she was offered as a 
replacement or the cost of her original television.
DGI said it had done what it should under the policy terms and it was for Ms C to research 
the television replacement options before she made her choice. 
Our investigator said DGI hadnt done anything wrong in offering the television Ms C had 
chosen as an option and DGI didnt need to do anything further.
Ms C disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She said her complaint was also 
about DGI offering an upgraded television which DGI had accepted wasnt really an 
upgrade. She also didnt agree it was her responsibility to check the television specification 
as she wasnt an expert and DGI hadnt told her she should research the televisions before 
she chose. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether DGI  fairly and reasonably settled the claim, and I think it did. I 
dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy says if equipment breaks down DGI can settle a claim by either adjusting, 
repairing or replacing and the replacement will have at least the same functionality. The 
policy doesnt guarantee the same make, model or colour as the original. 
The policy doesnt specify exactly what type of replacement is needed but says if a 
replacement isnt available DGI will provide vouchers for a replacement product of the same 
or similar make and technical specification. So I think its reasonable to expect  
replacements DGI offers to be a similar make and specification to the original television.
DGI offered Ms C a choice of five replacement televisions, which is more than it needed to 
do under the policy. The five included two of the same make as Ms Cs original television 
(which were direct replacements and for which Ms C didnt need to pay extra), a larger 
screen size of the same make which had an upgrade fee and the option Ms C chose.
I think DGI did offer Ms C replacement televisions of a similar make and specification and it 
acted within the policy terms and fairly in doing so.
DGI didnt need to review each of the replacement options to make a judgment on the 
picture quality, which is a subjective issue. It gave Ms C a choice of televisions with similar 
or increased specifications. It didnt make any recommendation about which Ms C should 
chose, Ms C didnt ask it to make a recommendation and Ms C had the opportunity to look 
into details and reviews of the televisions it offered before she made her choice. 
I dont think it makes a difference if DGI didnt tell Ms C to research which television she 
wanted. She would have been reasonably aware she had that option and in a call Ive 
listened to between her partner and DGI he told it they would look into the televisions and 
decide what to do. Ms C chose the replacement knowing shed not been able to view it. Its 
disappointing for her if shes not happy with the picture quality but DGI acted reasonably.
Ive not seen evidence that DGI accepted the replacement television Ms C chose wasnt an 
overall upgrade. Its email Ive seen to Ms Cs partner says the replacement wasnt an 
upgrade in respect of the refresh rate Hz. But in other respects the replacement Ms C chose 
has higher specification than her original television so in many respects it was an upgrade. 
I understand why Ms C would be annoyed if DGI called her eight days later rather than the 
next day as it said but Ive no reason to award compensation for that delay. The delay 
doesnt alter that DGI reasonably settled the claim.
Ms C also mentioned shes seen poor reviews about DGI. I cant comment on those  
reviews, Ive made my decision on the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons 
Ive given I think DGI acted fairly and reasonably.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms C to accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman