DRN-2009048
The complaint
Mrs L and Mr L says Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs L and Mr L took out an MPPI policy with a mortgage in 1994. They paid a monthly 
amount for the policy, and say they thought it was a compulsory part of the mortgage.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs L and Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs L and Mr Ls case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs L and Mr Ls complaint because:
The sale was a very long time ago. So, understandably Santander no longer holds 
records of the sale. Mrs L and Mr L allege they were mis-led into thinking the PPI was 
compulsory. However, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable of me to uphold this 
complaint based solely on their recollection of something that happened over 25 years 
ago. So, I cant say reasonably conclude that Santander didnt make it clear the PPI was 
optional, or that Mrs L and Mr L didnt agree to taking it out.
Santander recommended the MPPI to Mrs L and Mr L. While they had some sick pay 
and savings, and say their parents wouldve helped out, the PPI wouldve paid out on top 
of this if one of them couldnt work  for up to three years. This wouldve protected their 
savings and meant they could get by for longer without risking losing their home. So, I 
think it was right for them. 
I dont know whether Santander explained the cost of the policy clearly enough. But if it 
did, I think Mrs L and Mr L would still have bought it given its cost and the benefits it 
provided. 
Its possible Santander didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But Mrs L 
and Mr L doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
The regulators rules on undisclosed commission and profit share dont apply, because 
the mortgage account closed in 1998. So, Santander doesnt have to refund any 
commission or profit share that it might have received. 
Ive taken into account Mrs L and Mr Ls comments. But these points dont change my 
conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs L and Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman