DRN-2979462
The complaint
Mr K complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) blocked his card and left him 
without any funds for three days.
What happened
The details are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all here, instead Ill briefly 
recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for the decision Ive reached.
NatWests security system identified unusual transactions made via Mr Ks debit card, so it 
blocked them. Mr K telephoned the fraud team and was told to visit a branch with 
photographic identification to have the block lifted from his card. The agent informed Mr K 
that the branches were operating limited opening hours due to the Covid 19 pandemic and 
the national lockdown. 
Mr K phoned NatWest several times and was given the same information. During one of the 
telephone calls, he explained to an agent that he was working and couldnt take time off to 
visit the branch. And he later stated that the branches were closed. 
On the same day, Mr K phoned NatWests customer service to complain about the service 
he received and stated that he didnt have access to his funds and needed to buy food to 
eat. As branches would be closed over the weekend, the agent asked if he could borrow 
money, but Mr K said he didnt have anyone he could borrow money from. He visited the 
branch three days later and the block was lifted from his bank card. 
Unhappy with the service he received, Mr K complained that NatWest had asked him to 
attend the branch despite passing their verification checks over the phone. He says because 
of the block on his card, he was left without access to his funds for three days and didnt 
have enough money to buy food. Mr K also complained that agents he spoke with had been 
racist towards him. NatWest didnt agree and said their agent had followed the correct 
process outlined by the bank to safeguard customer accounts. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought NatWest had 
followed their internal procedures and unblocked Mr Ks account once identification was 
provided in branch. And he didnt think NatWest had made any errors. He also said he didnt 
hear anything on the calls he would consider racist, offensive, or less than the standard he 
would expect. 
Mr K didnt agree with our investigator and has asked for an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to reassure both parties that although I have only set out the key points of 
the complaint, I have read and considered everything provided. 
The way in which NatWest organises their internal departments, systems, and processes, 
such as their fraud department, is a commercial matter for them to decide internally. Its not 
something we would look to interfere with. But what I have thought about is whether Mr K 
has been treated fairly in the particular circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I 
agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
Im satisfied it was reasonable for NatWest to apply a temporary security block on 
transactions on Mr Ks card. NatWest explained that their automated fraud detection 
system identified unusual transactions on Mr Ks account. He called to verify the 
transaction, and successfully completed their customer verification checks, but there 
were still concerns about the transactions that were made. NatWest said they had 
also detected potential SIM swap fraud on the account. It is standard within the 
industry to have security procedures in place to protect customers from financial 
harm. So, while I accept Mr K passed security on the phone call, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for their agent to ask him to visit a branch to provide identification if 
they still had concerns.
Mr K says he was left without funds to buy food while his card was blocked. I 
understand the situation was frustrating and I think when he mentioned this to the 
agent, they could have suggested alternatives other than to borrow money from 
family. That said, Id expect Mr K to take steps to mitigate his circumstances. So, 
while I accept Mr K may not have been able to borrow money from others, NatWest 
has shown he had a credit card he could have used while his card was blocked. So, I 
wont ask them to compensate Mr K for the period in which his card was blocked. 
Mr K says NatWest were racist towards him. I should explain that its not my role to 
decide if the Equality Act has been breached as thats for a court to decide. However, 
Ive looked at whether Mr K was treated fairly by NatWest. Ive listened to telephone 
calls Mr K had with agents at NatWest and I found the agents were polite, fair, and 
consistent as they reiterated what he had previously been told. With that in mind, I 
am satisfied Mr K was treated fairly, reasonably and I havent seen anything that 
suggests he was treated differently to how the bank might treat another consumer in 
the same circumstances. I do note his calls seem to have disconnected at times, but 
I dont think this was done deliberately. As such, I wont tell NatWest to do anything 
further regarding this point.
I appreciate Mr K was frustrated by the situation and I can understand how upsetting it will 
have been to be left without use of his bank card over the weekend, but I dont think 
NatWest did anything wrong here. As such, I wont tell them to do anything more. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman