DRN-2075865
The complaint
Mr C has complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Cs car was insured with Aviva. On 26 March 2018, he was involved in an incident with 
another car on a roundabout. Mr C said the other car hit his car from behind causing a very 
minor mark which he was able to later wipe off with a rag. Mr C said both he and the other 
driver pulled over and inspected their respective cars. Mr C said the other car didnt have 
any damage, so they both left without exchanging details.
Around a month later the other drivers insurer claimed against Mr Cs policy. Mr C told Aviva 
what had happened and said the incident wasnt his fault and that the other car wasnt 
damaged. In December 2018, Aviva paid the other drivers claim in full but didnt tell Mr C. 
When Mr Cs policy came to renew in January 2019, he found the renewal premium to be 
too high. So, he didnt renew with Aviva but took out a policy with another insurer. Soon after 
the other insurer found out that Aviva had paid to settle a claim on Mr Cs policy and that the 
accident had been recorded as Mr Cs fault. Mr Cs new insurer said he had failed to 
disclose the accident and had they known about it his premium would have been higher. The 
new insurer charged Mr C an additional premium of over £80.00 to continue his policy.
Mr C complained to Aviva. Aviva upheld Mr Cs complaint saying they were wrong to settle 
the other drivers claim in full the way they did. And that it should have been settled on a 
50/50 split liability basis. But Aviva explained that even if it was settled on a 50/50 basis the 
claim would have been recorded as fault against Mr Cs record. Aviva also accepted they 
failed to keep Mr C informed and didnt tell him they had settled the claim. Aviva offered 
Mr C £175 compensation to address the impact of their errors.
Mr C brought his complaint to our service as he felt Aviva hadnt dealt with him fairly. One of 
our investigators looked into it. She felt that while Aviva had made errors, their offer of £175 
compensation was reasonable. As Mr C didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 24 July 2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold it. Ill explain why.
Under the policy Aviva have the discretion to settle claims as they feel is appropriate. 
They dont have to get Mr Cs agreement or permission before doing so. But we 
expect them to use their discretion and to treat Mr C in a fair and reasonable way.
Given a fault claim can have an adverse impact on a policyholder for a number of 
years and increase their premiums, I expect an insurer to carry out a reasonable 
investigation before deciding how to settle a claim. In Mr Cs case, I dont think Aviva 
carried out a reasonable investigation before settling the other drivers claim. In 
particular, I note the following:
When the other drivers insurer claimed against Mr Cs policy in April 2018, Aviva 
wrote to Mr C and asked him to contact them. Mr C called Aviva on 9 May 2018 
and explained what had happened. Avivas call handler asked Mr C to provide his 
version of events in writing. Mr C said he doesnt type. On 15 August 2018, Aviva 
wrote to Mr C saying that as they hadnt heard from him they would be settling 
the claim on the best terms possible. Mr C called Aviva on 23 August. Aviva 
accepted that they had overlooked his call on 9 May. Aviva also paid Mr C £25.00 
compensation because when Mr C said he didnt type, the call handler didnt offer 
him any alternative options to get his version of events.
The call handlers notes from 9 May 2018 said there was a language barrier 
which meant he found it hard to understand Mr Cs version of events. The call 
handlers notes also show that he considered instructing an investigator but that 
never happened. I think it was crucial that Aviva got Mr Cs version of events as 
soon as possible while everything was still fresh in his mind. And it was clear 
from the discussion on 9 May that there were obvious problems, such as the call 
handlers difficulty in understanding Mr C and Mr Cs inability to type. I therefore 
think Aviva should have taken other steps to ensure they had Mr Cs version of 
events. One possible way of achieving that would have been to get an 
investigator to take a statement. But although that was considered that never 
happened.
The file notes of the call from 9 May suggest that because the call handler found 
it difficult to understand Mr Cs version of events, he said he would contact the 
other drivers insurer to get their version of events. While it was important to get 
the other drivers version of events, Aviva shouldnt have relied on that as a 
substitute for Mr Cs account. And it would appear that Aviva later settled the 
claim on the basis of the information given by the other driver. Getting a full and 
detailed account from Mr C should have been Avivas priority.
Aviva based their decision to settle the claim on the other drivers account of what 
happened and engineering evidence that his car was damaged. But just because 
the other drivers car had damage wasnt proof that Mr C had caused that 
damage. I think Aviva could have instructed their own engineer to examine 
Mr Cs car and to give an opinion on whether the damage to the other drivers car 
was consistent with the claim. But that didnt happen.
Aviva have accepted their decision to settle the other drivers claim in full was 
wrong. Their files notes say: in this case, we have paid 100%... for no valid 
reason - we asked [the other drivers insurer] for evidence on portal, they sent us 
their drivers [statement and diagram] and we took this as valid and then paid the 
[the other drivers] claim in full The notes also acknowledge that Aviva had 
promised Mr C that they would be fighting liability. The notes say: we did ask 
the [other drivers insurer] for evidence however didn't note the systems clearly 
and then [Aviva] have made a mistake, by paying for [the other drivers] claim 
when we should not have done this - only notes on file after the complaint are 
asking file handler to pay the [other drivers] claim, so not taken any notice of 
these notes.Aviva accepted they settled the claim prematurely and their notes acknowledge 
that further investigations were needed. But they didn't carry out those further 
investigations.
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont think Aviva carried out a reasonable 
investigation before settling the claim. I therefore intend to uphold Mr Cs complaint. I 
will require Aviva to reinstate Mr Cs no claims bonus (NCB), provided he had no 
other fault claims during the relevant policy year. I also intend to require Aviva to 
correct all databases, including the claims and underwriting exchange (CUE), to 
show the accident as non-fault against Mr Cs record. Once thats done Mr C can 
ask his subsequent insurer(s) to recalculate his premium(s) on the basis that he had 
a non-fault claim to see if he is due a refund.
Im aware this matter has been a source of distress and inconvenience for Mr C and 
it has been ongoing for over two years. I think it would have been particularly 
upsetting for Mr C to find out Aviva had settled the claim when they had told him they 
wouldnt. To address the impact of that I intend to require Aviva to pay Mr C £400 
compensation.
Finally, Mr C said Avivas letters to him were threatening and malicious. He also said 
Aviva discriminated against him because of his race. Having seen the letters Aviva 
sent Mr C, I dont agree they were in any way threatening or malicious. And other 
than what Mr C has said, Ive seen no evidence that Aviva discriminated against 
him.
The parties were invited to comment on my provisional findings. Mr C agreed with my 
provisional findings but said the compensation I intended to ask Aviva to pay was too low. 
He said he expected at least £2,000. Aviva didnt agree with my provisional decision. They 
said:
They accept and acknowledge that investigations had not been completed to an 
acceptable standard.
The incident involved an accident on a roundabout with no independent evidence on 
either side. Therefore, the most likely outcome would have been a 50/50 split in 
liability. That would mean Mr Cs no claims bonus (NCB) would have still been 
affected. Allowing the NCB would suggest Avivas liability stance has changed, which 
is not the case.
An ombudsman cant adjudicate on liability.
They offered Mr C £175 compensation for: the poor communication; incorrect liability 
decision; sending a letter to Mr C incorrectly; and stress and inconvenience. Aviva 
said they feel the compensation could be increased slightly, but my suggested 
compensation of £400 is completely out of proportion and not representative of the 
case in hand.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains the same. But Id like to respond to Avivas and Mr Cs 
comments as follows.
Aviva have accepted that they didnt carry out a reasonable investigation. If they had 
investigated the claim reasonably, its possible that evidence supporting Mr Cs position would have come to light whereby Aviva would have been able to convince the other drivers 
insurer to withdraw the claim. I dont know if that would have been the case. But because 
Aviva didnt investigate the claim reasonably, no one will ever know what the outcome may 
have been. Its for that reason Im giving Mr C the benefit of the doubt. Its not the case that 
Im deciding which party was liable for the accident, thats not my role. But I think Avias 
failure to fully investigate the circumstances of the accident before making their own liability 
decision prejudiced Mr Cs position. And as a result, he can't now prove the accident wasn't 
his fault. I don't think thats fair. So, I'm proposing a remedy to address that unfairness rather 
than making a liability decision.
Aviva feel that £400 compensation is too high. Mr C thinks its far too low. Ive thought about 
the amount of compensation carefully. And I think £400 is a reasonable amount that reflects 
the distress and inconvenience Mr C experienced. And this amount is in line with the types 
of awards we make for complaints of similar seriousness.
Putting things right
Aviva must put things right by implementing the points Ive listed in the section below.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited 
to:
Reinstate Mr Cs NCB provided he didnt have any other fault clams during the 
relevant policy year.
Amend all databases, including the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE), to 
show that the accident was non-fault.
Pay Mr C £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced. 
This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them that Mr C has accepted my final 
decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on that amount from 
the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.1
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
 
Mehmet Osman
Ombudsman
1 If Aviva consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mr C how much they have taken off. They should also give him a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 