DRN-3274322
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited was irresponsible in lending to him.
What happened
In October 2018 Loans 2 Go provided Mr M with a loan of £250. The loan was repayable 
over 18 months and the monthly repayments were £56.64. The APR was 990.1% and the 
total amount repayable was £1,019.52.
Mr M complained that Loans 2 Go hadnt properly checked he could afford the loan. He said 
he had a pre-existing health issue when he took out the loan and also had other debts. He 
failed to keep up the repayments and went into a debt management plan.
Loans 2 Go looked into his complaint and didnt uphold it. It said its checks had been 
properly carried out and it thought the loan was sustainable. It said it didnt penalise 
applicants with medical conditions. Mr M referred his complaint to us. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. He didnt think Loans 2 Go was wrong to 
have offered the loan to Mr M. 
As Mr M disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr M would have been able to do so?
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ms ability to make the repayments under the loan 
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr M undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr M. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Before granting this loan, Loans 2 Go verified Mr Ms net monthly income using a standard 
industry tool. The check came back showing Mr Ms income was a minimum of £1,005.86. 
Loans 2 Go calculated that his expenses were £599.13 a month. It then added a buffer of 
10% to his verified expenditure to account for any fluctuations in his monthly income or 
expenditure. That would have left him with £290.18 a month after making his new loan 
repayment to Loans 2 Go of £56.64. This appeared to be affordable.
Loans 2 Go carried out a credit search. That showed Mr M had no county court judgments. 
He hadnt been in default on any credit account in the last six months. He had an active 
current account with his bank with an overdraft of £986. The only other entry was a loan that 
had been repaid in April 2018. Mr M had entered into an arrangement to repay that loan after 
falling into arrears. 
I think its fair for Loans 2 Go to say that what could be seen on the credit check wasnt 
especially worrying. It appeared that Mr Ms overdraft account didnt show any payment 
problems in the period running up to him applying for the loan. There was also no other 
borrowing apart from his overdraft. So, whilst it was clear that he had evidently had some 
money problems previously, I think Loans 2 Go was reasonably entitled to take a view this 
didnt necessarily mean that he was still in serious financial difficulty.
I've thought carefully about what I think a responsible lender should have made of all this 
information and in particular whether it was enough overall for Loans 2 Go to make a fair 
decision to lend. Loans 2 Go had increased the amount Mr M said he was spending each month after doing its own credit check and built in a margin for variations in expenditure. 
Also the amount it had used for Mr Ms income was the minimum according to its checks and 
so potentially it could have been more some months. The credit check showed nothing 
unduly concerning about Mr Ms present financial situation. It isnt unusual for applicants for 
this type of high cost loan to have an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt 
necessarily be a reason to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application or to 
think more in-depth checking was needed. 
On balance, bearing in mind this was Mr Ms first loan application to Loans 2 Go, he was 
applying for a relatively small loan amount and given the 18 month term, I think the checks 
Loans 2 Go did for this loan were, broadly speaking, proportionate in the circumstances. I 
appreciate that if Loans 2 Go had seen Mr Ms bank statements, it would have noticed hed 
taken out some other loans and that might have affected its decision to lend. But since I 
dont think Loans 2 Go needed this information before making its decision to lend, that 
doesnt change my decision that Loans 2 Gos checks were reasonable and proportionate.
Ive also thought about whether Loans 2 Go acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did. 
So I cant fairly say that Loans 2 Go treated Mr M unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman