DRN-4290275
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C complain about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) decision to decline their 
claim under their motor insurance policy.
Mr C has acted as the main representative during the claim and complaint process. So, for 
ease of reference, I will refer to any actions taken, or comments made, by either Mr C or  
Mrs C as Mr C throughout the decision. 
What happened
Mr Cs car was stolen, so he made a claim to UKI. After carrying out verification checks, UKI 
declined the claim on the basis Mr Cs car didnt have an active tracker at the time of the 
theft. Mr C complained about UKIs decision. UKI responded and referred to an endorsement 
on Mr Cs policy setting out a requirement for his car to be fitted with an active and working 
tracking device. They explained as the endorsement hadnt been met, the decision to decline 
the claim was correct.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mr C. She thought UKI hadnt acted unfairly in 
declining the claim. Mr C disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr C and Mrs C will 
be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Mr Cs motor insurance policy booklet. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and, under the section covering claims for loss of a car, it says UKI will not cover 
loss or damage caused by theft, or attempted theft, if any security or tracking device, we 
insist is fitted to your car, has not been set or is not in full working order and loss or 
damage caused by theft, or attempted theft, if the network subscription for any tracking 
device which we insist is fitted to your car, is not current and operable. The Schedule of 
Insurance says, under a heading Endorsements applicable to this vehicle, We will not 
provide cover for theft or attempted theft unless your vehicle has been fitted with an 
approved, pro-active vehicle tracking device. The device must be activated and working 
efficiently at all times and all subscriptions must be paid and up to date. Any driver 
recognition device for the tracking system must be removed from the vehicle when left 
unattended. A copy of the installation certificate must be sent to us when requested.
Theres no dispute Mr Cs car didnt have a fitted tracker  and I can see this is recorded in 
the Statement of Fact document. Mr C does explain though, when he first took out the policy 
for his car, he explained to the broker his car has an InControl app and this led to a 
proportion of Mr Cs premium being refunded. The information provided by UKI also supports 
this. The InControl app provides a suite of services for the specific manufacturer of Mr Cs 
car - one of these services being tracking. Ive looked on the manufacturers website and it 
says an InControl subscription is included with the purchase of a new car but, after the 
initial three-year subscription period ends, this will need to be renewed at a cost. Mr C 
confirms the subscription wasnt renewed after the initial three-year period ended.
The endorsement requires Mr Cs car to have a tracking device, and for this to be activated 
and working, as well as all subscriptions paid. So, given that the tracking feature wasnt 
activated through payment of the subscription, I cant say UKI have acted unfairly in relying 
on the endorsement to decline Mr Cs claim. 
Mr C says he wouldnt have ignored the requirement for a tracker to be fitted. He says 
theres no separate correspondence from UKI requesting installation of a tracker and, given 
that theres a policy endorsement, he queries why UKI havent included the tracker details on 
the Statement of Fact. I acknowledge Mr Cs points, but given theres a policy endorsement, 
I dont believe UKI should be expected to write separately asking for Mr C to install a 
tracking system. The endorsement sets out the terms relevant to Mr Cs car, so I believe this 
is sufficient in explaining what steps UKI expect Mr C to take to ensure his car will be 
covered in the event of theft. I note Mr C says the endorsement notes that UKI require a 
copy of the installation certificate, yet it was never requested. I acknowledge the 
endorsement says a copy of the tracker installation certificate must be sent to UKI, but this is 
only when requested. Its not unusual or uncommon for such requests to be made in the 
event of a claim. And in this case, I can see UKI did request tracker information following   
Mr C registering his claim.  
I acknowledge Mr C says his previous car, which was the same make and model as his car 
which was stolen, was also insured through UKI. He says there was no tracker requirement 
for his previous car. The information provided by UKI shows they decided to waive the 
tracker requirement for Mr Cs previous car based on its value and overnight storage. I do 
understand why Mr C has queried the difference in UKIs position here, but its up to an 
insurer to decide what risks theyre prepared to accept. And even though UKI decided to 
waive the requirement for a tracker to his previous car, it doesnt mean theyre expected to 
take this same approach to a different car despite it being similar in make and model. In 
addition to this, I can see the endorsement was in place when Mr C first added his car to the 
policy as well as the three subsequent policies. So, Im satisfied the endorsement was in 
place, and the requirement set out under the endorsement was also made clear.   
I can see Mr C also makes a point that, having spoken with the police, theyve informed him 
that the tracker device wouldnt have prevented his car being stolen and these are often 
disabled in seconds. I do acknowledge Mr Cs points and I do accept a tracking feature 
doesnt necessarily prevent a car being stolen. The feature they do have though is to 
potentially locate a vehicle after it has been stolen. So, its not uncommon for insurers to 
have such endorsements in place for specific cars. I acknowledge Mr Cs point about 
tracking devices being disabled during theft, but I dont believe this should mean insurers 
shouldnt apply such endorsements  or that it shouldnt have been applied to his policy.   
Mr C says UKI made a settlement offer which he accepted, and he feels its unfair for them 
to have subsequently withdrawn this. I do acknowledge this was frustrating for Mr C but, 
from the information Ive seen, I dont think UKI had agreed to settle Mr Cs claim. I can see 
UKI requested information about any tracking features and Mr C explained no tracker had 
ever been fitted to his car and it only had the InControl app, but this was disabled. 
The claim notes show UKI then look into the InControl app and note it does have some 
tracker functionality depending on what subscription is taken out. The note says theyre also 
aware that some vehicles have this as standard for a number of years for free as part of the 
sale. The information shows UKI were considering this point further and ask for permission 
to speak with the tracking company who provide this service.  An engineer then calls Mr C to discuss a settlement offer for his car. The engineer says 
theyve based the value on motor-trade guides and have arrived at a settlement amount of 
£35,990. The engineer says the claims team have explained this is a without prejudice offer 
at the moment. The notes of the discussion between the engineer and the claims team say it 
was agreed this was to be a report only discussion between the engineer and Mr C as the 
claims team are still investigating a potential tracker issue. Its later established that Mr C 
didnt have the tracking feature and UKI then decline the claim. 
I do acknowledge this was frustrating for Mr C, but the information shows, even though the 
engineer did discuss a settlement offer with Mr C, he did explain this was still under review 
by the claims team. In addition to this, and around the time of this conversation, its clear 
from email exchanges between UKI and Mr C, there was still an issue in relation to the 
tracker endorsement. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for UKI to have declined the claim 
even after a settlement value had been discussed with Mr C.     
  
I understand Mr C will be disappointed, and I am sorry to read about the impact the theft has 
had. But my role here is to decide whether UKI have acted fairly and reasonably in declining 
the claim  and from the information Ive seen, I think they have. I wish to reassure Mr C Ive 
read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point 
or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont 
feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is 
a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman