DRN-3052875
The complaint
Miss T complains Wirecard Card Solutions Limited blocked her account and havent 
released money held in the account back to her despite agreeing to do so. She wants the 
money released and compensation. 
What happened
Miss T had an account which had a card issued by Wirecard and was administered by 
Pockit.  
In July 2019, Pockit blocked Miss Ts account after shed failed to answer security questions 
during a telephone call. At the time Miss Ts balance was £204, which were her wages. 
Miss T tried on several occasions to contact Pockit to get her funds released. Pockit 
explained to Miss T that it could only correspond with her via the email address that was 
registered to the account when it was set up. Miss T told Pockit that she no longer used the 
email address and didnt have access to any emails that might be sent to the address. 
Miss T also explained that the mobile phone shed registered with the account was no longer 
working  in other words all her contact details had changed. So, Pockit couldnt complete its 
security checks. And asked Miss T to provide it with identification documents. 
Over the following months, Miss T made further phone calls to Pockit. But she still wasnt 
able to pass security, so Pockit wrote to Miss T setting out what she needed to provide to 
access her funds. Miss T sent Pockit some information in November 2019. But the 
information wasnt submitted in the correct format. In response, Miss T sent Pockit further 
copies of her identification paperwork and in November 2020, Pockit said it was happy to 
release Miss Ts funds. But the funds werent released. So, Miss T raised a further 
complaint. 
Miss T says not having access to the money in her account caused her a great deal of 
upset. She said she had trouble feeding herself during the Covid pandemic and struggled to 
make ends meet over the Christmas period as she was expecting her funds to be released 
by Pockit. 
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ts complaint. She said that Pockit were entitled to 
block Miss Ts account and had been following its security processes to protect 
Miss Ts account. But she said Pockit could have resolved things sooner than it did. She 
noted that Miss T had told Pockit that she was no longer using the email address associated 
with her account, but Pockit continued to ask her to use it, whilst at the same time 
communicating with her using Miss Ts unrecognised email address. And it hadnt returned 
Miss T funds to her despite agreeing to do so in November 2020.
The investigator upheld Miss Ts complaint She didnt think Pockit had treated Miss T fairly. 
To put things right she said Pockit should release Miss Ts balance to her, pay her £300 
compensation for the delays in not returning Miss Ts money along with interest for loss of 
use of the funds. Miss T agreed and so did Pockit. However, to date Miss T is still without 
her funds. So, the matter has been referred to me. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pockit accepts it should have provided Miss T with better service and released her funds in 
November 2020. And have agreed to pay her compensation for these delays. But Miss T is 
still without her funds. So, Im not persuaded Pockit has treated Miss T fairly during the 
course of her problems with Pockit. 
 
I can see that there has been a good deal of back and forth between Miss T and Pockit 
which started when Miss T called Pockit to check her balance in July 2019. Miss T failed 
security as she was no longer using the email address or mobile phone number linked to the 
account. So, I can understand why Pockit placed a block on the account, as they needed to 
verify the person calling was actually Miss T, otherwise Miss Ts account could be 
compromised. 
Pockit says Miss T repeatedly failed security when she called to try and sort things out. And 
told Miss T that she needed to contact them from the registered email address on the 
account. But she didnt do so, which meant it couldnt verify Miss T. Pockit says Miss T didnt 
do anything to move things forward until late 2020 when it sent her a letter via recorded 
delivery post, which prompted Miss T to provide it with the information it needed in the 
correct format. But that doesnt explain why Miss T is still without her funds several months 
after Pockit had agreed to return the money to her.
 
Having looked at all the evidence, Im not persuaded that Pockit have done everything they 
could to assist Miss T with her issues and move things forward without undue delay. And 
that Miss T wasnt doing anything. For example, I can see that Miss T was responding to 
emails Pockit sent her to her unregistered email address and provided identification 
paperwork in November 2019 in response to the letter Pockit sent. And despite Miss T 
making it clear to Pockit that she no longer used the registered email address, Pockit 
continued to send her emails in November and December 2019 and January 2020 to this 
unused email address, which Miss T wouldnt have been able to access and answer. 
Despite being asked by the investigator, Pockit hasnt offered any explanation for why it still 
hasnt returned Miss Ts money. I accept that businesses have administrative processes to 
complete and requests which require approval before releasing funds. But unfortunately, 
Pockit havent provided any explanation why Miss T is still waiting for her money. So, based 
on the information Ive looked at, Im not satisfied that Pockit has treated Miss T fairly and 
reasonably. It therefore follows that Pockit should refund Miss T the balance of her account, 
which according to Miss Ts account statement at the time was £204.00. And it should do so 
without further delay. 
Having looked at what Miss T has told us about how Pockit actions affected her, I do think 
that Miss T was caused some trouble and upset. I can see that she chased Pockit on more 
than one occasion trying to get access to her money and find out what was happening with 
her account. Shes spent time sending several emails and made more than one call to Pockit 
over many months. So, Im satisfied this caused Miss T inconvenience. I note too that Miss T 
has been without her funds for well over a year. So, I consider £300 compensation to be fair 
in the circumstances along with interest for loss of use of her funds.
In summary, Id expect a business to pay compensation where it has caused trouble and 
upset. And its disappointing that Pockit hasnt done so, following the investigators view. For 
the reasons Ive explained, think the £300 compensation recommended by the investigator is fair and reasonable. Pockit should also return Miss Ts balance to her along with interest. 
Pockit has agreed. So that it can be enforced, should that be necessary, I shall however, 
make a formal award requiring Wirecard to pay it.
My final decision
 My final decision is that, in order to resolve Miss Ts complaint, Wirecard Card Solutions 
Limited should:
Refund Miss T the amount of money in her account at the time the account was 
restricted - £204
Pay Miss T £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the time taken to 
return Miss Ts funds
Calculate interest at 8% simple per year on the amount they refund Miss T. They 
should calculate this from 25 November 2020 (which is the date Pockit informed 
Miss T it was prepared to release her balance) to the date they refund Miss T.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Wirecard Card Solutions Limited to withhold 
income tax from the above-mentioned interest. Wirecard should give Miss T a 
certificate showing how much is taken off if Miss T asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman