DRN-2771973
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance (Close Brothers).   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Close Brothers, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let 
me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Close Brothers, who are also the supplier of the car, 
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. And that 
legislation explains that when we consider whether a car is of satisfactory quality we should 
also consider whether it has proven to be durable.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr M. The car here was 
around three years old and had completed about 43,323 miles so I think a reasonable 
person would expect it to have some limited wear and tear. 
But I dont think a reasonable person would expect a head gasket to fail after only about 
56,000 miles. I think theyd expect a head gasket to last longer than that. Im supported in 
that view by the garage Mr M had his car recovered to. They suggested that the head gasket 
was of poor design and not robust enough for the application. So, I think the head gasket, 
and therefore the car, has not proven to be suitably durable.
 
Putting things right
Mr Ms car broke down in June 2020 and he only started to use it again on 2 April 2021 as it 
was in the garage awaiting repairs. Its not fair for him to have been paying finance 
instalments for a car he wasnt able to use, so Close Brothers should refund any instalments 
he paid between June 2020 and 2 April 2021. They should add interest to that refund as    
Mr M has been deprived of that money. 
Mr M has paid to have the car repaired so Close Brothers should refund the repair costs on 
provision of the receipt from Mr M. 
Its clear Mr M has been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to get the car recovered 
to a garage and hes explained hes had to organise alternative transport. In the 
circumstances I think Close Brothers should pay him £150 compensation in respect of the 
distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Close Brother Limited to:
refund all monthly instalments paid by Mr M from June 2020 to 2 April 2021 and add 
8% simple interest to the refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr M £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;
refund the costs Mr M incurred to have the car repaired on provision of the receipt 
from him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman