DRN-3821163
The complaint
Mr S complains about Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limiteds (HLAM) handling 
of his application to transfer his self-invested personal pension (SIPP) to another provider. 
He says it delayed the process initially and then sold some shares he held in the SIPP 
despite his request for it not to sell them. He wants to be compensated for the investment 
loss he says hes suffered. 
What happened
Mr S held a SIPP with HLAM which consisted mainly of cash and five separate shares that 
hed held for some time.
On 27 August 2020 Mr Ss adviser applied to HLAM to transfer all the funds in his plan to a 
new provider. The expected transfer completion date, according to the Origo electronic 
transfer system, was 8 September 2020. 
But HLAM didnt send Mr S an acknowledgement that the transfer was progressing until 
24 September 2020, when it emailed him to advise that the sale of the shares was being 
instructed and all the cash would then be sent to the new provider. 
Mr L responded straight away to say that he didnt want the shares to be sold as he thought 
the existing cash balance was sufficient to complete the transfer. But HLAM didnt pick up 
his response and carried on with the sale of the shares. It says Mr Ss email crossed over 
with the sales being processed, and as all the sales were equities, they were instant so 
couldn't be reversed.
The transfer completed on 5 October 2020 when HLAM sent the proceeds of the transfer  
which was £19,724.66, to the new provider.  
Mr S then complained about what he thought was an overall delay in transferring the SIPP, 
as well as the error in selling his shares and transferring them along with the rest of the 
cash.
HLAM made the following points in response:
It accepted it had delayed the initial processing of the transfer and offered £150 for 
any inconvenience caused.
But it thought it had acted correctly in processing what was requested by the adviser 
 which was a full transfer.
It said the adviser had the option of selecting a partial transfer when he sent the 
original request.
If Mr S had been financially disadvantaged by not being able to trade because of the 
delays, it would consider any loss he could demonstrate hed suffered.
HLAM then further considered Mr Ss complaint about the shares that were sold and 
accepted that it had overlooked his instruction and should have acknowledged it before 
proceeding. It offered a further £100 compensation.
But Mr S said hed lost over £3,000 because of the sales and didnt accept HLAMs offer of 
just £250 in total. So he brought his complaint to us where one of our investigators looked 
into the matter. They didnt think the complaint should be upheld making the following points:
HLAM had correctly treated the transfer as a full transfer following the initial 
instruction. 
But it had delayed the transfer so that it took longer than HLAMs usual service 
standards. The investigator thought its offer of £150 for the delay seemed fair and 
reasonable.
And Mr S had confirmed that he hadnt suffered any financial loss because of the 
delay.
But HLAM accepted that it shouldnt have sold the shares although in mitigation it 
said that the notice it was given not to sell the shares was tight. Overall the 
investigator felt that it was unfortunate the shares were sold, but that the offer of a 
further £100 for the inconvenience caused by the error was reasonable.
Mr S didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman  so it was 
passed to me to review. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. I made the following 
points in support of my findings:
I thought HLAM had caused an unnecessary delay to the transfer process and it 
hadnt given sufficient explanation for that delay. But as the transfer was principally 
cash and Mr S wasnt out of the market he didnt suffer a financial loss because of 
the delay in transferring the cash. 
But I thought the delay would have caused Mr S some degree of inconvenience and I 
thought HLAMs offer of £150 for the distress caused was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
But there were some shares within Mr Ss SIPP which he thought needed to be sold 
to satisfy the minimum transfer value requirements. However, he later discovered this 
wasnt necessary and told HLAM not to sell the shares. HLAM didnt pick up the 
instruction and sold the shares, but I thought it should have been reasonably ready to 
respond to his email instruction until the point it executed the sales. I thought that if 
HLAM had responded, Mr S would have confirmed his decision not to sell and the 
shares would have remained in his possession. 
HLAM itself accepted responsibility for this action in a response to Mr Ss complaint  
when it said his response had been overlooked. HLAM offered a further £150 in 
compensation for the loss of the shares but I thought, although its total offer for 
compensation was reasonable, it ought to compensate Mr S for any financial loss 
which occurred due to the sale of his shares. 
I said HLAM should now work out if the current value of the shares that were sold 
was higher than when they were sold  and if they were, then a loss had been 
incurred. 
Responses to the provisional decision
HL said that, while it wasnt in agreement that it was entirely responsible for the error
that caused Mr Ss shares to be sold, it was willing to accept the outcome and make a 
compensation payment according to the redress formula I had set out. It went on to confirm that, having completed the calculation, it believed Mr S had suffered a loss at that time of 
£67.53. 
Mr S said he would accept HLs calculation as he felt the complaint just needed to be 
resolved at this time. He said he was pleased it had been shown that HL did act incorrectly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. HLAM has 
carried out a calculation in line with my recommendation and Mr S says he accepts the 
outcome, so Ill confirm my reasons for the decision.
The SIPP transfer delay
The electronic transfer system (Origo) showed that Mr Ss adviser requested a transfer of all 
his SIPP funds to a new provider on 27 August 2020. But HLAM only embarked on the 
process on 24 September 2020, nearly four weeks after the initial request.  HLAM hasnt 
provided an explanation for this delay and I dont think the transfer could be described as 
complex  so Im not aware of other reasons that might have caused delays. And I note 
that HLAM subsequently managed to complete the transfer broadly in line with the 
completion time indicated by the Origo system when it was first requested.
I first considered whether the delay of around one month might have caused Mr S any 
investment loss  but as it was principally a cash transfer, Im satisfied that he didnt suffer 
any loss. The cash simply stayed with HLAM longer than was anticipated. There were some 
shares involved in the transfer but thats a matter Ill cover later in this decision. 
But Im aware that the delay Ive set out above would have caused Mr S some degree of 
inconvenience and so Ive considered the impact this had on him during this time. As Mr S 
was already unhappy with HLAM and simply wanted to transfer to a new provider, I think the 
delay would have caused him additional stress and worry at a time he hoped to transfer his 
funds as soon as was possible. HLAM offered Mr S £150 for the trouble and upset
caused by the delay. Having considered the offer carefully I think its fair and
reasonable in the circumstances.
But as Ive already suggested there were some other assets that were part of Mr Ss SIPP 
which were the subject of this complaint, so Ill consider the matter of those assets below. 
The sale of Mr Ss shares
Mr Ss instruction to HLAM through the Origo system was to transfer all funds. This was 
because Mr S was told by his adviser that the minimum value that could be transferred to the 
new provider was £20,000, but his SIPP was valued at £18,774.74 at the time. 
So he thought that all of the assets within his SIPP  which included some shares, needed to 
be transferred. 
However when Mr S finally received a communication from HLAM on 24 September 2020 
informing him that his instruction had been processed and checked, he had just became 
aware that he didnt need to sell the shares and, within 14 minutes of receiving the email told 
HLAM that, there is no monetary need to see (sic) any shares. Unfortunately HLAM didnt 
respond to Mr Ss email and sold the shares 90 minutes later.My consideration therefore is whether HLAM should have acknowledged and dealt with 
Mr Ss response by not selling the shares or whether it was understandable that
HLAM missed the instruction due to the tight timelines involved.
I think that, on balance, because the process of selling the shares took around 90 minutes it 
wasnt unreasonable for HLAM to have picked up Mr Ss response, sent within 15 minutes of 
the original email he received. I think HLAM should have been ready to respond to or act 
upon any response Mr S made up to the point it executed the sales as it had
encouraged communication within its email if Mr S needed it, and it should have been 
prepared to deal with any communication  especially with regard to such time sensitive 
transactions. HLAM had told Mr S that, if you no longer wish to proceed, please contact us 
and we will cancel the transfer if possible. Please note that it will not be possible to cancel 
any sale instructions that have already taken place if you have instructed a transfer as cash.
So I think both parties were aware that any instructions to sell couldnt be reversed at the 
point they were executed, and should have been ready to respond to any request to deviate 
from the original instruction.
I note HLAM thought Mr S could have taken the option of contacting it by telephone, which 
would have ensured his instruction was acted upon immediately. But I dont think Mr S was 
obliged to do this. There was no agreement that communication had to be made that way 
and I think it was reasonable for Mr S to respond to HLAMs email in kind, as hed been 
contacted that way. HLAM had asked Mr S to contact it if there were any reasons to cancel 
or change his request, but it hadnt recommended that this contact be by telephone. 
But even if a different interpretation could be made of my view above, I cant ignore the fact 
that HLAM has already accepted responsibility for the error in its response to Mr Ss 
complaint. It said unfortunately, it does appear that your response requesting that we did 
not sell anything in order to transfer was overlooked. It then confirmed that, I therefore do 
believe it reasonable to say that you informed us not to sell your holdings promptly, and that 
your instruction should have been acknowledged by HLAM before proceeding with the 
sales.
So I think its clear that HLAM accepts that it should have picked up and responded to Mr Ss 
instruction not to sell the shares. If it had done that, I think Mr S would have confirmed the 
instruction and I dont think the shares would have been sold. I think they would have been 
transferred into the new plan and would have remained in Mr Ss possession. 
In my provisional decision I said that HLAMs additional offer of £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the sale of the shares was also fair and reasonable, but I said that 
it should also calculate whether Mr S had suffered an investment loss as a result of the sale. 
HLAM did carry out this calculation and said that Mr S was due compensation of £67.53. 
Whilst I cant confirm the detail of the calculation, Im satisfied with the information that has 
been input and therefore Ive no reason to dispute the validity of the calculation. And Mr S 
has also accepted the amount involved. For completeness Ill set out the redress formula 
again below, along with a summary of what HLAM needs to do.
Putting things right
HLAM should establish the value of the shares which were sold. If this is higher than the 
value at which they were sold, Mr S has incurred a loss, and HLAM should make a payment 
into Mr Ss new pension account on his behalf so that he may buy the same number of 
shares as he originally held, but taking into account (so deducting) the value he received for 
those shares and any growth that value may have achieved since.
HLAM may also take into account any available tax relief that such a payment would receiveand reduce it accordingly.
Any payment should not be added if it would conflict with any existing protection or
allowance.
If HLAM is unable to pay into Mr S's pension plan, it should pay the necessary amount (not
reducing it for any tax relief which would otherwise have been available to him in the pension
plan) to him directly. But had it been possible to make the payment into the plan, that would
eventually have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced
to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC,
so Mr S wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr S's actual or expected marginal rate
of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected
retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr S would have been able
to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation,
resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
HLAM should also pay Mr S the £250 it has already offered for the distress and
inconvenience caused by the delays and the upset of selling the shares when Mr S asked for
them not to be sold.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I uphold Mr Ss complaint against Hargreaves Lansdown 
Asset Management Limited.
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited should pay Mr S £67.53 as per its 
calculation, but following the redress formula set out above. It should also pay him, if it hasnt 
done already, the £250 it offered for the distress and inconvenience caused in all the 
circumstances of the complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman