DRN-3335455
The complaint
Mrs B complains about advice she was given to transfer the benefits of a defined-benefit 
(DB) occupational pension scheme (OPS) to an annuity plan, in 2016. She says the advice 
was unsuitable for her and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Tenet Connect Services Limited is responsible for answering this complaint. To keep things 
simple Ill refer mainly to Tenet. 
What happened
Mrs Bs relationship with Tenet had been established the year before (2015) when it advised 
her about a different DB pension. This is the subject of a separate complaint which I wont be 
addressing here.
For the 2016 matter, Mrs B was a deferred member of this OPS, having accrued pension 
benefits when she was with a previous employer several years ago.
At the time, the OPS was offering deferred members like Mrs B the opportunity to consider 
transferring out of the scheme. This was accompanied by a time limited offer of an enhanced 
transfer value to the pension. The original cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mrs Bs 
OPS was around £68,588, however, if she took up the offer to transfer out, an enhancement 
of £20,577 was being made available to her. This amounted to a 30% uplift in the CETV 
which took the total to around £89,165. The normal retirement age (NRA) of this scheme 
was 65.
Information gathered at the time of this advice, in 2016, was noted by Tenet as follows:
Mrs B was 58 years of age and married to Mr B, who was 60. They had recently sold 
a small business and described themselves as retired. 
Mrs B was on medication for high blood pressure and type 2 diabetes and Mr B had 
a heart condition which required medication. They owned and lived in a holiday park 
home worth around £80,000 and had no mortgage or other debts or liabilities. They 
had savings of £48,000.
Mrs B earned £1,721 per year from an annuity, having transferred out of the previous 
pension Ive referred to above. Mr B had a separate income of his own of around 
£6,600 per year from a pension. Mrs and Mr B anticipated receiving their state 
pensions when they each reached the age of 66. They said their annual basic 
outgoings were around £8,000 per year.
At the age of 65 Mrs Bs OPS was estimated to pay £3,901 per year. Alternatively, it 
could pay an estimated reduced pension at 65 of £2,612 together with a tax-free 
lump sum of £17,500. Mrs B was also able to take the benefits from the OPS 
straightaway at her current age of just over 58 years of age. In this event, shed 
receive a lower pension of £2,034 per year and a lump sum of £13,565.
In July 2016, Tenet advised Mrs B to transfer out of her OPS. It said she had an aspiration to 
start taking her pension as income because she and her husband had stopped working. 
Tenet said shed be able to get more money in retirement by buying an annuity. So the 
recommendation was as follows:
1. To transfer the full CETV to an annuity provider and take a tax-free cash sum of 
£22,291  25% of the amount transferred - from this straightaway.
2. With the remaining sum left in the above, she should purchase a joint-life, level 
annuity with the provider, with 50% spouses pension included. The annual pension 
resulting from this for Mrs B was £2,947 per year. Mr B would get half of this if he 
survived Mrs B.
Mrs B now says she was given unsuitable advice by Tenet. The complaint has been referred 
to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint and said we shouldnt 
uphold it. Mrs B hasnt agreed with our investigator. As the complaint couldnt be resolved 
informally, its come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done this, Im not upholding it. 
Introduction
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, Tenet should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mrs Bs best interests (COBS 19.1.6). 
However, having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied the advice to transfer out of Mrs Bs 
OPS was in her best interests. Ill explain why below.
Financial Viability
I began by looking at whether I thought the advice to transfer out could be said to be viable, 
from a financial perspective. 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
Ive also considered the critical yield figure. This is essentially the average annual 
investment return that would be required on the transfer value - from the time of advice until 
retirement - to provide the same annuity income as the OPS. In this case, however, we know 
Mrs B had stopped working and thought of herself as retired. She was also buying an 
annuity, rather than investing the transferred funds. So the critical yield figure is of very 
limited relevance here and the evidence is clear that she wanted to access her pension 
funds more or less straightaway and start taking an income. Nonetheless, for the purposes of comparison, Ive noted the required yield to match Mrs Bs 
benefits at the age of 65 (her schemes NRA) if she did transfer out, was 3.2%. This was if 
she took a 25% tax-free cash lump sum and a reduced annual pension. The relevant 
discount rate closest to when the advice was given was 3.3% per year for 6 years to her 
schemes NRA. And for further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time 
was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year. 
What these figures demonstrate to me is that exceeding the benefits of Mrs Bs existing OPS 
by transferring out could have been a possibility if she transferred the funds and invested 
them until age 65. I say this because the discount rate and the regulators projections were 
not demonstrably different from the critical yield. But as Mrs Bs desire was to access her 
pension immediately, I dont think its necessary to consider this further.
In the event, we know Mrs B bought an annuity. As our investigator has already pointed out, 
the advice which Tenet recommended to Mrs B was that she should transfer out of the OPS 
to do this. This advice was predicated mainly on her being able to get £2,947 per year and a 
tax-free lump sum of £22,291 by buying the annuity which Tenet recommended. On the 
other hand, her early retirement OPS benefits, if taken straightaway, were lower that this  at 
£2,034 per year and a tax-free lump sum of £13,565.
In short, Tenets case is that Mrs B was better off, both in terms of an annual income, and in 
terms of a tax-free lump-sum, by transferring out.
Were these figures true and fair comparisons?
Theres no argument in my view that when looked at in isolation, these figures do imply that 
transferring out was the better option for Mrs B, from a financial perspective. However, Ive 
noted there were some differences between the annuity Mrs B purchased and her OPS 
which have to be considered. 
For example, Mrs Bs OPS did have an index-linked element which meant it could grow to 
help meet the increased cost of living over future years; whereas the annuity recommended 
to her was a level product (without any annual increases). 
But Tenet pointed out in its Flexible Options Report (FRO), dated 15 July 2016, that only a 
portion of Mrs Bs OPS would be subject to annual increases in line with the retail price index 
up to a maximum of 5%. On balance, I think this would have been explained to her. And, 
because of the way her OPS was structured, only around 70% of the OPSs annual pension 
would be uplifted in this way  around 30% of it would remain level throughout her 
retirement. I therefore think its fair to say that only part of her OPS pension was index-linked 
and so the differences between it and the annuity werent as great as one might think.
I do accept that for some, this might be a fairly complex matter and so of course, I cant say 
how well Mrs B understood this aspect. However, what this means is that in times of higher 
inflation, Mrs Bs annual pension from the OPS, although starting from a lower point than the 
annual annuity payment, could catch up over time. Depending on how long she lived and the 
effects of inflation, the OPS pension may eventually have been able to overtake the annuity 
annual income. However, by transferring out, we must also remember that Mrs B had also 
benefitted from a much larger tax-free lump sum  around £8,700 more.
Conversely, Ive also noted that Mrs Bs OPS and the annuity she bought had close 
similarities. For instance, each had a 50% spouses benefit although the OPS rules meant 
that the 50% spouse benefit was applied to a higher starting figure. This is because if she 
pre-deceased Mr B, hed get a 50% pension as calculated before any lump-sum reduction 
had been applied. So once again, this slight difference was somewhat complicated and it meant Mr B might have received a higher annual pension than he may have otherwise 
anticipated, if Mrs B had stayed in the OPS, rather than transferring.
Ive considered these differences and similarities to determine whether they make a 
difference to the outcome of this complaint. Overall, I think the information Mrs B had about 
these matters was clear enough  and I think shed have known that many different 
scenarios could occur in the future. Who died first, how long the survivor lived, and how 
much inflation rose, were all things that could have changed whether transferring out could 
be said to have been the right thing to do. Tenet attempted to show, in the FRO, that there 
could ultimately be a catch-up period as Ive described above. But in my view, this showed 
that only in the much longer-term, would remaining in the OPS have been better for Mrs B. 
To help me think about whether any of these things really mattered to the outcome, I thought 
very carefully about both Mrs and Mr Bs income at that time, their respective health, and 
Mrs Bs evident desire to start drawing from this pension to support her retirement plans. 
And having done this, I still think the advice to transfer out and buy the annuity was in her 
best interests. At the time the advice was given, Mrs and Mr B had only very modest pension 
provisions and their income and expenditure were broadly equal. In my view, this presented 
a vulnerability going forward where they had little room to save, absorb cost increases or 
deal with unforeseen events. Ive noted the savings they had which no doubt mitigated some 
of these issues but I think it was reasonable for Mrs B to want to start drawing an income 
from this pension straightaway.
Points made by Mrs Bs representative
Ive noted the points made by Mrs Bs representative to our investigators view letter. 
However, I think her representative misunderstood a number of important aspects of her 
situation along the way. 
It began, for instance, by saying Mrs B had not sold her business, nor was she suffering from 
any existing medical conditions. However, in my view, these things simply arent right and 
Ive seen reliable documents from the time which show both the above circumstances to be 
correct. Given the apparent dispute, I confirmed them myself with Mrs B. Mrs B told me she 
had stopped working and had sold the business which substantiates the facts Ive seen in 
the point of advice documentation.
Im afraid her representative also made incorrect assumptions and calculations about her 
OPSs income, and in my view, it used her potential pension without taking a lump sum, to 
make comparisons with the annuity where a lump-sum was taken. For obvious reasons, 
such comparisons are invalid. I noted the representative also used different pension age 
commencement dates when explaining that Mrs B was worse off by transferring out. It also 
appears to have mis-understood Mrs Bs OPS index-linking arrangements, the details of 
which Ive outlined above.
For the want of space and clarity therefore, Im not going to go into all the details of the 
issues the representative raised with our Service. However, Ive read everything it said with 
great care. I also fully understand the broader points the representative is attempting to 
make about the value of DB pensions. But overall, Ive found Mrs Bs representatives 
challenges to be unpersuasive and somewhat out of context, and none of them alter my 
decision that the transfer advice was suitable in her circumstances of that time.
SummaryMrs B used Tenet to advise her as a consequence of it advising her on another DB pension 
issue from 2015. That matter is the subject of a separate complaint which Ive recently 
issued a decision on.
However, in this 2016 case, Ive described how the initial assessments made by Tenet 
tended to imply that transferring out could be in her best interests. As Mrs B was intending to 
become a full-time retiree, and also because her household income was so moderate, it 
wasnt unreasonable in my view for her to begin drawing as much income as she possibly 
could. The enhancement to the CETV of 30% was a significant issue and as Ive shown 
above, transferring out and buying the annuity enabled Mrs Bs annual income and her tax-
free lump sum to be higher than she would otherwise have got by remaining a member of 
the OPS. She also was advised to buy a spouses pension which I think was important to 
her.
Ive explained there were some differences in the two products, which could have had both 
financial advantages or disadvantages, depending on how Mrs and Mr Bs retirement years 
evolved. But ultimately, I dont think these slight differences in the make-up of the two 
different schemes change anything. I think these were explained enough at the time. The 
documents from the time of the advice show, in my view, that Mrs B was engaged in the 
process and had sufficient time to consider what she wanted to do. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs B, but I am not upholding her complaint. In these particular 
circumstances, I think Tenets advice to transfer out of the OPS was in her best interests and 
I think the recommended annuity was suitable for her needs.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
I do not require Tenet Connect Services Limited to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman