DRN-4216108
The complaint
The estate of Mr B complain that National Savings and Investments (NSI) asked for grant of 
probate. 
What happened
Mr B had premium savings bonds totalling £50,000 with NSI. Sadly, he died on 17 
December 2020. Grant of Probate (GOP) was obtained on 9 June 2022. The NSI investment 
was paid to the executors on 23 July 2022.
Mr Bs wife, Mrs B, also had premium savings bonds with NSI of £50,000. She sadly died on 
1 June 2021. GOP was obtained on 13 December 2021. The PSB investment was paid to 
the executors on 9 February 2022.
The estate of Mr B is represented by Mrs B  who made several calls to NSI and 
corresponded with NSI. The estate complains that they were given mixed messages by NSI 
as to the need for a grant of probate. They say that one member of staff said it wasnt 
needed, and then another said it was. They say this contradicted what they were told by 
HRMC probate office. They said that other banks and building societies didnt need a GOP 
and paid Mr Bs money without one. They say this caused a delay to the repayment of the 
funds and a lot of distress and confusion. This was a difficult time for the executors  as both 
parents passed away within six months of each other.
NSI said they were bound by the rules of probate, and these apply to all savings and 
investment firms. These say that where the value of savings exceeds £5,000, they reserve 
the right to request a grant of probate. In this case, the value exceeded £5,000 and so a 
GOP was needed.
The estate of Mr B brought their complaint to us. Our investigator said NSI acted reasonably. 
A GOP was needed under the rules - and NSI had followed their processes for repaying 
investments. He referred to a call between NSI and the estate of Mr B in February 2022  in 
which the estate say they were told a GOP wasnt needed. A recording of the call isnt 
available but he felt that on the balance of probability, the estate was told that - as that would 
account for the delay in repaying the funds so long after Mr Bs death. It was also 
unfortunate that the letter sent by NSI on 9 July 2022 quoted the wrong balance for Mr Bs 
investment  it quoted £100,000. But because the correct funds were paid out in any case, 
he didnt consider the estate lost out and therefore didnt recommend any compensation.
The estate of Mr B didnt agree and asked that an ombudsmen look at their complaint. They 
said that because NSI said they reserve the right to request a grant of probate, then 
discretion shouldve been exercised and a GOP not asked for. They said a joint probate was 
granted by HMRC and this shouldve been sufficient to release the savings of both Mr B and 
Mrs B. They also said there was an error on NSIs letter dated 9 July 2022  quoting the 
wrong balance of Mr Bs savings. Therefore, the estates complaint has come to me to look 
at.
I reached a provisional decision which said:
I looked at NSIs operating procedures covering the release of funds on the death of an 
account holder. These say that where savings exceed £5,000, NSI may ask to see a GOP. 
And so in this case, I cant say that NSI were wrong to do so. 
It is the case that NSI, and other firms, might exercise discretion and waive the need to see 
a GOP  and thats down to the individual firms involved. The estate of Mr B has said that 
other banks/building societies did that. I cant comment on those decisions, or what the value 
of savings was in those firms. But in the case of NSI, they took the decision to ask for a GOP 
 which they were entitled to do. 
The estate has said that HMRC have said that a joint GOP could be produced and that 
shouldve been accepted by NSI  but our service can only look at how NSI have acted here, 
and not the actions and advice given by another party.
The estate of Mr B say they were told that a GOP wasnt needed - on a call in February 
2022. We asked NSI for the calls made by Mrs B. I listened to the calls made on 28 January 
2022, 2 February 2022, 8 February 2022, 24 June 2022, and 6 July 2022. Mrs B has said 
there was a call on 15 February 2022  but it appears there wasnt one on that date.
It is the call on 2 February 2022 which is important in the context of this complaint. Mrs B 
explained that she had been given a joint GOP by HMRC  and been told by HMRC that 
this would be accepted by NSI for her to gain access to her late fathers PSB funds. She 
explained why she wanted to do it that way  as his estate had passed to his wife (who then 
sadly died). Therefore, her logic was that as the late Mr Bs funds passed to his wife, then 
the GOP for the late Mrs B would suffice. And the estate could access the late Mr Bs funds 
that way. The form mentioned was IHT217.
NSIs call handler then took advice from NSIs bereavement department  I heard the 
internal advice given to the call handler. This was that  if the estate could get a letter from 
HMRC to say that the late Mr Bs estate were included in the late Mrs Bs GOP  then NSI 
would accept that. NSIs call handler wrote that down and read out the advice to Mrs B. The 
call handler concluded in that case  your mothers probate will be enough (to get the 
repayment of the late Mr Bs PSBs). I heard Mrs B repeat what shed been told and she 
wrote it down.
We asked for and looked at the customer notes to see what was recorded. These confirm 
what Mrs B was told on the call on 2 February 2022. But  the notes then (later) say that on 
8 February 2022, Mrs B called again to say that she couldnt get any such letter from HMRC 
 and so a GOP for the late Mr Bs estate would be needed.
In NSIs operating processes - there isnt any mention of a joint GOP or IHT217.  So - NSI 
were acting in line with their operating rules to ask for a GOP. But  the fact is that Mrs B 
was wrongly advised on the call on 2 February 2022.
I can see that NSI made an error in the letter dated 9 July 2022 - which said that Mr Bs 
investment was £100,000. However, I dont think its reasonable to say that this caused any 
particular problem  and the estate didnt raise this in their original complaint. Im not 
therefore persuaded that this error was the cause of any issues  especially as the funds of 
£50,000 were repaid shortly afterwards, on  23 July 2022.
But -  based on what Mrs B was told on the call on 2 February 2022, I can see why she was 
confused and frustrated. Mrs B was wrongly informed that a letter from HMRC would mean 
she didnt have to get a GOP for her late father. This was an error by NSI  which, to be fair 
they later corrected.Mrs B was particularly upset  as she was having to deal with the loss of both her parents 
within a short time of each other, and with the winding up of their affairs. Therefore -  I think 
its only reasonable that NSI pay compensation of £200 - for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Responses to the provisional decision:
NSI agreed. The estate of Mr B didnt respond.
I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As NSI agreed; and the estate of Mr B didnt respond, my final decision s unchanged from 
the provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. National Savings and Investments must:
Pay compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman