DRN-3567424
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T mainly complain that theyve lost out financially as a result of the method used 
by Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL) to calculate the cost price of 
their investments. They believe that HLs accounting practice has left them with a cash 
shortfall in two Stocks and Shares ISA portfolios which they want HL to reimburse.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T have an execution-only trading account with HL. Mr and Mrs T complained to 
HL when the value of their investments appeared to be worth significantly less than they 
expected.
HL explained that its preferred way of showing an average price per unit provided clients 
with a more accurate and usable representation of cost. It reminded Mr and Mrs T that full 
details of its methodology were outlined on its website (to which it provided an online link) 
and also included on the quarterly Investment Reports HL issued to Mr and Mrs T. HL 
however acknowledged that there had been some shortcomings in the service it provided 
when Mr and Mrs T were given some incorrect information about a negative balance 
showing on their account. For this, HL credited £50 to Mr and Mrs Ts account as a gesture 
of goodwill.
HL further explained that the reason for the negative cash balance shown on their account 
stemmed from an internal IT error. HL said it was unrelated to the cost figures shown on 
their account which reflected a moving average method based on the number of units 
currently held and the average price paid since Mr and Mrs T began investing into a 
particular stock. In recognition of the frustration and confusion its IT error caused 
Mr and Mrs T, HL paid them a further £100.
Mr and Mrs T didn't feel this went far enough to resolve things and so they brought their 
complaint to us and one of our investigators looked into what happened.   
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. In brief summary, 
he said it wasnt up to us to express a view on the way HL calculated costs figures it 
provided to clients when the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) is responsible for overseeing 
how HL conducts its financial business. 
The investigator concentrated on looking into Mr and Mrs Ts complaint that they had lost 
money and he worked through some examples applying HLs methodology. He concluded 
that Mr and Mrs T hadnt lost out in real money terms. He said the way HL presented cost 
information was essentially for reference purposes and the current cost figure for a holding 
displayed on Mr and Mrs Ts account took into account the number of units currently held 
and the average price they had paid since they began investing into a particular stock. He 
suggested Mr and Mrs T needed to look at a different figure to track the value of their 
investments. 
Mr and Mrs T disagree with our investigator and still feel HL is responsible for causing them 
financial detriment. They asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint, so it comes to 
me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain my 
approach and how I've reached my decision.
I do appreciate how strongly Mr and Mrs T feel about this complaint. I want to assure them 
that Ive carried out an independent review and considered everything that both parties have 
told me. We provide an informal complaints handling service and this is reflected in the way 
Ive approached the complaint. I might not mention everything Mr T has brought to my 
attention, but I will comment on everything that makes a difference to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
In order to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint I have to be able to fairly say that HL did 
something wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably. And its part of my role to identify and 
concentrate on the core issues I need to address in order to reach a fair outcome. 
Its my understanding that Mr and Mrs Ts main concern is that HL is responsible for their 
investments having lost money. I hope to re-assure Mr and Mrs T  based on everything the 
parties have shown me and told me, I dont find that Mr and Mrs T have lost out in money 
terms as a result of the way HL shows the current cost figure for their holdings on their 
account. 
On its website, HL provides details to clients explaining how it works out cost figures for 
investments and this information is also included within the quarterly reports sent to clients. 
This includes an explanation from HL that the average cost prices should not be used to 
make investment decisions or for CGT purposes and investors should refer instead to their 
contract notes. As far as I can see, HL has applied to Mr and Mrs Ts account exactly the method described 
on its website and in client communications  providing a moving average cost per holding, 
which HL feels gives a more accurate and useable representation for the costs over a longer 
period of time. So I cant fairly say that HL has done anything wrong as it has commercial 
discretion to choose to use this approach and it has acted in line with the guidance it has 
issued clients and done what it said it would. 
It's fair to say there are different ways of calculating the cost of an investment  HLs 
preferred accounting method effectively ignores the proceeds raised from sales and looks 
only at purchases to calculate an average price paid per unit. But HL says this approach has 
the benefit of producing a cost figure which can be carried through for future trades and so 
provides a more accurate and useable representation of the cost. It avoids some of the 
pitfalls that could arise using a different method and its approach works for most clients.  
That all that seems reasonable to me. 
And I think its reasonably clear from looking at the way HL has set things out that the 
average cost values shown are not intended to reflect the actual cost of a holding  thats 
information Mr and Mrs T can work out from looking at relevant contract notes. I've kept in 
mind that HL are not advisors to Mr and Mrs T  they simply provide information and 
examples for indicative purposes only. If Mr & Mrs T dont find that helpful, they can still use 
their contract notes to keep track of the value of their investment using any method that 
works best for them. 
HL acknowledged that it failed to provide the level of service Mr and Mrs T were entitled to 
expect when they were trying to find out information about the balance on their account. 
I am satisfied that the £150 paid by HL fairly reflects the frustration this caused 
Mr and Mrs T and so HL doesnt need to do anything more. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs T. But I hope that setting things out as I've done explains 
how I've reached my conclusions and is helpful. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman