DRN-3419387
The complaint
Mr M and Miss M complain National House-Building Council (NHBC) has unfairly declined to 
cover the cost of interim fire safety measures, as part of an accepted building warranty 
claim, which was made on their Buildmark policy.
What happened
Mr M and Miss M own an apartment in a block. They have a ten-year Buildmark building 
warranty policy, which covers their individual apartment and the common parts. 
Mr M and Miss M, and the leaseholders of six related blocks, made claims under section 4 of 
their Buildmark policies. The claims were for elements of those buildings which were thought 
to be a fire safety risk. Section 4 only applies if NHBC provided the building control service 
during construction. In summary, it provides cover if theres an immediate danger because 
the builder failed to comply with certain building regulations that applied at the time of 
construction. The claims were made in May 2020.
NHBC found there had been a breach of the relevant building regulations for five blocks, in 
respect of the external wall constructions. It found there hadnt been a breach in relation to 
the balconies. NHBCs decision about the building regulations, and the remedial works its 
responsible for, hasnt been disputed. As such, those matters arent being considered as 
part of this complaint. 
Between February and May 2021, following NHBCs investigations, the claim decisions were 
confirmed for the six blocks. Mr M and Miss Ms apartment is in one of the five blocks which 
had accepted claims. I understand the sixth block has a different cladding to the other five 
blocks, which was found to be compliant. 
NHBC, in coordination with the original builder, is to undertake the required works in respect 
of the external wall constructions. However, the leaseholders have been subject to related 
costs, due to the freeholder implementing interim safety measures. As per the lease 
agreement, and a tribunal finding, the leaseholders are responsible for covering the 
freeholders interim safety measure costs.
The initial measure was a Waking Watch, but to save costs, the freeholder later installed a 
fire alarm system. Mr M and Miss M have claimed for their share of the fire alarm costs, 
which NHBC declined. They say they were charged about £1,100.
In August 2021, Mr M and Miss M also said other outstanding costs are imminent and not 
yet known. More recently, they noted they also intended to claim for their Waking Watch 
costs.
In an email to our service, NHBC set out the following reasons for why it didnt consider 
interim fire safety measures to be covered by the Buildmark policy:
- The scope of NHBCs liability is clearly defined within section 4. NHBC is only liable 
for the actual work that is required to ensure the property is compliant with building 
regulations. Section 4 expressly states which costs are covered: the work done to 
meet the Building Regulations" and "removing and storing your possessions and 
alternative accommodation, if necessary, while this work is being done."
- The Buildmark policy excludes all other costs, by stating at the top of the exclusions 
page that "Buildmark does not protect you against every event or circumstance  it 
only protects you against the things outlined in this document".
- Buildmark excludes consequential costs relating to fire alarms by the fact they arent 
listed under section 4 as being covered. Section 4 also doesnt state NHBC accepts 
responsibility for all costs arising from a breach of building regulations unless those 
costs are excluded. Instead, Buildmark expressly states which costs it will cover.
- Theres a distinction between the direct costs that arise from the works to rectify the 
breached building regulations and the wider costs which have little or no connection 
to section 4. The direct costs dont extend to installing a fire alarm system because 
this isnt necessary for the works to take place, or for the completed works to be 
considered compliant with building regulations.
- The cost of storage and alternative accommodation during the works are direct costs 
arising from NHBC's cover. Section 4 doesnt refer to paying for other costs relating 
to the period before the work starts. Storage and alternative accommodation costs 
are only paid whilst the works are being completed, and NHBC doesnt pay for 
emergency accommodation or mitigation measures prior to the work starting.
- Buildmark doesnt outline it will cover the cost of interim fire safety measures as part 
of section 4 because those arent costs which it would expect to cover, given it isnt 
the Responsible Person under The Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety) Order 2005. 
NHBC says its not legally liable for those costs. 
- It would be unreasonable to expect NHBC to step into the shoes of the Responsible 
Person. It could create confusion about whether the Responsible Person needs to 
comply with their obligations or give that party an excuse to avoid complying with 
those obligations. This would be detrimental to ensuring adequate fire safety for 
properties is carried out by the correct, and liable, parties. 
- Creating an additional obligation to pay for interim fire safety measures beyond the 
clear wording of the policy creates uncertainty as to what NHBC could be liable for 
in the future. To widen section 4 beyond its express wording has wide-ranging 
implications for NHBC. 
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I intended to uphold the complaint. In my 
provisional decision, I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ill set out my provisional findings under the following headings: interim fire safety measures 
and costs; section 4 wording; NHBCs liability for interim safety measure costs; and putting 
matters right.Interim fire safety measures and costs
In my view, I cant reasonably consider the fire alarm costs in isolation, on the understanding 
Mr M and Miss M also intend to claim for their Waking Watch costs. The two issues are 
clearly linked. Therefore, I will deal with both items together.
The freeholder applied to the First-Tier Tribunal (Property Chamber), for a determination on 
the leaseholders liability to pay for the interim fire safety measure costs and its legal fees 
relating to the application. The application was made in July 2020, and it set out the 
following:
-The costs relate to six blocks, totalling 417 apartments. The Waking Watch started in 
December 2019, and the fire alarm installation started in July 2020 (with an 
estimated three-month completion timescale).
-The Waking Watch costs were, so far, £267,868. Those costs remained ongoing until 
the fire alarm system had been installed. The fire alarm installation was estimated to 
cost £383,974.
-A Fire Safety Inspection Officer identified the safety measures at the blocks werent 
sufficient. The Waking Watch and the fire alarm system were recommended by the 
Fire Brigade. The Waking Watch costs are significant, and the fire alarm system 
represents a significant cost saving.
Based on the information presented so far, I accept that the interim safety measures were a 
requirement due to the items accepted under the claims. Mr M and Miss M have explained 
that, had the freeholder not complied, the Fire Brigade would have served an enforcement 
notice requiring the occupants to evacuate. It also follows that the freeholder needed to 
follow the recommendations, from a safety perspective.
Section 4 wording
Ill briefly set out the relevant wording in Section 4, before going on to consider NHBCs 
arguments under the next heading:
-This section protects you if there is an immediate danger to someones physical 
health or safety because the builder failed to meet the following Building 
Regulations
-We will take responsibility for having the work done to meet the Building 
Regulations
-We will also pay for  storing your possessions and alternative accommodation, if 
necessary, while this work is being done
-Some things are not our responsibility under Buildmark (see page 11).
NHBCs liability for interim safety measure costs
As per section 4, NHBC will take responsibility for having the work done to meet the relevant 
building regulations. Im satisfied NHBCs liability for having that work done, begins from the 
date the accepted claim was made. So, if the issue thats covered under the policy presents 
a safety risk, then it follows NHBC is responsible for the cost of keeping the building and its 
occupants safe until its met its liability. The exclusions (on page 11) dont exclude safety 
measures which are necessary in the interim.I understand the point NHBC makes about the policy expressly stating what is covered, as 
opposed to it stating everything thats excluded. However, in the absence of a clear policy 
exclusion, I remain of the view NHBC is responsible for the cost of keeping the building 
and its occupants safe until its met its liability. It should be noted that, even if such an 
exclusion existed, it would still need to be applied fairly.
The alternative conclusion would expose policyholders to costs or safety risks whilst NHBC 
investigates the claim and completes the work, either of which could be delayed. Even if 
some delays are unavoidable, its not reasonable for policyholders to be responsible for 
interim safety measure costs, or to be subject to risk, when the underlying issues are 
covered by an insurance policy.
In any event, I dont consider it reasonable for NHBC to artificially separate the interim safety 
measures from the overall work thats required to put right the breached building regulations.  
I dont find them to be distinctly separate things. The section 4 wording asserts that NHBC 
will protect the policyholder if certain building regulations were breached by the builder. In 
the context of the cover being provided, Im satisfied its only reasonable to interpret that 
statement to mean NHBC will protect the policyholder against any immediate risks and 
costs associated to the breach.
Also, whilst NHBC says it doesnt cover emergency accommodation or mitigation measures 
prior to a repair starting, Im not persuaded thats the case, or at least, our service wouldnt 
generally consider that approach to be reasonable. For instance, if a wall was in danger of 
collapsing due to an issue that was covered under Buildmark, we would expect NHBC to 
cover the cost of making the wall safe before the permanent repair is completed. If such 
interim measures werent possible and the policyholders safety was at risk, we would 
expect NHBC to cover the cost of their alternative accommodation. I dont find that 
scenario to be different to the one presented by fire safety.
Furthermore, the policy covers alternative accommodation if necessary, while this work is 
being done. Im not persuaded its reasonable to limit work to the physical repairs. In my 
view, NHBCs work started as soon as the accepted claim was made; it includes its claim 
investigations, and its planning and preparation for the eventual, permanent, repair. 
In this case, NHBC hasnt needed to cover any alternative accommodation costs due to the 
Waking Watch service and the fire alarm system, and those costs have been passed on to 
its policyholders. I understand those measures are a considerable saving on providing 
alternative accommodation.
Therefore, I find the alternative accommodation cover to be a further reason why NHBC 
ought to be covering the interim safety measure costs.
I accept NHBC isnt the Responsible Person under the Fire Safety Order. However, that 
doesnt take away from NHBCs liabilities and responsibilities under the contract of 
insurance. Those are the matters Im considering here.
I also dont agree that, by deciding NHBC is responsible for the leaseholders interim safety 
measure costs, it confuses who the Responsible Person is, requires NHBC to step into the 
shoes of the Responsible Person, or confuses the obligations of the Responsible Person. 
The Responsible Person is defined by the Fire Safety Order, as are their obligations. My 
intended decision isnt that NHBC is the Responsible Person. But simply, where interim 
safety measure costs have been passed on to the leaseholders, those costs ought 
reasonably to be considered as part of their accepted section 4 claims.Nonetheless, whilst I acknowledge NHBC isnt the Responsible Person, when accepting a 
Section 4 claim for fire safety, I consider NHBC ought reasonably to be engaging with the 
relevant parties to understand what interim safety measures are needed. Its in NHBCs 
interests to ensure the most economical solution is found.
I understand the fire alarm system was explored soon after the claims were made. So, 
overall, I dont consider NHBC has been prejudiced by the fire alarm system not being 
explored sooner, as a more economical solution to the Waking Watch service.
In conclusion, I intend to decide NHBC should settle Mr M and Miss Ms Waking Watch and 
fire alarm system installation costs, subject to the criteria under the below heading.
Putting matters right
NHBC isnt responsible for the builder breaching building regulations; its simply responsible 
for the necessary work once a valid claim has been made. So, I dont consider NHBC to be 
liable for the interim safety measures before the claim was made. NHBC wasnt, until then, 
on notice that action was required. 
I havent seen the lease agreement, so I dont know if Mr M and Miss M have a responsibility 
to share the interim safety measure costs for all six blocks, or just the costs for their block. 
However, NHBC would need to settle the costs that Mr M and Miss M are responsible for 
under their lease, where those costs:
-are for the blocks where an accepted section 4 fire safety claim has been made;
-are for interim safety measures which were needed because of the items accepted 
under the section 4 claims; 
-were incurred after the date the claim was made (no reimbursement would be due for 
the period before the claim was made).
The settlement would be subject to a clear breakdown of the service charges, so NHBC can 
be assured its only covering the above costs. To be clear, NHBC isnt responsible for any 
legal fees that were passed on to Mr M and Miss M in relation to the freeholders tribunal 
costs.
As explained above, Im persuaded the interim safety measure costs should be covered until 
NHBC has met its liability, and that those measures form part of the overall work. In addition, 
the costs arent for alternative accommodation. So, it follows that the overall policy limit for 
the continuous structure should apply to those costs, rather than the lower alternative 
accommodation and storage policy limit.
To reflect the fact Mr M and Miss M have been unfairly deprived of their money since paying 
the charges, the settlement would be subject to 8% simple interest per annum, from the date 
they paid the charges, to the date of settlement. 
I also intend to award Mr M and Miss M £200 compensation, for the inconvenienced caused 
by having to pursue this matter.
If my final decision follows what Ive said here, it would be in NHBCs interests to settle the 
other leaseholders costs on the above basis, to avoid similar complaints. However, those 
leaseholders arent party to this complaint, so Im unable to make a direction in my final 
decision for their costs.NHBC said whilst it disagrees with my interpretation of Mr M and Miss Ms Buildmark policy, 
it accepts my provisional decision. However, NHBC asked me to add some clarificatory 
notes. NHBC said:
- Mr M and Miss Ms Buildmark policy applies to new homes registered with NHBC 
from 1 April 2015. NHBC reviews its Buildmark policy periodically, and different 
generations have different wording. 
- The wording of the 2015 policy differs considerably from other generations, and the 
difference is potentially significant for interpreting and understanding the cover 
provided by Section 4.
- If a policyholder with a different generation of Buildmark makes a complaint, NHBC 
would like to make further representations and for the relevant policy to be 
considered afresh by the Financial Ombudsman Service.  
- My provisional decision was that NHBC should settle the costs incurred after the date 
the claim was made. NHBC said it often doesnt know if action is required on the first 
date a policyholder makes contacts about fire safety, because only a speculative 
concern is reported.
- Often, the policyholders simply provide a wide-ranging assessment that doesnt 
identify a breach of building regulations or an immediate danger, but instead it 
recommends surveys to establish whether thats the case. 
- Its only when the policyholders provide the results of such surveys that NHBC has 
sufficient information to reasonably know if action is required. There can be a long 
lapse of time between the initial contact and the policyholders providing the 
information to properly make the claim.  
- Therefore, NHBC would like me to confirm that a claim is not effectively made until 
the policyholders provide sufficient information to allow NHBC to commence its 
assessment. 
Mr M and Miss M also accepted my provisional decision, but they made the following 
comments for me to consider:
- Whilst Mr M and Miss M support my decision to deal with their Waking Watch costs, 
they havent yet received an invoice detailing their contribution. They said they will 
endeavour to obtain clarity from the managing agent.
- Mr M and Miss M noted they had limited control over the cooperation and actions of 
the managing agent, and they queried how their complaint should be settled if there 
are issues obtaining information, and the next steps should a further dispute arise.
- Mr M and Miss M asked me to reconsider the compensation award. They detailed the 
inconvenience of pursuing the matter, and their frustrations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by addressing NHBCs response to my provisional decision, before moving on to 
Mr M and Miss Ms response.Other cases and/or policy versions
Ive only considered the policy wording that applies to Mr M and Miss M, and how it ought 
reasonably to be applied in the circumstances of their case. Other complaints about such 
interim fire safety measures would be subject to the policy wording that applies to those 
complainants and the circumstances of their case. NHBC is free to make further 
representations to our service on other cases, should they reach us.
Thats not to say similar complaints involving earlier or later versions of the Buildmark policy 
wouldnt succeed. But simply, the only matter Ive considered here is Mr M and Miss Ms 
policy wording, and how it applies to the circumstances of their case.
The point from which NHBC should be liable for interim fire safety measure costs
I accept NHBC may not be on notice it needs to act as soon as a claim is initiated. If the next 
steps are for the policyholders to commission the necessary investigations to support their 
claims, then it may not be fair and reasonable for NHBC to be liable for the cost of interim 
fire safety measures during that time. But equally, much may depend on whether NHBC 
caused delays or whether the initial information presented by the policyholders ought 
reasonably to have placed the onus on NHBC to investigate.
Ultimately, Im only considering the arguments that relate to the circumstances of Mr M and 
Miss Ms case. Whilst I accept NHBCs comments may have merit in other cases, it hasnt 
said that it shouldnt be liable from when Mr M and Miss Ms claim was made. NHBC has 
acknowledged its comments dont change the outcome of Mr M and Miss Ms complaint.
Complaint settlement
I can understand Mr M and Miss Ms concern about obtaining information from the managing 
agent. However, the managing agent will need to provide a clear breakdown of the fire alarm 
and Waking Watch costs, as I set out in my provisional decision. NHBC cant reasonably 
settle either the fire alarm or the Waking Watch costs without that information.
NHBC has the resource and experience to communicate with the managing agent about this 
matter. Therefore, in the first instance, I wouldnt expect the emphasis to be placed on Mr M 
and Miss M in respect of obtaining the necessary information. 
If Mr M and Miss M accept my final decision, NHBC will need to contact the managing agent 
and set out the information it needs to settle the complaint. It should also keep Mr M and 
Miss M updated. However, NHBC isnt responsible for the cooperation of the managing 
agent, and it may be that Mr M and Miss M need to follow up with that third-party.
At this stage, due to the lack of information about the claimed costs, I cant make a monetary 
award. Therefore, should a further dispute arise about what the costs are, when they were 
incurred, or Mr M and Miss Ms share, then a further complaint can be made about that 
matter. In the meantime, theres no reason why NHBC cant release the compensation 
award.
Compensation
Mr M and Miss M point towards guidance on our website for compensation awards, and they 
consider an award between £300 and £750 to be appropriate. They note NHBC has had at 
least six opportunities over three years to put this matter right, and they estimate that on 
each occasion, it involved between 5-10 hours of their time.I acknowledge that whilst Mr M and Miss M have been able to articulate their arguments 
clearly and pursue them with relative confidence, this has involved a fair amount of time, 
effort, and frustration.
However, whilst the subject of Mr M and Miss Ms complaint involves fire safety, they havent 
been put at risk, or their living conditions compromised, due to NHBC unfairly declining their 
share of the interim fire safety measure costs. Ive also not been told anything that leads me 
to believe Mr M and Miss M was caused distress by the prospect of having to pay for the 
costs themselves.
NHBC has maintained its position on the interim fire safety measure costs throughout. I dont 
agree with the position NHBC took, but Im satisfied its decision on this aspect of the claim 
only amounted to one mistake, albeit a relatively significant one. Its not my intention to 
dismiss the inconvenience and frustration Mr M and Miss M have experienced, but on 
balance, Im more persuaded it fits into the category of reasonable efforts, than 
considerable distress and/or significant inconvenience and disruption. 
So, in conclusion, I remain persuaded that £200 compensation is a fair award.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision is National House-Building Council should:
- contact the managing agent and set out the information it needs to settle the 
complaint;
- reimburse Mr M and Miss M their Waking Watch and fire alarm installation costs, 
subject to the criteria I set out under the heading putting matters right in my 
provisional decision (and included above);
- pay 8% simple interest per annum, from the date those charges were paid by Mr M 
and Miss M, to the date of settlement; and
- pay Mr M and Miss M £200 compensation
If NHBC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
any interest paid, it should tell Mr M and Miss M how much its taken off. If requested, it 
should also provide them with a certificate showing the amount deducted, so they can 
reclaim it from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman