DRN-1031405
 
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mrs T says Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
I think BoS made it clear that Mrs T didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why she cant remember this as this was such a long time 
ago. I say this because Ive been given a copy of the credit card application which was 
completed at the time and this includes a section about PPI. In this section there is a box to 
sign if you want to take out the PPI. On Mrs Ts form I can see that she has signed in the 
box. If Mrs T didnt want to take out the cover, she could have left the box blank. She has 
also signed the overall application which suggests she agreed with everything that had been 
entered.
BoS didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs T so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs T got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information BoS gave Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mrs T has said, including what she has said about not needing 
the cover as she was entitled to six months full pay, followed by six months half pay from 
her employer if she was too ill to work. But this policy would pay out for up to 12 months 
which would be in addition to her sick pay and potentially for longer than she would have 
received full pay. Ive also noted that she has told us her husband could have helped her 
meet her repayments. While I appreciate her husband would have wanted to help, support 
from others cant be guaranteed as their circumstances can also change, meaning they are 
unable to provide such financial assistance. So these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman