DRN-2980138
The complaint
N, a limited company complains that the Royal Bank of Scotland Plc closed their account 
with immediate effect. N wants to know the reason and to have its account reinstated. N is 
represented by its director Mr P.
What happened
N had two business accounts with RBS.
Following a review of the accounts, a closure letter dated 21 September 2020 informed N 
that its accounts would be closed with immediate effect.
RBS has said it asked Mr P to fill in a funds released form in order to access the balance of 
around £20,000 which was still remaining in Ns account. 
Mr P representing N complained to RBS. RBS said it had relied on the terms of the account 
to close the accounts with immediate effect.
Mr P complained to our service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He 
thought that RBS had done nothing wrong when they reviewed and closed Ns accounts. 
Mr P was unhappy with the view he said he didnt agree to terms and conditions that allowed 
the bank to close the account with immediate effect. Mr P said he thought RBS had 
discriminated against him and he didnt accept RBS decision to close his accounts. Mr P 
says that the actions of the bank have destroyed his business and compromised Ns credit.
Our investigator mentioned that Mr P would have agreed to terms and conditions of the 
account when the account was being opened for N.
Since he brought his complaint to us Mr P has raised some new issues. RBS haven't yet had 
the chance to respond to them. These further issues will be dealt with separately. 
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Ns account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied RBS were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Ns account. 
RBS closed Ns account with immediate effect. As the investigator explained its generally for 
banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking 
facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a good reason to do so, this service wont 
usually say that a bank must keep a customer or require it to compensate a customer who 
has had their account closed.
Ive considered whether RBS acted fairly in closing Ns accounts. Ive looked at the terms 
and conditions of the accounts and Im satisfied they did. The terms and conditions outline 
that the bank can close a customers account with two months notice, and in certain 
circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this case RBS closed Ns account 
without notice. For RBS to act fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to apply their terms 
for immediate closure  and having looked at these terms and all the evidence Im satisfied 
that the bank has applied the terms fairly. And it was entitled to close the accounts as its 
already done. 
Mr P has said that he didnt agree to terms and conditions that allowed the bank to close Ns 
accounts with immediate effect. However, looking at the evidence I disagree. I appreciate 
that Mr P is disappointed, hes said that he doesnt want to accept the decision to close the 
accounts, but Im satisfied that RBS have acted fairly when they closed the accounts.
Mr P has mentioned that he thinks he is being discriminated against by RBS, again the 
evidence Ive seen doesnt support this. I think RBs had genuine reasons for closing Ns 
accounts.
Mr P has also mentioned that the closure of the account destroyed his business and 
compromised his credit. I appreciate that having accounts closed can make life difficult when 
running a business but looking at the evidence I cant see that RBS has acted unfairly here 
so I wont be asking them to do anything.
Mr P has said he would like to know the reason for the closure. Whilst Mr P mayve expected 
to be given the reasons for the closure, RBS isnt required to give him a specific reason for 
closing the account. So, I cant say RBS has done anything wrong by not giving Mr P this 
information  as much as hed like to know.
 RBS have asked Mr P to fill in a funds release from in order to access the funds remaining 
in N's account , I dont think this is an unreasonable request and I leave it up to Mr P to 
arrange that with RBS.
I appreciate Mr P will find my decision disappointing, but I dont think RBS have done 
anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman