DRN-3642891
The complaint
Mr C complains that St Jamess Place Investment Administration Limited (SJP) caused a 
delay when he was transferring his stocks and shares ISA to a new provider.
What happened
Mr C held a stocks and shares ISA with SJP. In late 2020 he wanted to transfer it to a 
different provider. He submitted his transfer request to his new provider on 29 November 
2020 however the transfer didnt complete until 17 March 2021. Mr C has complained about 
both SJP and the new provider about the delays. This decision is about any delays SJP may 
have caused. For clarity, I will include a timeline of activity.
Timeline
29 November 2020  Mr C makes a transfer request to the new provider.
30 November 2020  New provider made a valuation request and initiated the transfer on an 
electronic transfer system that both SJP and the new provider use.
1 December 2020  the transfer was rejected. Mr C and the new provider confirm that the 
reason for the rejection was the account number being incorrect. The new provider called Mr 
C to ensure the details were correct and additional attempts were made on the system on 3 
December 2020 and 22 December 2020.
5 January 2021  The new provider emails SJP to say it has attempted the transfer via the 
electronic system and asked the check the ISA reference number.
14 January 2021  SJP sends a letter to the new provider saying it cannot correspond by 
email due to security reasons and confirmed it didnt have a transfer request.
18 January 2021  the new provider calls SJP to continue to chase the transfer and SJP 
says nothing is showing electronically and to make the request manually and only by post.
22 January 2021  date stamp shows the new provider sent the transfer request to SJP in 
the post.
25 January 2021  SJP sends a letter to the new provider with the valuation.
1 March 2021  Valuation received by the new provider and it accepted the same day by 
post. Its worth noting that the new provider chased SJP twice during this period but it 
appears the valuation wasnt received for so long due to postal delays. Mr C asked SJP 
specifically to send the funds to the new provider by BACS and not cheque.
4 March 2021  SJP receives the valuation acceptance from the new provider.
9 March 2021  SJP sends ISA history forms to the new provider. It also sends funds via a 
cheque. After queries and a cancellation of the cheque the funds are transferred by BACS 
on 15 February 2021. The transfer completes on 17 February 2021.
Mr C complained to SJP who paid £250 compensation for sending the funds by cheque 
initially when it had said it would transfer using BACS. It didnt address any of the delays.
I sent my provisional decision upholding this complaint on 13 July 2022. The following is an 
extract from my provisional decision and forms part of this decision:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a different outcome to our Investigator. Ive looked to see 
whether SJP was responsible for any delays, and I think that it couldve done more to assist 
Mr C and because it didnt, he experienced unnecessary delays. Ill explain why.
Mr Cs main issue is that he was waiting around 15 weeks for a transfer and cant 
understand why this was. Its now clear to me that the issue was with the background 
account validation changes made by the electronic transfer system provider. I accept that 
this isnt something SJP had control over. However, it did have control over what it 
communicated to the new provider and Mr C after it found out about the issue.
SJP has provided me with emails between it and the electronic transfer system provider. Its 
clear from this that there was an issue SJP wasnt made aware of  the reference numbers 
had changed on the system to just the numbers without the ISA prefix. Once SJP was 
made aware of this, it made sure it was amended. I can see in the emails that SJP gave 
examples of a number of electronic transfers that were rejected  the examples were all from 
the new provider. So, its clear to me SJP was aware of the issue and ensured it was fixed.
However, SJP didnt update its admin team, and therefore neither the new provider or Mr C 
knew why the original transfers hadnt gone through. They had been using the correct 
transfer numbers both times and were just told it wasnt valid. SJP said it told Mr C and the 
new provider to put the request through again. This happened on 22 December 2020, 
however as the new provider didnt know why the original requests hadnt gone through, it 
attempted the reference without the ISA prefix. SJP has explained this is why this last 
attempt was rejected. And that it wouldve gone through had they used the full reference that 
they used in the previous attempts. Interestingly, had the new provider taken out the ISA 
prefix in the earlier attempts these wouldve gone through. However, I think that SJP had 
enough information prior to the last attempt to have informed both Mr C and the new 
provider that the next attempt should be done using the full reference.
I appreciate that SJP feels that it gave the right advice in suggesting the transfer gets 
attempted again. But, without giving the background information Im not surprised the new 
provider and Mr C tried something different. If SJP had shared the information it was aware 
of regarding the earlier transfers, I think that its likely the new provider wouldve put the 
transfer through with the original reference a third time on 22 December 2020 and that this 
wouldve been processed. As such, I think Mr Cs transfer request wouldve been accepted 
on this date and processed in line with the normal 30 day timescale.
The additional delays once the valid transfer instruction was received in the post seem to be 
due to the postal system. However, had SJP given the information about the electronic 
transfer system then I dont think any of these delays wouldve happened  because the 
transfer wouldve gone through electronically.I can see Mr C accepted the £250 compensation for the error SJP made in sending a 
cheque in the first instance. I agree with our Investigator that this is a fair level of 
compensation and as it hasnt been disputed I wont comment on it further.
Putting things right
Had SJP shared its information about why the first two transfers were rejected I think its 
likely the third electronic transfer wouldve gone through correctly on 22 December 2020. 
With this in mind, I intend to direct St Jamess Place Investment Administration Limited to do 
the following:
Put Mr C in the position hed have been in had his electronic transfer on 22 December 2020 
been accepted. I cant be sure when the transfer would complete but Ive taken 30 calendar 
days as this is the timeframe that ISA providers aim for. So, I think its reasonable to say the 
cash from Mr Cs ISA wouldve been received and applied to his new ISA on 21 January 
2021. Ive also assumed similar timescales in terms of when Mr Cs funds with SJP were 
actually sold, how long it took for the money to be transferred and how long it took for Mr C 
to invest in a fund in his new ISA. The dates Ive used are as follows:
o19 January 2021  sale of the SJP funds  this represents two days prior to 
the completion date. I can see that SJP sold Mr Cs holdings two days prior to 
the transfer of funds (which was done erroneously by cheque in the first 
instance) but I feel it represents a reasonable point in the transfer process for 
the purposes of calculating redress.
o25 January 2021  purchase of units in Mr Cs new ISA. I can see that he 
purchased units two days after the funds were applied to his ISA. Ive 
assumed the same timeframe here but two days (23 January 2021) leads to a 
Saturday, so Ive taken the next working day as a reasonable point for the 
purposes of calculating this redress.
With this in mind SJP should calculate the following:
oWhat the value of Mr Cs SJP holdings wouldve been worth had they been 
sold on 19 January 2021 rather than when they were sold on 9 March 2021. If 
the value of the holdings was less than what Mr C received no redress for this 
part is due. However if there is a loss SJP should:
Compare what units Mr C could have bought in his new ISA (specific 
fund included in the cover letter of this decision) on 25 January 2021 
to what he actually purchased on 19 March 2021.
Arrange with his new ISA provider for any units he may have lost out 
on to be purchased and placed within his new ISA. If Mr C has used 
up his ISA allowance for the year SJP should consult with HMRC to 
ensure Mr C doesnt lose out and explore applying the additional units 
by way of restitution.
Mr C wouldve had his SJP ISA account close earlier and his new account open quicker. 
SJP should pay Mr C the difference hes paid in account fees from 21 January 2021 to when 
his SJP account closed. Hes confirmed his new ISA provider charges 0.22% annually.
Mr C didnt make any additional comments. SJP responded to ask whether Id taken account 
of its email it sent to me prior to the provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Id like to assure SJP that I had taken account of its email it sent in response to my 
information request. I expressly referenced the points it made in the background of my 
provisional decision. For clarity here is the extract:
When this complaint was passed to me, I sent SJP a request for information. It has 
responded and has explained the following:
-It hadnt received a valid transfer instruction until it received the postal instruction.
-The reason the electronic transfers were rejected the first two times were due to the 
account validation being changed in the background by the electronic transfer 
system. It only became aware of this on 7 December 2020 as it had seen many 
transfer rejections. It didnt update its admin team at the time.
-The third transfer attempt on 22 December 2020 wouldve gone through had the 
correct account number been used  but the new provider left out the ISA prefix. So 
its original suggestion of trying to put it through again was the right one.
-It isnt responsible for delays as the last electronic transfer would have worked had 
the new provider used the right reference. It provided the new provider with a pre-
paid envelope to help assist the transfer and from that point all delays were due to 
things outside of SJPs control.
It was because of this information that I reached the outcome that SJP couldve done more, 
and had it shared information that it had about the background account validation changes, 
its likely Vanguard wouldve included the ISA prefix for its third attempt on 22 December 
2020 and the electronic transfer wouldve been accepted.
As neither party has provided any additional evidence for me to consider Ive reached the 
same outcome for the reasons Ive set out in my provisional decision (relevant extract above 
which forms part of this decision). I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Had SJP shared its information about why the first two transfers were rejected I think its 
likely the third electronic transfer wouldve gone through correctly on 22 December 2020. So, 
I direct St Jamess Place Investment Administration Limited to do the following:
Put Mr C in the position hed have been in had his electronic transfer on 22 December 2020 
been accepted. I cant be sure when the transfer would complete but Ive taken 30 calendar 
days as this is the timeframe that ISA providers aim for. So, I think its reasonable to say the 
cash from Mr Cs ISA wouldve been received and applied to his new ISA on 21 January 
2021. Ive also assumed similar timescales in terms of when Mr Cs funds with SJP were 
actually sold, how long it took for the money to be transferred and how long it took for Mr C 
to invest in a fund in his new ISA. The dates Ive used are as follows:
o19 January 2021  sale of the SJP funds  this represents two days prior to 
the completion date. I can see that SJP sold Mr Cs holdings two days prior to 
the transfer of funds (which was done erroneously by cheque in the first 
instance) but I feel it represents a reasonable point in the transfer process for 
the purposes of calculating redress.o25 January 2021  purchase of units in Mr Cs new ISA. I can see that he 
purchased units two days after the funds were applied to his ISA. Ive 
assumed the same timeframe here but two days (23 January 2021) leads to a 
Saturday, so Ive taken the next working day as a reasonable point for the 
purposes of calculating this redress.
With this in mind SJP should calculate the following:
oWhat the value of Mr Cs SJP holdings wouldve been worth had they been 
sold on 19 January 2021 rather than when they were sold on 9 March 2021. If 
the value of the holdings was less than what Mr C received no redress for this 
part is due. However if there is a loss SJP should:
Compare what units Mr C could have bought in his new ISA (specific 
fund included in the cover letter of this decision) on 25 January 2021 
to what he actually purchased on 19 March 2021.
Arrange with his new ISA provider for any units he may have lost out 
on to be purchased and placed within his new ISA. If Mr C has used 
up his ISA allowance for the year SJP should consult with HMRC to 
ensure Mr C doesnt lose out and explore applying the additional units 
by way of restitution.
Mr C wouldve had his SJP ISA account close earlier and his new account open quicker. 
SJP should pay Mr C the difference hes paid in account fees from 21 January 2021 to when 
his SJP account closed. Hes confirmed his new ISA provider charges 0.22% annually.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. St Jamess Place Investment 
Administration Limited must carry out the instructions Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman