The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Santander UK Plc won't refund a card payment from their joint 
account; they say they didn't make or authorise the payment. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C have a joint account with Santander. In December 2019 an online card 
payment of over £80 was made on that account. Mr and Mrs C didn't recognise it and said 
they hadn't authorised it. They hadn't, they said, received any goods or services in exchange 
for the payment.
Santander looked into what had happened but concluded that the payment had been 
properly authorised. 
It said that the payment had been made online, using Mrs C's card details. It had been 
validated using Visa's 3D Secure technology from an IP address that Mr and Mrs C had 
used to access their account the following day. Its records also indicated that the same 
device had been used to make the payment and then later to log into the account.
Santander explained that the payment had been made to an overseas payment processor - 
rather than, say, to a merchant supplying goods or services directly. Mr and Mrs C referred 
the case to this service and one of our investigators considered it. He agreed with Santander 
that it was more likely than not that Mr and Mrs C had authorised the payment. They didn't 
accept his conclusions, however, and asked that an ombudsman review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, however, I've come to 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator, and for similar reasons.
As I've indicated, the payment was made to a payment processor based outside the UK. I 
can understand therefore that Mr and Mrs C may not have recognised it; payments made to 
it are quite likely to be in respect of dealings with other businesses.
The evidence does however indicate that the payment was a genuine one that was 
authorised by Mr and Mrs C. The details from Mrs C's card were used. Those details could 
have been obtained in a number of ways, however, so it doesn't necessarily follow that she 
made the payment.
DRN-1877887There were however other factors that linked the payment to Mr and Mrs C. It was validated 
using 3D Secure technology, which sometimes seeks additional verification from the 
customer but can also run additional checks between the payee and the card issuer.
Santander's records indicate too that the same IP address was used for the payment as that 
which Mr and Mrs C have used on other occasions. It's possible to disguise or hide an IP 
address and to change it. I think it unlikely however that someone with Mrs C's card details 
would have been able to change their own IP address to hers as well.
Mr and Mrs C have said that there have been media reports of the payee having taken 
unauthorised payments in the past. I have seen similar reports, which include reports of 
customers receiving refunds from their card issuers. I don't believe however that I can safely 
conclude that Mr and Mrs C were victims in the same way. The card issuers which agreed to 
refunds in other cases would no doubt have carried out a similar investigation to that carried 
out by Santander in this case; it's reasonable to assume they found differences in what had 
happened.
Like Santander, I think it's likely that Mr and Mrs C genuinely don't recognise the payment 
they dispute, but in my view the evidence indicates that it's more likely than not that they did 
make it. It would not therefore be fair to require Santander to make a refund. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't require Santander UK Plc to take any further steps to resolve 
Mr and Mrs C's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman