DRN-3821306
The complaint
The estate of Mr B has complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) 
declined to meet a claim when Mr B passed away.
The estate is represented by the late Mr Bs wife, Mrs L.
What happened
Mr B took out a term assurance policy for a term of 20 years on 1 February 2002. The policy 
expired on 1 February 2022. Very sadly Mr B passed away on 20 February 2022. 
Our investigator didnt find that L&G had done anything wrong in declining the estates claim. 
Mrs L appealed on behalf of the estate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Id like to express my condolences to Mrs L. I recognise that she will be very 
disappointed by my decision but Im not able to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Unfortunately the policy had expired before Mr B passed away. It provided cover for 20 
years but did not extend to provide cover beyond that period  cover ceases on expiry. The 
expiry date is set out on the policy schedule. The policy has no maturity value. It follows that 
I cant say that L&G should have met the claim. 
I understand why Mrs L makes the point that L&G should have alerted Mr B to the fact that 
his policy was expiring soon. It is not obliged to do so but did send a letter to Mr B on 3 
January 2022 advising him that the policy was soon to expire. This was sent to the address 
L&G had on file, which was an old address for him. Mrs L has checked with the occupants of 
this address, but they didnt receive any letter from L&G in 2022.
I dont dispute that the letter wasnt received, but Im satisfied that it was sent. However even 
if Mr B had received the letter, there wasnt an option for him to extend this policy. It follows 
that there is no basis for me to require L&G to pay the claim, or to pay any compensation to 
the estate of Mr B. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman
