DRN-4069410
The complaint
Mr C complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank have charged him 
foreign transaction fees when he shouldnt have been paying for them.
What happened
Mr C says that following a conversation with a supermarkets customer services regarding 
their loyalty scheme, he opened an account with them paying £7.99 a month subscription. 
He says he used the link on their site, and he applied for a Tesco Clubcard credit card under 
the belief that there would be no charges when he used the card abroad. Mr C says for the 
first couple of months from when the account was opened, he used to log online and 
reconcile the entries that appeared on his transaction screen with his monthly statement until 
he was confident they matched, then he just relied on the transaction screen and paid the 
full outstanding balance shown on the payment screen. 
Mr C says he actually downloaded and checked a statement when looking for an entry and 
he discovered that he had accumulated £343.62 in fees, but the transaction screen hadnt 
displayed these fees. Mr C rang Tesco Bank who informed him he needed to open a Tesco 
Clubcard Plus credit card as opposed to the one he had. Mr C became an additional 
cardholder on his wifes Clubcard Plus account, but the card looked identical to his original 
card apart from the 16 digit number. Mr C says he rang Tesco Bank to check it was the 
correct account and wouldnt incur foreign transaction fees but he was passed around 
different departments before being told at the end of a 51 minute call that it was the correct 
credit card. He was offered £25 compensation for this. Mr C made a complaint to Tesco 
Bank.
Tesco Bank said Mr Cs original account does not have the benefit of no foreign transaction 
fees. They provided a weblink to a site where he could apply for an account where no 
foreign transaction fees applied, and they said they did not give him incorrect information on 
the phone. Mr C brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator said shed seen no evidence of Tesco Bank sending Mr C a link to apply for 
the credit card, so she couldnt conclude that Tesco Bank instructed Mr C to use an incorrect 
link or that they caused him to apply for the incorrect card type. She said Mr C was given a 
credit agreement and this explained he would be charged 2.75% of every foreign 
transaction, so Tesco Bank did make him aware of the fees, which shouldve indicated this 
wasnt the card Mr C intended to benefit from. She said Tesco Bank provided the charges in 
the statements for Mr C to view and so she couldnt say they acted incorrectly.
Mr C asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said the calls he had with Tesco Bank demonstrated that the staff who 
administer the accounts clearly dont know the difference between them, so how was he 
supposed to know the difference between them. He said he wanted an account which didnt 
charge foreign transaction fees. Mr C said he wasnt 100% certain an in-store advisor gave 
him the information, but if it was they should be Tesco Personal Finance staff as normal 
supermarket staff would not be trained to give advice on the account. Mr C says that as the 
credit card statements show the same branding, then how was he supposed to know which 
account he actually has. He wanted to know if Tesco Bank had changed the look and feel for 
their website since his application was first made. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Mr Cs complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by him. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
I must make it clear to Mr C that Im only able to focus on the actions of Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank as part of this complaint. I say this because Mr C may 
have spoken to a staff member at a supermarket regarding this credit card. But the 
supermarket is a different entity than Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank, 
and as such, our jurisdiction doesnt cover the potential actions of the supermarket. I can 
confirm to Mr C though that Tesco Bank have confirmed that they are a digital only bank, 
and they dont have any employees in supermarkets. In addition, they have confirmed they 
do not offer advice on financial products, so I cant hold them responsible if Mr C was told 
something by a supermarket employee.
As Mr C wasnt 100% certain if an in-store advisor gave him the information, I asked Tesco 
Bank if Mr C gave them a phone call prior to his application. Tesco Bank confirmed that if he 
had contacted them by telephone, they would have records of the call. They confirmed they 
had searched their telephony system for up to four months prior to Mr Cs application using 
his contact numbers and they couldnt find any calls. They have said it could be possible that 
Mr C may have rung the team responsible for the supermarkets loyalty scheme, but they are 
not part of Tesco Personal Finance PLC (or Tesco Bank). So while its not clear whether Mr 
C was given the link for the credit card he wanted in person or over the phone, Im satisfied 
theres no evidence it was provided by Tesco Personal Finance trading as Tesco Bank. The 
earliest call they could locate with Mr C was 29 June 2021  which was several months after 
Mr C had already opened his credit card.
Ive considered the application journey that Mr C had when applying for the credit card. 
Tesco Bank have confirmed that there hasnt been any significant change to their website 
since March 2021. Theyve said every credit card they provide is branded as a Clubcard 
credit card as their customer can link this to their supermarket loyalty card to earn additional 
points. The type of credit card Mr C wanted with no foreign transaction fees is only available 
through the supermarkets loyalty scheme. 
Mr C would have been required as part of the application process to read the terms and 
conditions and digitally sign his credit agreement. He would also be able to download his 
personalised documents at the end of the application. He could only continue the application 
after he had agreed to each section (such as things you need to know about taking out a 
credit card, a summary of your credit card, general conditions and your credit card 
agreement). 
So Ive looked at Mr Cs credit agreement  which he would have needed to agree with to 
complete his application. Page 13 of 27 confirms that there was a foreign exchange fee of 
2.75% and the Fee applies to all transactions made in a foreign currency. I can see that Mr 
C electronically ticked the box which said he agree(d) to be bound by the terms of this credit agreement and this was done on Monday 22 March 2021 at 19:59pm. So while Mr C may 
have intended to open a credit card with no foreign transaction fees, he agreed to be bound 
to the terms of the credit agreement which did have a foreign transaction fee.
So I do think it was clear the account Mr C applied for had a foreign transaction fee that 
would be charged for all transactions made in a foreign currency. This is also confirmed on 
page 5 where it says for transactions in foreign currencies, we'll charge you 2.75% of the 
value of every transaction, and page 11 in the Foreign Usage section, which shows the 
foreign exchange fee as 2.75% of the transaction. So this was mentioned several times prior 
to Mr C submitting his application. So what I would expect Mr C to do here when he saw 
these charges is to abandon his application and check with Tesco Bank that he was applying 
for the card with no foreign transaction fee, instead of signing to say he wanted to be bound 
by the conditions which included a foreign transaction fee. And as Ive mentioned previously, 
there is no evidence Mr C rung Tesco Bank prior or during his application to query why the 
account had a foreign transaction fee. As such, I cant hold Tesco Bank responsible for Mr C 
opening an account he didnt intend to open.
Ive considered what Mr C has said about Tesco Banks credit card statements showing the 
same branding, so how would he know which account he actually has. His statements were 
issued after he applies for an account, and they would have a unique account number. So 
Mr C would be able to match up his statement to his account to know which account he has. 
In addition to this, Mr Cs statements show for the original account he opened a summary 
box which includes a Foreign Usage section. This section shows the foreign exchange fee 
as 2.75%, which the other account which wouldnt have the foreign transaction fee wouldnt 
show this. So while the branding may be the same at the top of the statement, the 
information on the statement isnt the same. 
Ive considered what Mr C has said about the transactions screen not showing the foreign 
charges. I asked Tesco Bank about this. They told me that the transaction screen is a guide 
to help customers manage their account between statements showing rolling transactions 
and customers should check their monthly statement for a full accurate breakdown of fees. 
As it is a commercial decision for how Tesco Bank operate their online account services, our 
service is not able to tell Tesco Bank what they should display as part of this. What I need to 
be satisfied with is whether Tesco Bank had communicated the charges to Mr C. And Im 
satisfied they had. I say this because not only were they clearly detailed in the credit 
agreement he agreed to be bound by, but also on each statement.
The general conditions of Mr Cs account show that We'll send you a statement in any 
month where you have a balance on your account or there has been any activity on your 
account. This will show the balance on your account on your statement date, any payments 
you've made to us, and any charges we've made since your last statement. So any charges 
such as foreign transaction fees would show on his statement. The general conditions also 
show that they may tell him about any changes to his agreement via his statements, so there 
would be an expectation that Mr C would check each statement. It would be Mr Cs 
responsibility to check his statements when Tesco Bank have notified him they are available 
to view. 
Ive considered what Mr C has said about the phone calls he had with Tesco Bank. They 
have identified seven calls with Mr C in total from 29 June 2021-5 November 2022. Tesco 
Bank no longer have access to the calls from 2021 (two calls in total  29 June and 18 
September 2021), so Im unable to listen to these calls. But Im not persuaded its likely that 
Mr C spoke about the issues he complained about here. I say this because these calls were 
several months after he applied for the account, and if he discussed foreign transaction fees 
here, then its reasonable to assume he wouldnt have continued making foreign transactions 
on his original card if this was discussed on the phone. The first call Ive listened to on 14 April 2022, is relating to a payment clearing on his account 
and is not related to the issues Mr C has raised as part of this complaint. The call on 29 April 
2022 is also unrelated to the issues on this complaint as it was about a payment made to his 
account. The call Mr C has with Tesco Bank on 24 October 2022 is when Mr C tells the call 
handler he has only recently noticed he is being charged foreign transaction fees when he 
believed he shouldnt have been charged them. The call handler confirms that there is 
foreign transaction fees on all of their cards apart from one. He tells Mr C that it doesnt 
appear he has the Clubcard Plus credit card and looks like the standard Clubcard credit card 
he had with them. He tells Mr C how to apply for the card with no foreign transaction fees. 
So Im satisfied that the call handler was clear on this call that Mr C didnt have the credit 
card with no foreign exchange fees and told him how he would need to apply for one 
separately. 
Mr C calls Tesco Bank on 5 November 2022. The beginning of the call recording Tesco 
Bank have provided me starts with a call handler transferring Mr C to a colleague. She tells 
her colleague that Mr C has been transferred four times already. Mr C tells the call handler 
that he spent 36 minutes getting nowhere. This call appears to be after Mr C became an 
additional cardholder on another account, and as the cards looked the same he wanted to 
ensure there was no foreign transaction fee on the new card. The call handler believed there 
was no foreign transaction fee on the card but asked Mr C if he didnt mind waiting on hold 
while she double checked. When the call handler returned she gave Mr C incorrect 
information by saying he shouldnt have been charged the foreign transaction fees on his 
original card for the Clubcard Plus account. But she doesnt appear to realise that Mr Cs 
original account wasnt a Clubcard Plus account.
The call handler says she will definitely check whether it was an account where the fees 
could be removed, as she says it would be unlikely he could apply for another Clubcard Plus 
account if he already had one. She also says she could pay Mr C £25 for the poor customer 
service he had. She said she would give Mr C a call back once she had the information as 
she didnt want to put Mr C on hold again. Ive listened to the call when the call handler calls 
back Mr C. The call handler gives Mr C further incorrect information on this call as she says 
he didnt subscribe to the £7.99 loyalty subscription before he applied for the credit card and 
thats why the system didnt pick it up. She then confirms the fees were applied correctly on 
the original account. She confirms the original card would still charge fees for using it 
abroad, and raises a complaint for Mr C.
So I do think Tesco Bank let Mr C down with the service he had on 5 November 2022. He 
was transferred several times and he was told incorrect information from a call handler. 
While she later told him the correct information, it was clear that she wasnt sure of their 
process, and this came across as confusing when she told Mr C incorrect information then 
correct information (and therefore the information was conflicting). Mr C was offered £25 
compensation on this call for the poor customer service. And I do think its fair that Tesco 
Bank pay Mr C for the inconvenience he had on this date. The £25 is in line with our 
guidelines for the impact of the poor customer service here. So it follows Ill be asking Tesco 
Bank to honour the £25 compensation they offered Mr C if they havent paid it to him 
already.
My final decision
Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank has already made an offer to pay £25 
to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank should pay Mr C 
£25 for inconvenience (if they havent already paid this). But I wont be requiring them to do 
anything further. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman