The complaint
Mrs T complains about Legal & General Assurance Society Limiteds (L&G) decision to turn 
down a claim on her late fathers life assurance policy. L&G said Mr S didnt provide his full 
medical history when he first applied for the policy in 2017. So it rejected the claim, ended 
the policy and returned the premiums paid. 
Mrs T is also disappointed about the service received from L&G. In particular, the time it took 
to consider the claim and that it told her in error the claim would be paid. L&G paid £500 for 
poor customer service.
This complaint has been brought to us by Mr Ss son and daughter, Mrs T and Mr S, on 
behalf of Mr Ss estate. For ease, Ill refer to Mrs T in my decision. 
What happened
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said L&G was fair to say Mr S hadnt 
answered questions in the application about advice on his alcohol intake and his latest blood 
pressure reading correctly. And that L&G was entitled under the law to reject the claim, end 
the policy and return the premiums. Our investigator also thought the £500 paid by L&G was 
a fair reflection of the poor customer service Mrs T had received. 
Mrs T hasnt agreed. She said her father had regular blood pressure checks with his 
occupational health team. And she provided us with some information about those checks 
from Mr Ss employer. Mrs T also said her father had disclosed on the application that he 
drank above the recommended amount of alcohol. So she questioned why L&G had offered 
her father cover. She was also concerned that her fathers memory and moral integrity had 
been tarnished, and that he never intended to mislead L&G  allowing full access to his 
medical records.  
Mrs T maintained it was unacceptable of L&G to have incorrectly told her the claim would be 
paid.  And that the family made financial decisions based on that misinformation.  
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a similar conclusion to the investigator. I realise this will be 
very disappointing for Mrs T and her family and Id like to assure them I havent made this 
decision lightly. In doing so, Ive looked at and considered all the evidence they and L&G has 
DRN-1910458provided us  and Id like to assure them that if I dont mention a particular point, its not 
because I havent considered it, but to focus instead on whats important to the outcome.
In reviewing this case Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding approach to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles and duties of the consumer and insurer when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading), provided 
the insurer has asked a clear question. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions accurately, CIDRA sets out the remedies available to the insurer. 
So the issues for me to consider are whether Mr S made a misrepresentation when taking 
out this policy, and if so, whether L&G has shown it wouldnt have offered the policy at all or 
wouldve done on different terms.
Was there a misrepresentation?
L&G says Mr S didn't answer the following questions correctly when he completed the 
application on 7 July 2017:
Have you ever been told by a health professional that you should reduce the amount 
of alcohol you have because you were drinking too much?" Mr S answered, "No".
 during the last 5 years have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional 
for: raised blood pressure, raised cholesterol or condition affecting blood or blood 
vessels..." Mr S said he suffered from raised blood pressure. 
Mr S was then asked, "How long ago was your blood pressure last checked by your 
doctor or  nurse? " He said, "6 months".
When assessing Mrs Ts claim L&G enquired about the information Mr S provided on his 
application form. This is standard practice when assessing a claim, and I don't think it was 
unreasonable for L&G to make enquiries with Mr Ss family and his GP. And ask for
Mr Ss full medical records. 
I've seen copies of all the medical evidence L&G obtained. The GP's report showed that in 
the past, he'd told his GP he was consuming large amounts of alcohol in a week and had 
been advised to reduce the amount he drank on several occasions. The records also 
showed that in the five years before Mr S applied to L&G, he'd seen his GP for raised blood 
pressure and raised cholesterol. So, whilst Mr S told L&G about his high blood pressure, I 
dont think Mr S took reasonable care to correctly answer the questions on the application 
form relating to these issues.  
Mrs T told L&G Mr S led an active lifestyle, didn't drink excessively, and could've interpreted 
the alcohol question to refer to his situation at the time. Mrs T also pointed to the fact Mr S 
declared on the application that he consumed more than the recommended amount of 
alcohol each week. And so questioned why L&G offered Mr S cover. I've considered what 
Mrs T has said, but I think the question L&G asked on the application around alcohol was 
clearly worded. Mr S was asked if hed "ever" been advised to drink less. I think a 
reasonable person would've remembered being advised several times over a few years 
about their alcohol consumption. So, I still think Mr S answered the alcohol question on the 
application incorrectly. 
I appreciate that Mr S told L&G about his alcohol consumption at the time of the application. 
But that doesnt mean he wasnt expected to answer all questions about his historic alcohol use correctly. Insurers will want a picture of an applicants alcohol use over time in order to 
properly consider any associated risk factors. Furthermore, it is up to each individual insurer 
to decide what information it needs when deciding whether cover should be offered.  
Mr S did disclose that he had high blood pressure. But theres no record in the GP notes of a 
blood pressure reading around January 2017, six months before the application. The last 
recorded reading was in March 2015. Mr S also saw his GP about his raised cholesterol 
around this time.  
Mrs T said Mr Ss blood pressure was regularly checked by his occupational health team. 
And that was why he said on the July 2017 application that his last reading was six months 
ago. She said Mr S was considered fit to work, so his blood pressure mustnt have been a 
concern. I appreciate the points Mrs T has made and I can understand how Mr S couldve 
interpreted an occupational health worker as a doctor or nurse. But the difficulty we have 
here is that while Mrs T has provided some information from Mr Ss employer about checks 
he had with the occupational health team, theres no record of any reading being taken six 
months prior to the application. The only reading L&G knew about was from March 2015 
when Mr S was seen by his GP. So on balance, it would seem more likely than not that Mr S 
answered the question about the date of his last blood pressure reading taken by his doctor 
or nurse incorrectly.  
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied L&G asked clear questions on the application 
and that Mr S didnt answer all questions about his medical history correctly. So he didnt 
take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.
What would L&G have done differently? 
It would be unfair to require an insurer to honour a contract when the terms it agreed to were 
influenced by incorrect information. L&G has said Mr S was careless when he failed to 
answer the above questions correctly. I fully appreciate what Mrs T has said about the 
integrity of Mr S and how he gave permission for his GP records to be accessed, and I dont 
in any way believe he deliberately or recklessly misrepresented his medical history. So, I 
think its appropriate to categorise his actions as careless here.
Where theres been a careless misrepresentation, CIDRA says insurers can look at what 
they wouldve done if questions were answered correctly. 
I can see from L&Gs underwriting criteria that with no recent readings of Mr Ss blood 
pressure and cholesterol levels, it wouldn't have agreed to cover him, but wouldve 
reconsidered its decision in twelve months. Mr S was admitted to hospital with high blood 
pressure and protein in his urine shortly after he submitted the application  so L&G 
wouldve been aware of this when it reconsidered its decision. Based on this, coupled with 
the information about Mr Ss past alcohol consumption and advice, I'm satisfied from the 
information Ive seen that L&G wouldnt have agreed cover for Mr S. 
This has been a very difficult case to review. I fully appreciate how having to deal with the 
claim to L&G, coupled with the sudden passing of Mr S, has made this a very upsetting 
situation for Mrs T and her family. Im also mindful that its approaching the first anniversary 
of Mr Ss death. But taking everything into account, I cant say L&G acted unfairly. It fully 
considered the claim and made its decision in accordance with the relevant law. So, I cant 
ask L&G to pay the claim. 
 
 Customer service 
L&G accepts it made mistakes during its handling of Mrs Ts claim. In particular that it 
wrongly told her the claim would be paid. Mrs T says this caused her and her family financial 
difficulties, because decisions were made on behalf of Mr Ss estate on the understanding 
the claim would be paid. Shes also concerned about how long L&G took to consider the 
claim. 
As our investigator explained to Mrs T, It's important to understand that the estate is 
separate from the executors who represent it. This means I'm limited to looking at how 
L&Gs mishandling of the claim inconvenienced the running of the estate - and can't consider 
how it's affected Mrs T personally.
L&G made a decision on the claim within three months of it being submitted. I can't see any 
evidence of unnecessary delay by L&G. It needed to investigate the claim fully because of 
the concerns it had about the information Mr S disclosed on the application form, and it took 
some time for the medical information it needed to arrive. But that wasnt because of a 
mistake by L&G. 
I can see L&G wrongly told Mrs T on 12 September 2019 the claim would be paid. Then on
19 September 2019 it said the claim was still being considered. L&G has paid Mrs T £500 in 
recognition of its mistake. So I have to consider if thats enough.
Mrs T has mentioned costs incurred in relation to Mr Ss funeral and the sale of his property. 
But Ive not seen any evidence to directly link the misinformation L&G provided to the 
additional costs Mrs T says were incurred. I appreciate the family made decisions on behalf 
of Mr Ss estate around this time. But I dont know for sure is all those decisions were solely 
linked to the running of the estate or wouldve been different if L&G hadnt misled Mrs T 
about the claim being paid - particularly as L&G made Mrs T aware of the correct position a 
week later.   
That said, I fully appreciate how upsetting and frustrating this misinformation was. And 
although L&G confirmed the correct position quickly, it was still a significant mistake. The 
£500 L&G has already paid Mrs T is at the higher end of what a business pays for distress 
and inconvenience, and what Id expect to see paid in similar circumstances to this. And so I 
wont be asking L&G to pay any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman