DRN-4036025
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Financial Administration Services Limited (FAS) has sold one of 
his investment units within his Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) without informing him, 
to cover the monthly charges. Mr P has further complained that, although he transferred 
funds to his SIPP last year from another pension plan, the online portal hadnt updated 
correctly and was still showing as being in progress.
What happened
Mr P transferred funds from another pension plan in June 2021, and this was received by 
FAS on 25 June 2021. But the online portal didnt properly updated since, and still showed 
the transfer as being in progress. 
As of 6 April 2022, due to there being insufficient cash funds within the SIPP to cover the 
monthly charge, FAS sold some of Mr Ps investments  one unit of a particular fund held by 
Mr P  to cover the cost. This completed on 7 April 2022 and FAS issued Mr P a letter the 
next day to confirm this.
Mr P contacted FAS in April 2022 to complain about this, saying that he hadnt been 
informed that his SIPP cash account balance had been low. At the same time, he also raised 
the issue of the transfer not showing as having completed.
FAS responded on 28 April 2022, saying that it was up to its customers to ensure that there 
were enough funds in their accounts to cover any fees which would be charged  and also 
noted that there was an online prompt when fees were due, which suggested that cash be 
added to the account to cover them.
FAS also confirmed that the information on the online portal regarding the transfer was an 
error, as the transfer had successfully completed. But it said that it had escalated this so that 
the tracker could be rectified.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr P referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators considered the matter, but didnt think it should be upheld, saying 
the following in summary:
With regard to the transfer issue, FAS was doing what he would recommend it to do, 
which would be to rectify the matter so that the online portal correctly showed that the 
transfer had completed. He expected that FAS should correct this shortly.
With regard to the sale of the unit in one of Mr Ps funds to cover the management 
charge, he noted that the terms of the plan said the following under the heading 
Managing your accounts, how are the charges I pay taken from my account?
We will take all the fees and charges you pay from cash within your account. Where 
there is insufficient cash available within your account to pay any charges, we will 
make up the difference by selling some of your investments when a fee is due. We 
will normally start with the largest investment in your account
He therefore thought that FAS had adhered to the terms in selling part of Mr Ps 
investment to cover the management charge.
Mr P replied, saying that the online portal still showed that his transfer was in progress, 
rather than having completed. As such, he requested that the complaint be escalated as it 
seemed that no action was being taken regarding this.
The investigator said that hed already considered this aspect and that all he could do was 
direct FAS to correct the matter.
But Mr P said that, as his complaint hadnt been resolved, he still wished it to be escalated. 
As such, it was referred to me for review. 
At my request, the investigator enquired of FAS as to whether the online portal issue had 
now been resolved. Its said that is hasnt, but that it will be looked at by its technology 
team. It added that, as it this was value-added tool which had no financial impact on 
clients, it wasnt considered a high priority.
Although FAS accepted that the error would be frustrating to Mr P, as he was aware that that 
the transfer had completed, the impact to him was minimal. It said that it was currently 
exploring options such as a manual correction, but it was unable to confirm whether this was 
possible, or how long it would take.
I issued a provisional decision on the matter on 16 March 2023, in which I set out my 
reasons for upholding the complaint. The following is an extract from that decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached similar conclusions to the investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons, but with one important difference, as I set out below.
Firstly, I agree with the investigator that FAS seems to have been acting in line with the 
plans terms and conditions in selling part of Mr Ps investment fund to pay for the 
management charge, given that there was insufficient cash to cover it. 
And I note that Mr Ps remaining concern following the investigators assessment of the 
matter focusses on the online portal issue. And I can understand Mr Ps frustration at this. 
Despite assurances from FAS that the transfer has completed, I think it would nevertheless 
be quite disconcerting to see that the online portal still said that it was in progress.
And as the transfer occurred in June 2021, FAS has now had over a year and half to ensure 
that the online portal showed the correct information. Mr P raised the matter as a complaint 
in April 2022, and this was nearly a year ago.
FAS considers this to be of minimal impact to Mr P, as hes aware that the transfer 
completed, and that such fixes werent considered to be a high priority. But from a customer 
service perspective, I can understand why Mr P would think this wasnt good enough, and as 
Ive said above, despite reassurances that the transfer has completed, I still think it would be 
understandably quite concerning for Mr P to not be able to see this on the online portal.Theres also the regulatory requirement for FAS to communicate with Mr P in a manner 
which is clear, fair and not misleading.
FAS may consider the fix to not be a high priority, but given the amount of time which has 
elapsed since Mr P brought this to its attention, I think the impact on Mr P will have been 
more than minimal. And if, as has been suggested, it requires a manual fix to correct Mr Ps 
account, I would recommend that FAS does this without delay. 
I cant require FAS to change its processes, or the priority it attributes to such matters, but I 
can direct it to compensate Mr P for the inconvenience and concern the matter will inevitably 
have caused him. As such, and given the length of time this has now been ongoing, I 
consider that FAS should pay Mr P £100.
In response, Mr P accepted the provisional decision, but queried whether the error was in 
breach of the plans terms and conditions.
FAS said the following in response:
It didnt agree that Mr P was concerned about the transfer, as he was already aware 
that it had completed on 26 June 2021, and hed placed an instruction to invest the 
cash the next day.
Mr P had also said that he was aware the transfer had completed and that hed 
invested his money when he raised his complaint. He was aware that there was no 
financial impact to him, and he was only complaining about the incorrect information 
on FASs website.
FAS had confirmed that it was a technical error in its final response letter of 28 April 
2022.
As Mr P was aware that the transfer had completed, there was no need for him to 
view the track your transfer page. That page wasnt prominent when a client logged 
into their account, as they would need to need to select manage investments from 
the initial screen, and then select track your transfer.
Mr P was neither concerned, nor inconvenienced, by the incorrect information 
regarding the status of the transfer.
FAS didnt think that the recommended £100 payment was justified, given that it had 
apologised and had raised the issue to be corrected. Whist the time taken to fix it 
wasnt ideal, it noted that I had said in the provisional decision that I couldnt require 
FAS to change its processes or the priority it attributed to such matters.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
FAS has noted my comments in the provisional decision that this service cant require it to 
change its processes or the priority it might attribute to correcting a clear error on its online 
portal.
And in that sense, it does remain the case that if FAS is prepared for an error which first 
occurred in June 2021 and was complained about by Mr P in April 2022 to remain 
unresolved in March 2023, then its entitled to do so.But I remain of the view that this is poor customer service. And whilst Ive noted what FAS 
has said about Mr P being neither concerned nor inconvenienced by the error, I dont think 
its for FAS to decide whether or not this is the case. Clearly, Mr P is still concerned about it.
And so its the role of this service to determine whether that has had, or is reasonably likely 
to have had, an impact on Mr P.
And in thinking further about this, Mr P may be aware that the transfer has completed, but 
its one thing for either FAS or this service to reassure Mr P that the transfer has completed 
and that the money has been invested as instructed, but the lack of confirmation on the  
albeit I accept, dedicated  page of the portal which relates to transfers is still going to 
understandably cause Mr P some disquiet. And until thats resolved, I think it will continue to 
do so.
Further, the length of time for which this has now been unresolved would in my view quite 
justifiably also cause concern to Mr P both in terms of the importance FAS attributes to its 
levels of customer service, which will have ramifications for his confidence in its ability to 
administer his plan, and also how seriously it treats customer concerns when raised.
My understanding is that the investigator has already conveyed to Mr P my response to his 
query about the possible breach of the plans terms and conditions, and that I consider it 
unlikely that there will be a term which will specifically address this issue.
But it does remain the case, as I set out in the provisional decision, that FAS has a 
regulatory obligation to communicate with its customers in a manner which is clear, fair, and 
not misleading. And where communication errors are identified, I think its likely that the 
regulator would expect these to be promptly corrected.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out in this and my provisional decision, my view remains that Financial 
Administration Services Limited should pay Mr P £100.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Financial Administration Services 
Limited to pay Mr P £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman