DRN-4231075
The complaint
Mr D complains that Aviva Health UK Limited declined his claim against his private medical 
insurance policy. Mr C is assisting Mr D in bringing the complaint. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr D has the benefit of private medical insurance underwritten 
by Aviva. His cover is on a continued personal medical exclusions basis, which means 
that Aviva agreed to continue Mr Ds previous cover without the need for fresh 
underwriting, so pre-existing conditions are covered to the extent they were previously 
covered or disregarded altogether. The certificate shows that there are no medical 
exclusions specific to Mr D.
I understand that in 1981, Mr D was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes and that he was first 
referred for treatment for wet macular degeneration in 2017. Mr D says that hes had 
injection treatment for wet macular degeneration in 2017 and 2020. On both occasions, 
the treatment was covered by previous insurers. 
In mid to late November 2022, Mr D suffered a bleed in his left eye. On                           
3 December 2022, he saw a consultant ophthalmologist in a private clinic. I understand 
that the consultant recommended an injection for wet macular degeneration. On             
6 December 2022, Mr D made a claim against his policy for the injection treatment which 
he was due to have on 9 December 2022. 
Aviva declined Mr Ds claim. It said that the injection treatment was for a chronic 
condition and excluded from cover. Aviva said that its policy is to authorise a claim for 
injection therapy for wet macular degeneration only once for a maximum of four months 
but only if it is a newly diagnosed condition. As Mr D has previously had an injection for 
this condition, cover isnt provided. I understand that Mr D had the injection treatment in 
February 2023.  
Mr D didnt think that Avivas decision to decline his claim was fair and pursued his 
complaint. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Aviva had 
acted unfairly in declining Mr Ds claim. The investigator thought that Aviva declined the 
claim in line with the policy terms, which provide that chronic conditions arent covered 
by the policy. 
Mr D didnt agree with the investigator and responded to say, in summary:
Hes had type 1 diabetes since 1981 and all of his private medical insurers have 
covered his chronic illness. Whenever he has switched provider, hes made it 
clear that he wants continued cover for his chronic illness. He doesnt expect 
Aviva to cover regular routine issues associated with type 1 diabetes but does 
expect cover for flare-ups of the condition. He believes that his claim here is for a 
flare-up. 
He asked who told the investigator that the flare-ups happen often and queried 
the definition of often.
His recent treatment for the flare-up was in February 2023 and his previous 
treatment was in October 2020. So, he doesnt need regular consultations about 
this. 
Aviva told him that its policy was to cover the first two injections only. This is a 
flare-up and not a routine procedure.
His previous insurer covered the cost of treatment in October 2020, and it had 
very similar policy wording to Aviva. 
The investigator considered what Mr D said but didnt change her view. Mr D asked that 
an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy. The policy covers eligible 
treatment of acute conditions and doesnt cover chronic conditions. The policy says:
Exclusions
[]
6. Chronic conditions  []
We do not cover treatment of a chronic condition including:
Regular planned check ups for a chronic condition where a member is likely to need 
treatment
Expected deterioration of a chronic condition which needs regular consultations, 
diagnostic tests or treatment from a specialist. 
BUT
We do cover unexpected acute flare-ups of a chronic condition until the members 
condition is restabilised []
An acute condition is defined as a disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quicky 
to treatment which aims to return a member to the state of health they were in immediately 
before suffering from it, or which leads to their full recovery.
A chronic condition is defined as a disease, illness or injury that has one or more of the 
following characteristics:
-it needs ongoing long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-ups 
and/or tests-it needs ongoing or long term control or relief of symptoms
-it requires a members rehabilitation or for them to be specifically trained to cope with it
-it continues indefinitely
-it has no known cure
-it comes back or is likely to come back.
has Aviva acted unfairly or unreasonably?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I dont uphold Mr Ds 
complaint because I dont think that Aviva treated him unfairly or unreasonably. I say that 
because:   
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy 
the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
Theres very little medical evidence in this case. Its common ground that Mr Ds 
wet macular degeneration is related to his type 1 diabetes. I havent seen a letter 
from the consultant setting out exactly what treatment was recommended in late 
2022 for Mr Ds wet macular degeneration and why. Ive proceeded on the basis 
that Mr Ds claim was for injection treatment for wet macular degeneration.  
Ive set out above the policys definition of a chronic condition. Avivas notes show 
that it referred Mr Ds request for treatment to its clinical team, which is what wed 
expect it to do. The clinical team said that wet macular degeneration is a chronic 
condition. I dont think that Aviva acted unfairly or unreasonably in coming to that 
conclusion. Thats because wet macular degeneration continues indefinitely and  
has no known cure. 
The policy covers unexpected acute flare-ups of a chronic condition. Aviva says  
that wet macular degeneration is caused by abnormal blood vessels that can bleed 
and suggests that any bleed is expected for this condition, not an unexpected 
acute flare-up. Ive seen no medical evidence which suggests that Mr Ds symptom 
which led to the claim  a bleed in his eye - was an unexpected flare-up of his wet 
macular degeneration. Theres no cover for expected deterioration of a chronic 
condition. I dont think that Aviva acted unfairly or unreasonably in deciding that 
what Mr D required treatment for here wasnt an unexpected acute flare-up of a 
chronic condition. 
Mr D queries the investigators reference to frequent flare-ups. When Mr D first 
contacted this service in February 2023, he explained that hed had a flare-up of a 
chronic condition and that these happen often. I accept what Mr D now says about 
the frequency of his injection therapy for wet macular degeneration and that his 
previous treatments covered by other insurers were in 2017 and October 2020. I 
dont think that alters the outcome here.      Aviva has explained that it will provide cover for injection therapy for wet macular 
degeneration once only, for a maximum of four months but only if it is a newly 
diagnosed condition. Mr D was first referred for treatment for wet macular 
degeneration in 2017, so this is not a newly diagnosed condition. I dont think that 
Aviva is at fault in declining cover for injection treatment in this case.   
I cant comment on decisions by Mr Ds previous insurers, as its not part of this 
complaint against Aviva and I havent seen the terms and conditions of the 
previous cover or the circumstances of those claims.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr D but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that 
Aviva acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining his claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman