DRN-2338638
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car he obtained through a hire agreement with 
Santander Consumer (UK) plc, trading as Volvo Car Financial Services (Volvo Financial 
Services) is not of satisfactory quality. He wants Volvo Financial Services to accept his 
rejection of the car.
What happened
Mr S obtained a new car using a hire agreement with Volvo Financial Services in May 2019.
Within a week, he reported that there was a clicking sound whenever he used the air 
conditioning.
He says he returned the car to the supplying garage for repair, but this failed. A few weeks 
later the supplying garage agreed to attempt a second repair which involved removing the 
dashboard. This also failed and Mr S says the garage scratched the interior of the car. The 
car was booked in again for a replacement heating, ventilation and air conditioning unit 
(hvac), but the appointment was cancelled because the part wasnt available.
Mr S complained to Volvo Financial Services who re-booked the car in for the replacement 
hvac, but Mr S said he wanted to reject the car.
Volvo Financial Services said that, because the noise was intermittent, the supplying garage 
hadnt been able to replicate it and it hadnt found a fault. The manufacturer had suggested 
replacing the hvac unit and Volvo Financial Services offered to do this free of charge.
Our investigator thought this was a fair and reasonable offer because the noise hadnt 
affected Mr Ss use of the car. He also thought Volvo Financial Services should pay Mr S 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Volvo Financial Services agreed.
Mr S did not agree with our investigators conclusions. He said, in summary, that:
The garage attempted repairs on three occasions so he now has a right, under the 
Consumer Rights Act, to reject the car.
It shouldnt make a difference whether the fault is large or small. The car was new and of 
high value.
The supplying garage agreed, on numerous occasions, that the fault was present.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The hire agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this service can 
consider complaints relating to it. Volvo Financial Services is the supplier of goods under this 
agreement and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term that the 
quality of goods is satisfactory. As such, in order to uphold this complaint I would have to be 
persuaded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a breach of contract has taken 
place.
In deciding whether a car is of satisfactory quality, some of the factors to consider are its age 
and mileage when it was supplied, and how long after supply the fault/s materialised. 
The car in this case was brand new and I think its reasonable for Mr S to expect it to be fault 
free. He reported the air conditioning noise within in a few days of obtaining the car, so it 
seems to me that the noise must have been present when the car was supplied. But I need 
to decide if this noise means the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. The car was still driveable, 
and Mr S hasnt reported that the air conditioning system didnt work, just that it made a 
noise.
Volvo Financial Services told us that the supplying garage could not replicate the clicking 
noise Mr S reported. But it seems that is because the noise is intermittent. When Volvo 
Financial Services contacted the supplying garage to discuss what had happened the 
supplying garage said it couldnt find a fault, but it acknowledged there was a clicking noise. 
And when the supplying garage referred this to the manufacturer, it suggested replacing the 
hvac. So although the supplying garage hasnt been able to find a fault  it doesnt know why 
there is a clicking noise - its clear that the noise shouldnt be present.
As noted above, I think a brand-new car should reasonably be fault free and Im persuaded 
that this car must have an underlying fault which is causing the noise. So, on balance, I dont 
think the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
But it doesnt automatically follow that Volvo Financial Services is obliged to accept Mr Ss 
rejection of the car. Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, a consumer has the right to reject 
goods that arent of satisfactory quality within 30 days. But Ive not seen evidence to show 
that Mr S did reject the car in this period. He accepted that Volvo Financial Services could 
carry out a repair.
After 30 days, Mr S still has the right to reject the car, but only if:
There has already been one repair or replacement and there is still a problem.
Repair or replacement is impossible or disproportionate; or
The consumer has asked for a repair or replacement but the dealer/garage hasnt done 
so in a reasonable time and without significant inconvenience to the consumer. 
Ive considered each of these carefully.
Has there already been a repair or replacement?Mr S says hes gave the garage three opportunities to repair the car and these were 
unsuccessful. Volvo Financial Services has confirmed the car was with the garage on three 
occasions but that job cards arent available so it cant say whether any repairs were 
attempted. It seems that on the first visit the fan was removed and put back and on the 
second visit the dashboard was removed. But I think that is consistent with the garage trying 
to identify the reason for the noise rather than the garage actually replacing any parts or 
carrying out any repairs. Having been unable to find the reason, it sought advice from the 
manufacturer who recommended replacing the hvac unit. But it hasnt had the opportunity to 
do this.
Is repair or replacement impossible or disproportionate?
The manufacturer has advised replacing the hvac unit. So it seems a repair or replacement 
is possible. And, overall this seems to be a proportionate resolution. I say this taking into 
account that the noise reported by Mr S is intermittent and, whilst I dont underestimate how 
this has affected his enjoyment of the car, it has not affected any of the cars functionality.
Has the supplying garage taken too long to carry out a repair and has Mr S been significantly 
inconvenienced?
Mr S first reported the noise around a week after he obtained the car. And the garage was 
able to investigate shortly after that  on 21 May. And it looked at the car again on 11 June 
when Mr S told it the noise hadnt gone away. It ordered a new hvac unit but in the meantime 
Mr S complained to Volvo Financial Services. After investigating his complaint, Volvo 
Financial Services booked Mr Ss car into the supplying garage to have the new hvac fitted. 
But there does seem to have been a misunderstanding between the supplying garage and 
Volvo Financial Services because when Mr S took his car to the garage, the garage had 
returned the replacement unit to the manufacturer.
I fully understand why Mr S was so frustrated  after complaining he was told to take his car 
to the garage for repair and, when he did, the garage didnt have the required part. But I 
dont find that this amounted to significant inconvenience.
Overall, I think replacing the hvac is a fair and proportionate resolution here.
Volvo Financial Services said that, if Mr S still reports the noise after the new hvac is fitted, it 
will arrange an independent inspection to carry out intensive road tests to see if the issue 
can be replicated. To provide Mr S with some peace of mind, I think it would be fair for an 
inspection to take place after the new hvac is fitted and before the car is returned to Mr S. If 
the independent inspection concludes the noise is still present then I would expect Volvo 
Financial Services to accept Mr Ss rejection of the car.
Our investigator recommended Volvo Financial Services pay Mr S £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience hes been caused. I consider this to be fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander Consumer (UK) plc, trading as Volvo Car Financial 
Services should:
1. Pay for the cost of supplying and fitting a new hvac unit.
2. Arrange for an independent inspection after the new hvac unit has been fitted to 
evidence that there is no clicking noise when the air conditioning is in use.3. Pay Mr S £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman