DRN-4413951
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is that, because of delays by more 2 life Ltd trading as Standard Life Home 
Finance (and referred to her as SLHF) and its solicitors, his mortgage offer lapsed. When 
SLHF issued a new offer, it was at a higher rate of interest. To settle the complaint Mr B 
wants SLHF to honour the original interest rate.
What happened
I do not need to set out the full background to the complaint. This is because the history of 
the matter is set out in the correspondence between the parties and our service, so there is 
no need for me to repeat the details here. In addition, our decisions are published, so its 
important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr B being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention 
something, it wont be because Ive ignored it; rather, itll be because I didnt think it was 
material to the outcome of the complaint.
Briefly, Mr B had an equity release lifetime mortgage with a lender I will call J. In 2022 Mr B 
decided to take out a new mortgage with SLHF and redeem the mortgage to J, after taking 
advice from his own independent financial adviser (IFA). A mortgage offer was issued and, 
as is standard industry practice, Mr B had his own solicitors acting for him (M&M) and SLHF 
had its own solicitors, (RA). 
A mortgage offer was issued on 15 March 2022 for an amount of £240,000 at an interest 
rate of 3.35%. The offer was valid for 42 days from that date. Initially the mortgage offer was 
issued to the solicitors Mr Bs IFA had stated on the application form would be acting for 
Mr B. This was quickly corrected, with the instructions sent to M&M on 16 March 2022.
M&M reported to RA that the title to the property was on the Sasine Register, which is an 
archaic paper-based system involving historic documents. Because conveyancing in the 
21st century is electronic, it was necessary for M&M to arrange for the property to be 
registered on the Land Register before the security (the mortgage) could be put in place. 
This, of course, would add to the time needed to complete the transaction. 
The mortgage offer, which was due to expire on 26 April 2022, was extended by SLHF to 
9 June 2022. SLHF explained to RA, M&M and Mr Bs IFA that if the mortgage didnt 
complete by that date, a new offer would be issued at the prevailing rate of interest.
The issues with the property registration were resolved and on 19 May 2022 M&M advised 
RA that Mr B would be attending an appointment to sign all the documents on 27 May 2022. 
On 24 May 2022 RA requested a redemption statement from J and the letter said that this 
was needed for a completion date of 7 June 2022. This was chased on 6 June 2022 and 
again on 10 June 2022. 
M&M posted documents to RA on 30 May 2022, which werent received until 7 June 2022 
(due to Bank Holidays on 2 and 3 June 2022 and the weekend that followed). 
The redemption statement was received on 16 June 2022, showing a shortfall of £55,000. 
Mr B had confirmed that he still wanted to go ahead, although SLHF had confirmed this 
would be on a new mortgage offer, as the previous offer had now lapsed. 
Mr B raised his complaint with SLHF on 14 June 2022. A new mortgage offer was issued, 
and although Mr B had since had a birthday and so could have borrowed more money, he 
decided to go ahead with the original sum of £240,000. A new mortgage offer was issued on 
23 June 2022 at an interest rate of 4.12%. The mortgage offer was valid for 26 days from 
that date  which is 42 days from the date the previous offer expired on 9 June 2022  and 
so would expire on 19 July 2022.
RA had contacted M&M over the shortfall on 16 June 2022 but M&M didnt reply until 
30 June 2022 asking questions about the process for paying the shortfall. The new mortgage 
offer had still not been accepted at this point. It wasnt until 14 July 2022 that completion 
finally took place.
In its final response letter dated 5 August 2022 SLHF didnt uphold the complaint. After going 
through the timeline of events, SLHF explained that it didnt believe the delays were as a 
result of anything it had, or had not, done. 
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr B escalated his complaint to our service. Mr B said that 
his legal team had been ready to complete on 7 June 2022 and that the only reason it didnt 
is because RA failed to obtain the redemption statement in time.
An investigator looked at what had happened. However, the investigator didnt think SLHF or 
RA were at fault. Rather, he was satisfied that the delays in the transaction were due to the 
actions of third parties, which were outside the control of SLHF. 
Mr B disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
Hes reiterated the points hes previously made about the time taken to complete the 
transaction and why he considers this to be the fault of SLHF and RA.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for broadly the 
same reasons.
The crux of the complaint is that Mr B says that SLHF is at fault for not requesting the 
redemption statement in time. However, the timeline of events doesnt persuade me that 
SLHF is to blame for this.
This was not a straightforward transaction, due to the need to transfer the property from the 
Sasine Register to the Land Register in order to ensure that there was appropriate security 
for the mortgage, in line with modern conveyancing practice. Thats not something for which 
I can hold SLHF responsible.
I would not expect RA to have requested the redemption statement until after it had received 
confirmation from M&M on 24 May 2022 that Mr B was ready to sign the legal charge. This is 
not, as Mr B suggests, a mere detail. Before being able to request the mortgage funds from 
SLHF, RA would have needed to ensure Mr B was ready to complete the mortgage. There is 
no Scottish equivalent of an English equitable charge (where a lender can register its 
interest on the property title even if the mortgage deed hasnt been signed signed). Therefore it was correct for RA to ensure that Mr B was ready to sign the documents before 
proceeding any further.
The documents RA required were not received by it until 7 June 2022, even though theyd 
been posted by M&M on 30 May 2022. I note 2-5 June inclusive were either Bank Holidays 
or weekend days, when RA would not be open.
Im satisfied that SLHF requested the redemption statement on 24 May 2022, and that the 
letter (that was faxed to J) states in bold type that this is required by 7 June 2022. I dont 
know why J didnt respond to that request, or to the chaser on 6 June 2022 and the 
subsequent chaser on 10 June 2022. Thats something Mr B will need to raise with J, as that 
business is not a party to this complaint.
I appreciate how frustrating it must have been for Mr B that completion didnt take place 
before the mortgage offer expired. Im satisfied SLHF was entitled to issue another offer at 
the prevailing interest rate, and that it had explained this in advance to M&M and Mr Bs IFA 
when the extension to the original offer was issued. If either of those parties didnt make this 
clear to Mr B, thats something hell need to discuss with M&M and his IFA.
In all the circumstances, after reviewing the timeline of events, Im not persuaded that SLHF 
is at fault.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman