DRN-1161589
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy with how Nationwide Building Society handled her mortgage application.
What happened
Miss W first took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 2015. 
In September 2018 she applied for some additional borrowing with Nationwide and at the 
same time applied to switch her existing mortgage onto a new interest rate.
On 28 September 2018 Nationwide sent Miss W a product switch offer for a new fixed 
interest rate on her existing mortgage. The offer confirmed that a £999 product fee was 
payable in respect of this interest rate deal.  Nationwide has said this new rate took effect 
from November 2018.
A valuation was carried out as part of the application for the further advance. The valuer 
raised queries about the construction of the building and advised that a specialist report 
should be obtained.
Nationwide informed Miss W of the need for this report in October 2018. Its records show a 
response was provided a few days later but this didnt contain all of the information that was 
required. As a result, another report was requested.
The requested report was provided to Nationwide in February 2019. A mortgage offer for the 
additional borrowing was then sent to Miss W on 18 February 2019 with the funds being 
released on 27 February 2019. The mortgage offer indicated there were no additional 
product fees for this advance.
Miss W complained to Nationwide about how she had been treated. She was unhappy with 
the delay and felt Nationwide, particularly her mortgage adviser, hadnt done enough to 
contact her or keep her updated. She also said it had left her thinking that her home might 
be repossessed causing her significant distress. And Miss W added that there had been a 
mistake setting up her direct debit after the rate switch which had meant shed had to make 
a manual payment in order to avoid the payment being missed.
Nationwide said that it hadnt done anything wrong by requesting the specialist report. And it 
said the delay to the application while this was obtained wasnt its fault. It said that once the 
application was progressed past a certain stage it was no longer the advisers responsibility 
to provide updates as the application was then dealt with by another department. And it felt it 
had been clear that the application couldnt go further without this specialist report. However, 
it acknowledged that its communication with Miss W had at times been poor and that there 
had been a mistake setting up her direct debit. As a result, it paid her a total of £275 for the 
upset caused. 
Unhappy with this response Miss W asked our service to look into her complaint. She said 
she didnt think the offer was fair. She said that shed had to initiate contact with Nationwide 
most of the time and its communication with her had been poor. She said that each time she 
spoke to Nationwide about this was time consuming and stressful and the stress of the 
whole situation contributed to her having to take time off work. She said Nationwide hadnt 
been clear that the rate switch was unaffected by the valuation delay and she only found this 
out in 2019. She also said Nationwide staff shed spoken to had been obstructive and 
unreasonable. And she felt the complaint had also been handled poorly. So, she felt as a 
minimum the administrative fees shed paid as part of the application should be refunded as 
she felt Nationwide hadnt done anything to warrant charging them.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. He understood the administrative fee Miss W was 
referring to be the product fee for the rate switch. And he didnt think this had been applied 
unfairly as it formed part of the deal that Miss W had applied for. He also didnt think 
Nationwide had caused the delays to the application for the further advance, as these were 
down to awaiting the required specialist report. And he didnt think Nationwide was wrong to 
ask for the report, as it was acting on the expert opinion of the valuer.
The investigator did think that Nationwide couldve given Miss W clearer information 
throughout and couldve done more when communicating with her. He noted that the 
information hed reviewed supported Miss Ws argument that shed regularly needed to 
contact Nationwide for updates. And he felt Nationwide couldve done more earlier to 
alleviate her concerns by being clearer that her product switch hadnt been affected by the 
valuation issues. As a result, he felt that total compensation of £400 would be fair to address 
the upset caused so said Nationwide should pay an additional £125 on top of the £275 
already paid.
Nationwide agreed to the investigators opinion and confirmed it was willing to pay an 
additional £125.
Miss W did not agree with the investigators opinion and still felt the redress offered was not 
fair. She also said that £75 of the redress previously paid was for an unrelated matter so 
shouldnt be included in the total figure in relation to this complaint.
As Miss W did not agree with the investigators opinion the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In terms of the rate switch on the existing mortgage, this appears to have gone ahead as 
scheduled. A mortgage offer in relation to this was issued in September 2018 and the rate 
went live in November 2018. So there doesnt appear to have been a delay in this 
application.
Miss W says Nationwide was never clear with her that this would not be affected by the 
issues with the valuation and as a result she was left fearing her property would be 
repossessed. And having reviewed the notes of some of the conversations Miss W had with 
Nationwide, as well as having listened to some of the calls she also had with it, I do think 
Nationwide couldve been clearer earlier that the rate switch was being considered 
separately. 
But, having listened to a call Miss W had with Nationwide on 31 October 2018, I note it was 
indicated at that time that the rate switch would be going ahead and would not be affected by 
the valuation. And this was confirmed in a call she had with Nationwide on 28 November 2018  when a direct debit was set up to pay the new monthly amount due following the rate 
switch, following an earlier error by Nationwide in setting this up. 
I also havent seen anything to suggest that Nationwide indicated at any stage that either 
application being unsuccessful would result in Miss Ws property being repossessed. While 
Miss W was applying for a new rate to coincide with the end of her existing interest rate deal, 
the mortgage account itself was not due to expire. There was still a significant amount of the 
mortgage term left. And I havent seen anything to indicate that Nationwide suggested it 
would be looking to terminate that agreement early. 
So, while I certainly think Nationwide couldve been clearer earlier that the rate switch was 
being handled separately to the further advance, I dont agree that Miss W wasnt made 
aware of this until 2019. And I dont think it indicated that the existing mortgage was 
potentially going to be cancelled. 
Nationwide did make an error in setting up Miss Ws direct debit payment after this rate 
switch was completed. And the person that made this error subsequently moved roles, 
causing further uncertainty. This was acknowledged in the call it had with Miss W in 
November 2018 and resulted in her having to make a manual payment. Fortunately, this 
didnt result in a missed payment or a financial loss. But I dont doubt that this was 
inconvenient for Miss W or that the uncertainty was distressing.
Turning to the application for the further advance, I can see this was delayed. The 
application was also made in September 2018 but, whereas the rate switch on the existing 
mortgage was completed by November 2018, the further advance wasnt released until 
February 2019. But based on everything Ive seen I dont think Nationwide was the cause of 
this delay.
Nationwide instructed a valuation by a third-party company  suitably qualified in the relevant 
field. The third-party expert noted an issue with the property that it said would require a 
specialist report. I can see from the correspondence Miss W had with Nationwide that she 
was unhappy with the valuer. But I dont think Nationwide did anything wrong by relying on 
the opinion of the third-party expert, in this case. So, I dont think it was wrong to follow their 
suggestion and request the relevant report before proceeding.
I can see that Miss W had issues getting the relevant report. And I understand there was 
some resistance from the relevant external parties that needed to commission it. But I dont 
think Nationwide did anything to cause this. And I still think it was fair of it to ask for the 
report. Miss W has said that Nationwide wasnt clear about what the report needed to 
include. But it was being led by the expert valuer in requesting this. And from the information 
Ive seen it appears to have shared the information available to it with Miss W about what 
needed to be included.
Once the report was provided, the further advance application appears to have moved 
forward quickly, and the funds were released soon afterwards. So overall, I dont think 
Nationwide handled the application for the further advance incorrectly.
Again though, much like with the rate switch application, the communication with Miss W and 
the customer service provided by Nationwide could have been better.Nationwide acknowledged in its responses to Miss Ws complaint that there had been 
confusion internally, between its complaints and mortgage application departments, over 
which department should have been responding at certain times. It also acknowledged that 
notes of some of the correspondence Miss W had with it were recorded on one if its systems 
that not all of its staff had access to. Having listened to recordings of the available phone 
calls between Miss W and Nationwide I can see that this meant call handlers werent aware 
of some of the previous interactions. And I think the information available does indicate that 
Miss W was initiating contact seeking an update on most occasions  which wouldve been 
inconvenient.
Miss W has said she had difficulty extending the expiration date of the further advance offer, 
while awaiting the specialist report for the valuer. While this does appear to have eventually 
been extended  as evidenced by the offer noting no further fees  I think the information 
available does indicate that she initially had difficulty getting this agreed, which I agree 
wouldve been upsetting given that the delay in obtaining the report was also largely out of 
her control. And in Nationwides response it said, due to a lack of available information, it 
didnt dispute that Miss W mightve had trouble with this.
So, while I dont think Nationwide handled the applications incorrectly, I think the way it 
communicated with Miss W and the customer service it provided likely caused her distress. 
Mortgage applications naturally come with a degree of stress, given the significance of the 
transaction involved. And much of the stress Miss W experienced was due to the delay in 
obtaining the specialist report  which while outside of her control was also outside of 
Nationwides. But I do think Nationwides actions here unnecessarily added to the distress 
she experienced. So, Ive thought about what a fair way to address this is.
I know Miss W feels strongly about this matter and may be disappointed. But having 
considered everything, I think the total amount of £400 suggested by the investigator (some 
of which has already been paid) is a fair way to resolve this complaint and address the 
distress caused by Nationwide.
 
Miss W has said she feels the administrative fees charged should be refunded  which I 
understand to be the £999 product fee charged. I dont think it would be fair to require 
Nationwide to refund this fee. As Ive said, I dont think Nationwide actually handled the 
application incorrectly. And the fee formed part of the application made and wouldve still 
been due if the delays, which were outside of Nationwides control, hadnt happened. 
Miss W has said that £75 of the £275 already paid by Nationwide was for an unrelated 
matter. But having reviewed the letter in which this was offered I dont agree. Nationwide 
explained this was in recognition of concerns Miss W had raised about the communication, 
and lack of updates, shed had from Nationwide. So, I think this was intended to address the 
complaint Ive considered.
So, to resolve this complaint I think itd fair for Nationwide to pay a further £125, on top of the 
£275 already paid before the complaint was brought to us, to address the distress caused. My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold Miss Ws complaint in part.
To put things right Nationwide Building Society, if it hasnt already done so following our 
investigators opinion, should pay Miss W £125.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman