DRN-2051413
The complaint
Mr G complains that a van he got through a Conditional Sale Agreement with Close Brothers 
Limited (CBL) wasn't fit for purpose. He would like the van either repaired or a refund of his 
costs.
What happened
Mr G says he took out a Conditional Sale Agreement with CBL on 27 June 2018 for a van. 
Four months later he says the van wasn't running correctly. So, he contacted the dealership 
who advised him to get the van inspected which he did at a cost of £40. He says this report 
confirmed that either the van needed an engine rebuild or new engine.
Mr G says the dealership didnt accept this report and asked for another one which Mr G 
arranged at a cost of £85.  He says the diagnosis was similar with the head gasket being 
identified as the problem with removal and inspection being required. 
He says at this point the dealership only agreed to cover £1,000 of the repair cost as this 
was the maximum amount covered by the warranty. He added that  CBL commissioned an 
independent report. This concluded that the fault would have been present at the point of 
sale. But Mr G says CBL will only honour half of the repair costs.
CBL said it accepted there  a fault present at the point of sale had been identified. But said 
that Mr G contributed to the problem by continuing to drive the van when he should have 
stopped as soon as it was safe to do so. As a result, the amount of repair work needed was 
increased. It felt the dealership's offer to pay half of the repairs not covered by the warranty 
was fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision in which I concluded:-
-there was no dispute  that the problem with the head gasket leakage was present or 
developing at the point of sale. The independent report CBL arranged confirmed that 
and all parties  have accepted that.
-The main issue was whether Mr G contributed to the damage by driving the van after 
the problem arose.  The independent report commissioned by CBL , and subsequent  
information supplied by inspector , made it clear that there would have been warning 
signs of was a problem. So, Mr G should have stopped using the vehicle as soon as 
soon as safe to do so.
-Mr G said he only drove the van for 30 miles as he was asked to get the van 
inspected twice  once, he reported the problem. Mr G gave us proof that he only 
drove 30 miles after the problem arose. I didnt feel his actions were unreasonable.
-Mr G also told us there were no warning signs. I concluded it was unlikely Mr G 
would have continued to drive a van if he felt it was dangerous to do so . Or if there 
were a significant number of warning signs. I concluded he drove the minimum 
possible primarily to get the inspection reports the dealership asked for.
-When problems arise within the first six months, we usually say its the business 
responsibility to show if problems were present or developing at the point of sale. 
And if so, we usually expect the business to resolve any such issues.
-The independent report  concluded that on a balance of probability the problem 
would have been developing at the point of sale. And as such it was CBLs 
responsibility to resolve this.
-I concluded there was a problem present or developing at the point of sale for which 
CBL was responsible. 
-I didnt think it was  reasonable to expect Mr G to contribute to the cost of the repair 
as CBL wished. I couldnt be sure Mr KG added to the problem by driving the van to 
be inspected .And this was at the request of the dealership.
-Mr G asked us to consider some costs he incurred relating to an alternative vehicle 
he used when he no longer had use of the van. I felt it was reasonable that CBL 
refunded any monthly payments Mr G has made since his van broke down. And with 
simple interest added. So, Mr G didnt pay for  two vehicles. But I didnt  think it was 
reasonable that CBL paid any repair costs associated with replacement vehicles.
-I also felt it would be fair for  CBL to refund the cost of the two diagnostic reports Mr 
G paid for. (£40 and £80).  And to pay Mr G £150 for the distress and inconvenienceCBL has not made any response to my provisional decision . So, I have no comments from 
the business to consider. I do believe it had enough time to make any representations to me.
Mr G accepted my provisional decision . However, he made several points primarily asking 
for clarification of some issues. And has asked for some additional costs to be covered. 
I think its best if I respond to these in turn as follows:-
Mr G would like the repairs carried out by one of the companies that inspected the van for 
him. I dont think that is an unreasonable request for him to make to CBL. But I am not going 
to require CBL to use a particular company  I think that is its choice to make.
Part of the reason Mr G would like the specific company to be used is because there is an 
outstanding bill  of £840 with that company  in relation to the van. He believes if the repair is 
carried out there that cost would be included in the cost of the repair.
Mr G has given us a copy of the invoice for £840. This says the invoice is for labour incurred 
in removing the cylinder head to find the fault. The invoice is dated 16 March 2020. I queried 
this invoice with Mr G since the invoice date is after the independent report commissioned by 
CBL was carried out. So, I didnt understand why a further investigation was needed.
Mr G has explained that the date on the invoice isnt correct. He said the dealership initially 
asked him to get the van inspected which he did at a cost of £40. Mr G told us this inspection 
was carried out by the same company who later investigated the fault and invoiced £840.
Mr G says as the first inspection wasnt accepted, he was asked to get another inspection 
carried out which he did at a cost of £85.
Finally, he says that that dealership still didnt accept this second report and Mr G says he 
agreed to get the engine stripped to see what the problem was  leading to the £840 invoice.
I have gone back over all the information Mr G and CBL submitted. I cant see any evidence 
of either the third inspection , or cost for it, being referred to by either party until Mr G listed it 
on a table of costs, he asked to be reimbursed for  following our investigators view.
I am surprised that Mr G didnt raise such a significant sum during the complaint 
investigation since he did refer to the two other inspections costing £40 and £85. I also cant 
find any evidence to say the business or dealership requested a third investigation.  So, on 
that basis I dont think it is fair to expect CBL cover the outstanding cost of £840. 
The next point Mr G made was that he would like CBL to cover any costs to ensure the van 
is roadworthy including the cost of an up to date MOT, safety check and thorough service. I 
would expect when CBL arranges repairs to the van that it would be returned in a 
roadworthy condition to Mr G. I dont think its reasonable that CBL, unless its choses to do 
so, covers the cost of a MOT. I have agreed that CBL should refund Mr Gs repayments 
when he didnt have use of the van. But going forward a MOT is a regular cost a driver would 
expect to incur.
Mr G wanted clarification of over what period his monthly payments would be refunded. I 
understand the van broke down at the end of October 2018. So, the refund would apply to 
payments from November 2018 onwards.Mr G has also asked if CBL could add this refund back to the balance outstanding on his 
account. And extend  the repayment time of the agreement. The management of Mr Gs 
account is a matter between Mr G and CBL. So, I suggest Mr G discusses this with CBL. I 
dont think its appropriate for me to tell CBL how Mr Gs account should be managed going 
forward.
Finally, Mr G asked if charges and interest added to his account can be refunded. And 
ensure there is no negative entry on his credit file. As I understand it Mr G stopped making 
payments on this account in September 2019 due to financial hardship. I think given Mr G 
incurred  the costs of a second vehicle it is reasonable that charges and interest  on his 
account are refunded. And that any negative information is removed from his credit file.
I should however make it clear that the refund of interest and charges and the removal of 
any negative information on his credit file only applies up  to the date the van is repaired . Mr 
G will have to discuss his account with CBL his account going forward and agree how he 
plans to manage it particularly if he still has financial pressures.
Based on the information provided I see no reason to alter my provisional decision other 
than to add the removal of interest and charges and updating Mr Gs credit file as described 
above
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement Close Brothers  
Limited should:-
-Repair the fault identified in the independent report at no cost to Mr G
-Refund the full cost of the monthly repayments Mr G made after his van  broke down. 
That is  payments from November 2018 onwards until Mr G ceased making 
payments. 8% simple interest should be added to these payments from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
-Refund the cost of the two diagnostic reports Mr G commissioned (£40 and £85) on 
proof of cost
-Remove any charges/interest payments added to Mr Gs account from when the van 
broke down to the date of  repair . And over the same time period remove any 
negative information relating to Mr Gs account on his credit file
-Pay Mr G £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman