DRN-3408139
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has not paid enough redress after 
upholding their case about the mis-sale of a packaged bank account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds upheld Mr and Mrs Ds complaint about the mis-sale of their Gold account which later 
became a Platinum Account. 
Lloyds says it will pay back all the monthly fees that it knows it charged. But its records only 
go back as far as 2001. And, as neither party has evidence to show when the Gold account 
was opened, Lloyds says it will pay back from the midpoint between the launch date in 1990 
and the first record it has in 2001, which is from November 1995.
Mr and Mrs D say Lloyds should pay back redress from 1990. They say this because they 
believe that as privileged customers, they would have been offered the product straight 
away. And they say their later behaviour in using the product extensively and upgrading 
quickly when a new product appeared shows its likely they wouldve had a Gold Account 
from 1990.
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ds argument carefully. I dont have any records to show they 
would have been offered the Gold Account before 1995, but even if they were, I cant say 
when they would have accepted it. 
I say the latter because the original Gold Account in 1990 did provide travel insurance cover 
but it didnt contain several benefits Mr and Mrs D were later attracted to and used such as 
mobile phone insurance. And the Gold Accounts other main features were financial such as 
paying interest on balances held in the account and better overdraft facilities, so their 
attraction to these wouldve depended on their financial circumstances and alternative 
options at the time.
So, in my view I cant say its more likely than not that they would have opened the Gold 
Account before November 1995.
For this reason, I think the redress being offered by Lloyds is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman