DRN-3372567
The complaint
Mr D complains that a car he acquired via a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn 
No.1 Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. He is asking that Moneybarn cover the costs of 
the repairs that were required.
What happened
In July 2021 Mr D entered into a five-year conditional sale agreement for a used car. The car 
was around seven years old and had a mileage of 111,555.
Mr D says that around eight weeks after he had acquired the car it developed a fault with its 
idrive, which would be constantly rebooting itself to settings mode. This meant he was 
unable to use the sat nav system, access the cars service history or see if any warning 
lights were illuminating. 
Mr D complained to Moneybarn who arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent 
engineer. The engineer inspected the car in October 2021 at which point the cars mileage 
was 114,418. The independent engineer confirmed there was a fault with the head up unit 
and reported that this fault had developed at 113,577 miles. They also said that in their 
opinion this wouldnt have been a fault that had been developing or present at the point of 
sale due to the number of miles driven by Mr D before the issue arose. They said had the 
fault been present or developing when acquired by Mr D then they would have expected this 
issue to have arisen within the first 500 miles that hed driven the car.
The independent engineer also said Electrical faults often develop instantaneously and 
often give no warning of the fault developing, they can be serviceable one moment and 
defective the next and this is the insidious nature of such defects. They often develop in the 
last 500 miles of use but are often deterioration related and an ageing defect. At 114,000 
miles we would consider the fault commensurate.  
Moneybarn didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. It said that there wasnt any evidence there was 
an inherent fault with the car. Mr D was unhappy at Moneybarns decision and complained to 
this service.
In February 2022 Mr D took the car to a manufacturer approved garage who investigated the 
fault with the idrive. It carried out a diagnostic check which recorded a fault with the control 
unit at 113,575 miles. The garage then undertook a software update and programming of the 
head unit. The repair cost £217.99. Mr D says that this repair has fixed the issue.
This garage also said that although the fault had occurred at 113,575 miles and again at 
116,809 miles it was possible it had been re-occurring prior to this mileage.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. He said that the 
car was used and so it was reasonable to expect that it would require maintenance and 
repair sooner than a car that wasnt as road-worn. And although our investigator accepted 
there had been a fault with the car, he said he didnt think this meant the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of its supply.
Our investigator said that the evidence didnt support that the fault had been present or 
developing at the point of supply. He also said that looking at the issue of durability, as the 
fault arose with an electrical item that was seven years old, it was reasonable to think this 
could have suddenly failed after this amount of time.
Mr D disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said it was unfair he had to cover a 
repair bill for a fault that had arisen shortly after hed acquired the car. He said he was also 
unhappy at how Moneybarn had dealt with his complaint.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, 
but I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable.
As the conditional sale agreement entered into by Mr D is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Moneybarn is also the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement and is responsible for a complaint 
about their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other 
relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
Here the car was around seven years old and had a mileage of 111,555. So, unlike a new 
car that would be expected to be fault-free it would be reasonable to expect issues with 
maintenance and repair to arise over time. Here, Mr D says the issue arose between six 
and eight weeks after hed acquired the car.
It isnt disputed that there was a fault with the car. The issue is whether that fault was 
developing or present at the point of supply or, if it wasnt, whether the car was as durable 
as would be reasonably expected by a reasonable person.
There is a presumption that if a fault with a car arises within the first six months from the 
point of supply then it would have been present at the point of supply unless there is 
evidence to the contrary. Looking at the independent engineers report, they say the fault 
arose when the car had travelled for 113,577 miles (an additional 2,022 miles since the 
point of supply). The independent engineer also says that due to the nature of this fault, it 
being electrical, that it would have occurred more or less instantaneously and normally 
within 500 miles. They say due to the number of miles driven by Mr D it wasnt present 
when he first acquired the car.
The garage which carried out the repair on the car has also recorded the same mileage as the independent engineer as to when the fault occurred although it has said its 
possible that the fault had occurred earlier. Mr D appears to have reported to Moneybarn 
that the fault arose around a mileage of 113,000.
I accept the independent engineers opinion as to the nature of electrical faults so I think 
its more likely than not that the fault had occurred after Mr D had driven the car for 
around 2,000 miles and around two months after hed acquired it. This means that the car 
didnt have this fault nor was it developing it when Mr D acquired it.
The next issue is whether the car could be considered to be as durable as reasonably 
expected. Here I need to take into account the age and mileage of the car. As set out 
above, the older the car and the higher the mileage the more wear and tear to the cars 
components will have occurred. And a reasonable person would expect issues about 
repairs being required to arise after a reasonable period of time.
Although I appreciate Mr D is frustrated that the issue with the car arose after hed had it 
for around a two months and driven around 2,000 miles in it, I think the car was as 
durable as would have been reasonably expected. An electrical fault developing in a part 
that was seven years old and with a mileage of around 113,000 is, I think, something that 
wouldnt be unexpected. So, although the fault arose relatively shortly after the agreement 
started, looking at the number of miles Mr D had driven together with the cars age, I think 
a reasonable person would say that a reasonable period of time had passed before a 
repair of this type had been required.
I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr D but for the reasons given above Im 
satisfied on the evidence I have seen that the car was of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to him. Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman