DRN-3344704
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) withdrew money from her 
savings account without her permission.
What happened
In July 2021, Mrs H noticed that a savings account, which shed originally opened for her son 
but which shed recently been using as a vehicle for her own savings, was no longer visible 
on her online banking portal. 
Mrs H contacted about RBS about this as was told that the funds held in the account had 
been transferred and the account had been closed. RBS also explained to Mrs H that 
because her son had been the owner of the money held in the account, they couldnt provide 
her any further information about that money to Mrs H. Mrs H wasnt happy about this, so 
she raised a complaint.
RBS looked at Mrs Hs complaint. They confirmed that because the account had been 
opened by Mrs H for her son who was now of adult age, any money deposited into the 
account had been his. RBS also confirmed that for this same reason they were unable to 
discuss matters further with Mrs H, and that information about the money that had been held 
in the account could only be disclosed to her son.
Mrs H wasnt satisfied with RBSs response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that RBS had acted 
unfairly towards Mrs H in how theyd managed the situation, and so they didnt uphold      
Mrs Hs complaint. 
Mrs H remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I feel its important here to confirm that this service can only consider 
complaint points that the respondent business  in this case RBS  has already had the 
opportunity to consider and respond to. 
In this instance, its notable that the complaint that was referred to this service, and the 
complaint that RBS responded to in their complaint response letter dated 22 September 
2021, concerned the removal of the savings account from Mrs Hs online banking portal and 
the refusal of RBS to explain to Mrs H what had happened to the money held in that 
account. 
During her ongoing correspondence with this service, I note that Mrs H has referred to 
further points of complaint. For instance, Mrs H has stated that she has held several 
financial health meetings with RBS over the years, and that on no occasion during these 
meetings was she informed of a need to take any action in regard to the account in question. 
I can appreciate how Mrs H might want this and other points further to the initial complaint to 
be assessed here. But given that these further points havent yet been considered and 
responded to by RBS, Mrs H would need to raise these further points with RBS as a 
separate complaint, so that RBS have the opportunity to consider and respond to them, 
before this service would be permitted to consider them.
I also note that Mrs H believes that RBS have acted unlawfully in restricting her access to 
the money that shed deposited into the account. Again, I can appreciate Mrs Hs position 
here, but this service isnt a Court of Law or a regulatory body, and as such it isnt within the 
remit of this service to decide whether a business has acted unlawfully of not. 
Rather, while this service takes relevant laws and regulations into account, our remit is 
based on fairness of outcome. This means that if Mrs H continues to feel that RBS have 
acted unlawfully, she may wish to pursue this matter via other channels.
Considering all the above, the question then becomes whether RBS can be considered to 
have acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs H by restricting Mrs Hs access to the 
money that had been held in the account in the way that they did. RBS contend that their 
actions were fair because account was of a type such that Mrs Hs son, and not Mrs H, was 
the owner of any funds deposited into it.
It's notable that when Mrs H first opened the account it was opened as a Rainbow Savings 
account, which is a type of account no longer offered by RBS, but which when available was 
an account opened by a parent or legal guardian which was held on trust for a child. There is 
some information about these types of account on RBSs website as follows:
Rainbow Savings accounts are not available to new customers. Existing account holders 
must be individuals aged 18 years or over, on trust for a named child aged under 16 years 
and held until the named child reaches age 21.
When the child reaches age 16 you can transfer the account into the childs own name. This 
will enable the child to continue to claim tax relief provided they are still not liable to pay tax 
on interest we pay into the account. As the account can only be held by you on trust for the 
child until they reach the age of 21, when you transfer the account into the childs own name 
this will involve the account being closed and a new account (from our range of accounts) 
being opened in the childs own name.
However, at some point in the past the account type was changed by RBS from a Rainbow 
Savings account to a First Saver account. Ive therefore checked the terms of the First Saver 
account to see whether they are significantly different from those of a Rainbow Savings 
account, and having done so Im satisfied that in regard to the features of the account 
important to this complaint that they are not. Specifically, a First Saver account is also an 
account opened by a parent of legal guardian for a child and held in trust for that child until 
they reach adult age.
Mrs H has confirmed that she did open this account for her son, who is now in his mid-
twenties, when he was a child. Mrs H has also confirmed that her son withdrew the money 
from the account several years ago, and that since that time Mrs H has been using it as a 
savings vehicle for her own money  given that the account was in her name, having been 
opened by her.But the nature of this account didnt change following Mrs Hs son reaching adult age and 
withdrawing the money that had accrued in the account up until that time. And as such I 
dont feel that its unfair for RBS to consider that, just as Mrs Hs son became the owner of 
any money held in the account upon his reaching adult age, that any money deposited into 
the account after Mrs Hs son reached adult age, regardless of the circumstances, should be 
considered as being Mrs Hs sons money.
Mrs H has questioned why RBS didnt transfer the account into an account in her sons 
name when he reached adult age, which was several years ago. Mrs H also confirmed that 
given that this account remained visible to her in her RBS account portfolio, and was an 
account listed in her name, that she feels that it was reasonable for her to have considered it 
to have been a legitimate savings vehicle for her own savings. And Mrs H has questioned, if 
RBS considered the money deposited by Mrs H into the account to immediately belong to 
her son, why RBS allowed her to withdraw £100 from the account only a few weeks before 
they restricted her access to it.
I agree that it seems counterintuitive at first that RBS can consider any funds held in the 
account to legally belong to Mrs Hs son, but then to allow Mrs H to have been able to see 
and access the account, and withdraw money from it, up until the point that RBS removed 
the account from Mrs Hs online banking portfolio.
However, the terms of the account include that, regardless of the age of Mrs Hs son, the 
account wouldnt be closed and the funds transferred into a new account in Mrs Hs sons 
sole name, without a request for this to be done by Mrs H or Mrs Hs son. But neither Mrs H 
or her son ever made such a request, and as such the account remained open in Mrs Hs 
name, but for the benefit of her son.
Additionally, while any money held in the account was considered as belonging to Mrs Hs 
son, because Mrs H herself had set up the account in her name, she retained the ability to 
access the account and withdraw money from it. This was because as long as the account 
continued to exist as a First Savings account  which was an account held and administered 
by a parent or guardian for the benefit of a child, regardless of the childs age  Mrs H 
continued to be allowed to administer, and withdraw, her sons money held in the account.
While its unusual that an account designed to be held and administered by a parent for a 
minor child would continue to be held on such a basis several years after that child reached 
adult age, I dont feel that the terms of this account are unfair or unreasonable in any way. 
And neither do I feel that there is anything that should fairly or reasonably prohibit a parent 
from continuing to provide financial assistance to an older child, which the continued usage 
of this account would allow.
Of course, its Mrs Hs position that she wasnt intending to provide continuing financial 
assistance to her son, but that she was using the account to save money for herself. But 
unfortunately, it seems that Mrs Hs usage of the account in this regard was made on an 
incorrect assumption  that her son no longer had any beneficial interest in the account 
having withdrawn all the money from it at a prior time  and I dont feel that its reasonable to 
expect RBS to consider the ownership of the money deposited by Mrs H into the account as 
being on any basis other than that specified in the terms of the account  which is that 
money deposited and held in the account by any party is owned by Mrs Hs son.
Because RBS consider the money held in the account as belonging to Mrs Hs son, theyve 
explained to Mrs H that theyre unable to provide information to her as to why theyve taken 
the steps with the account that they have, as this relates to RBSs ongoing relationship with 
Mrs H son, and not with Mrs H herself. This seems reasonable to me, although I can 
appreciate how it must be frustrating for Mrs H. Ultimately, while the circumstances of this complaint are unusual, I dont feel that RBS have 
acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs H in how theyve managed this situation. I say 
this because Im satisfied that it was reasonable for RBS to have considered the money in 
the account as belonging to Mrs Hs son, and to have not been able to provide detailed 
information about their actions in regard to that money to Mrs H for that reason. 
Im also satisfied that its reasonable, given the terms of the account, for RBS to consider 
that any money Mrs H deposited into the account was deposited by Mrs H for the benefit of 
her adult son. And while I can sympathise with Mrs H if this wasnt the case, I feel that the 
Mrs H did bear a responsibility to have understood the continuing terms of the account, and I 
dont feel that it would be fair to expect RBS to consider that any money placed into the 
account by Mrs H after a certain date shouldnt be held in line with those unchanging terms.
While I appreciate that this wont be the outcome that Mrs H was wanting here, it follows 
from the above that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing RBS to take any further 
action at this time. I hope that Mrs H will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive 
made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman