DRN-2851910
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Sabre Insurance Company Limited should pay her claim under a 
motor insurance policy.
  
What happened
The subject matter of this claim is a large and powerful sports utility vehicle first registered in 
2020. For the year from July 2020, Mrs M had the car insured with Sabre. She was the 
policyholder. Her husband was a named driver. They had her young adult son living with 
them. He wasnt a named driver on her policy. 
In April 2021, Mrs M reported that, the previous evening, her son was having a mental health 
crisis. He took the car without her permission and she called 999. After some high-speed 
driving, her son had caused about £20,000.00 of damage to the car. Mrs M made a claim to 
Sabre but, in May 2021, it turned down the claim, saying the policy didnt cover unauthorised 
driving by a family member.
Mrs M complained that Sabre should meet the claim. Sabre wrote a final response dated 10 
May, turning down the complaint. Mrs M brought her complaint to a couple of days later.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. The investigator said 
that the policy included the following term: 
What we do NOT cover
We shall not be liable for: -
..
m) loss of or damage to your vehicle arising from it being taken by, or driven by, a 
person who was not an insured driver under the policy, but was a member of your 
family or household, or any other person known to you, unless you can prove that the 
driver intended to permanently deprive you of your vehicle.
The investigator thought that  as it didnt cover theft reported to the police - this term was a 
significant and unusual exclusion that shouldve been highlighted to Mrs M in the key facts or 
summary document, which it wasnt. if Sabre had highlighted this term, Mrs M wouldve
purchased a policy elsewhere which wouldve covered this situation. Mrs M co-operated with 
the police. Mrs M had also described the stress and inconvenience after she was told her 
claim wouldnt be honoured,
The investigator recommended that Sabre should:
1. not rely on the above term and should pay Mrs M for the damage to the car, in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions to settle her claim; and
2. pay Mrs M £50.00 for the distress caused. 
Sabre disagreed with the investigators opinion. It asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. It says, in summary, that:
Mrs M called the police to look out for the welfare of her son.
She didnt report the incident to the police as a theft. The police arent
investigating the matter as a theft. Her son has never intended to permanently 
deprive her of the vehicle.
There is no cover under the policy for TWOC. There is no cover under the policy for 
her son to drive the vehicle as an unauthorised driver. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The criminal offence of theft includes a number of elements. One of these is an intention 
permanently to deprive the owner. That element is missing in the case of temporary joy-
riding. 
There is a separate criminal offence of taking a vehicle without the owners consent 
(TWOC). TWOC is an offence under the Theft Act. In the context of an insurance claim, I 
find it fair and reasonable that theft should include TWOC.
Most policies have an exclusion for theft by a family member. But most policies make that 
exclusion subject to an exception if the policyholder co-operates with the police in 
investigating or prosecuting the family member. 
Sabres policy had the exclusion quoted above. Im satisfied that it was in plain and 
intelligible language. But the exclusion had an exception if the policyholder could prove that 
the family member intended permanently to deprive the policyholder of her vehicle. The 
exclusion had no exception if the policyholder cooperates with the police. Sabres exception 
was significant and unusual. 
The policy terms had an index or table of contents on the second page. And this included 
exclusions that were set out on pages 3 and 4.
But the exclusion relating to family members was at point m in an alphabetical list. Sabre 
hasnt provided any other information to show how it highlighted the exception at the point of 
sale. So Im not satisfied that Sabre adequately highlighted the exception as a significant 
and unusual term at that time.
On balance I accept Mrs Ms statement that if Sabre had highlighted that exception, she 
wouldve bought a different policy. 
From the communications Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mrs M co-operated with the police. I 
accept that it is for prosecutors to decide what if any charges to pursue against her son.
For these reasons I dont consider that Sabre treated Mrs M fairly by its decision to turn 
down her claim.
Putting things rightTo try to put things right, I find it fair and reasonable to direct Sabre to meet her claim in line 
with the terms of the policy but without reliance on the exclusion (and its exception) quoted 
above.
I find it fair and reasonable to direct Sabre to add interest at our usual rate on any amount it 
pays Mrs M in settlement of her claim.
I dont doubt that  by a decision Ive found unfair  Sabre caused Mrs M extra distress and 
inconvenience at an already difficult time for her. I agree with the investigator that 
compensation of £50.00 is fair and reasonable.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Sabre 
Insurance Company Limited to:
1. meet Mrs Ms claim in line with the terms of the policy but without reliance on the 
exclusion (and its exception) quoted above; and 
2. pay Mrs M simple interest at a yearly rate of 8% on any amount it pays in settlement 
of her claim from the date of her claim to the date of its payment. If Sabre considers 
that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, 
it should tell Mrs M how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs M a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
3. pay Mrs M £50.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman