DRN-4307789
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Telefonica Seguros y Reaseguros Compania Aseguradora S.A.U.  
trading as Telefonica Insurance UK Branch (Telefonica) declined a claim he made under his 
mobile phone insurance policy, for the loss of his handset.
 
What happened
Mr S is unhappy that Telefonica declined his claim. Hes also unhappy with the level of 
service he received, in particular, failed call backs. He wants his policy premiums returned 
and significant compensation to be paid for the service failings.
Telefonica says information Mr S gave them about the sim card which was in the lost 
handset was inconsistent with the evidence it obtained. Based on this inconsistency, it said it 
couldnt validate the claim. Telefonica referred to a term in the policy which allowed it to 
decline fraudulent claims or claims where it reasonably suspected fraud.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. He said Mr S was asked 
about the location of his sim card and that he gave information inconsistent with the 
evidence, and later confirmed that the information he had given was accurate  when it 
wasnt. So, our investigator said that Telefonicas decision to decline the claim was in line 
with the policy terms and was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators findings. So, as no agreement had been reached, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I was minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator. So, I issued a provisional 
decision, to give the parties the opportunity to respond before I reached my final decision. 
Heres what I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to reach a different outcome to our investigator. Ill 
explain why.
Its not for me to determine whether Mr Ss claim was fraudulent or not. What I need 
to determine is whether Telefonicas decision to decline the claim based on the 
inconsistent information provided by Mr S was in line with the policy terms, and 
whether it was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this claim and complaint. 
Mr Ss policy contains the following terms and conditions, the latter of which 
Telefonica referred to when declining Mr Ss claim:
You must provide Us with all information, documentation and assistance 
reasonably required by Us to validate and handle to (sic)Your Claim
(d) Fraudulent Claims If You make a fraudulent Claim or we reasonably suspect 
fraud, We will not be liable to pay the Claim, We will be entitled to recover any 
sums paid to You in respect of the Claim, and We may by giving You notice treat 
this policy as having been terminated with effect from the time of the fraudulent 
act.
Fraud is a serious issue with significant consequences for a policyholder accused of 
it by an insurer. As such, our service expects an insurer wanting to rely on an 
accusation of fraud to support the allegations with strong evidence.
We consider each complaint about alleged fraud, or potential fraud, on its own 
merits. But, in general terms, its unlikely that an insurers belief or opinion will satisfy 
that a fair and reasonable allegation of fraud has been made. This is because there 
are two parts to a fraudulent claim. The first is a policyholder not being truthful. But 
the second, key element, being that the untruthfulness was put forward by the 
policyholder with a view to gaining a benefit from the policy they werent otherwise 
entitled to receive. 
So, in order for me to conclude that Telefonicas decision to decline the claim based 
on the fraud term was fair and reasonable, it would need to demonstrate that Mr S 
lied, and that he lied with a view to gaining something he wouldnt have otherwise 
been entitled to receive under the policy.
Its not in dispute that Mr S told Telefonica that his sim card was in the handset when 
it was lost and that it had never been in his other handset. Nor is it in dispute that the 
technical evidence obtained by Telefonica confirms this wasnt the case, and the sim 
card was instead being used in his other handset at the time of loss and after it. And I 
think its reasonable that such an inconsistency would give Telefonica cause for 
concern. 
However, Mr S has argued that he didnt intentionally give the incorrect information or 
make a fraudulent claim. He says he simply misremembered, which isnt implausible. 
And, crucially, Telefonica hasnt provided any evidence or arguments which would 
persuade me, on the balance of probabilities, that Mr S most likely lied deliberately in 
order to gain something he wouldnt have otherwise been entitled to under his policy.
I say this because Mr Ss policy provides cover for accidental loss, which is defined 
as:
loss of Your Equipment in one of the following circumstances:
a) You have unintentionally left Your Equipment in any location and it 
has then
b) disappeared;
c) Your Equipment is in a known location, but You are not reasonably 
able to retrieve it;
d) Your Equipment has disappeared and You are not sure how
Based on the above, I see no reason why Mr S would feel the need to lie about the 
location of his sim card, at the time of loss, in order for his claim to be paid. Even if, in response to this provisional decision, Telefonica could persuade me that 
Mr S deliberately lied about the location of the sim card, it would also need to show, 
on balance, that he did so to gain a benefit he wasnt entitled to under the policy. And 
it seems unlikely to me that it will be able to do so, given the wide cover provided 
under the accidental loss section of the policy. From what Ive seen, it seems more 
likely to me that Mr Ss claim would have succeeded in any event.
To summarise, Im not persuaded that Telefonica has done enough to demonstrate 
that Mr Ss claim was most likely fraudulent, i.e. that he provided false information in 
order to gain something he wouldnt have otherwise been entitled to under the policy. 
It also hasnt argued, or demonstrated, that any other policy exclusions  relative to 
the accidental loss cover  would apply either.
So, in order to put things right, Im currently minded to decide that Telefonica should 
reconsider Mr Ss claim for the loss of his mobile phone in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy. 
Should this result in Telefonica deciding to accept the claim, and paying a cash 
settlement, I would also expect it to add 8% simple interest to the amount due to 
Mr S, from one month after the date of claim, until the date of settlement. This is to 
compensate Mr S for being without the use of funds he would have reasonably been 
entitled to under the policy, but also recognising that Telefonica would have required 
some time to investigate and accept the claim. 
In terms of the service Mr S received, Telefonica has acknowledged that he wasnt 
given a call back when he was promised one. It has offered £25 compensation and 
its apologies. Im aware that Mr S would like a significantly higher amount. However, 
Ive not been provided with evidence to suggest that he was so severely impacted by 
the failed call back, that £25 compensation would be insufficient. I accept it would 
have been frustrating and inconvenient, but overall, I think £25 is enough to fairly 
compensate Mr S for the impact of the failed call back.
However, Im also minded to decide that Telefonicas claim decision was unfair. And 
this would have no doubt added to the distress and inconvenience Mr S has 
experienced given the significance of a fraud allegation. So, in addition to the £25 
offered for the service issues, I think Telefonica should pay a further £100 for the 
impact its, in my view, incorrect claim decision has had on Mr S  taking the total 
compensation to £125. 
 
I said I was intending to direct Telefonica to remove any fraud markers it might have 
recorded against Mr S and to pay him £125 compensation. I also said Telefonica should 
reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, and if this 
resulted in it deciding to offer a cash settlement, it would need to add 8% simple interest to 
the amount due from 30 November 2022 to the date of settlement.
I asked both sides to send me any further comments or evidence they wanted me to 
consider, before I reached my final decision. 
Mr S responded to confirm he was broadly happy with my provisional findings. However, he 
said he felt an amount of £1,250 compensation would be fairer, and more in line with our 
services published guidance for awards in cases of this nature.
Telefonica didnt respond to my provisional decision, and the deadline to do so has now 
passed, so Im moving forward with my final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered the response to my provisional decision. Having done so, and 
while I appreciate it may come as a disappointment to Mr S, my conclusions remain the 
same as set out in my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
Neither side has provided any further comments or evidence to persuade me that what I said 
about Telefonicas claim decision was unfair or unreasonable. So, in the absence of further 
evidence, my conclusions on this point remain the same as set out in my provisional 
decision  and for the same reasons. 
Mr Ss sole point of contention was with the level of compensation I provisionally decided 
would be fair. He feels a significantly higher amount is warranted. He's also referred to our 
website and what he thinks are comparable scenarios to his. Whilst I note what Mr S says, 
I've considered what is fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of his case, taking 
into account what Ive been told about the impact of Telefonicas errors. And, having done 
so, I'm satisfied the amount I proposed in my provisional decision is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances here.  
I accept that having an insurance claim unfairly declined would have been upsetting and 
frustrating. But Ive not been provided with any evidence to suggest that Mr S suffered from 
a substantial level of distress or inconvenience, serious offence or embarrassment which is 
what he has referred to on our website. So, in the circumstances, I remain of the view that by 
removing any potential fraud markers, reconsidering the claim (with a potential interest 
award to be made on a potential future settlement) and paying £125 compensation, 
Telefonica will have done enough to fairly resolve this claim and complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ss 
complaint. 
Telefonica Seguros y Reaseguros Compania Aseguradora S.A.U. trading as Telefonica 
Insurance UK Branch must:
Remove any record of fraud that its recorded, both internally and externally
Reconsider Mr Ss claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of his policy*
Pay Mr S a total of £125 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused him
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.* Should Telefonica Seguros y Reaseguros Compania Aseguradora S.A.U. accept 
the claim and pay a cash settlement, it will need to add 8% simple interest** to the 
amount due to Mr S, from 30 November 2022, until the date of settlement.
**If Telefonica Seguros y Reaseguros Compania Aseguradora S.A.U. considers that 
its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it 
should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs 
if appropriate.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman