DRN-3302580
The complaint
Mrs A complains about the handling of a claim she made on her motor insurance policy by 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited.
What happened
After an accident, Admiral decided to pay Mrs A cash in lieu of carrying out repairs on her 
car. It thought there was previous damage to the car that it didnt want its approved repairer 
(garage 1) to handle. The car was then moved to a garage selected by Mrs A (garage 2) and 
was delivered there by firm C. Admiral paid for the collection and delivery.  
Five days later, Mrs A told Admiral that garage 2 had found damage to a door that wasnt in 
the original accident estimate. Later on, she said garage 2 had found further extra damage. 
Garage 2 said firm C must have caused it. Firm C said it didnt, and that garage 2 must have 
done so. As garage 2 then refused to carry out any work on the car, firm C moved it to a 
garage of Mrs As choice in her local area (garage 3).Garage 3 later demanded payment for 
extensive storage charges before it would release the car. Mrs A held Admiral responsible 
for all that had happened - although Admiral had passed her complaint to firm C, which had 
already investigated it and had issued a final response letter to her.
One of our investigators thought Admiral should have dealt with Mrs As complaint, as in her 
view, firm C had acted as Admirals agent. She thought Admiral should pay the storage 
charges and ask an independent engineer whether extra damage had occurred when the car 
was moved and whether a warning light issue should be resolved as part of the initial claim. 
Admiral didnt agree that it was responsible for the storage charges. And it said firm Cs 
checklist showed the new damage claimed for wasnt there when it left the car at garage 2. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision and made the following points:
If firm C was acting as Admirals agent, and firm C (or one of its agents) caused 
damage to Mrs As car, then Admiral would be responsible for it. But I didnt think 
Mrs A had shown that firm C or one of its agents had caused any damage
Garage 2 didnt check the car on arrival, so it couldnt show that there was any extra 
damage at that point. Firm C produced a check sheet showing that there was no 
damage to the cars door on delivery, although it was unsigned, so of limited value. 
As the new damage wasnt mentioned by garage 2 for five days, there was time for it 
to have happened at garage 2  and an independent engineer wouldnt be able to 
say when the extra damage was caused, or by which business
Firm C moved the car to garage 3 at Mrs As request. Its job was to ensure the cars 
safe delivery, which it seems it did 
Mrs A said she wasnt warned by garage 3 about storage charges (although garage 3 
disagreed). But Admiral could show that it had warned Mrs A in writing on 8 October 
2020 that she should move the car from there, as it would only pay storage charges 
up to that date
Admiral settled the accident claim with a payment to Mrs A in lieu of repairs, as it was 
entitled to do. I thought Mrs A hadnt shown that the plans it made for moving her car 
(as a gesture of goodwill) had caused her any detriment. So in my view, it wouldnt 
be fair and reasonable to ask Admiral to pay for any further damage to the car or for 
the storage charges. And although Admiral had agreed to pay for a warning light 
issue (as long as Mrs A could show it was accident related) Mrs A hadnt done that  
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. Admiral didnt comment. Mrs A 
said she only went to garage 3 as Admiral had said she should choose a local garage. In her 
opinion, Admiral wanted an estimate as it had accepted blame for the damage its agent had 
caused. Mrs A thought the car should have been taken back to garage 1, as it would have 
been clear to that garage what extra damage had occurred. Mrs A also said that the reason 
garage 2 didnt notice the extra damage for several days was because the car arrived before 
a slot to assess the damage was available. It told Mrs A that it was stored in a safe place 
until an engineer was free to carry out an assessment.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral didnt accept liability for any damage caused to Mrs As car after it left garage 1. It 
didnt think there was any evidence that firm C had caused any extra damage. Mrs A needed 
to have the original accident damage dealt with, so Admiral assisted her in getting the car to 
garage 2, where that should have been done, using the cash in lieu of repairs payment 
Admiral had offered Mrs A. The extra damage could have been dealt with as a claim on Mrs 
Ms policy, and estimates would have been needed for that.
Based on the available evidence, I still dont think theres anything to show that firm C 
caused the damage garage 2 later reported to Mrs A. I dont think its surprising that garage 
2 told Mrs A the car was stored safely until its engineer was ready to assess it, as that 
supports garage 2s assertion that it didnt cause any damage. The issue is that - without a 
handover checklist from garage 2, or photos of the car on arrival - theres no evidence.  
After garage 2 refused to carry out any work on the car, Mrs A had to take it elsewhere. 
Admiral may have suggested taking it to a garage close to her home, for the sake of 
convenience, but Mrs A chose garage 3. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Admiral 
recommended it to her. I dont think its reasonable for Mrs A to say that the car should have 
been taken back to garage 1. It had already been established that the cost of the original 
repairs was too high at that garage (hence the car went to garage 2). In addition, although 
garage 1 would no doubt have been able to say exactly what the extra damage to the car 
was, it wouldnt have been able to say how it was caused, or when it happened. 
Taking everything into account, although I have great sympathy for Mrs A, given the position 
she has found herself in, as I dont think shes shown that Admiral did anything substantially 
wrong, I cant uphold her complaint.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022. Susan Ewins
Ombudsman