DRN-2143754
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that Darlington Building Society charged them an early 
repayment charge (ERC) on their mortgage. They say they had applied for an interest-only 
self-build mortgage and Darlington had switched it to repayment once the build was 
complete, which they couldnt afford. They say this left them with no choice but to redeem 
the mortgage, and so they shouldnt have been charged the ERC.
This is the second of two linked complaints, with the other dealing with what happened 
during the application which led to the mortgage being set up the way it was.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons.
Darlington wrote to Mr and Mrs H on 4 October 2019 in response to their complaint. In that 
letter it agreed to allow Mr and Mrs H to switch to a pure interest-only mortgage on the 
understanding it couldnt give them advice about the suitability of that. It said Mr and Mrs H 
should phone it on the number provided if they wanted to go ahead. 
Whilst Mr and Mrs H have said they didnt receive the letter it was addressed in exactly the 
same way as all the letters they did receive and was sent in response to a complaint 
Mr and Mrs H had recently chased up. It is unfortunate that Mr and Mrs H stopped chasing 
the complaint up if they didnt receive that letter, and instead chose to remortgage entirely 
elsewhere.
In a phone call with our investigator in January 2020 (so before the remortgage was 
completed) Mr H indicated he knew Darlington had offered to allow them to have a pure 
interest-only mortgage, as the following conversation took place in respect of a linked 
complaint about the broker:
UsYouve been able to change this 
Mr HWell at the moment I havent. I havent changed it. Im still paying the repayment 
loan.
UsAre you? I thought you said you were changing it with Darlington?
Mr HNo, theyve agreed to do it, but I havent done it as Ive been waiting to hear from 
you
UsBecause Darlington have agreed to do it, as Ive explained we cant punish [the 
broker] 
Mr HBut Im £4,000 out of pocket because Ive still not gone back to the Darlington yet.
The mortgage offer said:
10. What happens if you do not want this mortgage any more?
Early Repayment Charges
An early repayment charge will be added to the outstanding balance if you repay your 
mortgage in full during the period details below. The maximum repayment charge you 
could pay for this account, with its loan amount of £126,119.00 is £3,783.57 plus a 
Mortgage Exit Fee which is currently £100.00.
Beneath that it explained the ERC would be 3% of the capital balance repaid (plus fees), if 
the mortgage was repaid in full on or before 30 September 2021.
That was the contract Mr and Mrs H entered into. Were not the regulator, and Ive no power 
under our rules to comment on, or otherwise determine, how financial businesses operate in 
general terms. Im satisfied the terms of the ERC are set out in a manner that met the 
regulators requirements. There was no regulatory requirement for Darlington to do any 
more, or to provide any further explanation.
Im satisfied  on the balance of probabilities  that Mr and Mrs H were aware that Darlington 
was willing to let them have a pure interest-only mortgage before they undertook the 
remortgage, so there are no grounds for me to order Darlington to refund the ERC that was 
fairly due under the contract Mr and Mrs H had entered into.
For these reasons I dont uphold this complaint.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman