DRN-2293668
The complaint
Mr P complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with RCI 
Financial Services Limited trading as Dacia Finance wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants 
to reject the car.
What happened
Mr P entered into a HPA with Dacia Finance in April 2019 to acquire a new car. He says that 
he had to return the car for repair within two months and that since then further issues have 
arisen. 
Mr P says that the media unit kept freezing and while repairs were attempted in September 
and November 2019 this issue continued. Further issues also arose including problems with 
the steering column, sensors and water ingress. Mr P says that he asked to reject the car 
but this wasnt accepted. Repairs took place in September 2020 (after Mr P had raised his 
complaint with this service) and Mr P collected the car however he says he wants to reject it 
given all the issues he experienced.
Dacia Finance says that Mr P raised issues with the car, some of which werent able to be 
replicated and others of which were repaired. It says the issue with the media unit was 
raised more than six months after acquisition. In its final response letter dated April 2020 it 
acknowledged there were delays in Mr Ps repairs taking place due to the pandemic and it 
offered a goodwill gesture of a refund of one months rental to reflect the issues Mr P had 
experienced.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He noted the car was new at acquisition and so it 
would be reasonable for Mr P to expect it to be free from faults. He said that job cards had 
been provided from September 2020 which noted repairs to the steering column and an 
update applied to the media unit. He said further evidence showed that the issues with the 
media unit had been raised previously and that two previous repair attempts had been 
made. He said that Mr P had raised the issue with the media unit within six months of 
acquiring the car and although repairs were attempted the problems continued. He said that 
Mr P had asked to reject the car before the September 2020 repairs took place and he 
thought this shouldve been accepted.
Dacia Finance didnt accept our investigators view. It didnt think that the resets to the media 
unit constituted repairs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P acquired a used car through a HPA with Dacia Finance. Under the regulations, 
specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), Dacia Finance can be held liable if 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes into 
account factors such as the age and mileage of the car and what a reasonable person would 
expect taking into account all the circumstances. In this case the car was new at acquisition 
and therefore it is reasonable that Mr P would expect it to be free from faults, including minor 
defects and to remain this way for a reasonable period of time, that is be sufficiently durable.
Unfortunately, Mr P experienced issues with the car within the first few months. When issues 
are raised within the first six months, it is generally accepted (unless evidence to the 
contrary is provided) that the issues were present or developing from the point of supply. As 
the car was new, and noting the issues raised, I do not find these would be considered wear 
and tear and so I accept that the car did have issues that were more likely than not due to 
faults present at supply. I also note the number of issues Mr P experienced with the car and 
while not all of these were raised within the first six months, given the age and mileage of the 
car I wouldnt have expected Mr P to experience so many issues which suggests the car 
wasnt sufficiently durable. Therefore, I find it reasonable to accept that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
When a car is found not to be of satisfactory quality it is expected that the issues are 
remedied. In this case repairs were carried out. Had this resolved all of the issues then this 
could have been an acceptable remedy. However, issues were ongoing after the repair 
attempts. Mr P had raised his concerns about the media unit freezing within the first six 
months of acquisition and information has been provided to show that the unit was reset in 
September 2019 and then a further repair attempt was made in November 2019. While I 
note the comments by Dacia Finance that no parts were replaced and these were resets, I 
still find that Mr P had raised the issue and given the business the opportunity to repair. As 
the issue remained and a further repair opportunity was given but the issue still wasnt 
resolved, I find it reasonable that Mr P should have been given a final right to reject the car 
at that time.
Mr P has said he asked to reject the car. I have looked through the information provided and 
can see that he made this request after repairs had been attempted in 2019 and early 2020. 
At this time as he had given the business opportunity to carry out repairs and issues 
remained, I find that it would have been reasonable that he would be able to return the car at 
that time. I appreciate that following this there was an extended period before further repairs 
could take place due to issues associated with the pandemic, but I think Mr P had been clear 
he no longer wanted the repairs and instead wished to return the car. Therefore, while 
repairs did take place in September I find that Mr P should have been allowed to reject the 
car before then. I also note that even following the September repairs Mr P has said he has 
had issues with the stop/start function.
Based on the above, I find the fair resolution to this complaint is for Mr P to be allowed to 
reject the car, have his agreement cancelled with nothing further owing and his deposit 
refunded. 
Mr P was kept mobile while he didnt have his car and I note in September 2020 the car had 
travelled over 12,000 miles. Therefore, I find Mr P remains liable for his monthly rental 
payments and these do not need to be refunded. However, the ongoing issues he 
experienced, particularly with the media unit reduced his enjoyment of the car and so I agree 
with our investigators recommendation that he be refunded 10% of the rentals from 
September 2019 to reflect this loss of enjoyment. I also agree that compensation is due to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience Mr P has been caused and find the recommendation 
of £200 reasonable.
Putting things right
RCI Financial Services Limited trading as Dacia Finance should:
:Collect the car from Mr P at no cost to him and end the HPA with nothing further 
owing;
Refund the deposit amount Mr P paid (recorded as £4,105 in the HPA) along with 8% 
simple interest* from the date of payment until the date of settlement;
Refund 10% of all payments made towards the HPA from September 2019 until 
settlement for the loss of enjoyment Mr P has experienced;
Pay Mr P £200 for the trouble and upset he has been caused by having to return the 
car on several occasions;
Remove any adverse information that may have been recorded on Mr Ps credit file 
in relation to this HPA.
If RCI Financial Services Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. RCI Financial Services Limited trading as 
Dacia Finance should take the action set out above to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman