DRN-3977917
The complaint
Mr M complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited declined a claim he 
made after items were stolen from his car.
What happened
Mr M has a home insurance policy underwritten by LV. When he bought the policy, he took 
out optional cover for valuables and belongings away from the home.
In July 2022, Mr M parked his car outside his partners house and went on holiday for around 
10 days. When he came back, he discovered the car had been broken into and his golf 
clubs, bag and shoes had been stolen. 
Mr M made a claim to LV, but they declined it. They said the policy provided cover for 
valuables left in unattended vehicles, but only if they were in a locked boot or compartment. 
Mr M had told them his valuables were across the boot and back seats because they were 
too large to fit in the boot itself. 
Mr M made a complaint to LV. He said his policy documents advised that the optional cover 
hed taken out meant his valuables were covered anywhere in the world, which he said 
should be taken to include the back of his car.
When LV maintained their position, Mr M brought his complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think LV had done anything wrong.
Mr M disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start with the terms of Mr Ms policy. In the sections about the optional cover for valuables 
anywhere in the world  which Mr M had taken out and paid for  the policy document says 
valuables (and specified valuables) will be covered if lost or damaged away from the home. 
But the terms also say that there will be no cover for:
loss or damage caused by theft or attempted theft from unattended motor vehicles 
unless in a locked covered boot or glove compartment and there is evidence that 
forcible and violent entry took place
Theres no dispute her that there was a forcible and violent entry to Mr Ms car, which he 
reported to the Police. But theres also no dispute that the stolen valuables were not in fact in 
a locked and covered boot or glove compartment. Mr M himself reported to LV that the clubs 
were stored in part across the back seats of the car  which were let down for the purpose. 
According to the policy terms then, LV were entitled to decline Mr Ms claim. But I also have 
to ask myself whether in all the circumstances thats a fair and reasonable outcome.
The relevant policy terms arent ambiguous. Theyre stated very clearly. And they arent 
hidden in the small print  theyre given reasonable prominence in the sections on valuables 
outside the home. No-one reading the policy could miss that cover wouldnt be provided if 
valuables were left in a car unless they were locked away, out of sight, in a boot or other 
compartment.
Those terms arent unusual in home insurance policies. In fact, they are pretty much 
standard. Its relatively easy to understand why many  or indeed most - insurers do not 
want to take on the risk of valuable items being stolen from an unattended car when they are 
in plain sight, even if they are covered by a blanket or sheet. 
Insurers are entitled to set out  in their policy documents  what risk theyre willing to take 
on for the price theyre asking their customer to pay. If the customer doesnt like the terms, 
or the price, they can seek cover elsewhere. And if insurers are too conservative in their risk 
appetite, in a crowded market, they wont get much business.
So, theres nothing inherently unfair or unreasonable about LV specifying that they wont 
cover valuables left in an unattended car unless they are in a locked boot or other 
compartment. 
Theres also nothing about the relevant policy terms that is unreasonably difficult or onerous 
for the customer. Mr M could have left his golf clubs and other items in his house  or his 
partners house  when he went on holiday, for example.
Mr M told LV he hadnt read his policy booklet. And hed assumed hed be covered because 
the documents he was sent said if he took out the optional cover, it would extend to 
anywhere in the world. Hes since told us that hed never seen the policy booklet.
Its difficult to understand why Mr M took out the optional cover without reading the terms 
which set out what he was buying. And Im satisfied LV would have sent Mr M all the policy 
documentation when he bought the policy. If Mr M didnt read it, then thats his responsibility, 
not LVs.
I can also see that when LV renewed Mr Ms policy in February 2022, they asked him to 
check the statement of insurance they sent him. This advised him to read the relevant 
sections of the policy booklet relating to the optional cover for valuables outside the home. 
The booklet is readily available on LVs website.  
In all the circumstances then, I cant reasonably conclude that it was unfair or unreasonable 
for LV to decline Mr Ms claim. Mr M took a risk - leaving his valuables in his car for a fairly 
long period and visible from outside the car  which LV werent willing to cover. And which 
theyd been clear they werent willing to cover when Mr M bought and renewed his policy..
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Neil MarshallOmbudsman