DRN-2573340
The complaint
Miss G complains about the level of service received from Homeserve Membership Limited 
when trying to cancel a home emergency insurance policy. 
What happened
In April 2020, Miss G contacted Homeserve by phone shortly after the policy renewed. She 
explained the renewal price was unaffordable due to her circumstances at that time. 
Homeserve offered a discounted premium and told Miss G to phone back if she wished to 
make any further changes. Miss G said she was told she had 28 days from the policy start 
date to cancel and receive a refund. 
Miss G contacted Homeserve again in April 2020 to cancel the policy. She said the policy 
was still unaffordable due to her circumstances then  even with the discount applied. 
Homeserve provided Miss G with several options to reduce the price further. Miss G also 
thought she had duplicate cover with another provider. Miss G was told to check the other 
policy and call back to cancel if she still wished to do so.  
The policy was later cancelled in September 2020 when Miss G emailed Homeserve to do 
this, and to raise a complaint. She didnt think Homeserve acted fairly by failing to cancel the 
policy in April 2020.
Homeserve wrote to Miss G in September 2020 with their final response. They felt theyd 
treated Miss G fairly by offering a discount and different options to reduce the price. So, Miss 
G brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator here considered the complaint. She listened to the second call made by Miss 
G in April 2020. She said Miss G had made it clear she wished to cancel the policy and felt 
Homeserve shouldve been clearer about the cancellation process, and that the policy 
couldve been cancelled during that phone call. Had they done this, the investigator felt Miss 
G wouldve most likely cancelled the policy then. So, she recommended Homeserve refund 
the premiums Miss G paid since April 2020.
Homeserve didnt agree. They maintained theyd acted fairly by providing Miss G with 
different options to reduce the price of cover and call back to cancel should she wish to do 
so. 
Our investigator responded to Homeserve to say Miss G had said multiple times she wished 
to cancel her policy during the second call, but Homeserve didnt do this. So, Homeserve 
asked an ombudsman to decide the case which is why its now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Gs told us about her medical conditions that can cause neurological issues when 
processing information. I appreciate Miss G sharing this with us. Homeserve said they were 
unaware of how Miss Gs medical conditions impacted her in April 2020. 
Ive looked at the policy which sets out how a policyholder can cancel the policy. This says it 
can be done by either phone or in writing. So, Im satisfied here the policy clearly sets out 
the steps a policyholder should take to cancel it. 
So, whilst I think the process to cancel is clearly set out in the policy, I agree with the 
investigator here that Homeserve couldve been clearer in explaining the cancellation 
process to Miss G  and that the policy couldve been cancelled during the second call she 
made in April 2020. Ill explain why. 
Miss G made two calls in April 2020 to say the policy was unaffordable. In the first call, 
Homeserve said they applied a discount to the premium and said Miss G should call back if 
she wished to make any changes. Miss G did then phone back later in April 2020 to cancel 
the policy. And I think she made this clear at the beginning of the call that her intention was 
to cancel the policy. This was because the policy was still unaffordable  even with the 
discount applied. 
Based on what Ive listened to, I dont think Miss Gs request to cancel was reasonably 
acknowledged at the outset. Rather, as Miss G had said the policy was still unaffordable, 
she was given several options to keep the cover and reduce the price. She was told for 
example, she could reduce the cover or apply an excess to claims. I accept Miss G did say 
she liked some features of the cover, but I think on balance she also made it clear she 
wished to cancel. Shed also said she may have duplicate cover in place.
I dont think Homeserve made an error by explaining Miss Gs options to reduce the cost of 
the policy. However, I think they couldve made it clear to Miss G that she was entitled to 
cancel the cover during the call  as per the cancellation instructions in the policy. I note this 
was also the second time Miss G had contacted Homeserve to highlight her affordability 
concerns, but Miss Gs right to cancel wasnt discussed until the end of the call when she 
was told to check her other cover and call back again to cancel. 
Miss G said she agreed to end the call and call back again if she still wished to cancel. Miss 
G said she did this in order to avoid confrontation as phone calls can be challenging for her 
due to her circumstances. 
Having weighed up all the information available to me, I think had Homeserve made it clear 
Miss G was able to cancel the policy during the second call in April 2020, she wouldve done 
so. I say this because I think Miss G made it clear she wanted to cancel the policy. But the 
cancellation wasnt discussed further. Rather, Miss G was given several options to reduce 
the cost and was told that she could again phone back and cancel. Whilst I think it was a 
positive step for Homeserve to try and reduce the costs to Miss G where there were 
affordability concerns, it still shouldve been made clear that she could cancel at that point. 
Miss G then contacted Homeserve in September 2020 with the same reasons shed given in 
April 2020, to cancel the policy. 
Whilst Homeserve did say Miss G could phone back to cancel the policy, shed already 
expressed on two occasions that the policy was unaffordable. So, for the reasons set out 
above, I think Homeserve couldve been clearer about the option to cancel on the second 
call in April 2020. So, I think Homeserve should refund the premiums Miss G paid from April 
2020 until the policy was cancelled. 
Putting things rightFor the reasons given above, I require Homeserve Membership Limited to refund the 
premiums Miss G paid for home emergency insurance from April 2020, until it was 
cancelled. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and require Homeserve Membership Limited to 
put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman