DRN-2906667
The complaint
Miss N complains that Paypal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA (PayPal) declined her claim for a 
refund of an item she brought online.
What happened
In December 2020 Miss N purchased a floral display from a retailer online I will call E, 
paying £314.99 using PayPal credit.
On delivery, Miss N was unhappy with the item and after unsuccessfully trying to contact E, 
she made a claim for a refund under PayPals buyer protection scheme on the basis the 
flowers in the arrangement appeared sparse in comparison to pictures on Es website, and 
due to the poor quality and condition of the vase.
PayPal denied Miss Ns claim and decided in favour of E, so they didnt refund her money. 
PayPal said although the item may not have met Miss Ns expectations, they felt shed got 
buyers remorse and didnt think the item she received met their definition of Significantly 
Not As Described.
Miss N didnt think PayPal had dealt with her case fairly, so she appealed their decision, 
again explaining the poor condition of the item shed received. Miss N was also unhappy 
PayPal hadnt taken into consideration the photographic evidence shed provided.
PayPal didnt change their decision so Miss N brought her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into things but was satisfied PayPal had followed their disputes process 
correctly.
Miss N didnt agree saying the item she received and the condition it was, fell well into being 
significantly not as it was described on Es website. She said, it was described as being a 
pristine polished silver plated vase but it was in-fact plastic with some sort of silver 
overlay. Miss N also again stressed the item was so poorly made and of bad quality, it had 
glue residue visible and was dangerous due to jagged edges caused by flaking and rusting 
to the metal plate. 
Our investigator reviewed Miss Ns comments, but his opinion didnt change so the case has 
been passed to me.
I contacted Miss N prior to starting my investigation. I let her know that PayPals terms state 
items that are wholly or partly custom-made, which E describe all items as being 
individually custom made on their website, are ineligible for Significantly Not As Described 
claims under PayPals buyer protection.
As I thought this would likely form part of my decision, I asked Miss N her thoughts and 
invited any comments she wished me to consider. Miss N confirmed she understood but 
remained of the opinion the product she received was not as E described.  
I also asked if Miss N had evidence of the item she received having been described as a 
pristine polished silver-plated vase on Es website. Miss N couldnt provide this and 
thought her understanding the vase would be pristine was more in relation to the photos of 
the product on Es website at the time of her purchase, rather than the item actually being 
described as such. Miss N provided screenshots of the item listed to be added to her file for 
me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss N feels strongly about what happened here and Im sorry to hear shes 
been going through a difficult time, both with her own health and the passing of her friend. 
However, whilst I appreciate itll be a disappointment to Miss N, Im not upholding her 
complaint and for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain why.
But first, Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than has been provided, 
and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
concentrated on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every detail to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making a purchase from a seller that accepts PayPal, buyers may be eligible for 
PayPals buyer protection scheme allowing them to raise a claim about an item theyve 
brought, as Miss N did here. But this scheme doesnt give buyers an automatic right to a 
refund and will only protect a buyer when an item is not received or when the item received 
is Significantly Not As Described by the seller.
The terms and conditions of PayPals user agreement say that PayPal will make a final 
decision about a claim at their sole discretion. In Miss Ns case, Paypal refused to refund her 
because they decided the item had not met her expectations and she had buyers remorse, 
but crucially they didnt think that the flower arrangement she received was Significantly Not 
As Described by the seller. Paypal are entitled to reach this decision. But Ive considered 
whether I agree that this was reasonable in the circumstances.
Of the terms that I consider to be key, PayPal say an item may be considered Significantly 
Not As Described if:
The item is materially different from the sellers description of it.
The condition of the item was misrepresented. For example, the item was described 
as new, but the item was used. 
The item is unusable in its received state and was not disclosed as such.
It's important to say that I empathise with Miss N as clearly from her testimony and the 
photos shes provided, neither the quality of the item or the craftmanship in making it met 
her expectations. 
Miss N says the vase the flowers were set in was plastic with a metal overlay and when 
tested for being silver returned negative. The silver overlay was flaking and there was glue 
residue on the arrangement itself. But this doesnt mean the item was Significantly Not As 
Described on Es website.
Miss N ordered a flower arrangement and the item was described on Es website at the 
time a hand crafted, and hand engraved silver-plated bowl. Whilst I acknowledge Miss Ns 
comparison to ordering a 24ct Gold Necklace and instead receiving a plastic necklace that 
had been overlaid with a gold coloured metal, I cant agree this is the same. The item    
Miss N ordered was never advertised to be anything other than a silver-plated bowl and Im 
satisfied this is materially what she received.
It follows I m satisfied PayPal assessed Miss Ns claim in line with the terms they set out for 
claim when an item is Significantly Not As Described.I understand Miss N doesnt think PayPal assessed her claim fairly, specifically as she was 
told they wouldnt review the photographic evidence she provided. But PayPal considered 
the testimony she put forward when they considered her claim and took into consideration 
the response they received from E.
Furthermore, on Es website they state their items as being individually custom made and 
handcrafted to order, and the arrangements contain naturally sourced items.
PayPals terms are clear in setting out which items and transactions are ineligible under the 
buyer protection scheme they provide. And the terms say an item or transaction is ineligible 
for:
Significantly Not as Described claims for wholly or partly custom-made items or 
items picked up in person.
So, whilst Im satisfied PayPal acted fairly and reasonably when assessing Miss Ns claim, 
considering the item in question and the terms PayPal set out, I cant say they needed to 
consider her claim at all so I wont be asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman