DRN-3703623
The complaint
Mr A complains about Halifax Share Dealing Limited, hes unhappy that he was unable to 
sell some shares when he wanted to.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont go over it in great 
detail, but the key facts are as follows:
Mr A says that in November 2021 he tried to sell some ARVL shares he owned but 
was unable to as he received an error message saying that a W8BEN form was 
required before the shares could be sold.
He then contacted HSDL in May 2022 and complained. In summary, he thought that 
he shouldnt have been allowed to purchase the shares without firstly completing the 
W8BEN form. Had this been done then, he would have been able to sell the shares 
whenever he wanted to and would have made a profit of around £30,000. 
HSDL didnt uphold the complaint. They explained that while the ARVL shares were 
traded on an American exchange, they were incorporated in Luxembourg and 
therefore a W8BEN form wasnt required. And in any event, the forms were only 
required for purchases and not for sales, so they didnt think theyd done anything 
wrong.
Mr A didnt agree with their findings and brought the complaint to this service where it 
was considered by one of our investigators. The investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint as he thought there was no evidence of any system issues preventing Mr 
A from selling the shares. He also thought that Mr A waited too long to contact HSDL 
about any potential problems as he would have expected HSDL to resolve them if 
theyd been made aware of them at the time.
Mr A didnt agree, he accepted he didnt contact HSDL as quickly as he could have 
done but thought that they should have evidence to show that their systems 
prevented him from selling the shares. He also thought that HSDLs statement that 
the W8BEN form wasnt required was contrary to US Internal Revenue Service 
advice.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his mind, so the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld and I will go on to explain why. 
Id firstly like to acknowledge that I appreciate Mr As strength of feeling about this complaint 
and Id like to assure him that Ive considered the points hes made very carefully. 
At the heart of this complaint is Mr As inability to sell the shares when he wanted to. Ive 
considered if HSDL are to blame for the issues Mr A says he experienced. There is a lack of 
evidence to show that he was prevented from selling the shares when he wanted to. HSDL 
have confirmed that their process is that W8BEN forms are only required when shares are 
being bought not when they are sold. Theyve provided evidence to show that this is the 
case, so I think its more likely than not that Mr A didnt need to complete a form when he 
was trying to sell the shares. 
However, errors do happen from time to time, so it is possible that Mr A may have received a 
message saying he needed to complete the form. But I dont think it would have been 
unreasonable for Mr A to contact HSDL if he had any issues when he was trying to sell the 
shares. I think that given the significance of the money he invested in the shares - it was all 
the money he had for his pension - it seems fair that he should have tried to mitigate any 
problems he encountered. 
Ive havent seen anything to suggest that HSDL wouldnt have tried to assist him if he did 
have an issue. Having considered the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly ask them to 
reimburse him for any potential losses when he didnt make them aware of a problem until 
six months after when it was supposed to have taken place. 
In summary, although I empathise with the difficult circumstances Mr A finds himself in given 
how ARVLs share price fell, there arent grounds to require HSDL to compensate him for his 
missed profits.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman