DRN-3214193
The complaint
Miss S has complained that Santander UK Plc continued charging her excessive amounts 
for her overdraft when she was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Miss S complained to Santander about the charges that had been applied to her account. 
Santander didnt uphold the complaint. And as Miss S was dissatisfied, she referred the 
complaint to our service.
Miss Ss complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that Santander 
ought to have realised that Miss S was experiencing financial difficulty by 4 October 2016 
and so shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. 
Santander didnt respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Santander acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after 4 October 
2016. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Miss S was in no position to sustainably 
repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
I say this because, by this point, it was clear that Miss S was having difficulty managing her 
money. Miss Ss statements show that she had a number of returned direct debits  
including the payment for her mortgage  and she was clearly using her overdraft to make 
ends meet as she was reliant on it to meet essential payments, there was also evidence that 
Miss S was using payday lenders. In these circumstances, it ought to have been apparent 
that Miss S was at a significant risk of experiencing financial difficulty and so she should 
have been treated with forbearance rather than having had even more interest, fees and 
charges added to her overdraft. 
Miss S ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this 
ended up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that 
Santander didnt treat Miss S fairly and she lost out because of what Santander did wrong. 
And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ss complaint for Santander to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Ss current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it after 4 October 2016 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Santander should contact Miss S to arrange a suitable repayment 
plan, Miss S is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Santander 
to reach a suitable agreement. If it considers it appropriate to record negative 
information on Miss Ss credit file, Santander should reflect what would have 
been recorded had it started the process of taking corrective action on the 
overdraft in October 2016. Santander can also reduce the overdraft limit by the 
amount of refund if it considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so 
wouldnt leave Miss S over her limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss S along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Santander should remove any adverse information from Miss Ss credit file. 
Santander can also reduce Miss Ss overdraft limit by the amount of the refund if 
it considers it appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ss complaint. Santander UK Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman