DRN-2316862
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S complain about the repairs that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) carried out on 
their car after a claim was made on their motor insurance policy. Mr S is a named driver on 
Mrs Ss policy. They want further repairs made at a different garage and compensation for 
their inconvenience.  
What happened
Mrs Ss car was damaged and UKI took it to its approved repairers. When it was returned, 
Mrs S said it had been further damaged. The garage rectified this, but Mrs S remained 
unhappy. UKI had its engineer inspect the car. He found further areas that needed 
rectification. He thought the car had been driven to a main garage for repairs and this had 
used up petrol. 
UKI told the garage to carry out the further repairs and paid Mrs S £120 to cover the cost of 
her petrol and as compensation for her inconvenience. But she wanted further compensation 
as she had to take time off work, and she wanted the repairs done at a different garage. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought it was 
reasonable for the approved garage to finish the repairs as it was familiar with the car. And 
she thought UKIs offer of £120 compensation was fair and reasonable.
Mrs S replied that she lacked trust in the repairers. She said shed taken time off work to 
attend the garage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the repairs to Mrs Ss car should have been completed satisfactorily the first time the 
car was at the garage. And I can understand Mrs Ss frustration that this will be the third time 
the car has been in for repairs.
But I think UKI responded promptly to Mrs Ss complaint. I think it reasonably had its 
engineer inspect the car. He thought that most of the repairs had been completed 
satisfactorily. But he agreed that the number plate needed to be replaced and he spotted 
some minor snagging issues with over-painting. He also agreed to approve the repair of an 
alloy wheel as a gesture of goodwill as it was uncertain whether this had been damaged in 
the accident.   
So I dont agree with Mrs S that the garage caused further damage as Ive seen no evidence 
of this. 
The engineer thought the approved garage should complete the final repairs. I can 
understand that Mrs S would feel worried about this. But I can see that the garage 
completed the majority of the repairs satisfactorily. And I can see that UKIs engineer took 
her through images of the repairs to show her what had been done as a reassurance. So I 
think it was reasonable for UKI to instruct the garage to complete the final minor repairs. 
Mrs S was concerned that the garage had put 50 miles on the clock whilst it was at the 
garage. UKI said it should only be driving the car for road tests. It explained that the car had 
been driven to a main garage for alignment. UKI confirmed this. So whilst I think there was a 
valid reason to move the car, it should have been transported. But I think UKI reasonably 
included petrol costs in its offer of compensation. I cant see evidence that driving it caused 
any further damage to the car. 
Mrs S was unhappy that another companys employee leant his tools against her car. She 
was concerned that this may have caused further damage. But, whilst I can understand her 
worry, I cant see any evidence of this. So I cant require UKI to do anything further on this 
point.
Mrs S said shed taken time off work because of the repairs and she thought UKI should 
compensate her for this. I can see that Mrs S was caused inconvenience. But I think all 
claims, and complaints, involve a level of inconvenience. And I think UKIs compensation 
offer acknowledges this and its in keeping with the level Id award in similar circumstances. 
So I dont require it to increase this. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman