DRN-3696523
The complaint
Mrs T complains J D Williams & Company Limited (JDW) irresponsibly approved her for 
multiple accounts.
What happened
Mrs T has taken out multiple accounts with JDW. Mrs T says these accounts were all 
irresponsibly approved; and had JDW completed proper checks it wouldve realised she 
could not afford them. Mrs T says she has lost out financially as a result of these accounts 
as she has had to pay out additional interest and charges.
Mrs T has multiple accounts with JDW spanning a number of years. She has raised 
complaints about each of these accounts. The majority of the accounts she has with JDW 
have been considered under a separate complaint reference with our service. This decision 
concerns two further accounts which werent considered under the original complaint to our 
service. JDW considered Mrs Ts complaint in relation to these accounts and made partial 
offers on both accounts
The two accounts and the existing offers are set out below:
Account ending Date Opened Offer made by JDW
A-168 June 2009 Upheld from limit increase in 
September 2009
I-557 June 2009 Upheld from limit increase in 
September 2009
JDW has confirmed it has applied the redress on these accounts already.
Mrs T disagrees with the offers which have been made. She says neither account should 
have been approved in the first instance.
Our investigator considered Mrs Ts complaint but felt the existing offers made by JDW were 
fair and reasonable in this instance. In coming to this outcome our investigator explained that 
whilst there was limited information due to the passage of time; that the initial credit limits 
had been low and as such she was satisfied that JDW had likely completed proportionate 
checks. And that considering the relatively low level of associated payments it was more 
likely than not that the initial application wouldve been affordable to Mrs T. As such the point 
at which JDW had made its offer was fair. This was because Mrs Ts credit limit had been 
increased beyond a point where it wouldve likely been affordable to her. 
Mrs T remained unhappy and asked for a review of all of her accounts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.   
Mrs T and JDW are aware of our services approach to irresponsible and unaffordable 
lending complaints; so, for the sake of conciseness I wont set out the detail here. 
Having reviewed everything, Im satisfied that JDW does not need to do anything further in 
relation to this complaint. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mrs T; however, 
I can assure her Ive considered all of the information that has been provided and Ive 
reviewed all of the accounts separately. Ill deal with each in turn.
Account ending A-168
This account was taken out in June 2009. The initial credit limit was £125. There were two 
further credit limit increases before JDWs offer of redress from September 2009. These limit 
increases were to £225 and £325. JDW has offered redress from the third credit limit 
increase to £500.
Mrs T says she should not have been approved this account from the outset. She says she 
could not afford the credit and JDW shouldve done more to check her affordability.
Ive carefully considered Mrs Ts argument but Im not persuaded by it in this instance. 
JDW says that it searched Mrs Ts credit file prior to each lending decision; as well as taking 
into consideration her payment history. Due to the passage of time that has passed JDW 
has been unable to provide our service with the details of the results it completed for each 
check. However, considering the relatively low limit of the credit being advanced in the initial 
application, Im satisfied that these checks wouldve been proportionate. 
Ive not been presented with any information from either party (understandably so 
considering the time frame involved) that demonstrates Mrs Ts finances were in such a 
place that any form of credit wouldve been unaffordable. Instead, considering the low level 
of the credit being provided (and the associated payments); it is more likely she couldve 
afforded it. 
The subsequent credit limit increases happened in July and August 2009. Again, these limit 
increases were for a relatively low amount - £225 and £325 respectively. JDW did need to 
take into consideration all of Mrs Ts other existing credit at this point (such as account I-557) 
when completing its checks. However even taking these other limits into account Im still 
satisfied that overall limit remained relatively low, to the point that searching Mrs Ts credit 
file and considering her account history was likely proportionate.
Again there are no results from the checks which were completed; but Ive been presented 
with Mrs Ts account history. These show that Mrs T was managing her account well; and 
had not been utilising high levels of her available credit limit. She had made her necessary 
repayments on time for both of these increases.So, in the absence of any information Im satisfied this information shows Mrs T couldve 
likely afforded the increases. And as such it follows that I do not think JDW acted unfairly in 
providing the initial credit limit or two subsequent increases.
As stated above JDW has provided redress from September 2009; and as such I do not 
require it to take any further action in relation to this complaint.
Account ending I-557
This account was opened later in June 2009. The opening credit limit was £125. There was 
one further increase in July 2009 to £225 before JDWs existing offer of redress in 
September 2009.
Similar to account A-168 Im satisfied that JDW does not need to do anything further in 
relation to this account. 
Again, JDW says that it searched Mrs Ts credit file prior to each lending decision; as well as 
taking into consideration her payment history. Due to the passage of time that has passed 
JDW has been unable to provide our service with the details of the results it completed for 
each check. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that proportionate checks were completed in this 
instance. This is because the opening limit was low, and although Mrs T had other accounts 
with JDW by this time, the total combined credit she had was also low. As such searching 
her credit file was likely proportionate in this instance. The same applies to the credit 
increase of £225.
Ive not been presented with any information that shows Mrs Ts finances were such that 
JDW were irresponsible to approve her for the initial limit. The account history from both of 
these accounts show again that Mrs T was maintaining her accounts well at this point; and 
was not utilising high amounts of her available credit. It seems that Mrs T was making her 
required repayments on time and there is no evidence of any financial hardship. So Im 
satisfied on balance that Mrs T couldve likely afforded the initial credit limit and the 
subsequent increase. And as such it follows that I do not think JDW acted unfairly in 
providing the initial credit limit or the subsequent increase.
As stated above JDW has provided redress from September 2009; and as such I do not 
require it to take any further action in relation to this complaint.
I appreciate this decision, and Mrs Ts other linked complaint, will come as a disappointment 
to her. However, I hope my explanation sets out my findings clearly for her. As JDW has 
already completed the appropriate redress on this complaint I make no further award against 
it.
Putting things right
As J D Williams & Company Limited has already completed this redress I make no further 
award against it.  
My final decision
My final decision is that the offer of redress made by J D Williams & Company Limited is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As J D Williams & Company Limited 
has already completed this redress I make no further award against it.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman