DRN-3028970
complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out in 2003 as 
part of Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). 
A TMPP was a type of insurance protection package which typically included mortgage 
payment protection insurance (the PPI element) together with other features, such as life 
insurance and critical illness cover (CIC). The individual elements of the TMPP were added 
or taken out as the consumer(s) wished.
Mr W says he and his late wife, Mrs W, were mis-sold the PPI cover by Bank of Scotland 
Plc, trading as Halifax. 
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to BOS throughout this decision.
background
Firstly, Id like to place on record how sorry I am that Mr W has had to wait so long for the 
complaint to get to this stage, no doubt under difficult circumstances for him. I also note that 
although he we heard from Mr W personally a few months ago, Mr W and the estate of Mrs 
W is represented by a claims management company, which Ill refer to as the 
representatives.
One of our adjudicators previously looked into the mis-sale element of the complaint some 
time ago. They told the representatives that they didnt think we should uphold the mis-sale 
complaint. They also said that although BOS doesnt accept it did anything wrong in relation 
to the commission it obtained as a result of selling the PPI, it has since made an offer to Mr 
W and the estate of Mrs W, as if it had. The adjudicator thought this offer to pay back some 
of the cost in relation to the commission was fair in the circumstances.
The representatives of Mr W and the estate of Mrs W didnt agree to what the business or 
our adjudicator said. So, as the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed 
to me for a final decision.
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available. When considering 
what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this one. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive too decided that BOSs offer to refund some 
of the cost of PPI is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my reasons for each of these 
conclusions below. 
The representatives of Mr W and the estate of Mrs W made a substantial number of 
complaint points, including that the late Mrs W wasnt working at the time and that Mr W was 
intending to retire. It implied these issues made them effectively ineligible for the policy. 
However, although the mortgage in question was a joint one, only Mr W was ever protected 
by the PPI cover. So Mrs W wasnt covered by the PPI. I also note Mr W didnt retire until 
many years after the PPI and Ive seen no evidence showing he was intending to retire in 
2003 or anytime soon after. So Im afraid I consider these points, put forward by the 
representatives, to be unrelated to the facts of this particular complaint.
I think BOS made it clear enough that Mr and Mrs W didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out in respect of Mr W. I say this because although we dont have any point 
of sale paperwork left, Ive seen quite a few BOS policy sales from this time period, and I 
think the wording of the forms most likely used would have made it clear that having PPI was 
optional. I see Mr and Mrs W selected cover only for Mr W and also for only two aspects of 
the cover available, rather than three. They chose the accident and sickness protection 
element, and the life cover; the CIC wasnt selected. So it looks much more like the PPI was 
something they wanted to have at the time in respect of Mr W and they made a choice about 
what they wanted to do. 
In my view, its much more likely that BOS properly obtained their consent.
BOS says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W, as part of an advised sale, so needed 
to check that it was right for their situation. I think it was.
I say this because Mr W was eligible for the cover and whilst I agree he would have had 
some sickness protection through his job, this was a mortgage secured against Mr and Mrs 
Ws home. It would have paid out up to £589 per month for up to two years - much longer 
than his sick pay - if successfully claimed on, and this would have been in addition to any 
other means they already had. So I think it was suitable. 
Its certainly possible the information BOS gave to Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it might have been. But overall, I think they probably had enough information on 
which to make an informed decision about what they wanted to do because Ive seen the 
documents normally used in these cases. And I think the various levels of protection would 
have seen set on a schedule showing who and what was covered, together with the costs. 
The cover also wasnt too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying from 
the information they were most likely given at the point of sale. At around £33 per month, it 
also looks like it was affordable for them and useful if something went wrong. 
Because of this I dont think Mr and Mrs W would have acted differently even if I accept that 
BOS could have done a better job at explaining things during the sale; I still think theyd have 
wanted to take this cover out.
The representatives of Mr W and the estate of Mrs W also raised a number of what I 
consider to be general complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These 
general points include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly 
applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies 
represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of 
cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant BOS should 
have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making a claim.But the representatives did not say how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ws individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints. I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ws 
particular case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out 
above I dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. This means BOS doesnt have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided BOS didnt need to disclose the commission it received under 
the rules that apply  but in any event I note its offered to pay back some of the cost of PPI, 
so theres nothing more it needs to do. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
The representatives made a number of points about this part of the complaint including the 
impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act on 
this complaint. In summary they said Mr W and the estate of Mrs W should get back all the 
money paid for the policy because BOS failed to tell them about the high commission and 
profit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio, and the typical restrictions / exclusions on cover. 
Because they say these things meant the policy was poor value, they imply I should find that 
Mr and Mrs W wouldnt have taken out the policy had they known about the level of 
commission. The representatives say a refund is due of all the premiums paid.
However, in this case, BOS has shown us that the commission for the PPI was less than half 
of that paid for each premium. Weve looked at how BOS has worked this out and based on 
what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in this case was less than half the cost of 
the PPI, and therefore below the threshold mentioned in the rules about compensating 
consumers.
As thats the case, taking into account:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin2 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
BOS and Mr and Mrs W was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
2 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipbecause BOS didnt tell them about the levels of commission and profit share 
I dont think BOS needed to tell Mr and Mrs W about the commission levels in this particular 
case. It follows that I dont think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship and I dont 
therefore think BOS treated Mr and Mrs W unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay back 
any of the commission paid for the PPI. 
However, in the event, BOS has since offered to give back to Mr W and the estate of Mrs W 
some of the cost of the PPI to compensate as if it had treated them unfairly. 
I dont think it needs to do anything more.
my decision
I do not uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint or make any award in favour of Mr W 
and the estate of Mrs W for this part of the complaint.
Ive also decided that Bank of Scotland Plc did not need to disclose the commission it 
received, but it has already offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI Mr W and the 
estate of Mrs W. It should therefore now make arrangements to pay, if it hasnt done so 
already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr W and the 
estate of Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman