DRN-3303386
The complaint
Mr T complains about the administration of his pension transfer by Scottish Friendly 
Assurance Society Limited (SF), which caused delays and subsequent financial loss.
What happened
Mr T had a personal pension plan with SF, with a planned retirement date of 26 January 
2020.
In December 2019 Mr T called SF to ask if his funds could freeze on his retirement date, but 
he was told this couldnt happen.
Mr T then applied to transfer his pension plan to another provider so that he could purchase 
an annuity. The receiving scheme guaranteed the annuity rate Mr T would receive if the 
transfer was concluded by 9 April 2020.
There were delays during the application process, which resulted in the transfer not 
occurring until 21 April 2021, which meant Mr T received a lower annuity rate from his new 
provider and his fund value had also dropped.
Mr T complained to SF that it hadnt frozen his funds on his retirement date as hed asked, 
and that the delays it had caused meant hed lost fund value and received a lower annuity 
rate from his receiving scheme.
SF, in its final response letter, agreed it had caused some delays and backdated the fund 
switch value to 6 April 2020 so that he suffered no financial loss. It also offered Mr T £100 
compensation for the delay itd caused and the service it had provided him.
Mr T didnt accept this and complained to our service. Whilst the complaint was with us, SF 
reviewed its response, and on 23 September 2020 it made a new offer. It said: 
it had received the required PSTR number from the receiving scheme on 9 March
2020, so it didnt need to request this again. All it needed to conduct the transfer was 
Mr Ts certified ID, which it had received on 18 March 2020.
it received a call from Mr T on 25 March 2020 asking for the transfer to be put on 
hold, and a further call from him the next day asking for it to be reinstated. It 
shouldve used this date, 26 March 2020, as the date of instruction to proceed, so 
shouldve used this date to obtain the value of his pension, and not the later date, 
6 April 2020. This meant the value of Mr Ts pension shouldve been calculated as 
£74,294.45 and not £73,986.72, a difference of £307.73. It would contact the 
receiving scheme to see if it would accept the additional funds. It would also redress 
any loss as a result of the late investing of these funds.
it also acknowledged that it shouldve completed the transfer before the expiry of the 
guaranteed annuity rate offered by the receiving scheme, so Mr T shouldve obtained 
a better rate. It acknowledged Mr T may well have suffered a financial loss as a result 
of the change in annuity rate, and the delay in taking the tax-free cash. It would cover 
any costs involved if this is the case.
On 25 January 2022 I wrote to Mr T and SF with my provisional thoughts, as I thought it 
likely Mr T hadnt properly considered SFs revised offer. I also laid out how I thought the 
complaint should be settled.
In this provisional decision I said:
Firstly, Ill consider whether I think SF shouldve done more when you asked for your funds 
to be frozen. As the investigator explained, this isnt something that is possible. And as you 
state, you used the wrong terminology here when discussing your retirement date with SF. 
Funds have to be invested in some way, so freezing them isnt possible, but SF can only 
act on specific instructions. So I dont think it is fair or reasonable to expect SF to have 
converted your funds to cash or similar without you actually telling them to do that.
However, I do think it shouldve done more when it came to the transfer itself, and Im glad 
its acknowledged the delays its caused. And I think the offer of redress it has made is 
generally fair, but with some small alterations, which Ill explain.
When it comes to the delays, having looked closely at both your, and SFs submissions, I 
think it is fair to use 26 March 2020 as the date when the transfer value shouldve been 
calculated. This is based on the date SF say you called to instruct the transfer to proceed. I 
understand you dispute you made this call, and the one on the day before, as you have none 
on your phone records, and it is unfortunate that SF are unable to provide a recording of this 
call. However, as Ive said above, I need to decide what I think is more likely to have 
happened. And SF have provided contact notes showing you called, telling it to hold the 
transfer on 25 March, and then instructing it to go ahead on 26 March. And these contact 
notes are added to the system at the time. So I think, on balance, its more likely than not that 
you made these calls. And so it follows that 26 March was the date you gave final 
instructions to proceed, and SF had everything needed to process those instructions.
Our service is not here to punish businesses when they make mistakes or treat their 
customers badly. But we do aim to put the customer back in the position they wouldve been 
had the error(s) not been made. So in your case, you need to be put into the position you 
shouldve been taking into account the value of your pension, the date of transfer and the 
annuity rate.
In regard to the value of the pension, SF have offered to contact the receiving scheme to see 
if the difference can be added to the new pension. But I dont think this is what should 
happen, as it doesnt take into account the difference in the annuity rate you achieved, 
compared to what you shouldve achieved had the transfer been completed before 9 April.
Im proposing to redress both past loss and future loss in the following ways:
Past loss
SF need to calculate the net annuity income that wouldve been generated, and the tax free
cash sum that wouldve been paid if the annuity had been calculated on 26 March 2020. Any
difference between these amounts and the actual amounts paid represent the past loss. SF
should pay you a lump sum equal to this past loss plus interest at 8% simple.Future loss
SF arent able to amend the annuity going forward as they dont provide it. So SF should
calculate the purchase price needed to buy an annuity equal to the difference between the
amount currently being paid, and the correct amount (including the guaranteed annuity rate). 
SF should then purchase this second annuity for you, so you have the correct amount of 
retirement income going forward.
Distress and inconvenience
But its not only a financial loss youve suffered. I can see from your testimony and the 
evidence on file, that youve been caused distress and inconvenience by SFs errors and 
delays. And because the errors impact your retirement funds, the distress caused is 
significant. I can see SF have offered you £100 for the distress and inconvenience youve 
been caused, but I dont think this is enough. I think £250 would better reflect the distress 
you were likely caused by losing value in your future pension income though SFs delays.
The responses to my provisional decision
SF accepted my provisional decision, but noted that the future loss calculation would be 
dependent on receiving the required information from the receiving scheme.
Mr T also accepted my provisional decision in the main, but provided a lot of further 
testimony regarding his request to freeze his funds, the calls SF said it received from him, 
and the delays. Although I wont comment on everything hes said, I want to reassure Mr T 
that I have read and considered everything that he sent in, but in my decision Ive 
concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
In respect of his request to freeze his funds on his retirement date, Mr T accepts that this 
was a poor choice of words on his behalf, but that SF shouldve, given the news about the 
emergence of the pandemic, understood and provided more help. Whilst I have some 
sympathy with his position, I must stress that making changes to his pension is a big step, 
and SF would only do this with specific and actionable instructions. So I dont think it would 
be fair for me to say SF shouldve done what Mr T asked, when that wasnt actually possible. 
And SF wasnt acting in an advisory capacity either, it was only there to act on his 
instructions.
Mr T said he thinks the second call, on 26 March 2020 was made not by him, but by his 
adviser, but hes not disputing the contents of the call. Ive assessed this but dont think it 
has an effect on my decision. Although it raises questions regarding the quality or accuracy 
of the notes in SFs contact record, it does confirm a call was made, and that instructions 
were given to SF to proceed with the transfer.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having do so, and having also considered everything Mr T has said, Im satisfied the 
outcome I set out in my provisional decision is fair and reasonable.Putting things right
In settlement of this complaint, SF should do the following:
calculate the net annuity income that wouldve been generated, and the tax free
cash sum that wouldve been paid if the annuity had been calculated on 26 March 
2020. Any difference between these amounts and the actual amounts paid represent 
the past loss. Pay Mr T a lump sum equal to this past loss plus interest at 8% simple, 
calculated to the day of settlement.
Calculate the purchase price needed to buy an annuity equal to the difference 
between the amount currently being paid, and the correct amount (including the 
guaranteed annuity rate). Then purchase this second annuity for Mr T, to correct his 
retirement income going forward.
Pay Mr T £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited to settle this complaint in the manner I 
have laid out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman