DRN-3260758
The complaint
Mrs D complains about DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limiteds (DAS) 
handling of her claim under her home emergency insurance.  
What happened
Mrs D had a problem with a blocked drain which in turn was causing an issue with her toilet. 
Mrs D reported this to DAS and their engineer felt the problem was with the mainline pipes 
and therefore the responsibility of the water company. The engineer also thought repair 
works would involve an excavation which DAS said wasnt covered under Mrs Ds policy. 
Mrs D then arranged her own expert who said the work didnt require an excavation and the 
drain was then unblocked by the water company.  
Mrs D complained about DASs delay, lack of communication and that their engineer hadnt 
looked into the drain when carrying out their assessment. DAS responded and provided a 
timeline of events setting out the action they had taken. DAS accepted Mrs D hadnt 
received the level of service they would expect to be delivered and apologised. They also 
offered £250 for the delays and lack of communication.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs D. He thought DASs offer of compensation was 
reasonable and wouldnt be asking them to do anything further. Mrs D disagreed so the 
matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided DASs offer is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Mrs D 
will be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mrs D. DAS have admitted they got things wrong in 
relation to delay and lack of communication. The only issue I have to decide is whether their 
offer to put things right is fair and reasonable. Mrs D says she was left without a toilet for 12 
days and both she and her family had to use public toilets during this time. So, Ive looked to 
see how much of this delay DAS are responsible for. 
The information shows Mrs D first reports a problem with a blocked toilet on 16 August 2021. 
DAS arrange for an engineer to attend Mrs Ds property the following day and they find that 
the blockage appears to be in the main drain outside the property. 
The engineer contacts the water company and the reference number for this is given to Mrs 
D so she can arrange for them to attend. Mrs D then contacts DAS on 18 August to say the 
water company had attended and they found no blockage within their system and the 
blockage was within the property boundary. DAS arrange for an engineer to carry out an 
inspection and they find the drain is blocked with wipes and sticks so a fence panel would 
need to be removed in line with the gully before they could attend again. They also suggest 
excavation will be required.  
Mrs D calls DAS to say the fence panel has been removed and DAS explain an engineer 
would attend. It appears theres delays in arranging quotes and Mrs D then calls on 19 
August to chase up when an engineer will be attending again. Later that day, DAS call Mrs D 
and explain the excavation work which was suggested by the engineer isnt something which 
is covered under the policy and shell need to contact her buildings insurer. Mrs D then 
complains about the service, in particular, with the lack of updates and the fact that nobody 
told her earlier that the issue needs to be sorted out by her buildings insurer. Mrs D is also 
concerned that the engineer didnt look into the drain to reach the conclusion that an 
excavation was required and wanted a second opinion. DAS then looked into whether 
alternative accommodation could be offered to Mrs D but she didnt want this. 
DAS then call Mrs D on 20 August and she explains her buildings insurer have said the 
issue doesnt fall within the scope of their cover. DAS then suggest Mrs D arranges to have 
the gully cleared privately to enable access to the drain. DAS acknowledge the 
inconvenience to Mrs D over the last few days and offer compensation of £175. Mrs D then 
contacts DAS on 23 August and explains she has arranged her own expert who confirmed 
an excavation wasnt required and the blockage could be cleared through the manhole in the 
neighbours garden  but they are currently on holiday so the expert cant carry out any 
work. DAS suggest Mrs D should contact the water company. Then on 28 August, the water 
company attend and are able to clear the blockage. 
Taking this all into account, the issue with the blocked drain was resolved in 12 days. The 
information shows DAS attended on days 2 and 3 and its then decided that the work which 
is required isnt covered by the policy. It appears the excavation work recommended by 
DASs expert wasnt required so there has been some delay by DAS as this meant they 
didnt take things forward at that time. I dont think its fair though to hold DAS responsible for 
the full 12 days Mrs Ds toilet was unusable as her own expert suggested they would need 
access to her neighbours garden but this wasnt possible as they were away. And, that 
being the case, I cant say DAS were responsible beyond that point as the terms and 
conditions of Mrs Ds policy says it covers the drainage system within the boundary of      
Mrs Ds home and for which she is legally responsible. So, given Mrs Ds testimony of her 
own experts findings, it appears access to the blockage would need to be gained from the 
neighbours garden  and therefore outside of the boundary of Mrs Ds home.   
I think its right that DAS should compensate Mrs D though for the frustration and 
inconvenience caused to her. DAS accept there was delay and lack of communication. And, 
it also appears their experts assessment that an excavation would be required, might not 
have been accurate. I am very sorry to hear about the trouble and inconvenience Mrs D and 
her family were put through while their toilet was out of use. But, as mentioned above, I cant 
say DAS should be responsible for the 12 days this impacted Mrs D. 
DAS accept the initial attendance on 17 August was outside of the service level agreement 
set by them. While there is regular contact with Mrs D over the next few days, I think things 
couldve moved quicker over the week between Mrs D reporting the issue and then 
instructing her own expert. And, I believe things wouldve moved quicker if DASs expert 
hadnt decided excavation was required to resolve the issue. 
DAS did offer Mrs D and her family alternative accommodation to minimise the impact and I 
think this was fair and reasonable and was a potential solution to the inconvenience being 
caused to Mrs D. 
I note Mrs D believes the situation shouldve been resolved during the engineers first visit 
and she feels DAS should be responsible for paying for her fuel for travelling to public toilets 
and for her having to take four days off work for engineers to attend. I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest the problem was resolved with there being no requirement to attend the neighbours garden  in fact, the information Ive seen suggests this was required. So, I cant 
say for certain that the issue couldve been resolved by DASs engineer through Mrs Ds 
boundary during their visit  
My final decision
DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited have already made an offer to pay £250 
compensation to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited should pay £250 to 
Mrs D, if they havent done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman