DRN-2612799
The complaint
Mr A complains about the interest rate applied to his mortgage with Yorkshire Building 
Society after his product expired.
What happened
Mr A took out a commercial mortgage in 2005 to buy an investment property. He took out a 
five-year fixed interest rate product. His mortgage offer said after the product expired the 
interest rate would be 1.65% above base rate.
However, when the product expired in 2010 YBS said the rate would be higher. It said it had 
the right under the mortgage terms and conditions to change the rate.
Our investigator said the mortgage offer made it clear that YBS had to the right to increase 
interest rates.
Mr A didnt agree, saying YBS should have kept to the agreement and didnt act fairly. He 
said it applied a high interest rate even in this current tough economic climate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The mortgage offer sent to Mr A in 2005 said that after the product rate ended the interest 
rate would revert to 1.65% over the Societys base rate (subject to a 3% minimum interest 
rate). However, immediately below this (and in bold capitals) it said this was the rate that 
applied at the date of the offer, and the interest rate and any element of it may increase or 
decrease from time to time, in accordance with the mortgage conditions. 
The mortgage conditions say YBS can increase the interest rate (or any element of it) by 
giving notice (including by advertisement). Theres no dispute here that YBS wrote to Mr A in 
2010 telling him that it had increased the interest rate, explaining why and setting out what 
the rates would be. Mr A signed and returned his acceptance of a new minimum interest 
rate.
I can understand Mr As frustration. He says the contact he entered into said YBS would 
apply a particular interest rate from 2020. But the mortgage offer and the mortgage terms 
and conditions gave YBS the right to make changes to the interest rate. YBS gave notice to 
Mr A of the changes, in accordance with the terms and conditions. 
If Mr A considered the rates offered by YBS to be uncompetitive, he could have looked into 
re-mortgaging elsewhere (taking into account the cost of any early repayment charge if hed 
taken out another interest rate product).  
I dont think YBS made an error or treated Mr A unfairly such that it would be fair and 
reasonable to require it to refund interest or pay compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
t
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman