DRN-4036740
The complaint
Mr Y complains that British Gas Insurance Limited charged him two policy excesses for 
repairs carried out on 21 February 2022 and 17 June 2022. He believes that the repairs 
were related so only one excess should have been charged. Hes also unhappy about the 
level of customer service provided and says hes still having problems with his heating 
system.
What happened
Mr Y has a HomeCare policy with British Gas. This provides boiler, controls and central 
heating cover, including an annual service. Hes covered for repairs to his central heating 
system, but each separate repair is subject to a £60 policy excess. This is confirmed in Mr 
Ys policy schedule. 
Mr Y has told us that in 2022 he noticed that an external overflow pipe from his boiler/hot 
water tank was seeping and the boiler/water pressure in his heating system gradually 
reduced. He says engineers attended his home six times but this issue wasnt resolved. And 
hes unhappy that he was charged a second policy excess in June 2022, when he believes 
this repair was related to the work carried out earlier. 
He also unhappy about the level of customer service provided by British Gas and the 
records he was given of the work their engineers had completed. 
The records provided by British Gas show that an engineer attended Mr Ys property on 
seven occasions between 21 February 2022 and 17 June 2022. Theyve told us that he was 
charged a £60 excess on 21 February 2022 when a leaking thermostatic relief valve was 
replaced in a bedroom and a filter cleaned. And on 17 June 2022 when a combi valve and a 
temperature pressure relief valve were replaced. 
On 4 April 2022 two engineers attended and Mr Ys annual service was carried out. A 
pressure-reducing valve was noted to be failing and a replacement was ordered. The 
engineer returned on 6 April 2022 to replace the valve. British Gas say that Mr Y wasnt 
charged for either of these visits.
On 20 May 2022 a further engineer attended. Mr Y wasnt happy with this appointment as he 
said the engineer was in his property for a matter of minutes and didnt do any work. British 
Gas have told us that the engineers notes say he pumped the expansion vessel on the 
Megaflow. Mr Y wasnt charged for this appointment.
On 13 June 2022 a further engineer attended. He found the Pressure Relief Valve (PRV) 
and Temperature Pressure Relief Valve (TPRV) to be leaking. These were replaced on 17 
June 2022. Mr Y was charged a £60 excess which he disputes as he believes this work is 
linked the work done on 21 February 2022. And he wants British Gas to write off this charge. 
But they say this repair wasnt related to the previous repair so an excess of £60 was 
correctly charged. 
Mr Y is also unhappy about the waiting times when he needed to call British Gas, and the 
documentation provided by the engineers to confirm what work theyd carried out.  
Mr Y raised a complaint on 27 June 2022. British Gas didnt uphold his complaint. In their 
response they provided details of the work carried out by their engineer on each visit and 
said they were satisfied that a second policy excess was correctly payable due to the work 
the engineer carried out. And they werent prepared to waive this payment.
The final response letter wrongly refers to an engineer visiting Mr Ys property on 1 June 
2022. Weve checked this with British Gas and theyve confirmed that this is a typing error. 
There was no visit on this date and the second excess was charged for the work done on 17 
June 2022.
Mr Y wasnt happy with the response he received to his complaint and referred it to our 
service. Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She acknowledged 
that based on the information provided by both parties theyd been some shortfalls in the 
service Mr Y received. But she was satisfied British Gas had applied the excess fees fairly 
and in line with Mr Ys policy terms.
She said the work carried out on 21 February 2022, when the first excess charge was 
applied, related to draining and replacing a valve in a bedroom radiator. The second excess 
charge was related to a different issue, replacing a leaking Pressure Relief Valve (PRV) and 
Temperature Pressure Relief Valve (TPRV). She was satisfied these were different issues 
related to different components which served unique purposes. 
And she referred to Mr Ys policy terms and conditions which say, Our engineer will use 
their expert judgment to decide whether a fault is related to an earlier fault or not. So she 
was satisfied that the excess fees were correctly charged.
Our investigator also considered the level of customer service British Gas provided. Mr Y 
had complained that the engineer who attended his property on 4 May 2022 did nothing. She 
thought it likely that the engineer didnt find any faults during this visit based on his note, All 
ok. And as Mr Y wasnt charged for this appointment, she didnt think British Gas had done 
anything wrong.
She also considered what Mr Y had said about long wating times when he called British 
Gas. She accepted there may have been times when hed had to wait longer on the phone, 
than he liked. But said she wasnt going to ask British Gas to do anything as waiting times 
can vary depending on the demand for their services and the availability of agents to take 
calls.
Mr Y also complained about the lack of records left by the engineers about the work theyd 
carried out. Since our investigator provided their opinion weve checked with British Gas and 
theyve told us that their engineers leave a worksheet at the property at the end of each 
visit, which is a record of what theyve done. They dont keep paper copies, but the engineer 
enters the information on his terminal and this is shown on the work history for the 
customers account.
Mr Y didnt accept our investigators opinion so the case has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Y has told us that hes unhappy that after all the visits engineers made to his property last year, he still has a leak. This wasnt addressed in the final response letter he received from 
British Gas. Weve checked with them and theyve confirmed that Mr Y hasnt raised a 
complaint about this. If he wants to pursue this Mr Y can contact British Gas to raise a 
complaint, or we can do this for him. But its not something that I can consider. 
Mr Ys policy schedule confirms that work carried out under his policy has a £60 policy 
excess. Im satisfied based on the information British Gas have provided that the two policy 
excesses he was charged, relate to different jobs. So it wouldnt be fair to ask British Gas to 
waive the second excess.
British Gas have told us that their engineer would have left a job sheet with Mr Y at the end 
of a visit where work had been carried out. While they dont have a copy of this, the engineer 
would have entered details of the work done on his terminal, and theyve provided a record 
of that for the visits that took place between 21 February 2022 and 17 June 2022. Mr Y has 
said hes not happy with the detail given of the work that had been done. But I think it was 
reasonable for the engineer to record brief details of the fault and what was done to correct 
it.
In relation to the engineers visit on 4 May 2022 I think its reasonable to say that no fault 
was found as the engineer recorded, All ok.
While I appreciate that its frustrating if there is a long wait when trying to get through to a 
business by phone, its not our role to tell them how they should operate. And there are 
always going to be times of greater demand when waiting times are going to be longer. 
British Gas have apologised for the delays Mr Y experienced and Im not going to ask them 
to do anything more.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ys complaint about 
British Gas Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman