DRN-4286995
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L and Ms L are unhappy with how Euroins AD (Euroins) handled their medical 
emergency claim on their travel insurance policy.
Any reference to Euroins includes all its agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 26 July 2023 and while the outcome wasnt different to 
what the investigator said, my reasons were slightly different. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator that the complaint 
is upheld, and the policy premium is refunded. But my intention is to increase the 
compensation amount to £300 from the £150 recommended by the investigator. My reasons 
are as follows:
Mr and Mrs L and Ms Ls travel policy covered them for emergency medical 
treatment while on their trip.
In February 2022, Mr L had an accident at the hotel and Euroins was notified. They 
submitted a claim. Euroins acknowledged the claim and asked for a medical report. 
Mrs L provided this to Euroins the next day and also kept them updated when Mr L 
was transferred to another hospital. Mr and Mrs L and Ms L had no further 
communication from Euroins until May 2023 to acknowledge the complaint they 
made.
Mr and Mrs L and Ms L had to pay the initial costs of the hospital treatment 
themselves as they had no response from Euroins. Mr L was in a critical condition. 
Mrs L had travel insurance alongside her bank current account and used this to make 
a separate claim. This was successful and medical treatment and repatriation costs 
were all settled.
Ive considered the impact and overall distress caused to Mr and Mrs L and Ms L. 
They were left for days not having had any further contact from Euroins and they had 
to make their own arrangements for Mr Ls treatment until the other insurer got 
involved. Mr L was in a critical medical condition and this of itself must have caused 
them considerable distress and worry. Both the service and communication they 
received from Euroins was poor and Mr and Mrs L and Ms L had to contact the 
British Embassy and the other insurer.
Euroins only contacted Mr and Mrs L and Ms L following a complaint they made in 
2023. ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle 
claims promptly and fairly.
In the circumstances of this complaint, Im not persuaded Euroins did handle the 
claim promptly or fairly. With that in mind, I think Euroins should pay Mr and Mrs L 
and Ms L £300, in total, in recognition of its failure to do so. And Euroins should also 
refund the travel policy premium Mr and Mrs L and Ms L paid plus 8% simple 
interest, one month from the date they made the claim to the date of settlement, as 
they werent able to make use of their policy.
Both parties responded. 
Euroins said it accepted the provisional decision. 
Mr and Mrs L and Ms L said Euroins treatment to them was appalling. Its online reviews 
confirm this. They say that they would like the company to face some sort of financial penalty 
and to stop this happening to other families.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. 
I appreciate Mrs Ls comments that the company should be made accountable. However, my 
role is to only look at the individual merits of a complaint, not to punish a financial business. 
This is the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So, I cant comment 
on this further and I realise they are disappointed and frustrated with the way Euroins dealt 
with them. As I said though, my role is not to punish a business.
Overall, having looked at everything again carefully, I think Euroins should have handled the 
claim promptly and fairly. It should therefore pay Mr and Mrs L and Ms L £300 in 
compensation for its failing. And it should also refund the premium they paid for the policy 
and add 8% simple interest.
Putting things right
To resolve Mr and Mrs L and Ms Ls complaint, Euroins should:
Pay Mr and Mrs L and Mr L £300 total compensation for the distress and worry 
caused to them.
Refund the policy premium they paid and add 8% simple interest to be calculated 
one month from the date of the claim to the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr and Mrs L and Ms Ls complaint about Euroins AD. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L and 
Ms L to accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman