DRN-1999250
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly refused to allow her to split the title on her 
property. Mrs F wanted Santander to value her property to substantiate its refusal to split the 
title. 
What happened
Mrs F had a parcel of land composed of a house and outbuildings. Mrs F took out an interest 
only mortgage with Santander with the term ending in November 2019 for about £190,000. 
The lender had security over the land which originally had one cottage and outbuildings. Mrs 
F built a bungalow on the land and now has two houses on it. Both these properties have 
names and to preserve anonymity I will call the original House 1 and the bungalow House 2. 
In November 2018, Mrs F wrote to Santander asking for it to agree to release House 2 from 
its security. Mrs F supplied valuations from estate agents showing that House 1 was valued 
over £675,000 and House 2 was valued over £400,000. Mrs F said the purpose of this was 
to allow her to sell either house within the next 12 months.
Santander replied that it wouldnt agree to any title changes but that if either of the properties 
were sold that Mrs F solicitor could affect any title changes whist redeeming its mortgage. 
Mrs F then replied on 29 December 2018 that she had disability and mobility needs and that 
her intention was to move into the bungalow, House 2 and then sell House 1. Mrs F asked, 
in order to be able to do that and make adaptations to (House 2) so that it meets my current 
and future disability needs, I need to be able to split the title. Santander refused saying that 
there were risks associated with splitting the title and the impact it may have on the 
saleability of the property as its sale was intended to clear the balance on the interest only 
mortgage. Mrs Fs solicitor wrote to Santander on 26 April 2019 again asking to split the title 
so that Mrs F could sell House 1. Mrs F also brought the complaint to us.
Although our investigators view was that Santander should have been more sympathetic to 
Mrs Fs request to split the title, she felt that there hadnt be any overall detriment to Mrs F 
and didnt affect her abiity to sell House 1 which was her objective. So, our investigator   
didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  Mrs F disagreed saying in summary 
that Santander by is actions prevented her from being able to raise finance on her new 
property
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I confirm I listened to the several phone calls that are on file in relation to his complaint. Mrs 
F has mobility and other health issues for which she has my greatest sympathy. Im pleased 
that since Mrs F made the complaint, she has been able to move into the bungalow, House 
2, which appears to be more suited for her future needs. From recent correspondence with 
Mrs F, I understand that the Santander mortgage was redeemed on 7 February 2020 by 
means of a buy to let mortgage on House 2 and a loan of £20,000 from a friend and that this 
mortgage was then ported to House1. Mrs F says that House 1, now with a buy to let 
mortgage is still on the market.
 
I know that Mrs F was annoyed that the letter from her solicitor appeared to be ignored by 
Santander when it was making its decision and Ive paid particular attention to it. I also note 
that Mrs F felt that it was unfair for Santander to refuse to split the title without having the 
properties valued which Mrs F offered to do.  According to Mrs Fs solicitors letter of April 
2019, Mrs F wanted to split the title so that House 1 could be sold, and she could move to 
House 2. Although Santander said that it wouldnt agree to split the title, the lender had 
already said that this would happen if any of the properties were sold. In effect, Santander 
had already agreed to what Mrs Fs solicitor wanted. Although the title wasnt split, Mrs F 
could, and did, market House 1 and if a buyer was found the conveyancers would split the 
title then.
With the figures Mrs F has produced, I recognise Santanders security may not have been 
endangered in a title split, but as the mortgage had only a few months to run, I can 
understand the lenders reluctance at that stage to interfere with the title. As the mortgage 
was to be paid off in November 2019 and Mrs Fs intention was to pay it off by the sale of 
House 1, at that stage the title would be split and the objectives of Mrs F and Santander 
would both have been met, 
As House 1 hasnt sold, in order to live in House 2, Mrs F would either have had to re-
mortgage as she has done or would for the last year have been in default of her commitment 
to repay the mortgage. Mrs F went ahead and re-mortgaged. This was achieved despite 
Santander not agreeing to split the title and clearly Santanders refusal didnt prevent the 
remortgage. So, the evidence doesnt support Mrs Fs statement in her email to us of 5 June 
2020 that the failure to split the title prevented her re-mortgaging. I also note that in her 
solicitors letter of 26 April 2019 the point is made that Mrs F was looking for the split in title 
precisely because she couldnt remortgage because of her age. The point is made that  The 
only way in which, a this stage , it is plausible for our client to raise the necessary funds (to 
make modifications to House 2) is by selling the main dwelling  and so she was looking for 
the split in order to sell House 1 which of course she could have done without splitting the 
title beforehand.
Although, I understand that Mrs F feels unfairly treated by Santander, it doesnt seem to me 
that its refusal to split the title would have prevented Mrs F proceeding with her plans as set 
out in her solicitors letter. It has also not subsequently prevented her re-mortgaging. So, on 
that basis I cant fairly uphold this complaint.       
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman