DRN-3813651
The complaint
Mr S complains about how esure Insurance Limited dealt with his claim when he had a leak 
in his bathroom and that his claim was declined.
What happened
Mr S has household insurance with esure. In early July 2021 he contacted esure to make a 
claim. Hed been away for the weekend and says he came home to find water leaking 
through the ceiling from his bathroom into his kitchen. He reported damage to his bathroom, 
the light fittings in his kitchen and the kitchen floor. He told esure hed called a plumber 
whod found a broken seal on an inlet pipe under the bath. This was repaired and the leak 
stopped.
esure arranged for a surveyor to inspect the property on 9 July 2021. He was concerned 
about how long ago the damage had happened. He noted that the seal around the bath was 
cracked, but he said the area under the bath was much drier than hed expected and there 
was no grout between most of the floor tiles.
In the kitchen there was damage to the ceiling, down the wall and to the floor. He found 
rising damp, mould growing up the wall, and mould on the ceiling. He didnt believe this 
would have happened in the few days since the leak was reported to have happened.
esure thought the damage was more consistent with a slow ongoing leak due to damaged 
sealant or grouting, which wasnt covered by Mr Ss policy. So they declined his claim.
The surveyor also raised concerns about whether the property was occupied as he said it 
seemed to be very sparsely furnished. Mr S was unhappy about the questions esure asked 
about this and the extent of the documentation he was asked to provide.
esure responded to this saying they were entitled to validate his claim, and while they 
appreciated this had caused him some inconvenience, he was required to cooperate with 
their reasonable requests for information.
Mr S raised a complaint with esure which wasnt upheld. He then complained to our service.
Mr S has told us that the property had previously been let to tenants, but theyd left, and he 
moved into the property in May 2021. He then took out his policy with esure. He says the 
property was in excellent condition when the tenants left. 
Mr S has also told us that his contractor told him that there was no mould, just discolouration 
from drying water on the kitchen walls, and this was in line with what theyd expect to see 
after a leak. He accepts that there was a pre-existing problem with rising damp in his kitchen 
but says this was nothing to do with the damage caused by the leak from the bathroom. This 
was due to a problem with the external brickwork, which Mr S says hes had repaired.
Mr S has also told us that prior to his tenants leaving he had landlords insurance, and he 
could have claimed on this if hes been aware of a problem then. 
Our investigator considered the case and said the information esure had requested from Mr 
S was reasonable, as concerns had been raised over whether the property was occupied. 
And his policy didnt provide any cover for escape of water or burst pipes if the property was 
unfurnished or unoccupied for more than 30 days.
And he accepted the evidence from esures surveyor that the most likely cause of the leak 
was damaged sealant around the bath, which had been patched rather than repaired. He 
said the damaged sealant could be seen in the surveyors photographs and was clearer in 
the photographs Mr S had provided. 
Our investigator was satisfied that the photographs provided by esures surveyor showed 
evidence of mould. He accepted that this would have taken longer to develop than the short 
period between Mr S discovering and reporting the leak and esures surveyor inspecting the 
property. 
So he thought it was reasonable for esure to have declined Mr Ss claim.
Mr S wasnt happy with our investigators opinion. He said hed provided evidence that the 
property was his permanent residence and all the damage he was claiming for was a result 
of a leak in early July 2021, rather than pre-existing damage occurring over time.
Mr S provided evidence to confirm that he had a problem with rising damp and the mould in 
his kitchen was due to a breach in the propertys damp course and a crack in the external 
mortar. This wasnt related to the leak from the bathroom, and hed had work done in 
October 2021 to deal with this.
He also provided a report from his contractor about the cause and extent of the damage to 
his bathroom and kitchen dated 8 February 2022. This identifies the cause of the leak as a 
failed connection in the mains water pipe behind the bath panel. This had been repaired by 
Mr Ss plumber.
The report says that the floor tiles in the bathroom had been dislodged by the leak, as the 
grout had come away. The tiles were loose and moved when walking over them. The 
chipboard/plywood beneath the tiles was soaked and this and the tiles would need to be 
removed to establish if there was any damage to the sub-floor and joists.
The damage had extended to the kitchen ceiling, laminate flooring and a tall kitchen unit. 
The report says the laminate flooring in the kitchen would need stripping, the tall kitchen unit 
would need to be replaced and sub-floor repairs might be required.
The report says the damage is consistent with water ingress caused by a sudden leak. While 
its acknowledged that the sealant around the bath wasnt in the best condition, its said not 
to be the cause of the damage. This is because the bath was fitted with a sealant strip and 
further flexible silicone sealant, which was more than required and was performing as 
expected. And it says the grout on the wall and floor tiles was intact in areas where the water 
didnt penetrate the sub-floor. Finally, the report says there was no water leak from any area
of the sealant around the bath and any mould wasnt related to the leak.
A copy of this report was sent to esure for their comments. esures surveyors considered the 
report and didnt accept that Mr Ss bathroom suite couldnt be reused and saw no reason to 
remove the UPVC ceiling. And they said there was no explanation of why the sink unit was 
so badly damaged and how a sudden small leak caused such damage to the tiles and grout. 
They said this usually takes weeks, if not months. And they maintained that the damage was 
due to failed sealant and grout damage over time. esure have said they consider the report from their surveyors to be more reliable than that 
provided by Mr Ss contractor. As their suppliers are specialists, they require a minimum of 
five years training and hold a range of qualifications. They also said that they havent been 
able to find any contact details for the company providing the report. So they questioned how 
genuine the report and company were.  
Having considered their surveyors comments on the report esure said the claim was 
declined because the damage didnt match the circumstances Mr S had reported, and they 
hadnt changed their view on this.
Because of the concerns esure had raised about the lack of contact details for Mr Ss 
contractor, our investigator asked him to provide further information about them. He said 
when weighing up reports from independent contractors its important for us to understand 
their level of expertise, and hed struggled to find their details. 
Mr S responding saying his contractor didnt really advertise and largely got work through 
recommendations. He provided the contractors full name, a contact number and details of 
his website. But expressed concerns about esure harassing the contractor about work hed 
quoted for, but never been paid for, and involving him in an insurance dispute. Mr S said 
hed been really embarrassed by this. He also said the contractors report and details of his 
work online showed his expertise.  
Our investigator considered the further information provided by Mr S and his contractor. He 
said he was satisfied on the basis of this that Mr S was living at the property at the time of 
the incident. 
He said esure had raised concerns about the validity of the report provided by Mr Ss 
contractor. But based on the further details Mr S had provided he was satisfied the report 
was genuine. And that Mr S had a valid claim under the terms of his policy which should be 
paid by esure. 
Mr S had asked for compensation for the way esure had handled his claim and for 
contacting his plumber and other third parties without his permission. Our investigator didnt 
recommend any compensation, as he said insurers have the right to investigate claims and 
their assessors report raised questions. And its also common for professionals to be 
questioned by insurers when they provide reports to support a claim. So he felt esure had 
acted reasonably.
Our investigator then referred the case for a decision as he said it was clear the case wasnt 
going to be resolved based on his opinion.
Since our investigator provided his further opinion Mr S has provided a detailed estimate for 
the cost of the repairs totalling £10,511.05. Hes confirmed that the repairs have been 
completed and provided proof of payment to his contractor.
We asked esure for the comments on the repairs and they said that the claim isnt covered 
by Mr Ss policy as the damage was a result of failed sealant and grout, not a one-off leak.  
The case then came to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 23 September 2022. And in it I said: -
I want to deal first with the question of whether Mr S was living if the property in July 2021 
when he made his claim to esure. This is important as his policy doesnt cover damage 
caused by an escape of water if the property isnt occupied for more than 30 days. esures surveyor said that the property appeared unoccupied at the time of his inspection. So I think 
it was reasonable for esure to request further information and documentation from Mr S to 
confirm he was living there.
Mr S provided the requested information and esure accepted that the property was occupied 
in July 2021. And they didnt decline his claim on the basis that the property wasnt occupied.
esure declined Mr Ss claim because they said the damage hadnt occurred as he claimed. 
They said it was due to a long-standing slow leak as a result of damaged sealant, rather 
than a sudden leak occurring over a couple of days. So I need to look at the evidence and 
decide if based on this esure acted reasonably in declining the claim. 
When Mr S made his claim esure arranged for a surveyor to inspect his property. He visited 
the property on 5 July 2021, four days after Mr S made his claim. The surveyor thought the 
damage was more consistent with long term damage occurring over time, than the result of a 
sudden, recent leak. 
He refers to a number of factors which led him to this conclusion. One of these was an area 
of rising damp and mould on one of the kitchen walls. Mr S has told us that the rising damp 
was related on a problem with an external wall, which wasnt related to the leak. And hes 
provided evidence to confirm that hes paid to have this repaired. 
So if we ignore the rising damp what else was noted by the surveyor? He said a leak from a 
water inlet for the bath, which is what Mr S says happened, would have caused completely 
different damage to that seen on the kitchen ceiling. And there was mould growth on the 
ceiling which the surveyor says wouldnt have happened in four days.
The surveyor also said that the damage in the kitchen was worse at the opposite end to 
where the bath inlet pipe was positioned. Which would suggest the water had run across the 
bathroom ceiling, which would have caused more damage, or along the bathroom floor 
making it much wetter than it was. But here I think the surveyor is referring to the wall 
affected by rising damp in the kitchen, which we now know isnt related to Mr Ss claim.
In the bathroom the surveyor noted that theyd been a leak in the wash hand basin vanity 
unit at some point, the seal around the bath was cracked and poor and had been patched at 
some point. He also said that the floor area under the bath was much drier than hed have 
expected after a leak, especially as Mr S was away when the leak occurred, and there was 
no grout between most of the floor tiles.
The photographs the surveyor has included in his report show the condition of the kitchen 
ceiling and the bathroom floor tiles. On the ceiling theres evidence of water damage, stains 
and what appears to be mould. And in the bathroom the lack of grout between the tiles can 
be clearly seen.
Mr S doesnt accept the report prepared by esures surveyor. He provided a report from his 
contractor which says that in the bathroom the floor tiles had been dislodged due to water 
penetration from the sudden leak, which had caused movement in the tiles, and walking on 
the floor was unsafe due to the extent of the water damage. 
He also said that the grout on the floor was raised in the area close to the leak, and the 
boarding below was soaked, so hed need to remove this to examine the extent of the 
damage to the sub-floor and joists. He noted further damage in the kitchen which he said 
was consistent with a sudden leak and not as a result of failed sealant or grout.
So we have two different views on the cause of the damage to Mr Ss property. Mr S has had the work his contractor quoted for completed in his kitchen and bathroom. And 
I think the extent of the repairs that were required helps with my consideration of the cause 
of the damage. Mr Ss contractor quoted for replacing joists in the kitchen ceiling. As Mr S 
has provided evidence that he paid the full amount quoted for the work, it follows that the 
joists were replaced. On balance I think its unlikely that joists would rot from being wet over 
a weekend. 
And I think this adds weight to the opinion provided by esures surveyor that the damage 
was a result of long-standing problem and not a sudden leak. There may well have been a 
leak over the weekend Mr S was away in July 2021, but Im not persuaded that this would 
have caused the damage hes claiming for.
Despite the exclusion in Mr Ss policy wed say esure should pay out for damage occurring 
gradually, if Mr S couldnt reasonably have known it was happening. From the evidence Ive 
seen regarding the damage to the kitchen ceiling and the lack of grouting between the 
bathroom tiles, Im persuaded that there were signs of ongoing damage which should have 
alerted Mr S to there being a problem. 
So I think esure acting reasonably in declining Mr Ss claim and I wont be asking them to do 
anything.
So my provisional decision was that I didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint.
esure told us they had no comments to make on my provisional decision. But Mr S has 
made some comments hes asked me to consider and hes also provided some further 
information. 
Hes said that when his contractor was carrying out the remedial works, some fine cracks 
were found in the joists. While the contractor considered some of these could be expected 
due to the properties age, he also felt some were due to exposure to moisture and the delay 
before repairs were carried out. Mr S says that no rot was found, and the work was done to 
avoid future complications. 
Mr S says that the sealant around the bath hadnt failed. If it had he believes the leak would 
have continued after the leaking water inlet was repaired. And he says when esures 
surveyor visited the property he didnt remove the bath panel to check the area under the 
bath, or the repair carried out by his plumber.
Mr S has also commented on the surveyors comments that the property seemed 
unoccupied. He thinks this is an illustration of esure simply trying to find a reason not to pay 
his claim.
Regarding the extent of the leak, Mr S has this wasnt a small leak as esures surveyor has 
suggested. The bathroom was flooded, and he came home to find water gushing through his 
kitchen ceiling. His plumber asked him to pierce several holes in the ceiling to prevent it from 
collapsing. 
He's also said that his contractor was able to use the same bath suite and radiator and only 
charged for any refitting that was necessary. And the UVPC cladding was on top of the 
previous tiles, so this had to be removed to get to the tiles that were being replaced.
esures surveyor said that the amount of damage caused usually takes weeks, if not months. 
Mr S has provided a report from his letting agents, dated May 2021, which confirms that the 
property was in excellent condition when his tenants moved out. His tenants have also 
confirmed that the property was in excellent condition. Mr S has provided screenshots of a conversation with one of the tenants about the condition of the property. 
And Mr S says he was using the bath every day after he moved in, without any problems. So 
he says it must be the case that there was either a sudden leak, or there was a slow or 
gradual leak which he couldnt reasonably have been aware of.
Mr S questions the competence of esures surveyor whom he believes didnt carry out a 
thorough inspection. And whom he believes wrongly failed to identify the cause of damage to 
his property. We know the mould growth on the kitchen wall wasnt related to leak, and Mr S 
says there was no mould on the kitchen ceiling, just dark brown water stains beneath the 
bath. He says his contractor inspected the sealant and confirmed this wasnt the cause of 
the leak, as there was a second level protection fixed seal reinforced by flexible silicone.
Mr S has also said that the time its taken to resolve his claim has impacted on him and his 
family, due to the poor condition of the bathroom until repairs were completed, and the 
financial pressures as a result of covering the cost of the repairs.
The final inspection report from Mr Ss letting agents, dated 7 May 2021, says the property is 
spotless.
Mr S also provided a letter from his contractor dated 25 September 2022 about the repairs 
carried out to his property. He says that the bathroom in the property was about three years 
old. They stripped the bathroom and flooring to assess damage to the timber joists. These 
werent up to current building regulations and were smaller than expected. The joists had 
fully dried, but there were water stains and in some areas the timber was showing its age. 
The effected timbers were treated to prevent rot forming and the joists were strengthened 
with seven timbers and struts using c24 graded timber joists. He says this method is 
frequently used to avoid complications given the weight of a bathroom, to avoid flexing or 
sagging of the floor which is often seen in older properties with undersized joists that have 
been exposed to moisture. Mr Ss contractor says hes confident that this was the most cost-
effective method of securing the sub-floor from issues whilst adhering to current building 
regulations.
We provided esure with copies of Mr Ss comments, the letter from his contractor and other 
supporting evidence for them to consider, telling them that having considered the further 
information I was considering upholding the complaint.
They asked why I was considering upholding the complaint. They were told that this was 
because of the further evidence and information Mr S had provided. esure have told us that 
their surveyor has considered this evidence, and this hasnt changed his original opinion. 
They maintain that there was clear evidence of failed grout consistent with deterioration over 
time, rather than damage caused by a one-off escape of water. 
This is a summary of what theyve said: -
It takes weeks for a floor to get into the condition Mr Ss bathroom floor was in. 
The damage to the kitchen ceiling was at the opposite end of the room to the position 
of the bath inlet pipe, suggesting the water ran across the ceiling downstairs, causing 
more damage than there was, or along the bathroom floor making it much wetter 
than it was.
The floor under the bath and the damage in the kitchen was much drier than 
expected which led to them saying the damage was more consistent with failed sealant.
Grout doesnt come out after a one-off leak until the floor has been wet for some 
time. They believe it takes weeks for a floor to get in the condition it was in.
They question the experience of Mr Ss contractor and say they havent been able to 
locate him through an internet search.
Theyve had no evidence to confirm when the photographs Mr S has provided were 
taken.
Concerns were raised about the occupancy of the property, but this was discussed 
with Mr S and resolved.
They only contacted the party who had provided Mr S with a quote for the work on 
his damp course and external wall once. And they contacted his contractor once 
about his quote, and a second time to request a number to call and discuss the 
quote.
Theyve reviewed the photographs of the kitchen ceiling their surveyor took, and they 
maintain that there appears to be mould and discolouration on the kitchen ceiling.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive addressed the issues of the occupancy of Mr Ss property in my provisional decision. I 
understand that Mr S found these questions intrusive, but I havent changed my mind about 
these enquires being reasonable. esure accepted the evidence Mr S provided and his claim 
wasnt declined because the property wasnt occupied.
I also think that it was reasonable for esure to have contacted the contractors who did work 
for Mr S or provided quotes for repairs. Where theres an insurance claim, I think contractors 
should anticipate they may be contacted. And I dont think the number of calls esure have 
told us they made were excessive.
esure have raised concerns about the experience of Mr Ss contractor and have said they 
werent able to find him online. Mr S has told us his contractor doesnt really advertise and 
gets most of his work through recommendations. But based on the further contact details Mr 
S provided, our investigator was able to find him online. This contact information was passed 
on to esure. Based on the reports the contractor has provided, he appears perfectly able to 
assess the damage to Mr Ss property, although I accept that esure dont agree with that 
opinion.
Mr S has now provided confirmation from his former tenants, who moved out of the property 
in May 2021, that the property was in a good condition when they were living there. And his 
letting agent who carried out an inspection, after the tenants left, has confirmed that the 
property was in an excellent condition. I think the tenants and the letting agents would have 
noticed if the bathroom floor tiles were loose, or if there was mould growing on the kitchen 
ceiling.
esure have questioned when the photographs Mr S has provided were taken, as theyre not 
dated. But theyre very like the photographs esures surveyor included in his report. So I 
accept they were taken by Mr S shortly after the leak occurred. The surveyors report doesnt include any images taken of the area under the bath, which 
seems to support what Mr S has said about him not removing the bath panel. In the 
photographs Mr S has provided of the area under the bath theres still water present. And in 
both sets of photographs the damage to the grouting between the bathroom tiles is visible.
Mr S has provided more information about what he found when he returned home in July 
2021. From the information hes given it sounds as if there was a substantial leak leading to 
flooding in the bathroom, which came through the kitchen ceiling. In the photographs the 
holes in the kitchen ceiling he says his plumber asked him to make are clearly visible.
Ive considered what esures surveyor and Mr Ss contractor have said about the sealant in 
the bathroom, and on balance Im not persuaded that the damage to Mr Ss property was 
caused by faulty sealant.
I now have evidence from two sources that the property was in good condition in May 2021. 
esure have said that a leak couldnt cause the level of damage reported over a weekend, but 
given the further details of the extent of the leak Mr S has now provided, Im persuaded that 
it could have, and I think the damage is consistent with the account and the evidence hes 
provided. 
I gave esure the opportunity to comment on the further evidence Mr S provided, but theyve 
simply repeated what was said in their surveyors report.
I cant say whether the extent of the works carried out by Mr Ss contractor were all required 
because of the leak. For example, the contractor has said that the ceiling joists between the 
bathroom and kitchen were undersized and needed to be reinforced to avoid future 
problems. So I cant simply say that esure should pay Mr Ss claim in full based on the 
quotation and invoice his contractor has provided. 
But I do think that the damage was due to a sudden leak and esure should reassess Mr Ss 
claim on this basis. 
Mr S has said that esure have delayed settlement of his claim and harassed his family and 
his contractors during the course of their investigations. And he wants to be compensated for 
this. My view remains that the enquiries esure made were reasonable and that they acted on 
the basis of the information their surveyor provided. So I dont think any compensation is due 
to Mr S.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint about esure 
Insurance Limited.
And to put things right I require them to reassess his claim on the basis that it was caused by 
a sudden leak at his property in July 2021.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman