DRN-4266947
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H complain that U K Insurance Limited (hereafter UKI) unfairly declined their 
travel insurance claim. 
What happened
Mrs H and Mr H hold a worldwide family travel insurance policy underwritten by UKI. In 
August 2022 they booked return flights for January 2023 to a location Ill call T. 
Mr H was diagnosed with heart failure in September 2022 and in November 2022 was 
advised against travelling. So Mrs H and Mr H cancelled their flights and submitted a 
cancellation claim.
UKI declined that claim. It said the trip to T had been cancelled due to a medical issue, but 
evidence showed the issue had actually presented itself in June 2022, Mr H had sought 
medical attention for it in July 2022, and the flights to T were booked in August 2022 without 
it being made aware of this. UKI acknowdged Mr H had called it in September 2022, but 
reiterated that was after the trip to T had been booked and no cover was available for their 
current claim. 
Mrs H and Mr H complained. They said Mr Hs condition had only been diagnosed in 
September 2022 and it was only in November 2022 that hed been advised not to fly. They 
also said the symptoms Mr H had experienced before booking the flights were trivial and 
theyd fully intended to travel to T in January 2023. 
UKI maintained its decision, so Mrs H and Mr H referred their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought UKI had declined the claim fairly. They said the terms of the policy 
were clear and Mr H hadnt told UKI of his change in health before booking the flights  that 
was despite him having experienced breathlessness, being advised by a cardiologist to 
consult his GP, and being referred to a specialist by his GP at the time. 
Mrs H and Mr H disagreed and reiterated the previous symptoms were of no cause for 
concern. They said Mr H wasnt considered to have a significant health problem at the time 
of booking, and when hed spoken to UKI hed informed it of his heart condition and 
medication and itd confirmed theyd be covered for travel. Mrs H and Mr H also reiterated 
that Mr H was only advised not to travel in November 2023 and said their claim was within 
the spirit and letter of the basic principles of insurance cover. 
Our investigators opinion on the complaint didnt change. They explained a change in health 
included signs and symptoms of a new condition. They said Mr H hadnt discussed his 
diagnosis when speaking to UKI in September 2022 or made it sufficiently clear that the 
flights to T had been booked. And, UKI had shown this service it wouldnt have provided 
cover for the symptoms under investigation had it been made aware of the change in health 
before the flights were booked. 
So, as no agreement was reached the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI has a responsibility to handle claims both promptly and fairly and to not reject them 
unreasonably. The terms and conditions of Mrs H and Mr Hs policy set out the cover 
available to them and on reading those I note:
A policy holder must tell UKI about any change in health when they book a new trip, 
and a change in health is defined as:
Any change to an existing medical condition (including a change in the number of 
medications you are prescribed).
Any newly diagnosed medical condition.
Any signs and symptoms of a new medical condition, whether diagnosed or not.
A medical condition is also defined as:
Any illness or injury for which, at the date you became an insured person or the date 
when you booked your trip, whichever is the later you would have answered yes to 
any of the questions in the Medical Screening section on page 8.
The medical screening section says a policy holder needs to tell UKI about any 
medical condition when they book a trip. And if a policy holder doesnt tell it about a 
medical condition, they and anyone else insured wont be covered for any claim 
connected to it. 
The same section says itll consider an illness or injury to be where a policy holder 
would answer yes to one or more specific questions, and one of those questions is: 
In the last 12 months have you suffered from, received treatment or are receiving 
treatment or advice for:
Investigation of a medical condition or awaiting a diagnosis?
The timeline of events in this complaint isnt disputed. Briefly, Mr H had symptoms of 
breathlessness in June 2022 (when abroad during a different trip to a place Ill call F). He 
sought medical advice from a cardiologist there and underwent an ECG. And once home in 
July 2022 Mr H consulted his GP about the above and was referred on to a cardiology team. 
The flights to T were then booked in August 2022. 
Mrs H and Mr H say Mr Hs symptoms were trivial and theyd fully intended on travelling to T 
at the time of booking. I appreciate Mrs H and Mr Hs view, but I must take account of the 
timeline of events and the relevant policy terms here. Having done so I dont think it was 
unreasonable of UKI to conclude that Mr H seeing a cardiologist when he became 
breathless in F, consulting his GP about that when he returned home, and being referred by 
his GP because of those symptoms for further investigation constituted something it should 
have been told about.
UKI has also shown this service that had it been made aware of the above it wouldnt have 
provided cover for the symptoms under investigation. And so in view of this and of the 
reasons given above I dont think its decline was unreasonable. 
I am aware that Mrs H and Mr H say Mr H had a long conversation with UKI in September 
2022 where he informed it of his heart condition and medication, and got confirmation that 
hed be covered for both their upcoming trip to F and any subsequent trips. But Im not 
persuaded I can fully agree with this summation. Mrs H and Mr H told this service Mr H called UKI and informed it of his heart condition 
immediately after he received a report from his cardiology team. Looking at that report it 
listed diagnosis, said Mr H had been complaining of a six month history of discomfort on his 
left-sided chest wall, and said hed been short of breath for about nine months. It also said 
Mr H was reviewed by a cardiologist who diagnosed him with ventricular ectopic on his ECG 
too, and explained:
I have explained to him the findings of his echocardiogram and mentioned that he has got 
severe LV impairment
I have listed him for a coronary angiogram ?proceed [sic] to see if his heart failure is 
secondary to any ischaemic cause. I will also refer him to the heart failure team for regular 
follow ups and to be switched to (X) and started on (X) in due course.
Having listened to the call Mr H had with UKI however, I note he told it he was due to see a 
doctor about a bit of breathing difficulty. He said he was due to have a test when he got back 
from his upcoming trip to F too, and that hed been prescribed two new medications. Mr H 
didnt tell UKI of the diagnosis the cardiologist had noted in their report. Nor did he mention 
the repeated references the cardiologist had made to heart failure. So I cant agree that UKI 
was made aware of Mr Hs heart condition at that point. 
I also cant agree that UKI told Mr H hed be covered for the trip to T. The call centred on the 
upcoming trip to F and UKI told Mr H he would be covered for it. There was no confirmation 
of cover for any other trips, albeit I dont think UKI was aware that Mr H had already booked 
the trip to T, and it said Mr H would need to let it know of any diagnosis for any future 
bookings.
Notwithstanding my thoughts on the call, it still remains that UKI wasnt made aware of Mr 
Hs change in health when the flights to T were booked as required by the policy. And, if it 
had been, it wouldnt have provided cover. So although Im sorry to disappoint Mrs H and Mr 
H, for all of the reasons given above Ill not be interfering with UKIs position. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman