DRN-1841171
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the way Leeds Building Society (LBS) has dealt with his 
mortgage account, which is held in the joint names of Mr R and his former partner, Ms M. He 
wants LBS to treat him fairly in relation to its handling of payment arrangements on the 
account. Mr R says that LBSs actions have exacerbated his concerns about the 
safeguarding issues around the care of his child, and in addition his credit file has had 
information recorded against it about a payment arrangement.
What happened
The joint account holder, Ms M, is not a party to this complaint. This means that I dont have 
her consent to disclose any information about her or her dealings with LBS in relation to this 
mortgage account. Our decisions are published, which means that we have to take care not 
to include any information which might identify someone  especially if that person has not 
joined in the complaint.
In the circumstances, in this decision I will refer only to the complaint as it impacts on Mr R; 
although Ive read everything on file, I am unable to refer to any discussions Ms M may have 
had with LBS about the mortgage, as I dont have her consent to do so.
Briefly, Mr R and Ms M took out a mortgage with LBS in 2013, borrowing £190,000 on a 
capital repayment basis over a 20-year term. Mr R and Ms M separated in about 2016 and 
Ms M remains in the property with their child.
Unfortunately the mortgage fell into arrears. A payment arrangement was set up in 2017, but 
the arrears have increased since 2017 and are currently around £2,500. The arrears are 
recorded on Mr Rs credit file.
Mr R has now complained to LBS that in September 2019, without his consent, it put in place 
another payment arrangement for reduced payments to be made towards the mortgage. 
Mr R was concerned at the impact of this on his credit file. He was also unhappy that LBS 
had taken into account the child maintenance he was paying when assessing the request for 
a payment arrangement.
LBS didnt uphold the complaint, so it was brought to us, where an investigator looked at it. 
Initially he didnt think we could consider the complaint without Ms Ms consent. But he then 
thought we could consider the complaint in relation to LBSs dealings with Mr R and the 
impact of the payment arrangement on him.
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that LBS was 
allowed to reach an arrangement with one of the joint borrowers without the others consent. 
The investigator also didnt think there had been any adverse impact on Mr Rs credit file.
Mr R disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He has reiterated his concerns about the impact he says LBSs actions have had 
on the care of his son and why he thinks LBS hasnt acted ethically, morally or fairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to more than two hundred pages of documents. 
Ive read everything, and first of all I note that this is a joint account, but only Mr R has 
brought the complaint. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather 
less detail than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint, or because it relates to the other party to the 
mortgage account, who has not given her consent for me to disclose any information about 
her, including her dealings with LBS. 
In this regard although Ive noted everything Mr R has said about child maintenance and his 
concerns over the care of his child, those are not issues which fall within my remit; they are 
issues which Mr R and Ms M will need to resolve themselves. I acknowledge Mr Rs 
paramount concern is the welfare of his child, but my remit is to look at what LBS has done 
in relation to its handling of the mortgage account.
As I said above, I can consider this complaint only in relation to Mr R, without disclosing any 
information about Ms M. 
Having looked at what happened, I dont think LBS has treated Mr R unfairly. LBS is allowed 
to come to a payment arrangement with one party to a joint account. Ive noted Mr Rs 
concerns about the impact of this on his credit file, but I dont think it has resulted in any 
detriment to Mr R. 
I think its likely that if a payment arrangement hadnt been agreed, there would have been 
missed payments which would have been recorded as arrears, rather than as an 
arrangement to pay. Mr Rs credit file will already show previous mortgage arrears. Given 
this, I dont think an arrangement to pay recorded on his credit record is likely to have a more 
adverse effect than if additional mortgage arrears were being recorded. There is no evidence 
to show that Mr R has been denied credit solely as a result of a payment arrangement with 
LBS recorded on his credit file.
Mr R has told us that he is unhappy that LBS used the child maintenance he is paying in its 
calculation of income. As I said above, I cant comment on what Ms M told LBS about her 
income and expenditure, as I dont have her permission to disclose this. 
But if LBS took maintenance into consideration when considering how much disposable 
income was available, I dont think this was wrong. Where one parent is receiving 
maintenance for a child, this means that they are not paying for the child wholly from their 
own resources and so the maintenance used for the child frees up other income that can be 
used towards payment of the mortgage. 
I can see Mr R feels very strongly about whats happened, and I do understand that he 
considers his childs well-being is linked to what LBS has done. I dont underestimate his 
strength of feeling. LBSs role is to administer the mortgage account but LBS is unable to get 
involved in what are essentially personal issues between the borrowers. It would not be right 
or appropriate for LBS to involve itself in any dispute between Mr R and Ms M over how 
maintenance payments are used. Mr R has told us that outside agencies have been involved in issues relating to his child and, in the circumstances, I think those agencies are the most 
appropriate parties to deal with Mr Rs concerns about his child.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr R was hoping for, but after considering everything he and 
LBS have said and provided, I dont think LBS has done anything wrong in relation to this 
payment arrangement or Mr Rs credit file.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman