DRN-3476451
The complaint
Mr A complains Vanquis Bank limited (Vanquis) are putting him further in debt by applying 
interest and charges to his credit card account.
What happened
Mr A says despite having agreed payment plans with Vanquis , it continues to charge him 
interest and charges to his credit card account and rather than helping him , this is putting 
him further into debt. Mr A says this has caused his account to default and is causing him 
stress and anxiety as all he is seeing is his debt increase. 
Mr A wants Vanquis to agree to a discounted payment plan to allow him to repay his debt 
sooner. 
Vanquis says it had previously agreed payment plans with Mr A and a further plan was 
agreed with Mr A at the time of complaint at £10 per month. Vanquis says when Mr A was on 
these fixed payment arrangements no interest had been charged. Vanquis pointed out Mr A 
would have been aware of the charging arrangements on the credit card account not only 
when he applied for the credit card account, but also on his monthly credit card statements. 
Vanquis says it has refunded various interest and charges on Mr As credit card account 
including a recent refund of £24. Vanquis says it has a responsibility to accurately report its 
customers activity to the relevant credit reference agencies and feels it has done nothing 
wrong.
Mr A wasnt happy with Vanquiss response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator made clear he recognised matters may have moved on since the complaint was 
brought to this service but could only respond to the time Vanquis issued its final response 
letter in August 2021. The investigator felt Vanquis had previously agreed deferred payment 
arrangements between April and June 2020 and had subsequently refunded interest it had 
charged from April 2020 and September 2020. The investigator says Vanquis had shown 
that it had agreed reduced payments  arrangements and periods where no interest was 
charged to Mr As credit card account. 
The investigator says rather than defaulting Mr A in June 2021 it went on to agree a third 
temporary payment plan to allow Mr A time to seek employment. The investigator felt 
Vanquis had acted fairly and showed support to Mr A and had provided him with a 
reasonable period of time to have brought his credit card account up to date. The 
investigator didnt feel Vanquis were required to stop interest charges indefinitely.  
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand Mr A has gone through a difficult time financially and that must have been 
a worry for him. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Vanquis acted unreasonably when it charged 
the interest and charges when it did, and if it provided the level of support I would expect 
given Mr As circumstances. 
The first thing to say is, as pointed out by the investigator in his view, I will only be 
considering this complaint  up until the time Vanquis issued its final response letter in August 
2021. I say this to ensure my decision is consistent to the view of the investigator and taking 
into account Vanquis wouldnt have had the opportunity to respond to any further complaint 
points Mr A might wish to raise beyond that point in time  I say this as its possible matters 
may have moved on since then. 
Mr As complaint centres around the fact that because of the continued interest and charges 
Vanquis have applied to his credit card account, it is making matters worse for him and 
increasing his debt, making it difficult for him to reduce or clear his outstanding debt of 
approximately £600. 
While I understand the point Mr A makes here, the terms and conditions of the interest rate 
and charges were made available to him when he opened his credit card account and are 
clearly detailed on the monthly statements he would have received. I can see that Vanquis 
did agree in April 2020 at the time of the Covid pandemic, a payment deferral between then 
and June 2020. Which is in line with the guidance provided by the Financial Conduct 
Authority at the time. Following a complaint, I can see it also then agreed to refund interest 
charged to Mr As credit card account for this period up until September 2020.
So, its fair to say Vanquis had shown previous levels of support here. Additionally, Vanquis 
agreed another fixed payment plan for £10 per month in February 2021 for four months and 
interest and charges were agreed to be suspended. When this arrangement came to an end, 
rather than issuing a default as it was entitled to, as Mr A hadnt fully kept to this plan, 
Vanquis agreed a further extension to the payment plan at the end of July 2021. Mr A made 
his first payment under this arrangement in August 2021 and then brought his complaint to 
this service. 
From the information I have seen in August 2021 Vanquis agreed as a gesture of good will a 
£24 refund of charges.  
With that in mind given Mr A was reluctant to provide a full income and expenditure profile, I 
cant say that Vanquis could have done much more than agree to a temporary arrangement 
until Mr A found suitable employment and it wouldnt be fair of me to ask it to refund all 
interest and charges, especially given the support it has previously given Mr A, including 
some periods where interest wasnt charged. With that in mind, I am satisfied that Vanquis 
have been sympathetic to Mr As circumstances and have acted fairly.  
What is important here is a workable payment plan had been put in place by Vanquis, 
around the time Mr A complained to this service, and I cant ask much more of Vanquis than that. If matters have moved on and Mr A feels Vanquis are not providing the level of support 
he now needs, then that needs to be the subject of a separate complaint for Vanquis to 
answer. 
While Mr A will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Vanquis 
here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman