DRN-3621332
The complaint
Mr M complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services, trading as M&S Bank (M&S) 
didnt do enough to protect him when he fell victim to a scam and hasnt refunded the money 
he lost.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry that Mr M has been the victim of a scam, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr M made payments via a third-party cryptocurrency exchange provider for what he 
believed would be a trading platform for which hed be receiving support from an 
individual. Statements show he paid £445.32 In May 2020 and £1,331.85 in July 
2020. Its not in dispute that Mr M has been the victim of a scam. But, as he 
authorised these payments, the starting position is that Mr M would be liable for them 
too.
But there are some situations where we believe that banks - taking into account 
relevant rules, codes and best practice  ought to have identified a fraud risk, so 
should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before 
making the payment. If M&S failed to do so, and that failure led to a fraudulent loss, it 
might be fair to hold it liable. 
In this case, M&S didnt identify potential issues with the payments noted above. Ive 
thought carefully about this, and whether the payments would have and should have 
appeared particularly unusual or uncharacteristic. 
The first payment was relatively low, and it was only slightly higher than payments 
Mr M had made elsewhere in the months just prior to the scam. And, while the 
second payment was the largest payment Mr M had made for some time, I dont think 
it was high enough that it should have triggered M&Ss fraud systems  it wasnt 
significantly unusual or out of character. And both payments were also made through 
a legitimate payment processor. So, I dont think M&S had reason to flag these 
payments or intervene with them. And that means that I dont think M&S was at fault 
for Mr Ms loss. 
As this was a card payment, Ive considered if there were grounds for Mr M to 
recover his payments through a chargeback claim - a voluntary scheme run by the 
card provider. M&S told Mr M he had no chargeback rights available. As the intended 
service (the exchange of funds) was provided by the third-party cryptocurrency 
exchange provider which is who the card payment was made to, Im satisfied that a 
chargeback would have been unsuccessful. So, I dont think M&S acted unfairly by 
not pursuing this.
Ive also considered Mr Ms rights under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Ive not seen proof of a valid claim here in terms of misrepresentation or 
breach on contract. And I also cant see that there was a valid debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship. So Im satisfied that M&S couldnt reasonably have taken 
further action to recover Mr Ms funds. 
I appreciate that Mr M has contacted the appropriate authorities and has tried to recover his 
funds from the companies involved. As he has no other way to recover the funds, he 
believes M&S should reimburse him his losses. But, for the reasons given above, I do not 
uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decisions is that I dont uphold this complaint about Marks & Spencer Financial 
Services, trading as M&S Bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman