DRN-2833432
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) has declined a 
claim he made on his motor warranty policy. 
  
What happened
 Mr C booked into his garage after he encountered a problem with the nearside front 
driveshaft on his vehicle. After a number of attempts to inspect the vehicle and much contact 
with warranty provider, his claim was declined. In its final response Assurant said it was 
unable to identify that the part had suffered from a mechanical failure. But it said based on 
the age and mileage of the vehicle it was plausible to conclude that the driveshaft had 
reached the end of its working life and end of life parts are a specific plan exclusion. 
Mr C doesnt agree, and he brought his complaint to this service. Initially we didnt uphold his 
complaint. But after reviewing the case again, an investigator upheld it, and said there was 
no evidence that the drive shaft had reached the end of its working life. The investigator 
recommended that Assurant should reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Assurant replied and said even though the Assessor didnt actually state the part was at the 
end of its life, the drive shaft is a moving part and taking everything including mileage and 
the age of the vehicle into account, the drive shaft reaching the end of its life is a reasonable 
conclusion. Assurant also said, Whilst the failure may have been sudden, this was either 
due to progressive wear which doesnt meet the sudden mechanical failure criteria or due to 
driver technique which the warranty does not support this claim.
Assurant asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
Mr C also responded. Hes advised that the manufacturer has confirmed a drive shaft should 
last the lifetime of the car.
I issued a provisional decision upholding this case on 7 May 2021. That provisional decision 
is below and forms part of my final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im planning on 
upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
This warranty covers mechanical breakdown which is defined as the sudden and 
unforeseen failure of a component, not by wear and tear, normal deterioration or negligence. 
We are not liable for parts that have reached the end of their normal working lives because 
of age or usage. 
Assurant have had the failure inspected by an independent engineer and say that this failure 
isnt supported by the cover provided by this policy. But its only fair for Assurant to rely on 
this clause if it has shown that there is sufficient evidence to show that parts have come to 
the end of their normal working lives, or if driver technique has caused the fault. I can 
understand Assurants position. But I need to be satisfied that it acted fairly in turning down 
the claim firstly due to wear and tear and now driver technique. But in this instance, I dont 
think it has. 
Assurant has provided two independent engineers reports to support its decline of Mr Cs 
claim. The first inspection took place whilst the driveshaft remained on the vehicle. The 
second took place after repair, but the driveshaft had been retained and was inspected 
separately.
In the first report the specific instructions to the engineer were Please advise if the cause of 
failure is in-service wear and tear or a latent manufacturing defect. Also please check for any 
evidence that the vehicle is being used for hire or reward.
And therein lies the problem. By giving such pointed instructions to the engineer, Assurant is 
inadvertently pointing the engineer in a specific direction of inspection, which means the 
actual facts of the claim become secondary in the report. So, throughout both reports, were 
subjected to a lot of assumption based on the questions asked by Assurant, alongside clear 
facts. And thats fine, if the report itself is interpreted correctly by the business. But in this 
case that isnt whats happened. 
In the first report its noted Due to the heavy contamination of grease around the end of the 
CV joint and driveshaft this is difficult to establish actual cause of the failure. But it is noted 
the vehicle does have aftermarket brake callipers fitted all round. This report ends by 
saying Due to the heavy contamination around the nearside front CV joint and end of the 
nearside front driveshaft it was difficult to establish the exact cause, it is possible this may 
have been caused by abnormal operation but further investigation will be required. It also 
says, This may be possibly due to wear and deterioration which cannot be confirmed at this 
time and will require further investigation. 
The fact that both these sentences finish with further investigation is required, has, it 
seems, been missed by Assurant. As its asked some very direct questions, and the engineer 
has offered an opinion, that both wear and abnormal operation may be the reason the 
driveshaft has failed, Assurant has focussed on to this and concluded that once the report 
says wear and tear, the driveshaft is at the end of its life, so it declined the claim. But this is 
clearly not what the report is saying, and its quite clear that the engineer has said this 
cannot be confirmed. 
The second inspection takes place after the driveshaft was replaced. This report says the 
CV joints hadnt become detached, the rubber gaiters are intact, and there is no evidence of 
grease loss. It said the splines from the gearbox end were intact, although showing slight 
wear.
The next sentence is a key sentence, yet this sentence seems to have been overlooked by 
Assurant. It says, We were informed the hub end of the driveshaft had become displaced 
from the hub due to the circlip becoming detached. The engineer then goes on to tell us 
again that the vehicle is heavily modified.
The report finishes up by saying In our opinion based on the visible evidence we would 
conclude the cause of the condition is consistent with either general in-service wear and 
deterioration to the nearside front driveshaft splines or possibly due to the type of use the 
vehicle has been subjected to. The condition would have occurred progressively if it is due to 
wear of the splines; however, if it is due to driver technique or the type of use the vehicle has 
been subjected to, the condition may have occurred suddenly.Again, the opinion presented by the engineer, is presented based on the questions originally 
asked by Assurant. And because Assurant seem to be looking specifically at the exclusions 
of the policy, the actual facts presented arent being given enough weight. In this report it 
clearly states the rubber gaiters are intact, the CV joints havent been detached and there is 
no evidence of grease loss, on the removed drive shaft.  This to me would indicate that this 
driveshaft was in good working condition before it became detached. The engineer does 
note wear on the splines. The only time Ive ever seen wear on the splines of either end of a 
driveshaft is where the driveshaft itself has come loose in its housing, and the vehicle has 
run on. And the only way this would happen is if there were suspension issues (none noted 
here), which causes the shaft to pull out from the gearbox, or if the circlip or stabilising nut at 
the hub end either breaks or comes loose. 
In this case the engineer was told the circlip had become displaced. And the wear on the 
splines is consistent with a loose driveshaft in its housing. This is not wear and tear or end of 
life. Wear and tear is what happens to a clutch or a set of brake pads, not a drive shaft. And 
just because the driveshaft is a moving part doesnt mean it will automatically wear. Its a 
stable moving part, normally secure in its housing and not coming into contact with outside 
forces when in motion. So, wear can only happen when something goes wrong. To me the 
circlip becoming displaced, thus causing the driveshaft to run loose is more likely than not 
what happened and is a sudden event. Its also something the engineer indicated may have 
happened. And because of this I think this should be covered under this policy.
I appreciate Assurant has also mentioned driver technique as a possible cause, after our 
investigators view letter. But pointing out that a car is heavily modified isnt evidence of 
abnormal driving technique. And as there is no further evidence to support abnormal driving 
technique, this isnt a valid reason to decline this claim. 
As Assurant hasnt evidenced a valid reason to decline the claim as Ive set out above, I am 
going to recommend that Assurant pays this claim in full less the relevant excess. 8% simple 
interest should be added to this amount from the date of claim until the date of payment. Im 
also going to also recommend £250 in compensation for the inconvenience Mr C has 
suffered, because of the way Assurant handled this claim.
Mr C has confirmed he received my provisional decision and has nothing further to add. 
Assurant has also confirmed receipt of the provisional decision and it has made a further 
submission, which I will deal with below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Assurant has responded and it doesnt agree with the provisional decision. Assurant hasnt 
commented on the merits of the complaint. Instead Assurant says that Mr C has only ever 
paid two instalments of his total premium and it wouldnt be fair for it to have to pay a claim 
when the full premium was never paid. It says that the same month the claim was submitted, 
May 2020, the direct debit was cancelled. However, the direct debit was reinstated before 
the claim was made so cover remained in place and payment was rearranged for June 2020. 
But the direct debit was never paid in June 2020. The policy continued to run until it was 
eventually cancelled in August 2020 after no further payment was made.
Looking at the lifetime of the policy, I can see Mr C was on cover at the time the claim was 
made. This is confirmed in the email from Assurant. So even though later premium installments remain unpaid, Assurant is still liable for the claim as Ive set out above and I 
havent been provided with any further evidence that would make me change my mind. 
However, I do appreciate that the full premium instalments were never paid. So, in order to 
make things right, and for the reasons Ive set out in my provisional decision, Assurant 
should pay the claim in full, less excess. But Assurant should also deduct the remaining 
annual premium that is owed, from this claim amount. This way Assurant gets its full 
premium, and Mr C gets paid for his claim, which is the fair and reasonable outcome. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is to uphold
this complaint.
I require Assurant General Insurance Limited to pay Mr C the following:
The full amount for the claim less any excess and less any remaining annual 
premium owing from Mr C. 
8% simple interest should be added to the final claim amount being paid to Mr C from 
the date of claim to the date of payment. If Assurant General Insurance Limited 
considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Pay £250 in compensation for the reasons Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman