DRN-3642002
The complaint
Miss J complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money she lost when she was 
the victim of a scam.
What happened
In December 2020, Miss J met a man on an online dating app. They began communicating 
via an instant messaging service and their relationship developed to the point where Miss J 
thought they were in a romantic relationship. After they had been communicating for a 
number of weeks, the man told Miss J about an investment company he had been using, 
showed her screenshots of the returns he had made and suggested she try investing with 
them too.
The man talked Miss J through how to invest and, following his guidance, Miss J made a 
number of payments to the investment company  firstly transfers to account details he gave 
her and then payments to an account with a cryptocurrency exchange. The man then 
suggested Miss J borrow money from friends and family and take out a loan with another 
bank so she could invest more  which she did. Ive set out the payments she made in the 
table below:
Date Details Amount
5 January 2021 Transfer £1,000
7 January 2021 Transfer £10,000
8 January 2021 Transfer £9,999.99
21 January 2021 Transfer £5,000
21 January 2021 Transfer £5,000
1 February 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £5,000
1 February 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £5,000
1 February 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £5,000
3 February 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £3,000
4 February 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £3,000
16 February 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £4,000
16 February 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £399.99
16 February 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £3,998.99
17 February 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £1,000
17 February 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £5,000
17 February 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £5,000
17 February 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £5,000
18 February 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £5,000
18 February 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £2,000
19 February 2021 Transfer £25,000
22 February 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £5,000
22 February 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £5,000
22 February 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £5,000
23 February 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £8,000
23 February 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £5,000
23 February 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £5,000
23 February 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £5,000
23 February 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £5,000
24 February 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £5,000
24 February 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £5,000
24 February 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £5,000
25 February 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £10,000
25 February 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £5,000
26 February 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £5,000
27 February 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £15,000
1 March 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £5,000
1 March 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £5,000
1 March 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £5,000
1 March 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £5,000
Unfortunately, we now know the man and the investment company were scammers.
The scam was uncovered when Miss J tried to remove a significant amount of the profits the 
investment company showed she had made from the investments. She was told she needed 
to pay a large amount of tax on her profits, which made her suspicious. And when she then 
searched online about the investment company, she discovered a warning from the FCA that 
the company was a scam. Miss J then reported the scam to HSBC and asked that it refund 
the money she had lost.
HSBC investigated Miss Js complaint. It said it couldnt review the payments shed sent to 
the cryptocurrency exchange, as they hadnt gone directly to the scammer. It also said it 
could have done more to protect Miss J when she made the transfers to the account details 
she was given, but that she also could have taken more responsibility and conducted more 
checks before making them. So it offered to refund some of the money shed sent. Miss J 
wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They thought HSBC should refund all of the 
money Miss J had transferred to the account details she was given, as it hadnt established 
that she ignored an effective warning or didnt have a reasonable basis for belief when 
making those payments. But they didnt think there was anything further HSBC could have 
done to prevent the payments Miss J made to the cryptocurrency exchange, so they didnt 
think it should refund those payments. Miss J didnt agree with our investigator, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Does the CRM code apply to these payments?
Ive first considered whether the CRM code applies to the payments Miss J made as a result 
of this scam.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM code) is a 
voluntary code HSBC has signed up to. It sets out a number of circumstances in which firms 
are required to reimburse customers who have been the victims of certain types of scam. 
But it only covers payments where a customer paid funds to another person for what they 
thought were legitimate purposes, but which were in fact fraudulent.In this case, the six payments Miss J transferred directly to the bank account details she was 
given were sent to another person. And so I think these payments are covered by the CRM 
code. Ive highlighted these six payments in bold on the above table.
But Miss J sent the rest of the payments to a cryptocurrency exchange account that was set 
up in her own name. I recognise that she only set up this account under the direction of the 
scammer. But I think the way the CRM code is written means that it doesnt apply to these 
payments.
The payments covered by the CRM code
As I explained above, the six payments Ive highlighted in bold in the above table are 
covered by the CRM code. And the code requires firms to reimburse customers who have 
been the victim of authorised push payment scams, like the one Miss J fell victim to, in all 
but a limited number of circumstances. And it is for the firm to establish that one of those 
exceptions to reimbursement applies.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
 The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
I dont think HSBC has established that Miss J didnt have a reasonable basis for belief when 
she made these payments. The scammer initially contacted her on an online dating app, and 
it was a number of weeks before he started suggesting that she should invest. Their 
communication during this time will have helped build up trust between Miss J and the 
scammer, and she thought they were then in a relationship. So the scammer would have 
seemed credible at that point and it wouldnt have seemed particularly suspicious when he 
started talking about investments.
Miss J has also said the scammer showed her evidence of the investments he had made 
with the investment company and the returns he had received. She was also given access to 
an online trading platform by the investment company where she could see the investments 
she had made and the returns she was getting. And shes said she was able to withdraw 
small amounts from her investment. And I think its reasonable that all of these things will 
have helped convince her that the investment was legitimate. And so I think Miss J did have 
a reasonable basis for belief when she made these payments.
I also dont think HSBC has established that Miss J ignored an effective warning in relation 
to any of these payments. HSBC has accepted that it didnt provide an effective warning in 
relation to some of these payments, but says it did provide a warning in relation to the 
payment of £25,000 on 19 February 2021.
Ive seen a copy of this warning. And while it does mention scammers using social media or 
dating sites, it doesnt mention the possibility of investment scams, explain what those 
investment scams could look or feel like, or give examples of any checks a customer could 
do to avoid falling victim to that kind of scam. So I dont think this warning was effective in 
the circumstances of Miss Js case.As I dont think Miss J was shown an effective warning, I also dont think she ignored an 
effective warning in relation to these payments. And as I dont think HSBC has established 
that any of the exceptions to reimbursement apply, I think it should refund the payments 
Miss J made that are covered by the CRM code, in full  totalling £55,999.99.
The payments not covered by the CRM code
The remaining payments, not highlighted in bold in the table above, arent covered by the 
CRM code. And Miss J accepts she made these payments herself by making payments out 
of her HSBC account to the cryptocurrency exchange. So while I recognise that she didnt 
intend for the money to ultimately go to scammers, she did authorise these payments. And 
so, under the Payment Service Regulations, the starting position is that she is liable for the 
payments and HSBC doesnt have to refund them.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I think HSBC 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So Ive also considered whether HSBC should have identified that Ms T was potentially at 
risk of fraud as a result of these payments, or otherwise done more to protect her.
The first payment Miss J made to the cryptocurrency exchange was for £5,000, which is a 
reasonably large amount. And so I think HSBC should have identified that she was at risk of 
fraud as a result of it and carried out additional checks before allowing it to go through. But 
HSBC has said it did carry out additional checks on some of the payments Miss J made at 
this time, and has sent us recordings of the calls it had with her. So Ive looked at whether I 
think HSBC did enough in these calls to protect Miss J.
Its not for our service to dictate the checks HSBC should do or the questions it should ask. 
But HSBC should take steps designed to protect its customers from the risk of financial 
harm. And, in these circumstances and due to the size of this payment, I think it would be 
reasonable to expect those checks to include questions about the purpose of the payment, 
how the customer had been contacted or found out about the investment and what 
information they had about the investment.
The call recordings HSBC has sent us show it did ask Miss J what the payments were for, 
and she said they were for investments she was making. She then said she had found the 
investment company herself, had found them by searching online herself and had done her 
own research into the company. She said she hadnt received a call from anyone else about 
the investments, shed opened the investment account herself, the investments were all her own decision and shed sent money to the company before and confirmed it had been 
received correctly.
HSBC therefore asked the types of questions I would expect it to before allowing a payment 
to go through, and was given plausible and reasonable answers by Miss J. Miss J sounded 
clear and confident in what she was doing and I dont think anything in the answers she gave 
HSBC ought to have caused any concern. So I dont think it would be fair to have expected 
HSBC to have done anything further before allowing the payments to go through, or that 
anything it could reasonably have been expected to do would have prevented Miss J making 
these payments and so losing this money to the scam. And so I dont think it would be fair to 
require HSBC to refund these payments.
I sympathise with the position Miss J has found herself in. She has been the victim of a cruel 
scam and I appreciate how she feels about this case and that my decision will come as a 
disappointment to her. But for the reasons set out above, while I think HSBC should refund 
the payments that are covered by the CRM code, I dont think HSBC has acted 
unreasonably in relation to the payments that arent covered by the CRM code. So I dont 
think it would be fair to require it to refund these payments too.
I understand Miss J borrowed money from friends and family and took out a loan with 
another bank in order to fund some of the payments she made that arent covered by the 
CRM code. But as Im not asking HSBC to refund these payments, I dont need to consider 
the effect of this borrowing any further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require HSBC UK Bank 
Plc to:
Refund the £55,999.99 Miss J lost as a result of this payments she made that are 
covered by the CRM code, as highlighted in bold on the above table, less anything it 
has already refunded
Pay 8% simple interest on this refund from the date it initially responded to Miss Js 
claim until the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman