DRN-4048749
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined a 
claim they made on their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs T were abroad when Mrs T became unwell and needed medical treatment. She 
was seen by a nurse who advised her to attend a hospital. Mr and Mrs T asked the 
receptionist at the hospital to call their insurer because Mr T has a visual impairment. They 
said they were unable to make contact with their insurer. 
Mr and Mrs T claimed on their insurance for three payments they made to the hospital. The 
claim was declined because Mr and Mrs T had attended a private hospital and hadnt 
spoken to their insurer first. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She 
thought that Red Sands had fairly declined the claim in line with the relevant policy terms. 
Mr and Mrs T asked an ombudsman to review their complaint. They said they, and the 
medical personnel, made every effort to contact the insurers. The insurer failed to answer 
the call and they dont know what more they were expected to do. Our investigator explained 
there was no record of a call, but Mr and Mrs T confirmed theyd like an ombudsman to 
review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Red Sands have a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions say that there is no cover for expenses incurred in private 
medical facilities unless the insurer has agreed to this and capable public facilities were 
unavailable. Theres also a requirement to contact the insurer if the costs were likely to 
exceed £500. 
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint because: 
Theres no evidence that Mr and Mrs T did contact the emergency assistance line. I 
understand that due to Mr Ts visual impairment they were assisted by the hospital. 
But theres no record of that call. So Ive not seen any evidence to confirm that a call 
was made. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs T werent aware that the hospital was private. So, Ive 
thought about the circumstances of Mrs Ts admission, which was for a suspected 
Urinary Tract Infection. Mr and Mrs T explained they were waiting for around six 
hours to be seen and the notes indicate that the total admission was for around 24 
hours in total. So, I think there were reasonable opportunities to contact the insurer 
again, for example via the hospital, friend or relative. 
Had Mr and Mrs T got in touch again it would have given Red Sands the opportunity 
to give Mr and Mrs T further guidance and support, including moving Mrs T to a 
public facility or negotiating a rate with the private hospital. It didnt have the 
opportunity to do that as it wasnt aware of the claim at that time. 
Applying the policy terms, it isnt unreasonable for Red Sands to decline to pay the 
claim. Red Sands wasnt notified in line with the policy terms and conditions and the 
treatment took place in a private facility, without authorisation from Red Sands. They 
also didnt have the opportunity to source alternative facilities or mitigate their costs 
by liaising with the treating hospital.  
Ive thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable to direct Red Sands to 
step outside the policy terms and conditions and pay the claim. I dont think it would, 
given the circumstances surrounding the admission and because I think there were 
reasonable opportunities to contact Red Sands during the relevant period of time.
Ive taken into account that Red Sands referred to the wrong destination when they 
contacted Mr and Mrs T. But that doesnt change my thoughts about the overall 
outcome of the complaint.  
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman