DRN-2796203
The complaint
Mr H, Mr H, Mr H, and Mrs M (the policyholders) complain that Willis Limited unfairly 
terminated their agreement to provide insurance broker services.
Ill mainly refer to Mr H, because hes the person whos been in contact with us.
What happened
The policyholders own four properties on the same site. Three of the properties are occupied 
commercially, and the other is residential. Willis arranged insurance for the properties, under 
a single policy. The insurance policy was underwritten by Allianz Insurance Plc. 
Two subsidence claims have been made. The first claim was settled in 2018. However, the 
second claim, made in 2017, is still ongoing.
In June 2020, at renewal, Willis terminated its agreement with the policyholders. Mr H says 
their new broker approached Allianz to continue their cover, but the premium quoted was 
about £15,000 higher than the previous premium via Willis. Mr H says Allianz would only 
quote on a new customer basis.
The new broker has obtained a new policy with an alternative insurer. However, Mr H says 
the broker is unable to obtain subsidence cover, whilst the subsidence claim with Allianz is 
ongoing. He also says that on completion of the claim, they will have to pay for a specialist 
surveyor in order to obtain subsidence cover. Mr H says, by terminating their agreement, 
Willis has denied the policyholders access to subsidence cover. Hes also unhappy the 
policyholders have lost Willis broker support in respect of their ongoing claim.
Willis has explained that it terminated the agreement due to commercial reasons. It says the 
cost of administrating the account in the two years before termination significantly exceeded 
the income it received from arranging the cover, and the cost of administrating comparable 
accounts. Willis notes it gave the policyholders three months notice, and its terms of 
business allow it to terminate with one months notice.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt think Willis had acted 
unfairly. Because Mr H disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Willis terms of agreement include claim handling services. I understand that Willis had been 
assisting the policyholders with their ongoing claim and it had incurred considerable costs in 
respect of the time spent. Willis no longer considered the arrangement to be commercially 
beneficial. Based on the email exchanges Ive seen between Mr H and Willis when the 
notice of termination was given, I also understand their relationship had broken down. 
I can understand why the policyholders are unhappy if they were reliant on the support of 
Willis for their ongoing claim, and particularly given the difficulties they have experienced 
when trying to obtain a similarly priced policy that includes subsidence cover. 
However, Ive not seen anything that leads me to believe Willis was under an obligation to 
provide claims handling services until the claim was settled, or to continue providing such 
services after their agreement had ended. Ive also not seen anything that persuades me 
Willis was under an obligation to continue to provide its broker services in respect of 
arranging ongoing cover. 
Willis is a commercial entity thats free to make commercial decisions, providing when doing 
so it treats its customers fairly.
Willis gave the policyholders three months notice that the agreement would end at renewal, 
which was two months more than it needed to in respect of its terms of business. Therefore, 
overall, Im not persuaded Willis treated them unfairly. In my opinion, three months was a 
reasonable amount of time for them to approach Allianz directly, or via another broker, to 
discuss their continuation of cover  or to find an alternative insurer.
I havent seen any information about the quote the policyholders received from Allianz, via 
their new broker. But ultimately, if they are unhappy with how Allianz treated them as their 
existing insurer, they need to complain to Allianz about that.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H and the other policyholders, but for the reasons Ive set out 
above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H, Mr H, Mr H 
and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman