DRN-3534792
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about delays by Barclays Bank UK PLC when they applied 
to port (transfer) their mortgage interest rate product onto a new mortgage on another 
property. Mr and Mrs H say that they were at risk of losing their purchase and so had to go 
ahead with a mortgage from a different lender. As a result, they incurred an early repayment 
charge (ERC) on repayment of their Barclays mortgage, which they would like the bank to 
reimburse.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letters dated 10 May 2022 and 18 May 2022. All parties have a copy 
of those letters, so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. Secondly, rather than 
repeating everything, I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. 
Finally, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that 
might lead to Mr and Mrs H being identified.
Briefly, Mr and Mrs H had a mortgage with Barclays which was on a fixed rate of interest 
until October 2022. If the mortgage was repaid in whole or in part before then, an ERC would 
be payable.
In March 2021 Mr and Mrs H decided to move house and port their mortgage interest rate 
product onto their new property. At that point the mortgage had about 12 years 9 months left 
to run. Through their broker an application was submitted to Barclays on 10 March 2021. A 
credit search found undisclosed commitments (an error from a previous mortgage lender), 
and the broker submitted confirmation of this on 12 April 2021. This was accepted by 
Barclays on 21 April 2021.
However, the mortgage term had been entered as 2 years, which made the mortgage 
unaffordable. Barclays says it chased the broker to rectify this if it was, in fact, an error so 
the application could proceed. However, Barclays says that, despite sending chasers, no 
further contact was received from the brokers after 21 April 2021 and the application was 
closed in September 2021.
On 25 April 2021 Mr and Mrs H complained to Barclays. Their complaint was that the 
application was taking too long and theyd been told by Barclays on 16 April 2021 that, as 
this was a broker application, they werent able to speak directly to Barclays but would have 
to go through their broker. By 25 April 2021, however, Mr and Mrs H said they already had a 
mortgage offer from a new lender.
Mr and Mrs H complained that their broker repeatedly had to chase Barclays for a response, 
and in the end, frustrated by Barclays failure to respond, Mr and Mrs H decided to go to 
another lender for a new mortgage. As a result, they had to pay an ERC of about £8,000 
when they redeemed their Barclays mortgage, which theyd like the bank to reimburse.
In its final response letter Barclays acknowledged thered been some delay in processing the 
application, as well as other customer service issues and offered £200 compensation for 
this. But Barclays also said that the application had failed on affordability and so the bank 
wasnt able to progress it any further.
Dissatisfied with Barclays response, Mr and Mrs H complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think the complaint should 
be upheld. He was satisfied, from the email chain and chat logs between Barclays and the 
broker that the broker had failed to provide information requested by Barclays, or respond to 
chasers. As a result, the investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said at the outset, I will not repeat the details of the complaint here. However, I confirm 
Ive read and reviewed everything. 
I can see from the chat log dated 16 April 2021 that the broker was frustrated at the length of 
time the application was taking (at that point, 5 weeks from the date it had been submitted 
on 10 March 2021). Although the discrepancy about the previous mortgage on the credit file 
was resolved by 21 April 2021, by that point Mr and Mrs H had, it seems, had already 
approached another lender, as their mortgage offer was issued the following day. 
But in any event, Im satisfied the broker had been made aware that, although the issue 
about the mortgage had been resolved, there was still the outstanding issue of the two-year 
mortgage term on the application. The broker never corrected this, or replied to any emails 
from Barclays chasing him up.
In the circumstances, although I agree there was some delay by Barclays, it seems that, 
before the error about the mortgage term had been addressed by the broker, Mr and Mrs H 
had already made the decision to move their mortgage to a different lender. Given this, there 
is no basis on which I could fairly order Barclays to reimburse the ERC. I think the £200 
already paid by Barclays for customer service issues is fair, and so Im not ordering the bank 
to pay any further compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman