DRN-2873666
The complaint
Mr B says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) has not fairly compensated him for the mis-sale of a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
To be clear this decision is only about the sale of a PPI policy linked to loan account ending 
9951.
What happened
Mr B took out a loan with BoS in March 2000. At the same time he was sold a single 
premium PPI policy. The premium for the PPI policy was added to the main loan and would 
attract interest.
The loan ended in July 2005. Mr B complained about the sale of the PPI.
In June 2018 BoS wrote to Mr B to say it was upholding his complaint. BoS offered Mr B 
compensation totalling £16,835.39.
Mr B says that if BoS had dealt with his complaint and paid compensation sooner, he would 
have been able to re-mortgage his home. Instead he had to sell his home.
An adjudicator from this service thought BoS had acted fairly. Mr B disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first looked the offer made by BoS in June 2018.
When a business is found to have mis-sold a PPI policy we expect it to put the consumer in 
the position they would be in if the PPI had not been sold.
In the case of a single premium PPI added to a loan, this involves repaying to the consumer 
everything extra they paid because the PPI was added to the loan.
I can see that BoS offered to refund all the additional cost Mr B incurred because the PPI 
was added to his loan. This included all the repayments he made to that part of the loan 
taken to fund the PPI premium, and it included the additional interest Mr B paid due to the 
PPI.
BoS also offered compensatory interest calculated at 8% simple for all the time he had been 
out of pocket. 
So BoS has refunded everything extra Mr B paid because of the sale of the PPI and 
compensated him for the time he was out of pocket with what I consider to be a fair rate of 
interest. This is what I would expect BoS to do in order to fairly compensate Mr B.
But Mr B thinks BoS should do more.
Mr B says BoS should have paid him the compensation sooner, and that if it had done then 
he wouldnt have needed to sell his home.
Ive thought carefully about this. 
I can see Mr B got into some financial difficulties which resulted in him being the subject of a 
county court judgement in 2006. During 2017 Mr B tried to re-mortgage his home to 
consolidate some of his debt and clear the CCJ, but ultimately couldnt find a business 
willing to offer a re-mortgage so had to sell his home. Mr B says that if BoS had paid the 
compensation earlier he could have used it to clear the CCJ and may have then been able to 
secure a re-mortgage.
From the evidence I have seen, Mr B employed a claims management company (CMC) to 
approach BoS. The CMC sent an information request to BoS in early 2017 requesting details 
of any PPI sold to Mr B.  But the CMC didnt actually complain to BoS about the PPI until 
May 2018 after Mr B had signed its complaint form in April 2018. And this was after Mr Bs 
home had been sold. 
Mr B thinks BoS should have investigated his complaint when the CMC made its initial 
enquiry. Indeed Mr B has said BoS should have investigated the sale of the PPI years earlier 
when it became apparent that PPI policies had been widely mis-sold.
But I dont agree. I dont think it is reasonable to expect a business to treat every enquiry 
about PPI policies as a mis-sale complaint. Although many PPI policies were mis-sold there 
were many that were not. And once BoS had received Mr Bs formal complaint in May 2018, 
it dealt with the issue quickly and made him an offer in June 2018.
So in summary I think BoSs offer for the mis-sold PPI was fair and calculated in the way Id 
expect. And I dont think BoSs actions when dealing with Mr Bs enquiries and complaint led 
directly to Mr B not being able to secure a re-mortgage in 2017. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman