DRN-2036397
The complaint
Ms O is unhappy that Hoist Finance UK Limited (Hoist), are noting that she needs to pay it 
an amount of £8,441.60 for outstanding debts it is collecting. 
What happened
Ms O has said that in May 2019 she received communication from Hoist  noting that she 
needed to pay an outstanding balance of £8,441.60 for debts it had purchased, and that had 
not been settled. At this point, Ms O was concerned  because she didnt feel it was correct 
that she owed the debt. So, she contacted Hoist.
Ms O explained to Hoist that she felt the amount Hoist were asking to be paid was statute 
barred, and therefore she didnt owe this amount to it. Hoist responded to Ms Os complaint. 
It said that a country court judgment (CCJ) had been issued for the debt owed in 2014, so 
the debt owed wasnt statute barred, and Ms O did owe the money. 
Because Ms O was dissatisfied with Hoists response, she referred her complaint to this 
service for an independent review. 
In her submissions, Ms O said that the CCJ against her had been set aside, as Hoist had 
written to the wrong address in respect of the debt  and that Hoist knew this. She said that 
after the CCJ was set aside in 2018 she didnt hear anything further from Hoist chasing any 
outstanding debt until May 2019, when it got back in contact with her. Given this, she again 
noted that she considered the debt to statute-barred. 
In addition to this, Ms O said that the amount Hoist were trying to pursue her for was 
incorrect. She said the account the debt referred to  which was an overdraft on a bank 
account  should only sit at £292. So, she couldnt see where the £8,441.60 had come from.
Our investigator considered this complaint and thought it should be upheld in part. He said 
that it wasnt for this service to decide whether the debt in this case was enforceable or not. 
That was for a court to decide. But our investigator noted that he could decide whether it 
seemed fair for Hoist to pursue the money it was saying was owed.
Our investigator said it was reasonable for Hoist to pursue the money  which he said Hoist 
had evidenced was made up on three accounts  two bank accounts and a loan that had 
been amalgamated. However, he thought that Hoist could have been clearer about what the 
debt was made up of when Ms O questioned it in May 2019. He said not clarifying this 
caused avoidable trouble and upset to Ms O, and recommended Hoist pay Ms O £150 
compensation.
Neither party responded to our investigators opinion on the matter. So, this complaint has 
been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Ive explained why below.
Firstly, it is important to note Im aware Ms O made a previous complaint around Hoist filing 
a CCJ against her. Ms O said the CCJ had been unfairly decided, as she hadnt received 
letters about the debt  they had been sent to a previous address. This previous complaint 
isnt the subject of this case  so I wont be discussing that in this decision.
Instead, Ill only be considering what happened when Ms O received contact from Hoist in 
2019, regarding the outstanding amount it said she owed. At this point, the CCJ had been 
set aside.
In 2019 Ms O said she didnt think the debt was enforceable any longer. It isnt for this 
service to decide whether a debt is enforceable or not. Enforceability is a matter for the 
court. So, I also wont be deciding on this point. But Ms O is unhappy she is still being 
pursued for the debt  and that is something this service can consider. So, Ive thought 
about whether Hoist has acted fairly and reasonably by contacting Ms O and asking her to 
pay the outstanding amount it said is owed.
Hoist has provided information to show what the debt is made up of, and how much was 
owed on these accounts. It has given me account statements, which show debts it 
purchased, which were for two outstanding overdrafts, and a personal loan. Ms O hasnt 
disputed these accounts were hers. And given the evidence Hoist has provided to show the 
accounts in Ms Os name, Im satisfied it is reasonable for Hoist to pursue the debt.
Ms O has disputed the amount owed. And this wasnt previously responded to, in Ms Os 
earlier complaint about the CCJ applied. Ms O did raise her concerns about the amount 
Hoist said was owed  given she didnt feel it was payable. So, I have also thought about 
whether the amount Hoist is saying is payable is fair. And I think it is.
I say that because from looking at the account statements for each outstanding debt, Im 
aware there was a balance of £8,200.16 left to pay on the personal loan. And on the two 
bank accounts, amounts of £994.98 and £134.40 were owed respectively. So, the total owed 
at this stage was £9,259.38.
Ms O said she paid some further funds off one of the bank accounts, and has provided 
evidence to show payments she made, totalling £702, which reduced the account which 
£994.98 was initially owed for. But I dont think this makes a difference to the outcome of the 
complaint. Ms O is being pursued for an amount of £8,441.60. And given the information 
above, this suggests the further amount she paid off has been taken into account when Hoist 
is asking for payment. So, I dont think the balance of £8,441.60 that Hoist are asking for is 
incorrect.
Ms O has also noted that she feels the problems she experienced when raising her concerns 
in 2019 caused her stress and upset. She said the fact Hoist told her the CCJ was still in 
operation was confusing  because she knew it had been set aside. And on looking at the 
email Ms O sent Hoist when noting in May 2019 that the debt was unenforceable, I think it 
would have been helpful for Hoist to tell Ms O what the amount owing was made up of. 
Hoist has said it did send Ms O a letter about this in 2017. But, having seen a copy of that, 
Im aware it was sent to the incorrect address, so this wouldnt have reached Ms O. 
Putting things rightWith the trouble and upset Ms O experienced in mind, I do think it would be reasonable for 
Hoist to pay Ms O £150 compensation. I say this because Im satisfied it fairly recognises the 
trouble and upset Ms O experienced in not being sure what the outstanding balance was 
made up of. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that Hoist Finance UK Limited, should pay Ms O £150 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman