DRN-1653625
 
The complaint
Mr B says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf of the policy insurer. I cant consider 
this complaint against the seller of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place 
before that firm, or its predecessor-in-title, were regulated by the then Financial Services 
Authority (FSA) for insurance intermediation activities or were otherwise covered by our 
jurisdiction. 
But the seller was acting as the insurers agent. And the insurer has subsequently 
transferred its business to AXA, so it has taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things 
simple, Ill mainly refer to AXA in this decision, unless its clearer to do otherwise.
Background
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card Mr B took out in 2003. It was 
sold to him in-store. Mr B says he wasnt told the policy wouldnt cover unemployment, so 
when he tried to claim on the PPI when he was made redundant, he wasnt able to do so. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
When I look at a complaint about the potential mis-sale of a PPI policy, I need to consider 
some overarching questions when reaching my decision. Those questions are:
Did the business selling the PPI make their customer aware they had a choice in 
taking out the policy?
Whether the business gave specific personal advice to the consumer about the policy 
and its suitability for their needs.
Whether the business has given the customer enough and appropriate information to 
let them make an informed choice about whether to take the policy or not  and 
pointing out the main provisions of the policy and any limitations or exclusions. 
If  after Ive considered those questions  I find that the PPI was mis-sold, I then have to go 
on to consider whether (and to what extent) the consumer has suffered loss or damage. And 
ultimately what amount would I consider fair compensation for that loss or damage. But in Mr Bs case, I dont need to reach a decision on the above questions as based on the 
information Ive been given, it doesnt look like Mr B has suffered any loss as a result of 
having the PPI. I say that because it doesnt look like Mr B has used the store card the PPI 
was linked to  so he hasnt paid any premiums for the policy. 
So even if I was to decide the PPI had been mis-sold, Mr B wouldnt get any compensation. 
I have noted Mr Bs comments about the fact he made payments towards a store card  and 
Ive reviewed the evidence of those payments hes provided. But from what AXA has told us, 
Mr B had two accounts  one ending 7189 (which this complaint is about) and another 
ending 6887 - and it looks like the payments were made towards 6887 and not to 7189. I can 
see that Mr B has raised a complaint about account 6887 as well.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman