DRN-1670709
 
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy Santander UK Plc wont refund two withdrawals he made that didnt 
dispense from the ATM.  
What happened
Mr I says he made two ATM withdrawals for £150 when on a night out, but the cash wasnt 
dispensed from the ATM. He checked his balance the next day, and the receipts he had, and 
couldnt account for two ATM withdrawals of £150 that had taken place whilst he was out. 
Santander didnt refund the transactions. It was satisfied after contacting the ATM provider 
that the money had been dispensed. Mr I was unhappy with this so brought his complaint to 
this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he felt the 
evidence from the ATM provider suggested the money was dispensed successfully from the 
ATM. This coupled with the fact Mr I had been checking his online banking but not reported 
anything to Santander, supported the fact Mr I had received the money from the ATM.  
Aside from this our investigator let Mr I know that following a conversation with the ATM 
provider, it had independently decided to refund one of the disputed withdrawals. This refund 
credited Mr Is account on 7 February 2020.
Mr I responded, reiterating that he wanted both transactions refunded as neither had 
dispensed from the ATM. The complaint has therefore been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons. 
Mr I attempted to withdraw £150 at 16:22 from an ATM in a shop. The journal roll supplied 
by the ATM provider shows this money was dispensed from the ATM and that no errors 
occurred in the processing of the withdrawal. The documentary evidence all suggests here 
that the money was dispensed but Ive also looked at the surrounding circumstances of Mr 
Is claim too. 
I think its important to note here that someone used the ATM immediately after Mr I. Six 
seconds after his transaction ended; someone else put their card in the ATM to carry out 
their own transaction. This doesnt suggest there was any kind of malfunction with the ATM. 
If the money hadnt been dispensed as Mr I suggests, I may have expected there to be a 
longer gap between the end of his transaction and the start of the second. Its not unreasonable to think Mr I may have waited a little while in case the money was slow to 
dispense or warned the person behind him that something may be wrong with the ATM.
It doesnt seem Mr I did this and neither did he make any attempt to check his balance 
immediately following this withdrawal to see if the money had debited his account, either by 
putting the card back in to check his balance or logging into his mobile banking. Mr I also 
didnt contact Santander to check. 
The audit report provided by Santander, and journal roll provided by the ATM provider, 
shows that Mr I attempted a transaction for £300 at 17:29. This transaction was declined. 
Santander hasnt been able to confirm why this was declined but it could be because the 
£300 wouldve taken Mr I above his withdrawal limit for the day. 
Immediately after this at 17:30, Mr I carried out a £150 withdrawal. He says this money 
wasnt dispensed by the ATM either. Similarly to the first transaction, the journal roll provided 
by the ATM provider doesnt support this. It shows the money was dispensed and no errors 
occurred on the transaction. 
As well as this, the ATM balanced at the close of the day. Had there been any issues with 
the ATM you may have expected to see there be more or less money in there compared to 
the transactions that had taken place that day. The fact it balanced supports there being no 
errors with the ATM. 
The ATM provider has confirmed there were also no reports from the shop or the police that 
any fraudulent devices had been fitted to the machine during the time period of Mr Is 
withdrawals. Im therefore happy that there were no external factors which meant Mr Is 
money wasnt dispensed to him. 
Taken in its entirety, the information from the ATM provider doesnt suggest anything went 
wrong with either transaction. 
Mr I checked his mobile banking prior to the disputed withdrawals and during the period of 
the withdrawals. Its reasonable to assume he wouldve been aware of his balance and this 
wouldve reflected the fact the money had been withdrawn from his account. If he hadnt 
received the money from the ATMs, I wouldve expected him to report this to Santander at 
the time. The fact he didnt do this at any point throughout his evening leads me to conclude 
that he received the money from the ATM. 
Because of the information provided by the ATM provider and the surrounding 
circumstances of Mr Is claim, Im satisfied that the money was dispensed from the ATM on 
both occasions.  I dont believe Santander made any mistakes in not refunding Mr I for either 
withdrawals and it follows that I wont be recommending it does so. 
Independently from Mr Is complaint against Santander, the ATM provider has decided to 
refund the second withdrawal to Mr I. It explained that its decision to do this is in line with the 
regulations they follow, which says the amount should be refunded because of the failed 
withdrawal at 17:29, just prior to the disputed one at 17:30. I should stress that the ATM 
providers decision to refund is based on the rules they have to follow, so would have no 
bearing on Santanders actions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Is complaint against Santander UK Plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman