DRN-3993267
The complaint
Mr L complains that Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax did not do enough to protect him 
from the financial harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help him recover the 
money once hed reported the scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Mr L was registered with an online dating platform and over the course of several months he 
engaged in conversations with various people and met up with a few of them without issue. 
In November 2021, he received a message from a woman who claimed to be from China but 
was based in London for work. Her profile showed photographs of her on holiday, socialising 
with friends and in family settings, and listed her interests which included going on holiday 
and music. 
Mr L began to get to know the woman. She told him about her educational background, her 
childhood, and her family. After about a month, the woman contacted Mr L using a UK 
mobile number. Mr L asked her to speak on the phone, but she would say she was busy or 
with friends. They eventually made plans to meet up when she returned to the UK after 
visiting her parents abroad.
After several weeks, the woman told Mr L shed been trading in cryptocurrency. She 
explained the minimum investment was £600 and the trading platform she used had access 
to various commodities e.g. 24 currency pairs, 9 stocks (including Google and Tesla), and 9 
cryptocurrencies. She said they used artificial intelligence to predict the market and shed 
made £200,000 profit in one year. Mr L believed this because hed heard of people making a 
lot of money from cryptocurrency, so he asked her for a link to the trading platform. 
The website included an about us section, FAQs, and a 24/7 live chat option. It provided full 
details of its company directors, giving a brief synopsis of their experience and it outlined 
various security regulations and checks which were part of their KYC and Anti-Money 
Laundering (AML) regulations. Mr L thought the platform seemed professional and he 
trusted the woman, so he decided to go ahead with the investment and applied for a trading 
account via the website, a process which required him to complete verification checks. 
Mr L submitted two forms of photo ID and proof of address and was then given log-in details 
to a trading account which showed the fluctuating exchange rates of various currencies and 
profits and losses.
The woman advised Mr L to first purchase cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency 
exchange company Ill refer to as B. On 4 February 2022, 25 February 2022, and 28 March 
2022, he paid £600, £5000, and £2,620 to B using a debit card connected to his Halifax 
account.
On 28 January 2022 Mr L attempted to pay £600 to B, but Halifax blocked the payment. He 
called Halifax to discuss the payment and during the call he was told hed need to go into the 
branch with photo ID before the payment could be processed. 
When Mr L attended the branch, he was told the payment was flagged due to the rise in 
scams involving cryptocurrency investments and that investing in cryptocurrency was high 
risk. He was asked what the payment was for, whether hed been pressured to make the 
payment and whether there was a third party involved. He said he was acting independently, 
and he was new to trading but he was confident about what he was doing and had no 
concerns. There were no other questions and no scam warning, and the block was lifted.
Mr L was able to access his trading account and while most of trades were a success, some 
did incur a loss. On 22 February 2022, he tried to make payments to B for £500, £5,000, 
£5,000, and £2,000, all of which were blocked by Halifax. And on 24 February 2022, a 
further payment of £5,000 was also blocked. 
Mr L contacted Halifax on 24 February 2022. During this call, the call handler reminded him 
there were risks and that Halifax wouldnt be able to help if he lost the money. She asked 
when hed last paid B, whether he was new to cryptocurrency and, whether hed used any 
other cryptocurrency exchanges apart from B. Mr L answered the questions and the £5,000 
payment was processed.
By 28 March 2022, Mr Ls trading account showed his profits had reached £18,000, so he 
submitted a withdrawal request. He was told hed have to pay £2,620 for tax, which he paid 
following reassurance from the woman that this was normal. 
He was then given a digital wallet ID via a live chat option on the website. Mr L followed the 
instructions and sent the cryptocurrency out of the account he held with B. When he was still 
unable to withdraw his money after a week, he asked for update and was told there had 
been a technical issue, that he money was being held by Blockchain and that he would have 
to pay 50% of the profit upfront it he wanted to access it. 
Again, the woman reassured Mr L that she'd to do the same and offered to pay £5,000 
towards the Blockchain fees if he would pay £1,000. When he refused to do this, she 
became aggressive. He then lost contact with the woman and was denied access to his 
profits, at which point he realised hed been the victim of a scam.
Mr L complained to Halifax, but it said it was unable to raise a chargeback request as the 
payments had been sent to an account in Mr Ls own name. It also said the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model code (CRM) didnt cover debit card payments. Halifax also 
explained it had spoken to Mr L in respect of two of the payments and on each occasion, it 
had asked if he was getting any help and gave advice about the risks associated with 
cryptocurrency investments.
Mr L wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. He said Halifax had been 
dismissive when hed reported the scam and had said it was unable to investigate because 
the payments had been paid to an account in his name. He explained hed lost a significant 
amount of his life savings, struggles to cover the cost of household bills and has been forced 
to cut back significantly on his spending.
His representative has argued that many of the payments went through without any checks 
from Halifax and it should have had measures in place to detect suspicious activities that 
might indicate fraud. They argued that Halifax failed to detect the scam and prevent it from 
escalating. They accepted when Halifax intervened, Mr L was asked about the purpose of 
the payment and if hed been coerced and he said he hadnt because, at the time, he 
thought the investment was legitimate and that he was acting independently. They argued Halifax should have been aware the use of cryptocurrency exchange 
companies was a common trait in investment scams, and it ought to have flagged the 
payments as out of character as they were unusual for Mr Ls account when compared to his 
spending history and the fact they were to a cryptocurrency exchange. It should then have 
contacted Mr L and asked questions such as whether there were any third parties involved, 
how he met them and whether there was a plausible rate of return.
The representative said Mr L hadnt been told to lie and would have answered the questions 
honestly, so Halifax should have realised this was a scam and provided a scam warning. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied Halifax had 
done enough to have made Mr L aware of the risks involved in cryptocurrency when he went 
into the branch, but she didnt think it had asked enough questions during the second call. 
However, even though she thought Halifax should have asked more probing questions and 
provided a meaningful scam warning, she didnt think this would have made a difference to 
Mr Ls decision to go ahead with the payment. She thought that if it had asked more 
questions, Mr L would have said there was no third-party involved and she didnt think there 
was any way it could have identified the investment wasnt genuine. 
She noted the last payment was processed with no questioning but she was satisfied that 
based on the fact that, by that point, Mr L had paid B twice before, it wasnt unusual or 
suspicious, so Halifax didnt miss an opportunity to intervene.
Finally, our investigator explained a chargeback claim would be unsuccessful as B had 
provided the service it was required to provide, and the CRM Code didnt apply to the 
payments as they were debit card payments. 
Mr Ls representative has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. 
Theyve argued the payments should have triggered a call from a fraud specialist who would 
have asked extensive questions designed to uncover the typical hallmarks of a scam. They 
dont accept Mr L wouldnt have done anything differently, arguing its not fair to speculate on 
what may have happened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear Mr L has been the victim of a scam. I know he feels strongly 
about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
CRM Code
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr L says hes fallen victim to, in all 
but a limited number of circumstances. Halifax has said the CRM code didnt apply in this 
case because it doesnt apply to debit card payments, and Im satisfied thats fair.
Chargeback
Ive thought about whether Halifax could have done more to recover Mr Ls payments when 
he reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will 
ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme 
 so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases 
is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether 
the regulated card issuer (i.e. Halifax) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or 
choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mr L).
Mr Ls own testimony supports that he used a cryptocurrency exchange to facilitate the 
transfers. Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the merchant that received the 
disputed payments. Its most likely that B would have been able to evidence theyd done 
what was asked of them. That is, in exchange for Mr Ls payments, they converted and sent 
an amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet address provided. So, any chargeback was 
destined fail, therefore Im satisfied that Halifaxs decision not to raise a chargeback request 
against B was fair.
Im satisfied Mr L authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his 
bank account, Mr L is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am persuaded Mr L lost his money to a 
scam. Because I cant be certain about this, Ive made my decision based on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, based on what I think is most likely, bearing in mind all the 
available evidence. Mr L has given an account of having fallen victim to a romance scam 
and Im satisfied thats what happened. While theres no adverse information about the 
woman or the trading platform, Ive seen evidence of Mr Ls communications with both and 
Im persuaded that this, along with the tactics used to encourage him to pay more money, 
had all the hallmarks of an investment scam. 
But, although Mr L didnt intend him money to go to scammers, he did authorise the disputed 
payments. Halifax is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer 
authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a scam, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though they 
authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether Halifax could have done more to prevent the scam from occurring 
at various points during the scam period. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and 
from the evidence Ive seen, the payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency 
exchange company. However, Halifax had an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and 
these payments were part of a wider scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have 
intervened to warn Mr L when he tried to make the payments.  If there are unusual or 
suspicious payments on an account, Id expect Halifax to intervene with a view to protecting 
Mr L from financial harm due to fraud. The first payment on 4 February 2022 was blocked by Halifaxs fraud systems. This 
triggered a call from Halifax and Mr L was ultimately required to attend the branch before the 
payment was eventually processed. Based on the available information, it seems Mr L was 
asked some questions about the payment in response to which he failed to disclose the 
involvement of the third party.  While I accept this was an honest answer and not a 
deliberate attempt to mislead Halifax, it meant it wasnt alerted to the existence of a 
significant red flag which might have indicated Mr L was the victim of a scam and triggered 
further questions and, ultimately, a full scam warning. Mr L was warned that investing in 
cryptocurrency is high risk but, in the absence of accurate information about the 
circumstances of the investment, I cant fairly hold Halifax responsible for the fact it didnt  
give a full scam warning on that occasion.
On 24 February, Halifax blocked another payment and contacted Mr L. The call handler told 
Mr L there were risks and she also asked some questions. But I dont think the questions 
were sufficiently probing. During the call, I would expect Mr L to have been asked questions 
around whether there were any third parties involved, how hed heard about the investment 
and whether hed researched the trading platform and as this didnt happen, I agree with our 
investigator that Halifax didnt do enough to protect Mr L during the call.
However, Ive thought about what might have happened if the call handler had asked more 
questions and as nothing had really changed since he attended the branch, I think Mr L 
would have maintained there was no third party involved. He has said some of the trades 
had made a loss and he was impressed with the trading platform and confident everything 
seemed normal and legitimate so, in the absence of a something to trigger a fraud warning 
from Halifax, I dont think a generic warning about the risks of cryptocurrency investments 
would have made a difference to his decision to ahead with the payments. And, because of 
this, I dont think the failures in the call represented a missed opportunity to intervene in 
circumstances when to do so might have prevented Mr Ls loss. 
Finally, on 28 March 2022, Mr L made a payment of £2,620 to B. Ive considered the nature 
of this payment in the context of whether it was unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mr L 
normally ran his account and I dont think it was. The payment was to a legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange company which Mr L had paid twice previously in the same month, 
and it wasnt for a particularly large amount. So, I dont think it was out of character or that 
Halifax should have intervened.
Overall, Im satisfied that even though Halifax could have done more before the second 
payment was processed, I dont think that made a difference to the outcome. Im sorry to 
hear Mr L has lost money and the effect this has had on him. But for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont think Halifax is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything 
further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman