DRN-2234163
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited wont allow her to cash 
in her annuity.
What happened
In 2009 Mrs F chose to take her benefits from her Legal and General personal pension. She 
chose to take the maximum tax-free cash allowed and an annuity. Mrs F selected an annuity 
payable for life which included a five year guarantee and spouses pension of 50%. Mrs F 
asked for this to be paid monthly in advance, the annuity amounts to £552 per year.
More recently Mrs F asked Legal and General if she could cash in the annuity for a lump-
sum instead. Legal and General declined to do so, saying that its terms and conditions 
explicitly state that its annuities cannot be cashed in. And that whilst legislation in some 
circumstances does allow cashing in of annuities, this is only if the provider agrees, and it 
does not.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld. She 
explained that Legal and General had acted within its terms set out and that when she took 
out the annuity it agreed to pay her the annuity for life. And that in any event it seemed that 
the value of Mrs Fs annuity would likely exceed the limit set in legislation for cashing in 
annuities.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mrs F is struggling financially and I can understand why she would like 
to have a lump sum in place of her annuity. But at this service we are not consumer 
champions, I can only uphold a complaint if I think the business needs to do more. 
In the particular circumstances of this case, I dont think there are any grounds to say that 
Legal and General have done something wrong or need to do more. The reasons for this 
have already been set out quite extensively by our investigator but for completeness Ill 
summarise my reasoning below:
The legislation that allows the cashing in of annuities is at the businesses discretion and 
Legal and General has decided not to offer it. Ive seen nothing to suggest that it has 
been unfair to Mrs F in applying this stance in the circumstances here.
It has acted within the terms and conditions of the policy. And Mrs F wouldve known that 
when she took out her annuity, it was a contract for life
Even if Legal and General had decided to allow the cashing in of annuities, it seems 
likely that currently Mrs Fs annuity cash-in value would exceed the £10,000 limit set in 
legislation. Since Mrs F took out her annuity, falling interest rates and increased life 
expectancy means the amount required to provide the same annuity today would be 
greater than it was back in 2009.
The amount Mrs F is receiving is not immaterial, £552 a year will provide some material 
benefit. Mrs F has also already received approximately 60% of the value of the pension 
pot in annuity payments. And this will also provide a spousal pension should she pre-
decease her husband. This is despite the fact she took out a five year guarantee, which 
wouldve decreased the value of the annuity. So, I dont think in the circumstances Legal 
and General is being unfair in its stance that it will continue to honour the agreement at 
outset.
Mrs F has made the point that it seems unfair that she is aware of other circumstances 
where providers have agreed to cash-in annuities. Mrs F is correct, there have been some 
instances where businesses have allowed individuals to cash-in annuities. By and large the 
majority of business dont offer it, but in certain circumstances some have made exceptions. 
And a minority of businesses have made offers more widely. But Im afraid this is a product 
of the legislation, businesses dont have to offer this to everyone, its at their discretion.
In conclusion I can understand that Mrs F would consider herself better off and get more use 
from a lump sum now than continuing with the monthly annuity payments. But in these 
circumstances,  alongside the annuity likely being worth more than £10,000, I dont think 
Legal and General needs to do more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mrs Fs complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman