DRN-3933765
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc paid a standing order from his account that he 
understood to be cancelled. He doesnt think its processes or information are clear. 
While Mr C brings his complaint with the help of a relative, for ease of read I will refer to Mr 
C (the banks customer) throughout this decision. 
What happened
Mr C wanted to cancel a standing order for his rent, so he logged into his account online. He 
deleted the payee details and understood the payment to be cancelled.
A few days later, HSBC paid the standing order, but Mr C couldnt understand why. He 
visited his local branch for help. They told him that the standing order instruction was still 
active and helped him to cancel it. 
Mr C raised a complaint as he was out of pocket by over £1,300. He didnt think it was fair he 
was responsible for what had happened. He felt there was a problem with the banks online 
process and information if hed been left with the impression that the payment couldnt be 
made through the steps hed taken. 
HSBC investigated and said he hadnt gone through the correct process for cancelling the 
standing order payment, instead hed deleted the payees details which wouldnt have 
cancelled the standing order instruction. So, it didnt think it had made a mistake. 
Mr C didnt agree and referred the complaint to us. One of our investigators looked at what 
had happened but he didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators conclusion. Amongst other things he maintained the 
points that were important to him:
- If the process for cancelling a standing order isnt simple, then it shouldnt be 
available as an option. 
- What was the purpose of being able to remove a recipient of a payment, if it didnt 
then prevent a payment? 
- His personal circumstances can make dealing with some things difficult and should 
be a relevant factor. 
The investigator didnt change his mind, so the case has been passed to me for a review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has questioned why the bank allowed him to delete payee details if that still resulted in 
a payment. However, I must explain that the beneficiary details on a list of payees isnt quite 
the same thing because payees can be paid by other means, for example, bank transfer. But 
the key point here is that Mr C was looking to cancel a regular standing order payment 
instruction. So, thats what he needed to do. Ive gone onto consider how clear this 
information was. 
Ive reviewed the information that appears online when you log into your account and can 
see theres a separate tab for standing order payments along the ribbon at the top of the 
screen. If you click on that tab for the individual instruction concerned, there are details 
about the amount, beneficiary and frequency of the payment. Below that is the option to 
cancel the payment. 
I think the information relating to standing orders is where Id expect it to be in the standing 
orders and future payments section and I think its prominent and clear that Mr C would 
need to select that. 
Ive thought carefully about Mr Cs circumstances to see if this makes any difference to the 
outcome of his complaint but given there is a distinct section for managing standing order 
payments, I dont think it does. He unfortunately selected the wrong process. But that 
doesnt change the fact that the information was there and clear.  
Once Mr C discovered the problem, I would have expected the bank to assist him and I can 
see thats what happened here; it explained the situation, helped to cancel the instruction 
and suggested Mr C contact his landlord to reclaim the payment (that being the party that 
received the funds). Considering all of this, I dont think HSBC made a mistake, so it follows 
that Im not going to ask it to do anymore.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman