DRN-4350790
The complaint
Ms K complains that Creation Financial Services Limited unfairly closed her account, didnt 
credit her points, a free night stay voucher or refund the annual fee. Shed like her benefits 
credited and compensation for the impact and time taken to resolve the issue. 
What happened
Ms K had a rewards club premium credt card account with Creation which included an 
annual fee of £99. The card included the ability to earn reward points, which could be 
redeemed for hotel stays or experiences, and a hotel voucher for a free night stay.
In September 2021, Creation sent Ms K a letter informing her that her credit card account 
would be closed in December 2021. And they wouldnt be crediting her the points for the last 
statement period, her free night stay voucher or a refund of the unused annual fee.
Ms K compained to Creation about the closure of her account. Creation didnt uphold her 
complaint. They said they acted fairly in closing Ms Ks account, not refunding the annual 
fee, crediting the points or the hotel voucher. Ms K wasnt happy with Creations response 
and brought her compaint to our service. Ms K said she accepted Creation could close her 
account, however, at no point did Creation inform her of its intention to withold the card 
benefits. Instead, she says Creation continued to advertise and promote the benefits on 
statements she received after the notice to close letter had been issued, which Ms K says 
was deliberately misleading. 
After Ms K brought her complaint to our service Creation made an offer to resolve Ms Ks 
complaint. They offered Ms K a refund of her annual fee, the free night voucher and the 
points not credited, which were earnt during the notice period. 
Ms K said the offer lacked detail so she didnt accept the offer. She pointed out that Creation 
hadnt offered compensation for the time, hassle and inconvenience caused and having to 
raise a complaint with our service. And having to wait to be refunded the account fee and 
awarded her points. Ms K also argued that the value of the points and voucher were now 
worth less, so she is worse off. To put things right she wants Creation to award her another 
voucher and more points. 
One of our investigators looked into Ms Ks complaint. The investigator reviewed all the 
evidence and said that Creations offer was fair and reasonable. Creation accepted the 
investigators recommendations. Ms K disagreed. She said Creation hadnt done enough to 
put things right and should compensate her for having to spend time and following up her 
complaint. And being without her account fee refund, voucheri and points for so long. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter came to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from financial businesses as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if 
it contains information about other customers, security information or commercially sensitive 
information. Some of the information Creation has provided is information that we 
considered should be kept confidential. This means I havent been able to share a lot of 
detail with Ms K, but Id like to reassure her that I have considered everything.
Account closure
I understand that Ms K is unhappy Creation closed her account. Creation can only close 
accounts in certain cirucumstances and if its in the terms and conditions of the account. 
Creation have relied on the terms and conditions when closing Ms Ks account. Ive reviewed 
the terms and they explain that Creation can close an account for any reason by giving 60 
days notice. 
Having looked at all the information available to me, including Creations actions and the 
information its provided Im satisfied that Creations decision to close Ms Ks account was 
reached legitimately and fairly. Ive reviewed the terms and conditions and circumstances of 
this complaint, and Im satisfied Creation acted in line with them, so, it was entitled to close 
the account as it has already done. Creation have provided Ms K with the full notice period, 
so I cant say Creation have acted unfairly in taking the actions it did. Ive considered 
whether Creation need to offer any compensation in regard to the closure. But from what Ive 
seen the decision to close was reasonable.
Annual fee, withholding of points and hotel voucher
Ms K says Creation gave her misleading information because it actively promoted the 
benefits associated with her card, and then didnt provide them when it decided to close her 
account. Creation have offered to reimburse Ms Ks points and offered to pay a pro rata 
refund of Ms Ks £99 account fee, which amounts to £46.65.  Im satisfied that Creation 
shouldnt have deprived Ms K of access to the points, hotel voucher and refund when it 
closed her account. But Im pleased to see that they have now put this right. I understand 
that Creation has already reimbursed Ms K her points in April 2023 along with her free hotel 
voucher. But Ms K is still awaiting her annual fee refund. I note that Creation has agreed to a 
pro-rata refund of Ms Ks annual fee, but I will make an award in that sum, of £46.65, so that 
Ms K can enforce it should she need to do so.
Ms K says that Creation havent done enough to put things right. In particular, shes said that 
although Creation has now provided her with her points and hotel voucher it has taken a 
long time for this to happen. Shes said because of the delay the cost of accommodation has 
gone up and value of the points depreciated. So, shes lost out. I appreciate Ms K will likely 
be frustrated by the delay in the reward points being added to her account and issuing her a 
voucher, but I think by adding them and providing Ms K a voucher Creation have returned 
her to the position she would have been in otherwise. So, Im satisfied they dont need to do 
anything further than that to resolve this aspect of Ms Ks complaint. 
Ms K has asked to be compensated for the time shes had to wait for her complaint to be 
resolved. But Id need to be satisfied that shes lost out and been caused inconvenience by 
not having her complaint resolved sooner. And on balance, I cant say this is the case. 
Therefore, I wont be awarding any compensation.
I should also explain that our awards are designed to reflect the actual loss, trouble, and 
upset caused to the consumer by something a financial business did wrong. We are not here to punish financial businesses. Nor can we award compensation as a means of punishing a 
business for a consumer bringing their complaint to this service. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things 
right Creation Financial Services Limited should:
Pay Ms K £46.65
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman