DRN-4155750
The complaint
Mr B complains about the quality of a used car that was supplied to him through a hire 
purchase agreement with Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as V12 Vehicle Finance (V12). 
What happened
In June 2022, Mr B acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with V12. The 
car was around ten years old and had travelled 68,000 miles when it was supplied. The cash 
price of the car was £12,926. Mr B paid a deposit of £1,500, so the total amount financed on 
the agreement was £11,426 payable over 59 monthly repayments of £260.36 with a final 
monthly repayment of £270.36.  
Mr B said that around two weeks after acquiring the car it broke down and was recovered. 
The recovery agent diagnosed issues with the engines pistons. Following the breakdown, 
Mr B brought his car to a garage, which Ill refer to as garage B. Garage B provided an 
invoice which advised the car was brought to them in June 2022. It said the car had 
developed a misfire and through investigation they discovered oil on the crown of the piston 
to cylinder 1.  Mr B said because of this he told the dealership that he wanted to reject the 
car.
Mr B said the dealership arranged an independent inspection which took place in September 
2022. The independent inspection report concluded there were no faults present with the 
cars engine or transmission. The inspection report however recommended further 
investigation including a pressure test.
Following the report, the dealer didnt agree to a rejection of the car, so in October 2022, Mr 
B complained to V12. V12 paid for a compression test on the car which was carried out by 
garage B. The test found there was a possible leak relating to cylinder 1.
Whilst V12 were looking into the issues, Mr B brought his complaint to our service in January 
2023 for investigation. Mr B said along with a rejection of the car, he also wanted 
compensation for the time he spent dealing with the issue and not having a car available. In 
March 2023 V12 issued their final response. V12 didnt uphold the complaint as they 
believed the faults on Mr Bs car was to be expected on a car of its age and mileage.
Having considered all the information, our investigator recommended that Mr Bs complaint 
should not be upheld. Our investigator concluded that the evidence suggested the car was 
performing within its intended specifications and so was of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Mr B.
Mr B didnt accept our investigators view. He said he didnt think a car should fail so close to 
supply when it had a full-service history. However, as our investigators view remained 
unchanged, Mr B asked that his complaint be referred to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. V12 is also the supplier of the goods under this 
agreement, and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. The CRA also 
explains the durability of goods is part of satisfactory quality. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
Here, the car was acquired used, with a cash price of around £13,000 and with 68,000 miles 
on the odometer. So, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect that parts 
of the car might have already suffered some wear and tear. And theres a greater risk this 
car might need repair and/or maintenance sooner than a brand-new vehicle.
Having said that, at around £13,000 I dont think the value of the car wasnt insignificant, so I 
think its also reasonable to expect it should run without any significant issues for a 
reasonable amount of time.
 
From the information provided Im persuaded there was a misfire and oil found on cylinder 1. 
This is apparent from the roadside recovery report, dated June 2022, which confirmed there 
was a misfire on cylinder 1, and from garage Bs invoice, dated August 2022, also confirming 
a misfire and that further investigation would be required. Having considered the car had a 
fault, Ive thought about whether it was of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. 
The roadside recovery report advised of an issue with a cylinder misfire. The report was 
dated around two weeks after supply, and with about 730 additional miles travelled on the 
car. So, Im satisfied that there was a problem soon after supply. However, I note that the 
report didnt comment on the safety of the car. It mentioned that Mr B was taking the car 
home.
On 11 August 2022, Garage Bs invoice noted that oil was found on the crown of the piston 
of cylinder 1, and that an engine strip down was required to diagnose the issue. However, 
the garage invoice also didnt comment on whether it was safe to be driven. There was no 
mileage recorded on the invoice. The independent inspection report, dated 19 September 2022, noted the cars mileage as 
73,355 which was about 4,600 more miles than when the car was first attended by the 
recovery agent. The inspection report advised there were no fault codes, and no obvious 
faults following a road test, with the performance of the engine and transmission being 
considered as normal. However, in light of conflicting evidence that showed smoke coming 
from the engine and oil contamination in the piston crown, the report recommended further 
investigation.
In November 2022 Mr B arranged for Garage B to carry out a cylinder leak and compression 
test. The mileage on the car at that point was 78,052, which means it had travelled a total of 
around 10,000 miles in around six months and from the point of supply, which isnt 
insignificant, and would be considered above average. V12 noted in their final response that 
the engineer who carried out the independent inspection advised on the findings of the 
compression test. They concluded that the readings were considered acceptable on a car of 
that age and mileage.
Having reviewed the compression test and considered what an acceptable level of engine 
compression would be, Im satisfied that the compression results provided by Garage B are 
within acceptable levels and tolerances. 
Ive also considered that Mr B has continued to have full use of the car, which I think is fair to 
say has been above average. I think its unlikely that Mr B would have been able to have as 
much use as he did if a significant issue was present on the car from supply. 
Having considered all the evidence provided in this case, and in consideration of the age 
and mileage of the car, Im satisfied that Mr Bs car was of satisfactory quality at the point it 
was supplied to him. I dont dispute that there may have been some misfire, but having 
thought about the findings of the independent inspection report, that Ive not seen any 
comments or advisories that the car was unsafe to drive and that Mr B continued to have full 
use of the car, Im persuaded that the performance of the car was considered reasonable for 
a vehicle of its age and mileage.
I recognise Mr Bs strength of feeling that a piston should not fail after 68,000 miles and with 
a full-service history; however, Ive seen no expert evidence to confirm that the piston or 
engine on his car has failed. In addition, as described above, I find Mr Bs use of the car is in 
contradiction of this. 
As Ive concluded that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point it was supplied, I dont 
require V12 to take any action in respect of this complaint. 
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as V12 
Vehicle Finance.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman