DRN-2310540
The complaint
Mr H complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited handled a claim he 
made on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Hs car was stolen and he made a claim under his motor insurance policy. Advantage 
declined the claim saying a family member was involved in the theft and the police had 
informed it Mr H did not wish to assist them with a prosecution.
Following this claim Mr H tried to cancel his policy, but he was informed there would be a 
cancellation fee to do so. Mr H then received a renewal letter so contacted Advantage to 
complain as his instruction to cancel the policy hadnt been actioned. He was also unhappy 
hed been made to feel like a criminal during the investigation and was asked for the same 
information multiple times.
Advantage didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It said itd managed Mr Hs expectations from the 
start about both time the interview may take, and that some questions are repeated so 
responses can be documented both verbally and in written communication.
Regarding the cancellation of his policy, Advantage said it told Mr H a cancellation fee would 
be applicable, but he refused to pay it. And when its advisor asked for consent to proceed 
with the cancellation, Mr H terminated the call. As such the policy remained in place and a 
renewal letter was issued to Mr H.
After his claim was declined Advantage wrote to Mr H to recover the sum of £610.00 itd paid 
for the storage and recovery of his car. After not receiving payment, Advantage sent further 
letters. But Mr H didnt pay and said the letters were intimidating.
Mr H referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into things but didnt 
uphold his complaint. He thought Advantage had acted fairly and reasonably both during the 
claim and by its decision to decline it along with the recovery of storage costs. He also didnt 
think Advantage had done anything wrong by not cancelling Mr Hs policy as hed not given 
explicit consent for them to do so, and the cancellation fee was in line with the terms and 
conditions of his policy.
Mr H didnt agree. He said he could never assist the police with a prosecution as he didnt 
100% know whod actually stole his car. He also remained unhappy he had been asked to 
pay a cancellation fee and that he was being chased to pay the storage and recovery costs. 
Mr H asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how distressing it must be for Mr H to have had his car stolen. And I 
acknowledge it brings with it a lot of inconvenience. But having considered what Advantage 
has done, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
But first, Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than has been provided, 
and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
concentrated on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every detail to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call made to Mr H during the investigation into the theft of his car. Im 
aware some of the questions had already been answered when completing the theft form. 
Mr H feels Advantage were treating him like a criminal, but Im satisfied this wasnt its 
intention.
When investigating claims of this nature its important for an insurer to establish the facts. Its 
often a distressing time having just been the victim of a theft so by asking the victim 
questions both during an interview and through written communication it helps an insurer 
make sure its understood the circumstances of the incident. 
Advantage declined Mr Hs claim and he accepted this. But he remains unhappy its now 
chasing him for the costs relating to the storage and recovery of his car following the theft.
The terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy say:
If your claim is not accepted by your insurer, you may be liable to repay costs already 
incurred by your insurer. These may include, but are not limited to engineers fees, vehicle 
recovery charges, and vehicle storage charges.
So Im satisfied Advantage acted fairly by attempting to recover its costs
Advantage declined Mr Hs claim as he was unwilling to assist the police in a prosecution 
because a member of his family was involved in the theft of his car. The terms and 
conditions of Mr Hs policy say it doesnt provide him with cover for:
Loss of or damage to your car caused by a member of your immediate family, or a person 
living in your home taking your car without your permission, unless you report the person to 
the Police for taking your car without your permission and assist the Police in a prosecution.
The police confirmed this to Advantage saying:
the crime had been written off as no further actions and closed as Mr H did not wish to 
assist the police with any prosecution as the vehicle had been taken by a family member and 
his friend.
So Im happy that Advantage acted fairly and reasonably in applying the policy terms when 
declining Mr Hs claim. As such Im happy Advantage is able to recover its costs.
Ive next thought about the cancelation of Mr Hs policy and the fee quoted to him when he 
tried to end the policy. Im satisfied the application of a cancellation fee when a policy is 
cancelled before the end of its term is in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy. 
So I think Advantage acted fairly and reasonably when looking to apply it.
Mr H is unhappy he received a renewal letter after asking Advantage to cancel his policy. 
But Mr H didnt confirm he wanted to cancel it. When Advantages advisor confirmed a 
cancellation fee would be applicable, Mr H terminated the call without saying anything 
further. As such his policy continued and a renewal letter was sent out to him. Im happy 
Advantage acted correctly by doing so. Mr H then contacted Advantage to advise it he didnt 
want the renewal to go ahead and his policy was cancelled as instructed.
Having considered everything carefully Im satisfied Advantage applied the terms and 
conditions of Mr Hs policy both fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited for the reasons Ive explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman