DRN-1991377
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them payment protection 
insurance (PPI). 
What happened
This complaint is about PPI policies taken out by Mr and Mrs R alongside personal loans 
which they took out in 1995 and 1996. 
The policies provided cover in the event of accident, sickness and unemployment, as well as 
life cover.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators 
view. 
Mr and Mrs Rs main complaint is that Nationwide never told them that these policies were 
optional. And theyre unhappy that our adjudicator didnt uphold their complaint even though 
Nationwide hasnt been able to produce any signed paperwork from the sales. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide couldnt provide any signed paperwork from either of these sales. But this isnt a 
reason for me to uphold the complaint. Its not surprising, given how long ago the sales 
happened, that paperwork isnt still available. I wouldnt reasonably expect Nationwide or 
Mr and Mrs R to keep this for so long. 
And I cant know exactly what was discussed when Mr and Mrs R arranged their loans and 
the PPI. Ive taken carefully into account what they remember. But neither Nationwide nor 
Mr and Mrs R could say how they had taken out the loans and the PPI. 
And it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs R to recall exactly anything that mightve 
been said. So this means that what Mr and Mrs R say now isnt enough on its own for me to 
be able to uphold their complaint. 
I have to look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely.
Nationwides sales process wouldve required Mr and Mrs R to say if they wanted PPI. 
I've taken into account that Mr and Mrs R are certain that they were told they had to have 
PPI with their loans  and that they werent allowed to arrange cover through an independent 
insurer. I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs R are sure about what theyve told us  but I dont think 
its likely that theyve remembered this correctly. Heres why I say this.
Based on what they said about whether or not they wanted PPI, a loan agreement wouldve 
been printed for them to sign  with PPI included as part of the loan agreement if thats what 
they said they wanted.
Ive seen examples of loan agreements that I think are probably similar to the ones 
Mr and Mrs R wouldve both had to sign to get their loan. 
These show that they had to pay a separate additional premium to have PPI  which is 
clearly described on all the example forms as Optional Credit Insurance. 
So Mr and Mrs R wouldve been able to see that they did have a choice about having PPI  
and their loans couldve been set up without PPI instead if that had been what they wouldve 
preferred.
Looked at overall, even though I dont know what was said about the PPI, looking at this 
paperwork, I think Nationwide made Mr and Mrs R aware that the PPI was optional when it 
was added to their loan accounts in 1995 and in 1996 (when they paid their first loan and 
took out a new loan). 
The best information weve got suggests the cover was put in place for Mr R  Ive seen 
nothing to make me think that it shouldve been Mrs R who was covered.  
Nationwide says it didnt make personal recommendations when it sold this PPI  but it 
wouldnt make any difference if it had recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs R because I dont 
think PPI was unsuitable for them. 
Ive looked carefully at whether Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs R enough clear information so 
they could decide for themselves if they wanted to have PPI to protect Mr Rs income. And if 
this didnt happen, Ive thought about whether this makes any difference to the outcome of 
their complaint.
I havent seen any information to suggest Mr and Mrs R had sufficient other means they 
couldve relied on to pay their monthly loan repayments if Mr R couldnt work. 
Looking at the 1995 loan, Nationwide told us that it doesnt any longer have a policy 
document from the date Mr R took out PPI. But it has provided a policy document which was 
in use shortly afterwards  so I think its likely that in all main respects the policy that Mr R 
took out wouldve had similar terms and conditions. 
The PPI wouldve covered the loan repayments for up to 12 months if Mr R was 
unemployed. 
How long the policy paid out in the event of sickness or disability depended on what sort of 
loan they took out (whether it was secured on their property or unsecured).It looks like the policy wouldve paid out for up to 24 months if Mr R was off work sick and it 
was a secured loan. If the loan was unsecured, the policy wouldve paid out until the loan 
was paid if Mr R wasnt ever well enough to go back to work. 
The policy wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay Mr R mightve got if he was off work 
as a result of illness or a disability. 
Mr R couldnt recall his sick pay entitlement  if any. And I think its very unlikely that any 
sick pay available through his employer wouldve been paid for as long as the policy couldve 
paid out.
So I think its likely that the policy provided him with a useful benefit at what wouldve been a 
difficult time if he wasnt able to work  especially as Mr and Mrs R mightve faced some 
extra costs if Mr R was sick or disabled. 
I think Mrs R mightve found it hard to manage the monthly repayments on her own for very 
long if Mr R wasnt working. Mr and Mrs R couldnt recall if they still had any savings at the 
time. But I dont know if Mr and Mrs R wouldve always been able to rely on any savings they 
had when they started this loan.
In any event, having PPI wouldve meant they could keep any savings intact providing them 
with financial security for the future and giving them the option to spend the money on other 
things they mightve been saving for. 
So I cant reasonably say that Mr and Mrs R couldnt have benefitted from having PPI, based 
on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time and I think a recommendation wouldve 
been suitable for them in 1995.
It looks like Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances were broadly unchanged when they took out their 
second loan with PPI in 1996. And looking at the policy terms that applied in 1996 I can see 
that the cover wouldve offered them the same benefits. 
Mr R was eligible for the policies. Although there were some things the policies didnt cover, 
it doesnt look as if Mr R wouldve been affected by any of these. 
The loan agreements Mr and Mrs R wouldve had to sign to obtain the loans they took out 
wouldve shown the monthly cost of the PPI set out separately from the cost of their 
borrowing. So they wouldve known what theyd have to pay for the insurance. And how 
much their total monthly repayments would be. 
It doesnt look as if the monthly premiums were unaffordable for Mr and Mrs R. And they 
couldve cancelled the PPI at any time if their circumstances changed or they no longer 
wanted to pay for PPI.
Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way these policies were sold. 
But I think Mr and Mrs R still wouldve decided to buy the policies in 1995 and in 1996 if 
theyd been better informed as they gave Mr and Mrs R useful protection in their particular 
situation.
This means I dont find that Mr and Mrs R have lost out as a result of anything that 
Nationwide did wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
I understand that my decision will disappoint Mr and Mrs R. But I hope that setting things out 
as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman