DRN-1127241
The complaint 
Mr and Mrs Ys complaint is about Nationwide Building Society and the information it gave 
about its buy to let mortgages. Nationwide told Mrs Y that if she wanted a mortgage from it to 
buy a second property, she had to provide a 25% cash deposit rather than use the equity in 
her pre-existing property. Mr and Mrs Y placed their property on the market, paying fees to 
do so, and then were told by a friend to get independent advice to find out about other 
options. Mr and Mrs Y want Nationwide to refund the selling fee they paid.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Nationwide is only able to give advice about its own products, and not products that 
may be available elsewhere. Brokers and independent financial advisers provide 
advice of the type Mr and Mrs Y say Nationwide shouldve given them. The evidence 
is that it's more likely than not that Nationwide did tell Mrs Y that it could only advise 
about its own products as this is part of the standard script; the same information is in 
the leaflet about its service. It is standard information given to consumers.
Mrs Y hasn't said that Nationwide told her this was the policy for all lenders, or that 
she asked if this was just Nationwides own policy and was given incorrect 
information. Mrs Ys point is that Nationwide didnt give her wider financial advice, but 
it wasnt permitted to give such advice. I don't think it acted unfairly or unreasaonbly.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Nationwide Building Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman