DRN-3445611
The complaint
Mr M has complained that he was transferred to TSB Bank plc (TSB) in 2013 from his 
existing bank. He is also unhappy that TSB started to charge him for his packaged bank 
account, when hed previously been told that he would not be charged if he kept his account 
balance above a certain amount. 
What happened
A colleague has issued a decision explaining why we cant look at Mr Ms complaint about 
the transfer to TSB. This decision therefore will only be looking at Mr Ms issues surrounding 
being charged for his account.
Mr M had a fee-paying Platinum account, a feature of the account meant that providing Mr M 
kept the balance of the account above a certain amount, he would not be charged the 
monthly Platinum account fee. This feature of the account is known as a fee waiver.
I understand that TSB says it e-mailed Mr M in 2020 to say that it would be removing the 
fee-waiver from the Platinum account in March 2021. Mr M said he did not receive this e-
mail and contacted TSB when he noticed he had been charged.
In its response to Mr Ms complaint, TSB explained that it had removed the fee-waiver from 
all account holders and this was a decision that it was entitled to make, based on the terms 
and conditions of the account. It did though refund the accounts fees that Mr M was charged 
and paid him £40 compensation.
One of our adjudicators considered what Mr M and TSB had said and provided and she felt 
that TSB need not do anything more to put matters right.
Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, in terms of TSB decision to remove the fee-waiver, this is something that TSB is 
entitled to do. It is essentially up to TSB to decide what products and services it provides and 
also which ones to discontinue. 
Additionally, the terms and conditions of the Platinum account gives TSB the option to 
change both the charging structure of the account and the benefits that the account came 
with - provided sufficient notice was given. 
Therefore, whilst I understand why Mr M is dissatisfied by this, I am unable to say that TSBs 
decision to remove this feature of the Platinum account is unreasonable.
However, when making such changes to accounts, TSB is obliged to give notice to its 
customers. TSB has not been able to prove to me that it gave Mr M the correct notice that it 
intended to remove the fee waiver. That said I can see that when Mr M did contact TSB after 
the fee waiver was removed, TSB refunded the fees that he was charged and provided £40 
compensation. I am satisfied that this is in line with what I wouldve asked TSB to do had it 
not already done so, so I dont think it needs to do anymore.
Therefore, taking everything into account, I dont require TSB to do anything further in 
relation to this complaint.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman