DRN-3321471
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as C has complained that HDI Global SE unfairly turned down its 
business interruption insurance claim after it was forced to close due to the Covid-19 
pandemic.
Mr H, a director of C, has brought the complaint on Cs behalf. C is also represented in this 
complaint but, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and comments as being those of C.
What happened
C held a business interruption insurance policy with HDI. It operates a restaurant.
As a result of the restrictions imposed by the Government in response to Covid-19 C closed 
its restaurant on 21 March 2020. 
C claimed on the policy. HDI declined the claim. It said C hadnt shown thered been an 
occurrence of a notifiable human disease at the premises and that the premises had been 
closed by a public authority as a result of such an occurrence.
C complained to HDI. It thought its claim should be covered under various sections of the 
policy. Unhappy with HDIs response, C brought a complaint to us. It thought its claim 
should be covered under the following different sections of the policy and made the 
following points:
 
Accidental damage
C said accidental damage is covered by the policy. It referred to the case of MDS Inc. v 
Factory Mutual Insurance Company (2020) in support of its view that the policy should 
cover a loss of use of its premises even where there wasnt physical damage. C said 
there were no exclusions in the policy which applied to the claim. It added that where a 
policy wording is ambiguous, it should be read in favour of the policyholder.
Closure of Premises due to Covid-19
C said it couldnt prove there were Covid-19 cases on its premises at the time of closure 
because there wasnt widespread testing at that time. But there had been a large number 
of confirmed cases in its local area. It thought the spread of Covid-19 across the UK and 
the Governments response to the pandemic had caused its loss. It pointed out there was 
no exclusion in the policy for business interruption due to forced government shutdown.
Prevention of access
C said due to the outbreak of Covid-19 within the local area it had been denied access to 
its premises and suffered a loss as a result.
Suppliers 
C said it had been impacted by disruption to its suppliers at the beginning of lockdown. 
This had hindered its ability to offer takeaway food.
Other factors
C also said that it had expected to be covered following statements made by the 
Government towards the start of the pandemic and had a reasonable expectation that its 
policy would provide cover in these circumstances.
Our Investigator looked into Cs claim but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of its claim.
C provided evidence that a member of its staff had fallen ill with symptoms of Covid-19 
from 23 March 2020. It asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
C has made a number of detailed points. I wont address them all but will instead focus on 
what I see as the central issues to this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Cs business. But I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether HDI has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Cs claim.
Accidental damage
One of the grounds of Cs claim is for accidental damage. The policy covers:
Damage to the Property used by the Insured at the Premises during the Period of Insurance 
from the Insured Perils under Section 1
a) resulting in interruption or interference with the Business.
Accidental damage is listed as one of the Insured Perils in Section 1 of the policy. 
Property is defined as:
a) Buildings Tenants Improvements Contents Computers Computer Records Stock 
Domestic Contents and in respect of Section 1 of the Policy such other items to which 
cover is expressly extended in Section 1 of the Policy or Schedule or 
b)  in respect of Section 3 of the Policy Covered Equipment Computer Equipment and 
such other items to which cover is expressly extended in Section 3 of the Policy 
Therefore, for cover to apply, Cs Property (as defined above) would need to have been 
accidentally damaged by Covid-19. I havent seen anything to persuade me that Covid-19 
caused accidental damage to Cs Property.
C has referred to the Canadian case of MDS Inc. v Factory Mutual Insurance Company 
(2020) which I understand has since been overturned. In any event Ive considered other 
cases which I think are relevant to the circumstances of this complaint, including TKC 
London Ltd v Allianz Insurance PLC [2020] EWHC 2710 (Comm), Merlin v British Nuclear 
Fuels Plc [1990] 2 QB 557 and Hunter v London Docklands Development Corporation [1996] 
2 WLR 348.I think for damage to have occurred, there would need to have been a physical change or 
altered state to Cs property which made it less valuable. In theory its possible damage 
could be said to have occurred if specialist cleaning were required to remove a cause of 
potential damage. However, theres no evidence that Cs premises needed specialist 
cleaning. Im not persuaded that there was accidental damage to Cs Property.
Closure of Premises due to Covid-19
The policy extends cover to include loss: 
resulting from interruption  or interference  with the Business  in consequence  of
1. Premises  Closure  or Restrictions
a) closure  or restrictions  placed  on the Premises  on the advice  of or with the approval  
of the Medical  Officer  of Health  for the Public  Authority  as a result  of a Notifiable  Human  
Disease  occurring  at the Premises  ...
The effect of this is that the policy requires the closure of Cs premises to have been the 
result of a case of a notifiable human disease occurring at the premises. HDI accepts that 
Covid-19 is a Notifiable Human Disease for the purposes of the policy.
So, in order to uphold this complaint, Id need to decide that C has shown there was most 
likely a case of Covid-19 at its business premises. I dont think C has shown this is most 
likely and Ill explain why.
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a business will be able to produce a positive 
test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a case on the 
premises would, in my view, be unfair. Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic 
approach, and to consider whether other evidence can be provided that supports, on the 
balance of probabilities, that Covid-19 occurred at the insured premises prior to closure. As 
with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to 
demonstrate that its suffered a loss its policy covers. 
C has provided an email and a letter from an employee saying that he had symptoms of 
Covid-19 from 23 March 2021 (I assume he meant 23 March 2020) and that he self-isolated. 
I have to bear in mind that many people who were unwell at this time didnt have Covid-19. 
And given that I only have this testimony to support this part of the claim, I dont have 
enough evidence to conclude that there was most likely a case of Covid-19 at Cs premises. 
While there is nothing in the policy that specifically excludes business interruption due to 
forced government shutdown, there is also nothing in the policy which implies it provides 
cover for this if Covid-19 didnt occur at the premises prior to closure. I dont think the policy 
can fairly be read to cover a lockdown. So even though there were a large number of 
confirmed cases in Cs local area, the policy doesnt cover this part of Cs claim.
Prevention of access
The relevant part of this extension covers loss arising from:
"Damage from the Insured Perils to property within a one mile radius of the Premises which 
shall prevent or hinder the access to the lnsured's Premises whether or not there has been 
Damage to the Premises  or Property  of the Insured  ... subject  to a maximum  of £100,000  
for any one loss."The policy again requires there to have been damage to property. I havent seen anything to 
indicate that Covid-19 caused damage to property within a one-mile radius of Cs premises. 
Therefore, I dont think this extension covers the claim.
Suppliers 
Another extension to the policy covers:
Damage from the Insured Perils at the premises of any of the Insureds suppliers 
manufacturers or processors within Great Britain Northern Ireland the Channel Islands or 
the Isle of Man  subject to a maximum of £100,000 for any one loss.
For the reasons set out above in respect of the claim for accidental damage I havent seen 
anything to persuade me that Cs suppliers suffered damage to their premises as a result of 
Covid-19. So, I dont think this extension provides cover for the circumstances of Cs claim.
Other factors
I havent seen anything to persuade me that the policy could properly be considered as 
ambiguous. 
Although C might have expected to have been covered or understood from Government 
announcements that its claim would be covered, whether that is actually the case will 
depend on the wording of its specific policy. And in this case I dont think Cs policy provides 
cover for the claim.
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing to C. But, having considered the matter 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require HDI to pay Cs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman