DRN-2953245
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Bamboo Limited lent to him irresponsibly and that it treated him
unfairly in other ways.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in June 2021 that I summarise below.
Mr S was given a guarantor loan of £1,000 in December 2017. The loan was repayable over
60 months with monthly repayments of around £39. If the loan ran to term, the total amount
repayable including interest was just over £2,365. I understand Mr S had difficulties repaying 
the loan and the debt was eventually sold to a third party.
Mr S says a friend had agreed to guarantee the loan, but Bamboo subsequently released the
loan guarantor from his liabilities as he had never signed the guarantee and indemnity
agreement  this had been sent to Mr S in error and he had mistakenly signed it instead of
the guarantor.
Mr S initially complained that he was not told that the guarantor had been removed from the
loan and that the guarantor was jointly responsible for the lending. Mr S has told us he lost
his job and says he could not repay the loan himself.
Mr S subsequently also wanted to complain that he should never have been given the loan
in the first place. Bamboo agreed that this part of his complaint should also be considered by
this Service.
In my provisional decision I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in 
particular the checks that Bamboo needed to do such as the amount being lent, and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
I said that Bamboo needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr S 
irresponsibly. And that Bamboo had to carry out proportionate checks to satisfy itself that he 
could repay the loan in a sustainable way. 
I carefully considered all the evidence, arguments and information Id seen about this
matter in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Bamboo asked Mr S for information about his income and expenditure and it
acquired a credit report. It says this was Mr Ss first loan with Bamboo. It thinks the
checks it carried out before it agreeing to lend to him were reasonable and proportionate,
given the amount being lent and the relatively low monthly repayments. Bamboo thinks
that the loan was affordable for Mr S and that he had sufficient disposable income to
comfortably repay the loan.
I thought carefully about whether or not Bamboos checks went far enough.
From what Id seen, Mr S told Bamboo that he lived at home with low outgoings, he worked 
full time and that he had a net monthly income of around £1,350. Bamboo says it used the 
Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to calculate Mr Ss non-discretionary expenditure.
The credit report that Bamboo acquired at the time showed that Mr S had a total debt of
around £4,855 with 11 active accounts. His balance to limit ratio was high at 98% but there
were no defaults showing for several years and no CCJs registered. It also appears that Mr
S was managing to pay more than the minimum repayments to some of his credit cards.
There was some unsecured lending on Mr Ss credit report, but Bamboo says it saw no
evidence that Ms S was using, or had used, payday loans, or that he was reliant on an
overdraft.
Overall, I didnt think that there was anything in the credit report that Bamboo acquired that
ought reasonably to have given it any additional concerns about Mr Ss financial position.
I considered whether, given the length of the loan term, Bamboo ought to have looked
into Mr Ss financial position in more depth. I thought it would have been reasonable for
Bamboo to ask for a payslip. But in the circumstances, I thought the checks that Bamboo
carried out were reasonable and proportionate and that it was reasonable for Bamboo to rely
on the information that Mr S gave about his circumstances. I didnt think greater checks, 
such as requesting bank statements, were necessary in the circumstances of this particular 
loan.
Mr S provided us with a copy of his own credit report. It seems that from 2018 onwards
he did experience financial difficulties, with a number of accounts defaulting. However, Mr S
said that he lost his job after he had taken the loan from Bamboo. I couldnt fairly say from 
what Id seen that it was Bamboos loan that led him to experience financial difficulties  I 
thought these problems could equally have arisen as a result of Mr S unfortunately losing his 
job.
Taking everything into account, I didnt think that Bamboo ought reasonably to have
concluded that it was inappropriate to lend to Mr S.
Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in some other way?
Mr S thinks that Bamboo didnt treat him fairly when it released the loan guarantor from his
liabilities without telling Mr S.
From what Id seen, Bamboo made an administrative error when it sent the guarantee and
indemnity agreement to Mr S instead of to the loan guarantor. But businesses sometimes do
make administrative mistakes. As far as I understood, the loan guarantor complained, as he 
was entitled to do so, that he hadnt signed the guarantee and indemnity agreement and 
Bamboo agreed to his request to release him from his liabilities. 
I understood why Mr S is unhappy that he wasnt told that his friend had been removed as 
loan guarantor. But it was Mr S who had taken the loan and therefore I thought it was 
primarily his, and not the guarantors, obligation to repay that lending.
From what Id seen, Mr S stopped making payments towards his loan a few months later.
Bamboo says Mr S didnt get in touch say he was having any difficulties repaying his loan.
From what I could see of the customer contact records, it seems that Bamboo made
numerous attempts to contact Mr S by SMS text message, email and telephone over the
next few months. Bamboo says Mr S didnt respond and the loan was eventually sold to a
third party. It seemed to me that Mr S had many opportunities to get in touch with Bamboo.Had he done so, I thought its likely he would have found out that the loan guarantor had 
been released from his liabilities and it seemed likely he could have made arrangements to 
enter into an affordable repayment plan with Bamboo at an earlier point. Overall, I didnt 
think that Bamboo treated Mr S unfairly when it released the loan guarantor from his 
liabilities towards Mr Ss loan.
Bamboo says the third party which purchased Mr Ss loan will agree to cap the total amount
repayable on the loan to the originally agreed amount of just over £2,365. This means Mr S
would pay no additional interest or charges above what was originally agreed. Bamboo says
the third party will also consider a reduced settlement figure. Bamboo might not have got
everything right when it didnt tell Mr S it had released the loan guarantor, but overall I 
couldnt fairly say that Bamboo has treated Mr S unfairly in this regard and I didnt intend 
asking Bamboo to do anything more.
I said I was not intending to uphold Mr Ss complaint. I asked both parties to send me 
anything further they would like me to consider. I havent seen new evidence from either Mr 
S or Bamboo. The deadline for further comments has now passed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter. 
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. 
I know Mr S will be disappointed by my decision, and that he feels strongly about his
complaint. But I would like to reassure him that I carefully considered everything that both
he and Bamboo told us, and all the information provided. I am sorry that Mr S has had 
difficulties repaying his loan. But taking everything into account, I dont think that Bamboo 
lent to him irresponsibly or that it has treated him unfairly. So I do not uphold Mr Ss 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Bamboo Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2021.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman