DRN-3149653
Complaint
Miss A says that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) unfairly reduced her overdraft limit and then 
removed her facility after incorrectly recording the year she was due to complete her studies.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss As concerns. She didnt think that Lloyds had done 
anything wrong or treated Miss A unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Miss A disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Miss As complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
It isnt in dispute that Miss A received a letter from Lloyds, in May 2019, telling her, that 
under the terms of her graduate account, the interest and fee free portion of her overdraft 
was going to be reduced by £500 to £1,500.00. It looks like Lloyds started adding charging 
interest on the £500 portion which was no longer interest and fee free in August 2019. And 
the interest added to Miss As overdraft took her above her agreed limit of £2,000. 
Lloyds wrote to Miss A on two occasions in September 2019 to explain that she was over 
her agreed limit and that she needed to bring the overdraft balance back within its limit, 
otherwise it would begin the process of imposing a corrective solution. When Miss A 
remained over her agreed limit in October 2019, Lloyds began the process of taking 
corrective action in relation to Miss As overdraft facility. 
The information Ive been provided with suggests Miss A got in contact with Lloyds in 
October 2019 and explained that her graduation date must have been incorrectly recorded in 
her initial application as she hadnt graduated until the summer of 2019. Lloyds gave Miss A 
a 30 day breathing space in order to allow her to visit a branch to be able to provide 
documentary evidence for this to be corrected.  
I know that Miss A went abroad and wasnt able to produce the required documents during 
this period. But Miss A knew she had a set period of time to correct matters and when this 
didnt happen she was sent a further communication providing her with 30 days to bring her 
overdraft back under its limit on 9 November 2019. And this letter said that if the amount due 
wasnt paid by 23 November 2019 Lloyds would take steps to close Miss As account. 
It looks like Miss A got in contact with Lloyds after this 23 November 2019 and an 
appointment was made for her to visit a branch with the required documentation. However, 
given the account closure process had already been set in motion by this stage, this 
appointment was arranged too late to prevent Miss As account being passed to collections.
I can understand why it must have been frustrating for Miss A to have received incorrect 
advice from Lloyds in relation to an appointment being made for her to provide the 
information she needed to after the account was due to be closed. But the fact remains that 
Miss A was told she was being moved onto a graduate account from as early as the autumn 
of 2018. And she was also told as early as May 2019 that her interest free overdraft portion 
would be reducing in August 2019. 
So its unclear to me why she didnt take steps to address any issues with her date of 
graduation much sooner than she did. Furthermore, Lloyds has already paid Miss A £250 in 
compensation for this. And given it was already too late to rectify matters in relation to the 
overdraft at this stage, I think that this is fair and reasonable here.
I have also given thought to the fact that it was the overdraft charges which took Miss A over 
her limit and but for these charges, which were refunded, its possible Miss A wouldnt have 
been in breach of the terms and conditions of her account. But it was part of the terms and 
conditions of Miss As account that she made regular credits to it. And by the time a 
corrective solution was imposed on Miss As account in December 2019, the account hadnt 
seen any meaningful credits for a significant period of time.
Its also worth pointing out that as Miss A was unable to pay the £25 or so to bring her back 
within her credit limit, its difficult to see how she was in a position to repay the facility within 
a reasonable period of time. And, in these circumstances, it seems to me that Miss As 
overdraft had become demonstrably unsustainable for her. Indeed, this is supported by the 
fact that Miss A still hasnt been able to make any inroads into the amount owed despite the 
time that has passed. I dont think it would have been fair, reasonable or proportionate for 
Lloyds to continue ignoring this indefinitely. 
After all while withdrawing a facility and recording a default or other adverse information, 
might be viewed negatively by other lenders, it does offer the borrower certain protections in 
relation to the overdraft debt. Lloyds acknowledges it may have added interest incorrectly 
and has now adjusted the outstanding balance to reflect this. But even if this is the case and 
Lloyds might have defaulted the account a little prematurely, Miss As actions at the time and 
since the account closure persuade me that this was something that was always likely to 
happen. 
I fully appreciate Miss S has gone through a difficult time and understand why shes unhappy 
with a default being recorded on her credit file and worried about the impact this will have on 
her. But asking Lloyds to reinstate the overdraft here, or remove the default, when it seems 
more likely than not Miss A can repay this debt in line with the initial arrangements, despite 
the time that has passed, would arguably be counterproductive and not in Miss As interests 
or that of any future lender. 
Indeed, removing the default in circumstances where Miss A appears unable to repay this 
debt within a reasonable period of time, is simply likely to result in a default being once again 
recorded again further down the line. This would restart the six-year recording period and 
Miss A will end up having had a default on her credit file for far longer than she should have 
done. 
Bearing in mind all of the above, Im satisfied that while its possible Lloyds might have 
started the process of taking corrective action in relation to Miss As overdraft a little 
prematurely, Miss A was always likely to default on her overdraft as the facility had become 
demonstrably unsustainable for her. As this is the case, Im satisfied that Miss A hasnt lost 
out as a result of anything might have gone wrong here and the compensation Lloyds has 
already paid as well as the interest it has already refunded represents a fair and reasonable 
resolution to her complaint. So overall and having considered everything, I have not been persuaded to uphold Miss As 
complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss A. But I hope that shell 
understand the reasons for my decision and at least feel that her concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman