DRN-3813148
The complaint
Mr V has complained that Inter Partner Assistance SA refused his claim for key cover as an 
add on product under his motor insurance policy. 
All reference to the underwriter of key cover in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
Mr V says he called Inter to ask if he had key cover and was told he did. He paid for a 
replacement car key and submitted a claim. An agent on behalf of Inter asked Mr V to 
provide a copy of his insurance schedule to show he had key cover. Mr V was unhappy 
about this as he thought the agent should request this directly from the insurer, which it 
subsequently did. 
On reviewing Mr Vs policy schedule, Inter declined his claim because Mr V hasnt bought 
key cover as an add on product. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr Vs policy 
schedule and the accompanied wording for key cover clearly explained that this was only 
available if Mr V had chosen it, which he hadnt. 
Mr V asked for an ombudsman to decide. He says he called and spoke to an agent before 
he submitted his claim and was advised he had key cover. 
I asked Mr V to provide details of what he would have done differently if he had been told 
that he didnt have key cover. And I asked Inter to provide a copy of a call recording of the 
key discussion between Mr V and it. 
Inter provided screenshots to show it has no record of a call from Mr V around the time he 
says he called. Inter says its possible Mr V spoke with the broker. 
Mr V didnt reply. So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr V bought his motor insurance policy, he had the option to buy additional products, 
including key cover. Included in the documents made available to Mr V was the policy 
wording for such additional products. 
The document titled Car Insurance additional products reads on the cover page:
The products in this booklet only apply to your insurance if shown in your car 
insurance payment summary and cover summary.
Ive checked Mr Vs policy schedule and summary wording. They dont show that Mr V 
purchased any additional products when he bought his car insurance policy. 
Email exchanges show that Mr V was unhappy with the agents request for him to provide a 
copy of his insurance schedule when he made his claim. The agent went on to request this 
from the insurer, Inter. 
Inter has provided screenshots of calls recorded with Mr V. It doesnt have a record of a call 
with Mr V for the time when Mr V says he was incorrectly told he had key cover. Its possible 
Mr V discussed his cover with his broker. My decision is against Inter as the insurer of the 
additional product (where purchased) and whether it reasonably declined his claim. 
I dont know if Mr V would have made a different decision about obtaining a replacement car 
key if he had been correctly told he didnt have cover. 
As I think the policy wording clearly showed Mr V that he didnt have key cover, I cant say 
that the insurer Inter acted unreasonably in declining his claim. I understand Mr V will be 
disappointed. But this means I dont think Inter should reimburse Mr V for the costs he paid 
for a replacement key. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman