DRN-3899491
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc reduced his arranged overdraft without considering 
his circumstances and they did not give any explanation of the criteria required to maintain 
the level of his arranged overdraft limit.
What happened
Mr B says that HSBC said they would reduce his overdraft in a letter dated 6 July 2021, to 
£2,250 on 9 August. Mr B says his overdraft limit was not reduced on this date, but he 
received a letter dated 6 October 2021 to say his overdraft limit would stay the same, but 
they would like him to try to keep his overdraft borrowing under and including £2,400. 
Mr B says that HSBC wrote to him on 5 April 2022, to inform him that his overdraft limit was 
being reduced to £1,350 on 9 May 2022. This reduction was implemented. Mr B made a 
complaint to HSBC.
HSBC said that Mr Bs balance was overdrawn by £4,631.12 on 9 August 2021, and that is 
why they didnt reduce his overdraft limit. They offered him £75 compensation to cover any 
call costs and to apologise that they did not contact him at the time to explain the situation in 
detail. Mr B brought his complaint to our service. He said HSBC made no offer to help him 
as they should, according to their personal banking terms and conditions. He said banks 
should legally be required to publish criteria for granting any form of borrowing.
Our investigator said HSBCs offer of £75 compensation was fair. He said his role is to 
consider Mr Bs individual complaint and not what may happen to other customers. He said 
HSBC did not act outside of the terms and conditions.
Mr B asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said the Standards of Lending Practice clearly state We will provide you with 
information about our products and services and how they work, in a clear and 
understandable way, so that you can decide whats best for you and your needs. But 
despite this, he has still not been informed what criteria was used to reduce his overdraft or 
what criteria he needs to meet in order to maintain his overdraft. He said if all banks were 
required to publish their lending criteria then such criteria would no longer be commercially 
sensitive information and all customers would be able to make fair and informed decisions 
about their finances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Id like to explain the role of this service to Mr B. Our service acts as an informal dispute 
resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. We look at the circumstances of 
individual complaints and, on a case by case basis, taking into account relevant industry 
guidance for example, make findings about whether a financial business has failed their 
customer. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have 
the power to instruct HSBC to make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Ive considered what Mr B has said about HSBCs terms and conditions and the Standards 
of Lending Practice. I wont go into every point here as Mr B is familiar with the points on this 
document which hes provided to us. But Im not persuaded that HSBC have acted outside of 
these documents. And HSBC failing to disclose business sensitive information to a customer 
does not mean they have failed to provide (him) with information about (their) products and 
services and how they work, in a clear and understandable way, so that (he) can decide 
whats best for (him) and (his) needs. I say this as the terms and conditions show overdrafts 
are for short term borrowing. He would also have been provided with the interest rate of the 
overdraft and information about the overdraft works itself  just not information about their 
business sensitive material. In addition, if HSBC made this information public, then people 
could try and circumvent this information to abuse the overdraft availability. So I dont find it 
unreasonable for HSBC not to disclose this. 
Im not persuaded that HSBC acted outside of their terms and conditions when they say 
Well keep an eye on your account and how youre using your overdraft for signs you might 
be struggling with your finances. If we think you are, well get in touch to explain the different 
ways you can get help, including how we can help you. Mr B statements show he wasnt 
using his overdraft in an unusual manner, and he wasnt consistently at or near the 
maximum limit of the arranged overdraft.  
HSBCs terms and conditions are also clear that Overdrafts are meant to be for short-term 
borrowing. You must make payments at least monthly to reduce what you owe. All overdrafts 
are repayable on demand. This means that we can ask you to pay the money back straight 
away. Usually, though, well give you advance notice. As Mr B would have needed to agree 
to the terms and conditions, then he would have agreed that they could also ask him to 
repay this straight away  although they would usually give him advance notice. 
That is what HSBC did here. They wrote to Mr B and they informed him that they would be 
reducing the overdraft limit and gave notice. Although Mr B says this makes it difficult to 
manage his finances, the letter also said If your needs change at any time, or if you have 
any questions, please call us on (telephone number). Our opening hours are 8am to 8pm, 
365 days a year. So if he was struggling financially here, I would expect him to make HSBC 
aware of this, or if he had any questions about the overdraft in general. But HSBC say they 
have no records of him contacting them about this. 
Im satisfied that HSBC did help Mr B when they didnt reduce the overdraft limit on 9 August 
2021. I say this as Mr Bs balance exceeded what would have been the new overdraft limit. 
So had HSBC reduced this  which they would have been entitled to after giving Mr B notice 
of this and him not alerting them to any financial difficulties prior to the deadline, then this 
would have meant that Mr B would have entered an unarranged overdraft and potentially this 
could have impacted his credit file if this was reported to the credit reference agencies. But 
instead they kept the overdraft limit as it was.
But Im persuaded that HSBC didnt communicate with Mr B effectively on why the overdraft 
wasnt reduced or what he needed to do moving forward. It was two months until they wrote 
to him about this. HSBC accept they should have contacted him about this and to be clear 
about why the overdraft limit didnt reduce and they offered £75 compensation for this. Im 
satisfied that this is fair. I say this because this could lead someone to believe there is no 
consequences when they are over the new overdraft limit when it did not reduce as they said it would. Mr B would not be aware if HSBC had changed their mind about reducing the limit, 
based on their regular reviews that they say they conduct on their customers accounts, or 
whether there would be any implications of him not reducing his balance to the new overdraft 
limit. So I do think compensation is warranted here, and £75 is in line with what our service 
would typically award for this type of miscommunication. 
From HSBCs 6 October 2021 letter, they explained they wanted Mr B to try to keep his 
overdraft borrowing within £2,400. They told him that his current arranged overdraft limit 
would remain the same until they told him otherwise. This is what they happened. It stayed 
the same and then they wrote to him on 5 April 2022 to let him know they were going to 
reduce the overdraft to £1,350 on 9 May 2022. The letter again stated If your needs change 
at any time, or if you have any questions, please call and they provided the telephone 
number, but again, HSBC say there are no records that Mr B contacted them about this. As 
Mr B wasnt overdrawn by more than £1,350, then this change took effect from 9 May 2022. 
In summary, Im not persuaded that HSBC have acted outside of their terms and conditions 
or the Standards of Lending Practice as there were no obvious signs that Mr B was 
struggling financially, and he didnt contact them to discuss the overdraft changes despite 
the letters encouraging him to do so if his circumstances had changed. We are unable to ask 
HSBC to release business sensitive information, which I know is the crux of Mr Bs complaint 
having read everything hes sent us. But I do think HSBC let Mr B down by not 
communicating with him why his overdraft limit had not been reduced as planned and 
therefore they should pay Mr B the £75 which they offered him. But it follows I dont require 
HSBC to do anything further.
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay Mr B £75 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay £75 to Mr B. But I dont require them 
to do anything else. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman