DRN-3529770
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that The Mortgage Business Plc wont agree to a term extension on 
their but-to-let mortgage. The property is in negative equity. With more time, Mr C can 
complete the ongoing renovation work to sell the property at a profit and repay the mortgage 
in full.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them again here in detail. Instead Ill summarise the main facts that I consider to be 
fundamental to the outcome and focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
Mr and Mrs C have held various mortgages with The Mortgage Business Plc (TMB) in the 
past. They have one buy-to-let mortgage loan outstanding (property A). This loan was 
taken in 2007 on an interest only basis for a term of 10 years until 31 October 2017. It 
appears the term on their other buy-to-let property (property B) ended around that time too. 
Mr and Mrs C are estranged and although Mrs C is still a joint mortgage holder and a party 
to this complaint, its Mr C that has been engaging with TMB and our service on this matter. 
As such I will mostly refer to him as the complainant throughout. 
When the terms ended on both mortgages TMB didnt pursue repayment of the debts in full, 
and the accounts continued to run. Some discussions took place and grace periods granted 
to allow Mr C time to sort out the properties. 
TMB says that in June 2019 it provided a final 12 months notice for the debts to be repaid. 
Following the sale of Property B which sold around October 2019, Mr C told TMB that hed 
made a profit which helped with the repayment of the mortgage. He needed more time to 
renovate property A, to sell that at a profit too and repay the mortgage. 
TMB initially refused a further grace period past June 2020. Mr C complained about this. 
TMB answered the complaint in August 2020. In consideration of the ongoing complaint and 
Covid-19 restrictions faced during the past year, a further three-month extension was 
granted until November 2020.
Mr C complains that to date hes received conflicting information from TMB about how long 
the mortgage had been extended for. He says he made TBM aware of his intentions and it 
wasnt made clear to him that he had time-restraints to achieve his plans. 
TMB says it found out after expiry of the mortgage that Mr C has been living in property A 
which goes against its lending policy. This is part of the reason why it wont agree to any 
further extensions. Mr C says hes been living in property A since 2014. He says TMB was 
aware of this and hes been paying a higher rate of interest as a result.
Mr C brought this complaint to our service in December 2020. Mrs C was further added as a 
joint complainant. Our investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. In 
summary she thought TMB had already allowed Mr and Mrs C enough time to repay both 
mortgages in the circumstances. 
During the course of this complaint, Mr C has raised several further reasons why hes 
unhappy with the service provided by TMB and its administration of the mortgage accounts. 
Some of these matters are being considered separately by our service. The other points 
raised divert from the main issue complained about here, that being TMBs decision 
regarding the term extension. 
Mr and Mrs C remained unhappy with the outcome of this complaint, so the case has been 
passed to me to decide. My decision will only focus on this matter of the term extension, as 
per the complaint raised with TMB and addressed in its final response letter of August 2020. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C applied for buy-to-let mortgages with TMB in 2007. They dont dispute that 
they knew both loans were on interest only terms and they had to repay the capital at the 
end of the repayment period. TMB also sent reminder letters about the term ending in 2017. 
The mortgage agreement is ultimately a contract between the parties. Under this contract, 
TMB is entitled to its money back at the end of the agreed term. Buy-to-let mortgages are 
generally for properties bought for investment purposes. As such, theyre are not regulated 
in the same way as residential mortgages.
In usual circumstances customers can apply to extend the term of their mortgage on expiry. 
Extending the term of a mortgage is a variation to the existing mortgage and as such 
requires a full application and affordability checks before it can be approved. 
But in this case, Mr C says hes been using the property for residential purposes for the 
majority of the time. Unless agreed by TMB, this is in breach of the mortgage terms. So, any 
application to extend the term would not be considered on buy-to-let terms. TMB is no longer 
lending to new customers and so it would not be able to provide Mr C a new mortgage on 
residential terms. 
Mr C says TMB knew and agreed to property A being used as his main residence for some 
time, so they werent in breach of their mortgage terms. TMB disputes this and says it only 
found this out in 2017 when the term was ending. Based on what Ive seen, Im not 
persuaded Mr and Mrs C ever agreed this with TMB. TMBs records show Mr C only 
changed his correspondence address to property A in 2017. The contact notes also go on to 
show that around that time Mr C made his circumstances known and discussed the option of 
remaining in this property and speaking to a mortgage broker about re-mortgaging to a 
residential mortgage with another lender. Ive seen no evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs C 
made TMB aware they were living in the property before 2017. And I think they knew the 
property remained on buy-to-let terms all along. 
A condition of a buy-to-let mortgage is that it cant be occupied by the borrower or a member 
of their family and must be rented out. The mortgage offers clearly state the loans were 
granted on the basis acceptable tenancy agreements would be in place. The terms and 
conditions also state that Mr and Mrs C should let TMB know of any change to the use of the 
property or their position.
So, based on everything Ive seen Im persuaded, on balance, that Mr and Mrs C were in 
breach of their mortgage terms. In these circumstances, lenders are generally able to rescind the contract and demand repayment of the loan. And in cases where arrears accrue 
on a buy-to-let mortgage (as they have here), lenders can take possession sooner without 
the need to consider support for someone experiencing financial difficulty on a residential 
mortgage on their home.
I appreciate Mr C feels hes been given conflicting information from TMB about how long 
they had to repay the mortgage. But when considering the evidence available to me, I dont 
think TMB has provided misleading information and it was made clear enough that the grace 
period would end in November 2020 and no further extension granted. 
No possession action has been taken since this complaint has been with our service, so the 
mortgage remans live. Mr and Mrs C have therefore indivertibly had an informal extension of 
almost five years. I think that was sufficient extra time for them to consider their options and 
decide whether they wanted to proceed with renovations before selling the property. 
When considering everything, Im not persuaded TMB has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
the circumstances, allowing the mortgage term to run for almost five years past its term.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman