DRN-3940077
The complaint
Mrs T complained via her representative that she was advised by Mitchell Prockter Financial 
Services Limited (MPFS) to transfer her defined benefit (DB) pension scheme to a Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). She would like to reclaim losses incurred including fees.
What happened
Mrs T sought advice from MPFS in August 2016. At the time she was aged 48. She had a 
DB pension relating to previous employment from 1989 to 2009. 
Mrs T and her husband completed a fact find on 11 August. A risk questionnaire and transfer 
analysis were also carried out following which the adviser prepared a report dated 22 
September. 
Mrs T had previously explored transferring via another adviser, who advised her to remain in 
the scheme, but the transfer value had increased since then. Her recorded objective for the 
transfer was to be able to partially retire at age 55 and work part time, accessing the scheme 
flexibly to top up her income before fully retiring at age 65.
The transferred scheme was projected to pay £12,673 a year at age 55 or £28,445 a year at 
age 65. Her husband was about to retire from the police with a pension of £25,000 a year 
(plus lump sum) and she was also an active member of her current employers DB scheme 
with an accrued pension of £18,000 a year at 65. They had a total of about £400,000 in cash 
and investments including £100,000 in Dolphin Loan Notes, an unregulated offshore 
investment. 
She was assessed as having a Medium-High risk profile. 
MPFS advised her to transfer her DB scheme to a SIPP. They recommended a discretionary 
fund manager who would select a portfolio of mainstream investment funds.
Mrs T was given the option of signing to accept the advice to transfer, the advice on which 
SIPP to transfer to, and on what funds to invest in, separately. She signed to accept the 
advice to transfer, and the advice on the receiving SIPP, but not the investment 
recommendation. A handwritten note says that she was thinking about other options. 
The transfer completed on 27 October 2016 but the transfer value of £340,000 remained in 
cash. On 9 March 2017 £334,000 was transferred out to a Small Self-Administered Scheme 
(SSAS), a small occupational pension scheme which had been set up on 26 October 2016 
with Mr and Mrs T as members (and to which the provider says Mr T had also contributed). 
Between March and July 2017 £328,000 was invested in Dolphin Loan Notes. 
On 8 October 2020 a joint statement was published by the Financial Conduct Authority, 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme and the Financial Ombudsman Service as a 
number of companies linked to Dolphin had entered bankruptcy proceedings in Germany.
Mrs T complained to MPFS via her representatives on 14 October. The business rejected 
her complaint on the basis that she had sufficient appetite for risk and capacity for loss to 
consider the transfer, she had some knowledge and experience of investing and in any case 
the adviser had not recommended the unregulated investments.
Mrs T did not accept this so referred her case to this service. 
MPFS told us that they now thought they had been used unwittingly by a third party to 
process the DB transfer to the SIPP from where the money would be moved into the SSAS 
with a view to investing in Dolphin (which could not apparently be held in the SIPP). 
Mrs T told us, via her representative, that MPFS had known about the Dolphin investment all 
along. She had been introduced to MPFS by Mr D, to whom she had been introduced in turn 
by a mutual friend and former work colleague of her husband. Mr D referred her to MPFS for 
the (regulated) DB transfer advice. Mr D was promoting the Dolphin investment and made 
the MPFS adviser aware that it was the intention to invest in Dolphin via a SSAS. 
Mrs Ts representatives also provided us with an email from the adviser at MPFS to Mr D 
and another financial adviser (who appeared not to be directly connected to this case). Ive 
already sent MPFS a copy of this email. It referred to a recent update from the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) about the regulated advisers (MPFS) responsibility to ensure 
investments were suitable when clients were referred from non-regulated introducers. The 
adviser discussed advice he had received from compliance consultants where we 
recommend a Sipp and investment profile which is then declined in favour of other assets. 
This advice was that MPFS would find it difficult to defend their actions as there is 
knowledge that the funds would be moved to a SSAS or invested into an offshore 
unregulated product.
Our investigator issued their view on 5 November 2021. Although the investigator had some 
concerns about the advice process and resulting recommendation, no redress was awarded 
because the investigator felt that Mrs T would have gone ahead with the transfer even if the 
recommendation had been not to transfer. 
Mrs T did not accept this view so the case was referred to me for a final decision. 
Provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision on 9 December 2022. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am providing this provisional decision as, based on everything I have seen thus far, I intend 
to depart from the investigators view. 
The first thing I need to decide is whether MPFS acted fairly and reasonably in their transfer 
advice to Mrs T. 
The regulator has made clear for a long time that advisers should start by assuming that a 
transfer is unsuitable and should only be considered if the adviser can clearly demonstrate 
that it is in the clients best interests (COBS 19.1.6G). Advisers are also required, among 
other things, to take reasonable steps to ensure their advice is suitable (COBS 9.2.1R) and 
to obtain enough information so that they have a reasonable basis for believing that their 
advice meets the clients objectives, and that the client is able financially to bear the risks 
associated with that advice (COBS 9.2.2R).According to the fact find and report Mrs Ts main reason for considering the transfer was to 
facilitate partial retirement at age 55. Transferring would allow her to draw funds as required, 
to top up her reduced income, rather than the fixed pension available from the scheme. 
While this is potentially a valid reason to consider a transfer, I agree with our investigator 
that there are material failings in the advice provided by MPFS. For example:
Reasons for the transfer included control over the fund and the benefits and the 
flexibility to take early or partial retirement at age 55. But Mrs T could take benefits 
from the scheme at age 55. MPFS did not consider whether these benefits, together 
with other savings and investments and her husbands pension, could meet her early 
retirement objective without the need to transfer.
MPFS did not explain why it was suitable to transfer to provide Mrs T with control 
over the investment of the fund. Indeed they recommended a discretionary 
management service over which her control would be indirect at best. 
At the time of advice Mrs T was aged 48 and may not have had a clear idea of what 
her expenditure in retirement and level of part-time earnings might be seven years 
later. If that was the case, then MPFS did not have the information they were 
required to obtain by the FCA rules in COBS 9. The FCA rules also say that, where 
the adviser is not able to obtain the necessary information, then they must not give a 
recommendation (COBS 9.2.6R). 
Even if it had been possible to show that transferring for flexible access was suitable, 
MPFS did not explain why it was right to do so at that time, seven years away from 
when Mrs T could access the funds, exposing her to unnecessary risk of loss over 
that period of time.
Mrs T was assessed as having a medium-high attitude to risk, which seems reasonable 
based on her responses to the risk questionnaire. 
MPFS prepared a transfer analysis (TVAS) which gave a critical yield of 7.4% to match the 
scheme benefits at age 55. The report compared this to the 8% which is the highest rate of 
return allowed in pension projections and concluded that, even taking into account her 
attitude to risk, it was still likely that benefits would be lower after a transfer, particularly on 
early retirement. I agree with this analysis. It was unlikely that the transfer would produce 
higher benefits if Mrs T was intending to buy a guaranteed lifetime income.
But it seemed unlikely that this was what Mrs T would do, if she transferred because of the 
stated need for flexibility. Because MPFS had not established the level of income the 
transferred fund might be required to produce, or for how long, they were unable to 
determine what the required level of return might be under a drawdown plan and therefore 
Im unable to comment on whether that would have been achievable at Mrs Ts attitude to 
risk. In addition, by not comparing the required income with the available assets to see 
whether that income need was best met by the existing scheme or a transfer, MPFS did not 
take reasonable steps to ensure their advice was suitable as required by COBS 9.2.1R.
So even if Mrs T had accepted the investment advice, I find that that MPFS did not 
demonstrate that the transfer was in her best interests, and therefore did not act fairly or in 
line with regulations and/or guidance in force at the time of advice. 
But we know that Mrs T did not accept the investment advice and ended up investing in the 
Dolphin investments. MPFS denies any responsibility for this, saying that they did not advise 
her to invest in the Dolphin investments. Knowing that Mrs T did not accept their investment recommendation, MPFS says it went on 
to process the transfer anyway, with the investments ostensibly to be decided at a later 
stage. 
In January 2013 the Financial Services Authority made it clear that firms advising on pension 
transfers should not do so without assessing the advantages and disadvantages of the 
investments to be held following the transfer. In relation to a pension transfer, the underlying 
investments dictate whether it is likely that the fund will produce the returns needed to meet 
the clients objectives. 
Since MPFS says it did not know what the underlying investments would be, they could not 
make this assessment. So I find that, once Mrs T declined the investment advice, MPFS 
were no longer in a position to recommend the transfer as the transfer could not be 
separated from the underlying investments. MPFS should have revisited their 
recommendation to transfer, or made it clear to Mrs T that they no longer supported the 
transfer. There is no evidence that they did so. 
But what led to Mrs T complaining was the losses that came from the failure of her Dolphin 
investments, and MPFS said that they did not recommend those investments. On the other 
hand Mrs T said that the adviser knew all along that the transfer was going to be invested in 
Dolphin.
Ive considered the argument the investigator made, that if Mrs T accepted the investment 
advice given by MPFS then her losses would have been much lower because MPFS 
recommended a diversified mainstream portfolio, and that therefore Mrs T was to some 
extent responsible for the losses.  
I can see no evidence of a formal recommendation from MPFS to invest in Dolphin, so I 
agree with MPFS in that respect. 
Mrs Ts representatives have provided us with an email dated 8 February 2017 which shows 
that MPFS routinely gave transfer advice knowing that the investment advice would be 
declined and funds eventually invested in a SSAS and/or offshore unregulated products.
Although this email does not specifically refer to Mrs T, I think that it is clear that this is just 
what happened in this case. So I find that it is more likely than not that Mrs Ts adviser knew 
that his investment recommendation would be declined and that the real destination was 
likely to be in an unregulated investment. 
Whatever its relationship is or was with Mr D, MPFS gave advice as a regulated firm and is 
responsible for that advice. 
Finally I also need to consider carefully whether Mrs T would have proceeded with the 
transfer even if the advice had been to remain in the DB scheme. I think in this matter the 
evidence we have on file is conflicting. 
On the one hand, Mrs T transferred knowing that the advice in her report did not reflect the 
true picture, so by her own admission she proceeded against advice to that extent. 
On the other hand, MPFS noted that Mrs T was previously advised not to transfer, and 
didnt, so it seems plausible that if so advised again, she would have done the same. In any 
event MPFS did advise her to transfer; once MPFS knew that the investment 
recommendation would not be accepted, they could and should have reconsidered their 
advice, including whether the transfer was still suitable but they did not do so. I also think 
that if Mrs T knew at the time of the advice that something was wrong, or that her capital was being put at material risk, then rationally she would not have proceeded with the transfer.
Mrs T already had money invested in Dolphin and was probably satisfied with it up to that 
point (otherwise she would not have considered investing more). Knowing that she intended 
to use the transfer value to make further investment into Dolphin, as I have said, MPFS 
should have reconsidered their advice, in line with the January 2013 FCA update. 
We would expect an adviser firm to look at the risks involved with Dolphin, including illiquidity 
and the potential for total capital loss, in light of Mrs Ts objectives for the transferred fund, 
and considered whether Mrs T could afford to take these risks (COBS 9.2.R (1) (b)). 
(Equally, MPFS would not have been able to meet this requirement if they did not know how 
the transferred fund would be invested, although I have already found that they did know 
about the unregulated investment.) If MPFS concluded that Mrs T could not afford the risks 
then it ought to have advised her either not to make the investment, not to invest more than 
MPFS assessed that she could afford to lose, or indeed advised her not to transfer the DB 
scheme at all. 
But there is no evidence that they changed their advice in any way. And in those 
circumstances I think that it was reasonable for Mrs T to think that MPFS had no 
fundamental objection to the Dolphin investment, regardless of whether they technically 
recommended it or not.
One final point to consider was that, along with her husband, Mrs T set up the SSAS to 
receive the transfer. There is no evidence of MPFS having direct involvement in this, so it 
does suggest a willingness on her part to invest in Dolphin. But the recommendation to 
transfer was dated 22 September and the SSAS was not set up until about a month later. 
Had MPFS advice been not to transfer, she would have had plenty of time to consider that 
advice, and may not have set up the SSAS at all. 
So, on balance, I think that it is more likely than not that Mrs T relied on the advice she 
received from MPFS to transfer  which is understandable as MPFS was the regulated firm, 
qualified to give that advice, to which she was referred  and that there is not enough 
evidence to show that she would still have transferred if the advice had been to remain in the 
scheme. 
I therefore find that MPFS did not act fairly or reasonably in relation to the advice to transfer 
Mrs Ts DB scheme, nor did they meet the standards required of them at the time. 
Response to my provisional decision
Both parties have responded to my provisional decision.
Mrs T responded via her representative, accepting the provisional decision and opting for 
any redress to be calculated under the regulators methodology for defined benefit redress 
calculations under its Final Guidance 17/9.
MPFS also responded, but they didnt agree. Their response included additional arguments 
which I have considered carefully in drafting my final decision. 
MPFS main points cover three broad areas:
MPFS did not know about the onward transfer to the SSAS or the intended 
investment in Dolphin and therefore, if the DB transfer advice was to be found 
unsuitable this should be reflected in any redress.The email referred to in my provisional decision post-dated Mrs Ts advice, was not 
specific to her and therefore has little relevance to this dispute; I relied too heavily on 
the email in my provisional decision, and MPFS had not had the opportunity to 
comment on it.
Mrs T had already invested in Dolphin so she was aware of the risks and made an 
informed choice to take those risks. This was the second time she had sought advice 
on transferring the DB scheme, which showed that she was keen to transfer and may 
have done so regardless of advice.
Before I consider the points MPFS has made, I want to explain why I issued a provisional 
decision. This was because I disagreed with the opinion that had been issued by our 
investigator. Therefore MPFS had new information to consider, and it was right that they 
were given the opportunity to respond. 
For my final decision I will respond to the points made by MPFS and in doing so I will clarify 
some of the thinking behind my decision. I think that it is also useful to consider carefully the 
FCA principles and rules on which that decision was based, and which applied to MPFS at 
the time they advised Mrs T.
PRIN 2.1.1R:
Principle 2: A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3: A firm must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly 
and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
Principle 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly. 
COBS 2.1.1R: (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the 
best interests of its client.
Knowledge of SSAS/Dolphin
MPFSs argument is that they didnt know funds would be transferred on to the SSAS and/or 
invested in Dolphin. So they do not believe that they are responsible for losses beyond the 
point at which the money was transferred out of the SIPP.
I explained in my provisional decision that under the regulations and guidance in force at the 
time, advisers could not consider transfer advice separately from the intended underlying 
investments but had to consider the transaction as a whole. But Mrs Ts suitability report 
allows her to accept or decline the transfer recommendation independently of the transfer 
advice. Earlier, the report says if we arrange this investment on your behalf...  as if to 
suggest there was already some doubt about whether MPFS would be doing so.
Mrs T was introduced to MPFS by Mr D, who MPFS knew to be a promoter of unregulated 
investments. Although it post-dated Mrs Ts advice, the email I referred to in my provisional 
decision (which was addressed to Mr D) discussed pension transfers where MPFS 
recommended a SIPP and the investment recommendation was declined. MPFS referred to 
this as our arrangement.
I think this shows that, on the balance of probabilities, MPFS was at least open to the 
possibility that Mrs T might accept the transfer advice but not the investment advice. And, 
given the referral from Mr D, I think that MPFS either knew or ought to have known that Mrs T might have been considering investing in unregulated investments. 
MPFS have queried who recommended the SSAS, or who was involved in setting it up. They 
said that if they had known about the SSAS, logically they would have recommended that 
instead of the SIPP they did recommend. But I dont think that the type of pension scheme is 
the key issue in this case. I think that the two key parts to the transaction, as I have said 
before, are the transfer out of the DB scheme, and the resulting underlying investments. 
Whether this was facilitated via a SIPP or a SSAS, the outcome would have broadly been 
the same. 
And even if MPFS didnt know about the Dolphin investment, they were still the regulated 
party giving regulated advice. They were bound by the FCA principles which apply to all 
regulated firms. MPFS were required to act in Mrs Ts best interests. Given that I think they 
knew, or ought to have known about the unregulated investments, I dont think that they did 
act in Mrs Ts best interests. And by putting a process in place which gave Mrs T a simple 
way to reject the investment advice and become exposed to the risk of making unregulated 
investments without MPFS intervening further or her likely being fully aware of the 
consequences of doing so, they failed to conduct their business effectively, or with due skill, 
care and diligence, to manage this further risk.
MPFS have pointed to emails where they sought to complete the investment on more than 
one occasion, unsuccessfully. In their analysis, this shows that they acted in good faith. But 
we have seen from the later email that MPFS was willing, in principle, to consider an 
arrangement where they knew in advance that the client was intending to invest differently 
from the advice that had been given, so I am not sure I agree with their analysis. It is 
possible that this was not a genuine effort to invest Mrs Ts transferred fund. Because of Mr 
Ds involvement, there was always a realistic chance that Mrs T was being influenced to use 
unregulated investments, and I have seen no evidence that MPFS sought to warn her of the 
potential risks of this course of action. That would have been a far more impactful use of 
MPFSs time than chasing her to make an investment it would reasonably have known, in 
my view, that she had no intention of making.
So I think that on the balance of probabilities MPFS either knew about the likelihood of 
unregulated investments, or they ought to have known for the reasons stated. By not taking 
this into account in their advice they did not act in Mrs Ts best interests.
Email to Mr D
In my provisional decision I referred to an email from MPFS to Mr D. MPFS were concerned 
that they had not had the opportunity to comment on this email, but that was one of the 
reasons my decision was provisional and not final. MPFSs view is that the email did not 
support that they routinely gave SIPP/transfer advice knowing that the investment advice 
would not be accepted; they said that the phrase as there is knowledge... should have said 
if there is knowledge and finally the email makes no reference to transfers to a SIPP that 
were then transferred onward to a SSAS. 
It is clear from the email that MPFS was in principle willing to give pension transfer advice 
that resulted in unregulated investments. MPFS have not claimed that email was a forgery, 
nor have they tried to show that Mrs Ts case was an isolated incident of investment advice 
not being accepted.
MPFS also say that the timing of the email (after Mrs Ts advice) means that it is not relevant 
to this case. But the email discusses a change to how the arrangement would have to 
operate so it does show that MPFS had had cases of this nature before. And in any case, 
since the email was dated before Mrs T had made the investments it shows that MPFS was aware of the risks in cases just like Mrs Ts. If MPFS was acting in Mrs Ts best interests, 
they should have contacted her to explain that they were concerned about the risks she 
could be exposed to from Mr Ds advice, which of course is what they should have told her 
all along. 
In not doing so and leaving her open to influence from unregulated introducers who were not 
bound to act in her best interests I dont think MPFS met what was required of them by the 
FCA rules and principles. And that in turn suggests to me that its unlikely MPFS ever 
intended to meet those rules and principles at the time of giving its DB transfer advice either.
While the alleged typo in this email (as instead of if) could change the meaning of that 
sentence, when taken as a whole I think that the email still shows that MPFS was in principle 
prepared to offer DB transfer advice that would lead to unregulated investments, contrary to 
MPFSs advice. 
I also explained above that I do not think that the use of a SSAS rather than a SIPP was a 
material part of the transaction in terms of the outcome for Mrs T  what was material was 
the loss of guaranteed income from the DB scheme and the loss of capital from the resulting 
investments. So I dont think it matters to this case whether the email mentions a SSAS or 
not. However I note it mentions funds being moved to a SSAS or invested into an offshore 
unregulated product, so it wasnt just about SSASs anyway.
Overall I think that the email gives more weight to the argument that MPFS were aware of 
the unregulated investments, but as I have said above, this was not the only piece of 
evidence Ive relied on. Im also mindful of the contemporaneous evidence that MPFS seems 
to have been expecting that Mrs T might accept the transfer advice, but reject the investment 
advice, by requiring her to sign for these separately. An adviser would typically not be 
expecting this to happen, and in the unlikely event it happened it would be more likely to find 
it being addressed on an ad hoc basis in further correspondence. The fact that MPFS laid 
out the correspondence in this way from the outset again adds weight to the conclusions Ive 
reached here.
As a result, I do not see that MPFSs comments on the email change my view. 
Would Mrs T have proceeded anyway?
MPFS say that Mrs T was motivated to transfer, having previously been advised not to 
transfer by another firm. She had already invested in Dolphin (with non-pension money) so 
made an informed decision to invest. 
I have already explained why I think MPFS probably knew, or ought to have known, of the 
likelihood of Mrs T investing in unregulated investments, whether in the SIPP or a SSAS. In 
that case, MPFS should have made a point of explaining to her that she wouldnt have any 
protection if things went wrong when dealing with unregulated investments or 
advisers/promoters. And that these investments were unsuitable for her because of the risk 
of illiquidity and the potential for total capital loss, as I explained in my provisional decision.
The only reason she seems to have sought advice for a second time, having previously been 
advised not to transfer, is that the CETV had changed. But MPFS, the regulated adviser, 
should have explained that the higher CETV didnt make the transfer suitable for the reasons 
I gave in my provisional decision. MPFS said in the report that the transfer would result in 
lower benefits, so they knew that the higher CETV was not enough to make the transfer 
suitable.
MPFS should have known how important their role was in releasing the money from the DB scheme, since the DB transfer could not happen without regulated advice. If they didnt 
consider their wider awareness of what Mrs T could end up being exposed to from their 
actions, then I cant see how they were acting in her best interests. 
MPFS say that Mrs T would have transferred anyway, so their advice was not the cause of 
her losses. But when she had previously been advised not to transfer, she didnt transfer 
against advice. I cannot see why she would now choose to do the opposite and ignore 
regulated advice not to transfer. So I dont agree with MPFS on this point.
MPFS was a regulated adviser, who should have explained to Mrs T that they had an 
obligation to act in her best interests. Im satisfied that if MPFS had acted in Mrs Ts best 
interests then she wouldnt have suffered the losses she did. Therefore it is fair to hold them 
responsible for the full losses.
MPFS disagreed with my finding in relation to the DB transfer advice itself. I said that they 
had failed to consider whether the early retirement pension from the scheme, together with 
other resources, could meet her early retirement objective without the need to transfer. This 
is what MPFS had to show in order to demonstrate that the transfer was in her best interests 
as per COBS 19.1.6G. 
MPFS said Within the client information form under Income Requirements there is a 
question Could the requirement be met either fully or partially by other non-pension sources 
of income? The comment on this is YES-  cash in bank plus income from investments plus 
both will continue to work. 
But I have seen no evidence that MPFS quantified her likely income need if she retired early, 
or what her income might reduce to if working part time so that they could work out the 
shortfall. So I cant see how MPFS were able to say yes to this question. Indeed, since the 
statement refers to income from investments, which would include the existing Dolphin 
investment, that income would also have been unpredictable given the investment risks 
involved. So I dont think MPFS took reasonable steps to ensure their advice was suitable. 
And if they did do any analysis of this nature, then there is no evidence that it was shared 
with Mrs T so she was not able to make an informed decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully considered MPFSs response to my provisional decision, and for the reasons 
already given I remain of the view I set out in my provisional decision and explained further 
above.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Mitchell Prockter Financial Services Limited to 
put Mrs T, as far as possible, into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable 
advice. I consider she would have remained in the occupational scheme. MPFS must 
therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators guidance on DB transfer 
redress. This is currently set out in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to 
calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
I am aware that on 2 August 2022,  the FCA launched a consultation on changes to this 
guidance and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice. In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current methodology in FG17/9 
remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not necessary. However, its review has 
identified some areas where the FCA considers it could improve or clarify the methodology 
to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
Nevertheless, the basic objective of the proposed amendments still remains to put a 
consumer, as far as possible, into the position they would be in if the business had advised 
them to remain in the DB scheme. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance - https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come 
into effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect, firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
In response to my provisional decision, Mrs T decided to opt for the FG 17/9 method of 
calculation.
However, if the complaint hadnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new 
guidance or rules had come into effect, I would have expected MPFS to carry out a 
calculation in line with the updated rules and/or guidance in any event. Given that new rules 
come into effect very shortly, I think its reasonable in the circumstances that MPFS waits 
until 1 April 2023 to do a loss calculation following the new rules. MPFS should use the 
actual value of the SSAS which Mrs T subsequently transferred into for their calculations, 
because in my view MPFS knowingly exposed Mrs T to the losses in the SSAS.
Any part of the losses in the SSAS caused by Mr T making his own contributions, which then 
proportionally increased the investment in Dolphin, should not be for MPFS to compensate 
in this complaint. Ive seen no evidence that it advised Mr T, who will need to approach any 
other parties who advised him. That means the value of the SSAS used for loss assessment 
purposes, after taking into account a nil value for the Dolphin investments (see below), will 
need to be proportioned down in the ratio that the amount received from this DB transfer 
bears to the total contributions to the SSAS.
In accordance with the regulators expectations, this calculation should be undertaken or 
submitted to an appropriate provider promptly once any new guidance/rules come into effect. 
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Ts pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs T as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mrs T within 90 days of PS22-13 
coming into effect on 1 April 2023.Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from 1 April 2023 to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes MPFS to pay Mrs T.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If MPFS deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mrs T how much has been taken off. MPFS should give Mrs T a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Putting things right is complicated where an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be 
readily sold on the open market), as its value cant be determined. That appears to be the 
case here.
I would normally give MPFS the option of agreeing an amount with the SSAS provider as a 
commercial value for the Dolphin investment, then pay the sum agreed to the SSAS plus any 
costs, and take ownership of that investment. However, I dont think that is achievable here 
given that some of the SSAS funds used to purchase the Dolphin investment came from Mr 
Ts own contributions. So as MPFS is unable to buy the investment from the SSAS, and 
there seems to be no market for the Dolphin investment, it should give it a nil value for the 
purposes of calculating compensation. 
In return for this, MPFS may ask Mrs T to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment she may receive from the investment in future (in proportion to how 
much of it was funded from her DB transfer). That undertaking should allow for the effect of 
any tax and charges on what she receives. MPFS will need to meet any costs in drawing up 
the undertaking. If MPFS asks Mrs T to provide an undertaking, payment of the 
compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of that undertaking.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. I require Mitchell Prockter Financial 
Services Limited to take the actions detailed in the Putting things right section above and 
provide Mrs T with their calculations in a clear and simple format. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Mitchell Prockter Financial Services Limited to 
pay Mrs T the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require Mitchell 
Prockter Financial Services Limited to pay Mrs T any interest on that amount in full, as set 
out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Mitchell Prockter 
Financial Services Limited to pay Mrs T any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Mitchell Prockter Financial Services Limited pays Mrs T the balance. I additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mrs T.
If Mrs T accepts my decision, the money award is binding on Mitchell Prockter Financial 
Services Limited. My recommendation is not binding on Mitchell Prockter Financial Services Limited. Further, its unlikely that Mrs T can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the 
balance. Mrs T may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept this decision.
Where the full loss is in excess of £160,000 and Mitchell Prockter Financial Services Limited 
doesnt follow my recommendation, it may only call upon an undertaking for Mrs T to repay 
future profits from the Dolphin investment once the compensation MPFS has paid (plus 
anything paid by any other parties to which she may complain), and any proceeds from the 
investment, begin to exceed the loss MPFS originally calculated in full, rather than the 
binding amount of £160,000.Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Martin Catherwood
Ombudsman