DRN-4176222
The complaint
X and Mr J complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC has treated them unfairly when providing 
information about their buy-to-let mortgage.
What happened
This complaint centres on whether Barclays provided X and Mr J with incorrect advice when 
Mr J spoke with it about the mortgage and being able to change the product it was on. 
In July 2022, Mr J called Barclays to discuss his mortgage as he was concerned about the 
monthly payment increasing. The adviser he spoke with explained he was a on a product 
which tracked the Bank of England base rate and as this has increased, his overall interest 
rate and payments increased. He wasnt happy that hed selected this product as he 
believed he would have taken a fixed rate product and not a tracker, so he asked that the 
details of his account be sent out for him to review. 
Mr J asked what his options were and the agent ran through the details of products Mr J 
might be able to transfer his mortgage to. She explained she was not a mortgage adviser 
and couldnt provide advice  and buy-to-let mortgages are sold on a non-advised basis 
anyway. The information she was providing was purely illustrative to allow Mr J to decide 
what he wanted to do. If X and Mr J wanted to do a rate switch, she said theyd need to 
speak with a mortgage advisor to do this with a booked appointment.
Mr J said the rates offered didnt reduce what he was now paying for the mortgage and it 
was explained the new rate would be fixed for two years. This meant the repayment amount 
would stay the same compared to the product he was on, which could go up or down. Mr J 
asked whether there would be a fee if he sold the property when on a fixed rate product and 
repaid the mortgage. He was advised there would be a 1% fee if this happened.
Mr J then asked what would happen if he moved his mortgage to another bank or sold the 
property when on his current product. He was told if this was done before the product end 
date, hed need to pay a 1% fee for repaying the mortgage early. Mr J concluded the call by 
asking that the adviser make sure his documents were sent out.  
Following this call, X and Mr J complained about whether they should be on a fixed rate 
product and Barclays sent a final response to this on 16 September 2022. It confirmed the 
product they were on was correct but that they could change to a different product without 
incurring an early repayment charge (ERC).
On 26 September 2022, Mr J called Barclays to discuss a product transfer, he was 
attempting to do this online but was unable to do so. There was some back and forth with 
the adviser over whether this could be done without him incurring an ERC and the adviser 
said because he was exiting his current product early, Mr J would need to book an 
appointment to discuss his mortgage with an adviser. There was little availability and Mr J 
said he needed to go before this could be arranged.  
X and Mr J didnt secure a new rate until November 2022 and complained to Barclays. They 
say Barclays led them to believe theyd need to pay an ERC if they wanted to change the 
rate of the mortgage sooner and this stopped them progressing with this option. 
Barclays looked at X and Mr Js complaint and felt it had provided them with information 
which wasnt correct in relation to the ERC. To apologise for this, it offered £350 for the 
distress and inconvenience. But it felt it had explained they would need to speak with a 
mortgage adviser to make any change to the mortgage. So although it wasnt as clear as it 
could have been on the ERC, it felt it made it clear to Mr J when it spoke with him that he 
needed to book an appointment to change the mortgage product. Because he didnt do this, 
it didnt think it needed to offer a retrospective rate from when Mr J first called it to discuss 
this. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint and didnt think Barclays needed to do anything 
else. She listened to the two calls and felt the offer Barclays made to put things right was 
fair. She agreed Mr J had been told that to change his mortgage, he needed to speak with a 
mortgage adviser. He didnt book in an appointment to do this and as a result, she didnt 
think it was fair to say Barclays needed to do anything else.
X and Mr J disagreed. They said our investigator had missed the point and they didnt make 
an appointment because they believed there would be an ERC if they changed the mortgage 
product. So they feel their actions are the result of the error and it would be fair for Barclays 
to offer a retrospective rate from what was available in July 2022.
Our investigators opinion remained unchanged so the complaint has been passed to me for 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know X and Mr J will be disappointed with this 
outcome, but Ill explain why I think the offer made by Barclays in its final response is fair 
and it doesnt need to do anything else.
X and Mr J have said they feel Barclays has accepted it made a mistake and the decision 
should focus purely on whether the amount offered for distress and inconvenience is fair. 
They dont think it would be right to decide on whether Barclays gave incorrect information 
as this isnt in dispute. I understand why they feel this way, but it is important to explain that 
when determining whether an award is fair, understanding the issue that has led to this is 
important. So because of this, much like our investigator, Ive listened to the calls Mr J had 
with Barclays. 
In both the calls Mr J had with Barclays Im satisfied it made it clear that hed need to book 
an appointment with a mortgage adviser to do a product transfer. In the first call ERCs were 
not discussed in any great detail and the only reference to a fee needing to be paid was in 
relation to the mortgage being repaid early if Mr J sold the property or moved the mortgage 
to another lender. And it is correct that if this happened, X and Mr J would have needed to 
pay an ERC. So I dont think it is right to say that Mr J was provided miss-leading information 
about the ERC or given any indication that a product transfer would result in incurring this 
fee. 
In September, X and Mr J was provided with a response to their complaint about whether the 
tracker rate was the product selected in 2021. This confirmed that if they wanted to change 
products now, this could be done without incurring an ERC. So when Mr J later called Barclays and was told he might need to pay an ERC if he changed products during the term 
of the tracker mortgage, he rightly questioned whether this was correct. I think this would 
have caused frustration and this would have added to the distress Mr J was feeling about his 
mortgage which had been increasing in price for a number of months when he believed hed 
been on a fixed rate product. And when there was limited availability for a mortgage 
appointment in his local area, its understandable why Mr J left the call unhappy. 
Although the adviser questioned whether an ERC would need to be paid and it took them 
sometime to bring up the details of the correct mortgage, as with the call in July, Mr J was 
told he needed to speak with a mortgage adviser to complete a product transfer and this was 
correct. 
Im not persuaded that Barclays provided mis-leading information about the ERC. Mr J was 
told what he needed to do when he first spoke with it on the phone if he wanted to change 
the product. But he didnt do this and instead questioned the product he was on originally. 
Ultimately, I feel the decision to question the original mortgage product added a delay but I 
dont think this was because any misinformation was provided about the ERC. Mr J was 
provided information in the call about how to move the mortgage to a new product but didnt 
do this at the time. 
After Barclays confirmed there was no error with the previous mortgage being on a tracker 
rate, Mr J called Barclays again. He received similar information about needing to book an 
appointment  although there was some confusion about whether an ERC would need to be 
paid, the detail about how to complete the product transfer was correct and soon after this, X 
and Mr J transferred the mortgage to a new product.  
Overall, I think the compensation offered by Barclays for the misinformation about whether 
the ERC should or shouldnt be paid in the second call and any frustration this would have 
caused is fair. Because of this, I dont think Barclays need to do anything else with this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold X and Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman