DRN-2144085
The complaint
Mr B complains that TFS Loans Limited lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
In May 2018, Mr B was given a guarantor loan of £3,000 by TFS. It was to be repaid in 36 
monthly instalments of £134.16 and the total amount repayable over the term including 
interest was £4,829.76. Ill refer to this as Loan 1.
A few months later, in January 2019, Mr B was given a top up of his guarantor loan to 
£5,000 which repaid the first loan. It was to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of £174.50  
a total over the term of £10,470 including interest. Ill refer to this as Loan 2.
Mr B says that his credit file showed he had five County Court Judgements (CCJ) and that 
he had increasing balances on other credit agreements. He says had TFS carried out proper 
checks it ought to have refused to lend to him.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint. He didnt think TFS should have lent 
to Mr B and asked it to put things right. TFS didnt agree with the investigators assessment 
 though Mr B did  so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit and guarantor loans on our 
website  including the key relevant rules, guidance good industry practice and law. And Ive 
considered this approach when deciding this complaint. 
TFS needed to take steps to ensure that it didnt lend to Mr B irresponsibly by carrying out 
reasonable and proportionate checks. I think there are key questions I need to consider in 
order to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint:
Did TFS carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B was 
in a position to sustainably repay the loan? 
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time? Did 
TFS make a fair lending decision?
Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr B in some other way?   
TFS was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment. This assessment is 
sometimes referred to as an affordability check or affordability assessment. The purpose of 
the checks is for TFS to think about whether repaying a loan sustainably would cause 
difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr B. In other words, it wasnt about TFS assessing 
the likelihood of it being repaid, but it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on 
Mr B. The fact that the loan was guaranteed by a third party and the potential of TFS to 
pursue the guarantor instead of Mr B doesnt alter or lessen the obligation.
TFS had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B would be 
able to repay the loans sustainably. There was no set list of checks that TFS had to do, but it 
could take into account several different things such as the amount and length of the loan, 
the amount of the monthly repayments and the overall circumstances of the borrower.
Taking all that into account, I think a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough where:
a customer as a low income (because it may make it more difficult to make loan 
payments of a set amount from a low level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (because it may be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment for a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (because the total cost of the credit is likely to be 
higher, and the customer is obliged to make payments for a longer period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (because of the risk of repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing has become or was becoming 
unsustainable).  
Did TFS carry out reasonable and proportionate checks for Loan 1 and Loan 2?
On each occasion, TFS asked Mr B for information about his income and expenditure and 
got his permission to review his credit file. It says it carried out a number of checks to 
confirm what Mr B had told it. TFS says the checks it carried out before agreeing to lend to 
Mr B were reasonable and proportionate, and it believes the loans were affordable for him. 
But I dont think its enough for a lender to simply carry out checks; Id expect it to think about 
the information it gathers when it reaches its decision to lend.
When he applied for Loan 1, Mr B was earning an above average salary - £3,800 per month. 
Based on what Mr B told it, TFS calculated he had monthly expenditure of £2,806  including 
the loan repayment of £134.16 - which left him with almost £1,000 disposable income. 
His credit file showed at that time he had three CCJs and five defaulted credit agreements 
dated between 2013 and 2016. TFS asked Mr B about the information it found. He gave a 
reasonable explanation for what appeared to be financial difficulties from two to four years 
earlier, and said he was earning much more now than at that time. His income and 
expenditure seemed reasonable.
He told TFS he wanted to repay a credit card and there were some outstanding bits on my 
credit file Id like to finish off. He listed a number of debts which had been defaulted. There 
had been few  if any  payments made to each. The outstanding credit card accounted for 
approximately £850 of the money Mr B was looking to borrow and he said his credit limit on 
the card had just been increased. The remainder of the money was to clear he credit file.
When Mr B first applied for Loan 1, hed asked to borrow £2,500. But due to the way TFS 
priced its products, hed have a lower monthly repayment if he borrowed £3,000 over the 
same term, rather than £2,500. Despite increasing the amount applied for part way through 
the application, the debts Mr B listed still accounted for the entire loan other than a few 
pounds. While it may seem sensible to borrow more money because it resulted in a lower 
repayment, it must still be sustainable. 
I think the information TFS collected ought to have prompted it to carry out some further 
checks into Mr Bs finances. I say this because generally, defaulted debts dont attract 
interest, but Mr B had applied for a loan to clear them priced at 39.9% APR. It doesnt appear to have been in Mr Bs interest to take a loan at this price to repay debts that were no 
longer accruing interest  especially as TFS calculated he had a large disposable income. 
He could simply have paid the debts off in a couple of months and yet he was making very 
few  if any  payments to them. I dont think TFS carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks on Loan 1.
When he called to apply for Loan 2, Mr B asked to borrow an extra £2,000 to £2,500 repay a 
credit card bill. A repayment figure for Loan 1 was calculated as being £2,935 and he asked 
to borrow a total of £5,000  giving him new borrowing of £2,065. He was asked how long he 
wanted to take the loan over, up to a maximum of five years. He said Id do five years 
because thats what my current term is. TFS asked Mr B if he had any CCJs or defaults and 
he replied that there were some CCJs on my account that are settled and one that has been 
settled but their updating at the moment. But its the same as when I applied last time. By 
this time, Mr B was earning slightly more  around £4,000 per month. His expenditure on this 
occasion was calculated at £2,270 and TFS added in a buffer of £125 which left him with a 
monthly disposable income of £1,605. 
TFS called Mr B to go through entries on his credit file. This included a CCJ for £970 which 
had been registered in June 2018 (after Loan 1 had been taken). TFS asked if he was aware 
of it. Mr B said yes. Thats part of what will repaythat and my credit card. He was asked if 
he was aware of a credit card default from April 2016 for £326. Mr B said he wasnt. The 
conversation continued and each CCJ and default was discussed.
The advisor then asked about a guarantor loan for £10,000 taken out in July 2018 (after 
Loan 1). Mr B said the guarantor for that loan was a different person from the one with TFS, 
and the loan had been taken to clear the CCJs theyd been discussing. The advisor said he 
could also see that Mr Bs credit card was reporting as being in arrears and asked why. Mr B 
said he had a dispute about a late payment, so until they listened to his dispute, he refused 
to make payments on it. He said that account has now been closed.   
In the intervening six or seven months between Loan 1 and Loan 2, Mr B had taken on 
another sizable guarantor loan, and a further CCJ had been registered against him. A credit 
card default he said he was unaware of had appeared on his credit file and hed fallen into 
arrears on his current credit card - something which Loan 1 had been taken to repay. 
Furthermore, I note that while his income had increased by £200, his expenditure had 
decreased by over £700. TFS had calculated Mr Bs monthly disposable income as being 
£1,605, so its not clear why hed need to borrow £2,000 at relatively high rates of interest 
over a five-year term. This was an increase on his current term (contrary to what Mr B had 
said during the application call) and TFS ought to have been aware of that.
I think the issues outlined above, ought to have led TFS to make further enquiries to check 
the state of Mr Bs finances. It seems to me he was struggling to maintain the credit he had 
and was becoming increasingly reliant on it. I dont think TFS carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks on Loan 2.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time? Did TFS make a 
fair lending decision?
Ive outlined above some of the circumstances which I think ought to have led TFS to carry 
out further checks on Mr Bs finances. I think it would have been reasonable for TFS to get a 
detailed understanding of Mr Bs expenditure, for example by asking to see several months 
of his bank statements from Mr B in light of what appears to be a reliance on credit. 
Mr B has provided us with copies of his bank statements for periods shortly before each loan 
was taken. A careful review of the statements brings in to question some of the information provided to TFS and each time shows a picture of a worsening financial situation. 
For example, at application, Mr B was asked about his insurance and travel expenses. He 
said he has no insurances and no travel expenses as he had a company car. I note that for 
Loan 1, hed said he had to pay about £400 per month for petrol but the insurance, tax and 
servicing was taken care of by his employer. But on his bank statement  which is a sole 
account  for Loan 1, the statement shows an insurance payment of £36.24, several payday 
loans, gambling transactions and a charge for using an unarranged overdraft.
By Loan 2, there are two payments to insurers totalling almost £100 per month. One of those 
specifically says car insurance. There are charges for using an unarranged overdraft 
totalling £72 and an unpaid item fee. I also note there are gambling transactions totalling 
several hundred pounds each month.
During the application call for Loan 2, Mr B said all his CCJs were settled (although one was 
being updated). But when TFS called him back to discuss his credit file, he said this new 
loan was to be used to settle a recent CCJ of £970. Given hed said at the outset he needed 
£2,000 to £2,500 to repay a credit card bill, its not clear that TFS established properly what 
it was lending for, or that in fact, the amount requested was enough to cover what was 
intended. It is also evident that a number of the defaults Loan 1 had been taken to settle 
were still outstanding.
I think, that TFS should have thought about what it was told by Mr B and seen that some of 
the answers hed given did not support what hed said previously  either in this loan 
application or that for Loan 1. I think if TFS obtained his bank statements and put this 
together with the information it had already gathered, it would have seen that Mr B was 
struggling to maintain his current expenditure.
Had TFS taken the time to think about what it had been told and carried out further checks, I 
think it ought reasonably to have realised it was unlikely Mr B would be able to sustainably 
repay either loan. I think it shouldve concluded it wasnt appropriate to lend to him.
Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr B in some other way?
Ive carefully read, listened to and thought about all the evidence provided by each party to 
this complaint. Having done so, I dont think TFS has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards 
Mr B in some other way. But I do think TFS should have refused to lend to Mr B, so I am 
upholding his complaint about the loan.
 
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business to 
put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the mistake it made hadnt 
happened, as far as is reasonably practical. In this case, that would mean putting Mr B in the 
position he would be in now if he hadnt been given loans. But Mr B was given the loans and 
used the money so its fair he should repay what he borrowed.
So, I think TFS should:
Calculate the total amount Mr B received from TFS and deduct from that figure the 
repayments hes made to each loan. 
oIf this results in Mr B having repaid more than he received, any overpayments 
should be refunded to him. Interest at a rate of 8% simple per year should be 
added to any overpayments from the date they were made until the date of settlement*.
oIf the calculation means theres still a balance for Mr B to pay, TFS should let 
Mr B know how much is outstanding and reach a suitable, affordable payment 
plan with him. I remind TFS of its obligation to treat customers fairly. 
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Bs credit file regarding each loan. 
*If TFS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. TFS Loans Limited 
should put things right for Mr B in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman