DRN-2456806
The complaint
Mr Ks complaint is about loans he took with Morses Club PLC. He says these loans were 
unaffordable for him. 
What happened
Morses provided Mr K with six home collected credit loans between December 2016 and 
January 2019. The amounts borrowed ranged between £300 and £1,000 and were due to be 
repaid weekly. At the time of writing this decision loans 5 and 6 were outstanding. 
Our adjudicator thought Morses shouldnt have provided loans 5 and 6 as it looked like Mr K 
was struggling to manage his finances. So, they partially upheld Mr Ks complaint. 
Morses accepted our adjudicators view and said that after it had applied the redress there 
was still an outstanding balance. But Mr K disagreed and said he wanted the outstanding 
balances to be written off.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr K could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Morses was required to establish 
whether Mr K could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint. Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint 
about loans 1 to 4. As Mr K hasnt queried the adjudicators findings on these loans, I wont 
be making any further findings on them. 
Morses agreed with our adjudicators findings that loans 5 and 6 shouldnt have been lent. 
Looking at what the adjudicator said, I agree with their rationale for why these loans werent 
suitable for Mr K. So, the matter that is left for me to consider is whether the redress offered 
is fair and reasonable given the circumstances of Mr Ks complaint. 
It seems that Mr K hasnt made any repayments towards loans 5 and 6 so this means the 
total amount of principal outstanding is £1,142.49. Mr K has said he doesnt think he should 
have to repay this. I can appreciate why Mr K feels as if he shouldnt repay the principal 
sum, but that isnt the position this service takes. Ive explained below how we look into 
these types of cases.
When a business has made an error  either because it accepts one has been made or we
decide something has gone wrong  the starting point, for this service, is that a consumer
should be put back into the position they would have been in had an error not been made.
However, this is not always possible especially in cases that involve lending money.
In cases of irresponsible lending, such as this, this service has to acknowledge that the
consumer has received a sum of money and has had the benefit of it. This is why in such
cases we ask the lender to refund any extra that has been repaid by a consumer, so for
example interest and charges. We also direct any additional interest payment to the
consumer to reflect the loss of use of those funds. This has the effect of providing the
consumer with an interest free loan. By doing this, in our view, a fair outcome is reached.
Ive thought about what Mr K has told us and I do have sympathy for his position. I can
understand why he wants the outstanding balance written off, and his liability for the lending
to be ended. Mr K has had use of the funds and I dont think it would be fair in this case, to 
ask Morses to write off this balance. Mr K, as Ive said, has used these funds and I think 
Morses is entitled to recover what was lent  which is what it is proposing to do.
Im sorry to hear about Mr Ks financial difficulties and I appreciate that my findings are likely 
to disappoint him. But I hope my explanation will help him understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr K from loan 5, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr K may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr K in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr K would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
As a reminder this is what Morses has agreed to do with regards to loans 5 and 6;
If Morses has sold the outstanding debts, Morses should buy these back if it is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If Morses cant buy the debts back, then Morses should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr K towards interest, 
fees and charges on loans 5 and 6, not including anything Morses has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest on the individual payments made by 
Mr K which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr K originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loans 5 and 6, 
and treat any repayments made by Mr K as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on these loans. If this results in Mr K having made overpayments then Morses 
should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
Morses should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus, 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr K. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Morses should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr K. Morses shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Morses has already written-off.
E) Morses should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ks credit file in relation 
to loans 5 and 6.  HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses Club PLC to take off tax from this interest. Morses Club 
PLC must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I think what Morses Club PLC has already agreed to do to 
put things right for Mr K is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint and I 
dont ask it to do any more. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman