DRN-2275516
The complaint
Ms W complains that Aqua lent irresponsibly when it approved her credit card application 
and later went on to increase the credit limit. Ms W also complains that Aqua sold her debt to 
a third party despite being aware she was vulnerable. 
What happened
On 3 June 2015 Aqua assessed Ms Ws credit card application and approved a credit limit of 
£250. Ms Ws application said she was a tenant and employed, earning £26,781. Aqua 
carried out a credit search and found Ms W had two defaults, the newest of which was 
registered 40 months before the application. 
In October 2015 Aqua increased Ms Ws credit limit to £1,250.
In June 2016 Ms W wasnt able to make the credit card payment. Ms W discussed her credit 
card with Aqua and advised that she is disabled, was suffering from a chronic illness, was in 
chronic pain, was heavily medicated, was unable to walk, unable to work and was waiting for 
an operation on a broken foot. Ms W told Aqua she wasnt able to make her credit card 
payment. Aqua says it sent Ms W an income and expenditure assessment to complete. 
Aqua contacted Ms W again on 15 July 2016 both by phone and letter but didnt receive a 
response. 
Due to the arrears, the credit card was defaulted and in December 2016 the debt was sold to 
a third party to collect. 
In December 2019 Ms W contacted this service to raise a complaint about Aquas actions. In 
response, Aqua told us it wanted to make Ms W an offer. Aqua agreed it shouldnt have 
increased the credit limit in October 2015 and offered to refund interest Ms W incurred from 
October 2015 to December 2016, when the account defaulted, totalling £376.68. Aqua also 
offered to refund £96 of fees. Aqua said Ms W had told it she was vulnerable in June 2016 
and that it sold the debt in December 2016 because the correct process wasnt followed. 
Aqua offered Ms W £100 to apologise for the error. 
Our investigator looked at Ms Ws complaint and upheld it. They pointed out that industry 
guidelines say a debt shouldnt be sold when the consumer is vulnerable. The investigator 
recommended that Aqua increase the award for the distress and inconvenience caused from 
£100 to £300. Aqua didnt agree and said Ms W hadnt responded with the income and 
expenditure assessment it asked her to complete. Aqua said that, on balance, Ms W 
wouldnt have provided medical evidence to verify what she had told it. As Aqua asked to 
appeal, Ive been passed Ms Ws complaint to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before a lender approves credit it has to make sure the debt is affordable and sustainable for 
the borrower. It can do that in a range of ways. In this case, Aqua looked at Ms Ws credit file 
and the information she provided in her application. The application form said Ms W was 
employed with an income of £26,781. Whilst the credit file noted Ms W had some defaults, 
they were over three years old when she applied and Aqua has confirmed it will accept 
applications from people with some adverse credit. Overall, the information Aqua obtained 
indicated Ms W could afford the repayments on a credit card with a £250 credit limit. Im 
satisfied the application was reasonably approved. 
Aqua accepts it shouldnt have increased Ms Ws credit limit to £1,250 because she was in 
arrears on another credit commitment. I think Aquas offer to refund all the interest and 
charges Ms W incurred from the date it increased the credit limit to the date of default is 
reasonable. Aqua has confirmed the £376.68 interest and £96 fee refund will be used to 
reduce the outstanding balance of the debt. Im satisfied Aquas offer in respect of the refund 
is fair. 
Our investigator quoted industry guidance in their findings. The guidance says a lender 
shouldnt sell a debt if it has medical evidence that the borrower has ongoing mental health 
problems or a critical illness that impacts their ability to repay the debt. Our investigator says 
Aqua shouldnt have sold the debt because it was aware Ms W was vulnerable in June 2016.  
The investigator thought Ms W had been caused unnecessary distress by Aquas decision to 
sell her account and asked it to increase the award to £300.
Aqua said it didnt think Ms W would have responded with medical evidence if asked. Whilst 
I note Aquas comments, I have to take into account that Aqua didnt ever ask Ms W to 
provide any medical evidence to support the comments she made in June 2016. I 
understand that Aqua sent Ms W a budget planner on 15 June 2016 and followed that up a 
month later with another request. But, I thats not the same as asking for medical evidence. 
Ms W was willing to provide medical evidence to this service in support of her complaint. On 
balance, I think its more likely than not that she wouldve provided medical evidence to Aqua 
if it had asked. Im unable to agree with Aquas claim that Ms W wouldnt have provided any 
medical evidence to verify what she had told it. 
Ive considered the level of compensation our investigator has awarded. Whilst I note Aquas 
response, I agree with the investigator. I can see Ms W gave information about a very 
difficult period in her life when she called Aqua in June 2016. Im not persuaded that Aqua 
has dealt with Ms W fairly or that its decision to sell the account was reasonable. I agree with 
the investigator that Aquas actions did cause additional distress to Ms W and that £300 
more fairly reflects the impact on her. As a result, Im going to uphold Ms Ws complaint, in 
line with the investigators proposed settlement. 
In response to the investigator, Ms W said she would like to repay Aqua, not the third party it 
sold her debt to. Im sorry to disappoint Ms W but Im not going to tell Aqua to retrieve her 
account from the third party. Any business that acquires a debt has to ensure it treats the 
borrower fairly and agrees affordable repayment options. Should Ms W have any concerns 
about the owner of her debt, she has the option of raising her concerns with that business. I 
agree the decision to sell the debt caused Ms W distress and, as Ive said above, Ive 
factored that into the settlement. Ms W has also asked whether the original facility could be reinstated. Its not now possible to 
reinstate the credit card facility after it was defaulted. At that point, Ms Ws agreement with 
Aqua ended. So I cant tell Aqua to reopen her account. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Aqua should: 
- Refund all interest applied from date credit limit was increased to £1,250 in October 
2015, to the date it was sold in December 2016 - £376.68.
- Refund all fees from October 2015 to December 2016 totalling £96.
- Pay Ms W £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Ms Ws complaint and direct NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua to 
settle in line with the above guidance. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman