DRN-4289978
The complaint
Mr F complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc is asking him to repay money he doesnt 
owe in respect of a conditional sale agreement. 
What happened
Mr F took out a conditional sale agreement with Santander Consumer (UK) Plc (Santander) 
in September 2020. In July 2022, Mr F arranged to settle the agreement through a third 
party. The settlement figure was £2,532.60. The third party contacted Santander the 
following month advising them that theyd paid the settlement figure twice in error. Santander 
refunded Mr F the extra £2,532.60 instead of returning this to the third party.
Santander says they tried to contact Mr F to explain that theyd made an error and to ask 
him to return the money however they were unable to do so. Santander re-activated Mr Fs 
agreement so they could send the third party the money back to them using the payments 
that Mr F had previously made.
Mr F says he spoke to Santander after hed noticed the money crediting his bank account 
and they told him that this was what he was owed. Mr F says he waited for a month and a 
half in case Santander took the money back and, as they didnt, he used it. 
Mr F complained to Santander as theyd asked him to repay the money which he didnt think 
was right. Santander didnt uphold the complaint. They said to Mr F that they sent him the 
money in error and had tried to contact him on several occasions to ask him to return this. 
Santander also said Mr F subsequently e-mailed them saying he wouldnt be returning the 
payment as what had happened wasnt his fault. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She thought it was fair 
for Santander to ask Mr F to refund the money. 
Mr F didnt agree and said hed received letters from Santander saying the finance 
agreement had been settled and the money theyd sent him was an overpayment that was 
due to him. Mr F also said hed spoken to Santander and was told this was money he was 
owed. And he said hed spoken to the debt recovery agent appointed by Santander whod 
told him they wouldnt be asking him for the money. Mr F also pointed out that Santander 
were asking him to pay different amounts in each letter they were now sending him.  
The complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from what Ive seen that the third party sent the money needed to settle Mr Fs 
agreement to Santander twice in error. Santander then credited Mr Fs bank account with the 
second amount theyd received from the third party. Mr Fs complaint ultimately is whether 
its reasonable for Santander to seek to reclaim that money from him.
Generally, I think if someone is paid money in error, then its likely to be reasonable for them 
to return it. The reasonableness of that though will depend on the circumstances. 
Ive firstly considered how Santander acted once they realised theyd been sent the money 
in error and when they subsequently sent that on to Mr F. I can see from a screenshot that 
Mr F sent to us of his bank account, that Santander credited his account with this money on 
24 August 2022. Ive looked at Santanders account history notes and can see they tried to 
call Mr F on 9 September 2022 and 13 September 2022 about what had happened but the 
number they called was invalid. Ive also seen a copy of the e-mail that Santander sent Mr F 
on 9 September 2022 asking him to contact them about an important query in relation to his 
agreement. Im satisfied therefore that Santander did take reasonable steps to try to discuss 
what had happened with Mr F and, while it appears that the phone number they used was 
invalid, Ive not seen evidence that they called a wrong number or didnt try to call the 
number they held for Mr F. 
Mr F has highlighted that Santander sent him a letter saying the money they sent him was 
an overpayment. So, he feels that Santander clearly said this was money owed to him. Ive 
seen a copy of this letter and agree with Mr F that this said the money being credited to him 
was an overpayment. However, I think it unlikely that Mr F would have known he was owed 
this amount as hed have been aware he was settling his finance agreement early before all 
payments due under this was being repaid. I cant therefore see how Mr F would have 
reasonably felt this was money he was owed. And, from what Ive seen, I dont agree that 
this was money he was owed. I find it clear from the evidence thats been provided that 
Santander sent Mr F the money in error when they should have returned this to the third 
party. 
Mr F says he called Santander when he received the letter about the overpayment and was 
told this was money due to him. Ive not though seen sufficient evidence this conversation 
happened. Theres no record of a phone call in Santanders account history notes that 
supports this, and Mr F hasnt been able to provide us with supporting evidence of when he 
made that call. 
So, I dont think theres any reasonable basis for me to say that Santander were wrong to 
ask Mr F to return the money they paid him. Its clear to me that Santander made an error in 
sending Mr F the money. But I dont think it reasonable that Santander now writes this 
amount off because of their error. I dont therefore find that Santander is acting unreasonably 
in trying to recover the money from Mr F. So, it follows that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
I do have some slight reservations around the decision Santander made to reactivate Mr Fs 
finance agreement bearing in mind it was their error that ultimately caused this dispute and 
when the intention on Mr Fs part was clearly to settle this agreement. In my view, this has 
led to not particularly clear information being sent to Mr F about the amount he needs to 
repay. Essentially, what Santander wanted repaying was the £2,532.60 they sent Mr F in 
error. The letters Mr F has received since shows him being asked to repay various arrears 
amounts and I dont think that has particularly helped the situation.
I therefore suggest to Santander that they set out clearly to Mr F what he owes them and 
work with him to repay this fairly and reasonably. I would add here that Santander should 
give some thought around the reasonableness of continuing to apply arrears fees each 
month as this is increasing the amount that Mr F owes, when this ultimately stems from the 
error they made. There will also come a point where Santander will need to rethink what to 
do with the agreement if, for example, Mr F decides he doesnt want to pay Santander.  My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman