DRN-4353091
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained about the early repayment charge (ERC) theyll incur if 
they redeem their mortgage with TSB Bank plc.
Theyre thinking about moving home and are unhappy that, unless they keep their mortgage 
with TSB and port it to their new property, theyll incur an ERC of around £2,600. They say 
they were told when they took out the mortgage that the ERC was to recompense the bank 
for any unrecoverable interest costs if they ended the rate early.
Theyd like TSB to either waive the ERC, or to match the current best in market five-year 
fixed rate mortgage for the whole mortgage amount.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out this mortgage in 2019. The mortgage offer dated 18 October 2019 
indicated they were borrowing around £143,000 (including fees) over a 26-year term on a 
repayment basis. The rate is fixed at 1.94% until 30 November 2024, with an ERC being due 
if the mortgage is repaid before that date.
In January 2023 Mr and Mrs W complained to TSB about the ERC. TSB didnt uphold the 
complaint and so Mr and Mrs W referred the matter to us.
One of our Investigators looked at the complaint. He said TSB had evidenced to us how it 
had set the ERC in line with the regulators guidance and, having considered all the 
information provided, he was satisfied TSB hadnt done anything wrong. For that reason he 
said he wouldnt be asking TSB to either waive the ERC or to offer Mr and Mrs W a different 
rate than it offered to all its other customers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W have referred to the ERC as a penalty. The ERC isnt a penalty as that has 
a distinct meaning in law; its a contractual term that applies where there is a breach of 
contract. But if Mr and Mrs W repay their mortgage within the ERC period, there is no breach 
of contract. Thats because the contract allows for the mortgage to be repaid if they pay an 
ERC.
Were not the regulator, and Ive no power under our terms of reference to comment on, or 
otherwise determine, how financial businesses operate in general terms. I have to consider 
this complaint by reference to Mr and Mrs Ws particular situation. When I do that, Im 
satisfied the terms of the ERC were set out in the mortgage offer in a way that should have 
been readily understandable to Mr and Mrs W; certainly, the information about the ERC was 
set out in a manner that met the regulators requirements. So Im persuaded Mr and Mrs W 
knew  or at least should have known  how much theyd have to pay if they repaid the 
mortgage before 30 November 2024. 
That said, I need to decide what is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of the 
complaint. The rules we operate under say that in doing that I must take into account, 
amongst other things, the relevant rules and regulations. In this case that is the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business sourcebook 
(MCOB). 
MCOB includes provisions about ERCs. In summary, they say that an ERC must be able to 
be expressed as a cash value and must be a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs resulting 
from early termination of the mortgage. But a lender can choose how it calculates an ERC 
and can calculate the same level of ERC across a group of mortgages of similar type, rather 
than for individual loans. TSB is entitled to set an ERC based not on the actual cost to it of 
Mr and Mrs W ending their own mortgage early, but on a reasonable pre-estimate of the 
costs of early termination of a group of mortgages of similar type. 
Lenders generally raise money to offer preferential rates for their mortgage customers on the 
wholesale money markets. Theres a cost to that, and its generally fixed in advance. But the 
lender expects to receive a return to outweigh those costs. If a mortgage ends early, it 
doesnt get back all the returns it expected, and so doesnt make back the costs in raising 
the funds to offer that preferential rate. 
Its complex and onerous for lenders to calculate individual losses as and when individual 
customers decide to terminate their contracts early. And it isnt possible to estimate, for any 
given individual, when or if they might do so. So TSB is allowed to project how many 
customers, on average, are likely to terminate early and, on average, at what point theyre 
likely to do so, and to apportion that cost across the mortgages in the group. For some 
individual mortgages that will end up being an over-calculation, and for others it will be an 
under-calculation. But thats allowed; TSB doesnt have to refund the difference, but equally 
it doesnt tell a consumer to pay the difference if it goes the other way. 
The ERC is expressed as a cash value in the mortgage offer. So Ive considered whether the 
ERC was a reasonable pre-estimate of the cost of the mortgage being repaid early. 
TSB has provided us with evidence to show how it pre-estimated the costs of this group of 
mortgages being repaid early. Under our rules I am allowed to accept evidence in 
confidence if it is appropriate to do so. I am satisfied that the information TSB has provided 
is commercially sensitive and I have good reason to accept that in confidence and so I wont 
be disclosing it to Mr and Mrs W. 
The information from TSB shows that it takes into account a number of factors when 
estimating the cost of a fixed rate mortgage being repaid. It has provided a breakdown of the 
figures it used and an explanation for the calculations and estimates it has made. It shows 
that the ERC reflects its costs of setting up and servicing the mortgage, the cost of the 
capital it has to set aside, the cost of funding the fixed rate, the cost of financial instruments 
that could be used to protect its position (and unwinding those) and its future losses. Ive 
looked carefully at what TSB has said and I consider it is a fair way to calculate the ERC.
Mr and Mrs W have said they were told by the adviser when they took out the mortgage that 
the ERC was to recompense the bank for any unrecoverable interest costs if they ended the 
rate early. Which, in broad terms, is correct. But as Ive explained above, the ERC isnt set 
based on the unrecoverable interest costs for each mortgage in isolation as that wouldnt be 
possible to know in advance and the ERC must be known in advance as it must be shown in 
the mortgage offer. It also takes into account other unrecoverable costs.Even if I did think that the adviser misled Mr and Mrs W in 2019 that would be what we call a 
misrepresentation; that is, TSB gave incorrect information to Mr and Mrs W about the 
background to the ERC calculation and how it is set.
When were looking at complaints about misrepresentations, we consider the appropriate 
remedy is to place the consumer in the position they would be in if the incorrect information 
hadnt been given. We dont put them in the position they would be in if the misinformation 
had been correct (that is, Mr and Mrs W could pay a different ERC). 
Mr and Mrs W could never have been in the position where their ERC would be calculated 
differently to how it was set out in their mortgage offer. I dont think they would have done 
anything different in 2019 had the adviser explained things differently because, by the time 
the mortgage completed, theyd been issued with the binding mortgage offer which set out 
the terms of the contract they were entering into (including the potential ERC if they ended 
the mortgage early). If they felt that didnt represent how they thought the ERC would work 
then they could have chosen not to proceed with the mortgage offer from TSB. Instead they 
accepted the mortgage offer and, when the mortgage completed, they then became bound 
by those terms, including the ERC clause.
Mr and Mrs W have said that TSB could now re-lend their mortgage amount out at a higher 
rate, so they think TSB wouldnt make a loss. But TSB couldnt have known, in 2019, that 
Mr and Mrs W would choose to end their mortgage early, when they would choose to do so, 
and that interest rates would be at the level they are now at the point Mr and Mrs W chose to 
end the mortgage. Equally, things could have gone a different way, with Mr and Mrs W 
choosing to end their mortgage at a point interest rates were lower than when they took out 
their mortgage, and so any new mortgage lending TSB granted would be at a lower rate than 
Mr and Mrs W were paying. In that instance TSB wouldnt make Mr and Mrs W pay more to 
cover any additional potential losses, and equally TSB isnt expected to refund any 
difference if it goes the other way.
As I said above, in some instances the ERC will be too much and in others it will be too 
little. That is allowed under the rules as long as, at the point it was set, the ERC was a 
reasonable pre-estimate of the potential loss the lender would incur upon early repayment in 
line with the regulatory guidance in MCOB. Here Im satisfied it was.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied: 
TSB is entitled to charge Mr and Mrs W the ERC set out in their mortgage contract if 
they repay their mortgage early. 
There is no requirement for TSB to only charge an amount worked out based on Mr and 
Mrs Ws individual loan and date of redemption, instead it is allowed to charge an 
amount based on its pre-estimate of the costs of early termination of a group of 
mortgages of similar type. 
TSB doesnt have to treat Mr and Mrs W any differently to any of its other customers 
that redeem their mortgage whilst there is an ERC in force.
TSB doesnt have to offer a bespoke new interest rate product to Mr and Mrs W, nor 
does it have to waive the ERC.
For all the reasons given I dont think TSB acted unfairly or unreasonably in this matter.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman