DRN-3421334
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (Clydesdale) rejected 
her claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to her 
purchase of some solar panels.
Background
In or around April 2015 Mrs S bought solar panels for her home. The purchase was financed 
with a ten year loan from Clydesdale, and so that firm is liable for any misrepresentation by 
the supplier of the panels which induced her to buy them.
Mrs S says that she told the salesman that she was thinking of moving house, and that he 
told her she would be able to take the solar panels with her and register her new address for 
feed-in tariff (FIT) payments. But when she moved in 2017, she discovered that it would 
cost £1,200 to £1,500 to relocate the panels. She also says she was told that it would not be 
possible to transfer the FIT to her new address. So she decided to leave the panels where 
they were, and she settled the loan early. By this time, the supplier had gone into liquidation, 
so she did not pursue the matter at the time (except briefly with her energy provider).
In 2021, Clydesdale carried out a pro-active review of the loan and concluded that the 
panels had been mis-sold, on the basis that they had been wrongly described as self-funding 
over the period of the loan. It offered to pay Mrs S £1,578.79, being the difference between 
the estimated benefits from the panels over the ten year term of the loan and what she had 
paid towards the loan, with simple interest at 8% a year. But Mrs S did not think that was fair, 
since she had only had the benefit of the panels for two years, not ten.
Mrs S brought this complaint to our service, but our adjudicator thought that Clydesdales 
offer was fair. He said there was no written evidence to support what Mrs S had said about 
what the salesman had told her.
Mrs S did not accept that opinion. She said it should be obvious that the panels had been 
mis-sold, because nobody would take out a ten year loan to buy them if they knew they 
would only be able to have them for two years. She asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully considered everything that Mrs S said to us and to Clydesdale, and I cannot 
see that she has ever actually said that the salesman told her that moving the panels to 
another house would be free, or how much it would cost. So Im not satisfied that the 
salesman misrepresented the cost to her. But just in case I have misunderstood her 
complaint, and she meant to say that this is what he said, or what she inferred, I will say that 
I would not have been persuaded that it was likely that the salesman told Mrs S she could 
relocate the panels for free, or cheaply. Removing solar panels from a roof, making good 
any resulting damage, transporting the panels to a new address and then reinstalling them 
would clearly be a considerable undertaking, and I would not expect it to be cheaper than 
Mrs S was told it would be in 2017. Nor would I think it reasonable of a consumer to assume 
otherwise, or think it plausible that a salesman would say otherwise, in the absence of some 
written record of that claim.
The FIT scheme was closed in 2019, and so today it is not possible to re-register solar 
panels at a new address. But I am not persuaded that that was the case in 2015. While 
I have seen nothing about this point, one way or the other, in the evidence provided by the 
parties in this complaint, I have seen evidence in another (unrelated) complaint (in the terms 
and conditions of a contract) specifically stating that it used to be possible in the past. So 
I cannot be satisfied that the salesman was wrong about this in 2015. (And I do not know 
with any certainty whether Mrs Ss energy provider told her in 2017 that re-registering the 
FIT would be impossible, or merely impractical. There is no record of what she was told, and 
I dont think it would be safe to rely on Mrs Ss four-year-old recollection of a conversation.)
For the above reasons, I am not satisfied that there was a misrepresentation in this case, 
and I am aware of no other ground for upholding this complaint.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022. But if she does not reply, then we will presume that 
she rejects it, in which case it will not be binding on the parties.
I leave it to Mrs S to decide whether she now wishes to accept Clydesdales offer of 
£1,578.79. But we will not be able to engage in any further discussion about the merits of 
this complaint. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman