DRN-3870183
The complaint
Mr M1, and his brother Mr M2, complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has not 
honoured a mortgage interest rate they were told in a telephone call.
What happened
On 16 March 2021, Mr M1 telephoned Halifax to enquire about what interest rate he and 
Mr M2 could obtain if they took out a mortgage with it as existing customers. The staff 
member took some initial information from Mr M1 in relation to the purchase price of the 
property and their deposit, to calculate the relevant loan to value (LTV). During this 
telephone call, the adviser quoted Mr M1 a two-year fixed interest rate of 1.99% based on an 
LTV of 85%. This was based on it being a residential repayment mortgage. The adviser also 
agreed to email Mr M1 this information and explained that the rate was only guaranteed for 
that day as they are subject to change.
Mr M1 called Halifax back the next day, having not received an email. He spoke to a 
different adviser, who took the same information from Mr M1 to determine what rate he and 
Mr M2 would be eligible for. This time, the advisor quoted a two-year fixed interest rate of 
2.46% based on an LTV of 85%. And explained the interest rate of 1.99% was only available 
up to a maximum LTV of 80%.
Mr M1 explained that he had been led to believe they could get an interest rate of 1.99% and 
so they were planning to pursue this mortgage rather than go through a broker. He felt 
Halifax should honour the rate he had been told the day before. The adviser explained this 
rate wasnt available to Mr M1 and Mr M2 and that it was unlikely Halifax would honour this 
rate  but he agreed to escalate the matter to a manager.
On 7 May 2021, a broker submitted a mortgage application to Halifax on behalf of Mr M1 
and Mr M2. On 21 May 2021 Halifax issued a mortgage offer to Mr M1 and Mr M2 at a fixed 
rate of 2.33% until 30 September 2023. Mr M1 and Mr M2 proceeded with this mortgage 
which completed on 22 June 2021.
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint  in summary it said that interest rates arent secured 
until a formal application is made and a mortgage offer is issued. Mr M1 and Mr M2 were 
offered the correct product when their application was made, which they chose to accept. 
When Mr M1 and Mr M2 complained to our service, the investigator upheld the complaint in 
part. They agreed Halifax wasnt required to honour the rate it provided over the telephone 
ahead of any formal application, as they didnt think this would ever have been available to 
Mr M1 and Mr M2 based on their LTV and that this rate was never formally offered or 
guaranteed. However, they thought Halifax ought to pay Mr M1 and Mr M2 £50 
compensation for providing incorrect information to Mr M1, leading them both to experience 
a loss of expectation.
Mr M1 and Mr M2 didnt think this was enough compensation  they said they thought 
Halifax should pay them £1,250 based on this being half of the addition cost theyd incurred 
by not receiving an initial fixed rate of 1.99%. Halifax didnt provide a response.
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree Halifax should pay Mr M1 and Mr M2 a total of £50 compensation 
for similar reasons to the investigator.
Having listened to the calls on 16 and 17 March 2021, I think its likely that Halifax did quote 
an incorrect interest rate to Mr M1 on 16 March 2021. This is because Mr M1 was told the 
relevant lowest two-year fixed interest rate it had for an 85% LTV was 1.99% with a product 
fee, and the next day he was given a different figure. He was also told the rates hadnt 
changed since the day before. Further, I think it was poor customer service to agree to email 
Mr M1 the information discussed if this wasnt something that team offered.
However, I can also see that this issue was rectified quickly. Mr M1 was given the correct 
information the next day i.e. on 17 March 2021 when he spoke to a different adviser. At this 
point it was explained to Mr M1 that to be eligible for the interest rate he was quoted on 
16 March 2021, their LTV would need to have been 80% or less, rather than the 85% LTV 
Mr M1 and Mr M2 wanted to apply for.
When considering how to put matters right, Ive thought about what should have happened 
and what impact the error had on Mr M1 and Mr M2. Here, Mr M1 should have been given 
the correct information on 16 March 2021. If this had happened, Mr M1 wouldnt have 
experienced the disappointment and stress caused by the change to what rate he thought he 
and Mr M2 could apply for. But I dont think Mr M1 and Mr M2 have incurred any financial 
loss  this is because the error didnt change the interest rate they were eligible to apply for.
Importantly, this incorrect information was given at an informal enquiry stage. Interest rates 
offered by lenders vary, and there were a range of steps that would need to have taken 
place before Mr M1 and Mr M2 could rely on an interest rate being secured. This included 
Mr M1 and Mr M2 making a formal mortgage application with supporting evidence. An 
interest rate is not secured until a formal mortgage offer has been made.
Halifax was clear in both the call on 16 and 17 March 2021 that the interest rates could 
change any day and so Mr M1 was made aware of this possibility. And Halifax did 
subsequently change the interest rates on its products before Mr M1 and Mr M2 made a 
mortgage application with it via a mortgage broker.
So, for these reasons I dont think it would be reasonable to require Halifax to honour the 
incorrect interest rate provided on 16 March 2021. However I do think some compensation is 
appropriate to recognise the additional call Mr M1 made on 17 March 2021 after not 
receiving an email as expected, and the disappointment of finding out he wouldnt be able to 
proceed to apply for a mortgage at the interest rate he was expecting.
For the avoidance of doubt, I havent seen anything to suggest there were any issues with 
the accuracy of the interest rate information provided in Halifaxs mortgage offer that Mr M1 
and Mr M2 did proceed with.
Putting things right
For the reasons explained, I think Halifax should pay Mr M1 and Mr M2 a total of £50 
compensation for the impact its error had on them.My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax should pay Mr M1 and Mr M2 a 
total of £50 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman