DRN-3264392
The complaint
The rules about complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look 
into complaints. In my decision, Ive explained what this means for Mr T's complaint.
Mr T complains that FCE Bank Plc (Ford) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy in January 1984 when he arranged some loan finance to help buy a car.
What happened
Mr T complained to this service. He said the policy was miss-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at all of this  but didnt think we could help with Mr Ts complaint 
about how this policy was sold because it doesnt appear that they sold the policy.
So, our adjudicator concluded this complaint was outside our jurisdiction.
Mr T asked for an ombudsman to look at the matter again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The loan finance was arranged by Ford. It says it wasnt responsible for the sale of the 
PPI. Instead, it said the car dealership sold Mr T the PPI cover.
Mr T concurs that he completed the credit agreement at the car dealership. I have seen 
no documentation or testimony that points to the dealership acting as an agent for Ford 
in this matter. So, it looks most likely that the PPI that was applied for was sold by the 
dealership. So, I cannot consider a complaint of miss-selling of PPI against Ford as it 
seems most likely that they didnt sell it. The following is also worth noting. 
We can only look into a complaint if it falls within certain criteria laid down in our 
case handling rules. Our case handing rules are found in the Dispute Resolution 
section of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook (available online).
I am only able to consider complaints relating to activities carried out by a financial 
business which was covered by our scheme  or covered by a relevant former dispute 
resolution scheme immediately before becoming a member of our scheme  at the time 
the activities were carried out.
Insurance mediation activities (like advising, selling, arranging, etc) only became 
covered by our scheme in their own right when they became regulated by the Financial 
Services Authority (now the Financial Conduct Authority) on 14 January 2005.
Having carefully considered all of the evidence from Mr T, Im satisfied that this service 
does not have powers to consider this complaint against Ford. Ill explain why.
We generally cant look at complaints about insurance policies which were sold before 
14 January 2005  because it was only from this date that all businesses became 
regulated for selling general insurance and ancillary products.
Mr T was sold his PPI in 1994  which was before the date of regulation on 14 January 
2005. Its clear from official records from the Financial Conduct Authority that Ford 
wasnt regulated to sell insurance at the date of the sale  so the mis-sale complaint 
against Ford is outside of our jurisdiction which means we have no powers to consider 
the PPI mis-sale complaint.
Ive also noted, like our adjudicator, that the car dealership that may have been 
responsible for selling Mr T his PPI rather than Ford, was also outside of our jurisdiction 
when he took out the PPI, for the same reason. 
It follows that this PPI mis-sale complaint against FCE Bank Plc is outside of our 
jurisdiction. And Im satisfied we have no powers to consider it.
Im sorry to have to disappoint Mr T on this occasion and that were unable to help 
Mr T with his complaint about how this policy was sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my jurisdiction decision is that this service cant consider this 
PPI mis-sale complaint because we dont have the powers to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman