DRN-3370649
The complaint
Mr B complains that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) unfairly turned 
down his claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr B bought a timeshare membership from a business, Business A, in 2005. The cost of the 
timeshare was £8,849 and that was paid with a loan of £8,849 taken with First National 
Consumer Finance Limited. The loan was set to run for 10 years. First National Consumer 
Finance Limited later became GE Money, so it is responsible for answering this complaint.
Mr B said that when he took out the timeshare, he was told that they could book 
accommodation anywhere in the world, but he found it very difficult to make a booking even 
with 12 months notice.
So, Mr B said that Business A misrepresented the quality and availability of the product at 
the time of sale. Mr B said that had he known what Business A said wasnt right, he would 
not have taken out the membership in the first place.
Unhappy with what had happened at the Time of Sale, Mr B  using a representative  wrote 
to GE Money in 2019 (the Letter of Claim) to make claims under:
(1) Section 75 of the CCA for misrepresentation; and 
(2) Section 140A of the CCA for an unfair debtor-creditor relationship.
GE Money responded to say it didnt have any information on its systems about Mr Bs loan 
due to the time that had passed. They said that they destroy information on loans that were 
paid off more than six years ago, so its likely Mr B paid off the loan before 2013. As the sale 
took place many years before the complaint, GE Money said that meant the complaint had 
been brought too late under the relevant provisions contained in the Limitation Act 1980 
(LA). 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think GE Money needed to do 
anything further. They agreed that the claim under s.75 and s.140A CCA had been brought 
too late, so they didnt think GE Money needed to consider the substance of the claim. 
Mr Bs representative responded to ask for a decision, but it didnt send any new evidence 
explaining why the claim had been brought in time. So, the complaint was passed to me for 
a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to tell GE Money to do anything further to resolve the matter 
and Ive explained why below.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
I also have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision. And 
I want to assure Mr B, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not because I 
havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to us. But, 
Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to reaching a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Was the claim under s.75 CCA brought in time?
Mr B said that Business A misrepresented to him the nature and benefits of the timeshare 
agreement, so he says GE Money is jointly liable under s.75 CCA. But if GE Money could 
show the claim was brought outside of the time limits set out in the LA, it would be entitled to 
rely on the LA as a defence to answering the claim. I should make it clear however that Im 
not deciding if any right that Mr B may have to bring these claims has expired under the LA - 
thats a matter for the courts. In this decision Im considering if GE Money has acted fairly 
and reasonably in turning down Mr Bs claims.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under s.2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967. It was held in Laws v. The Society of Lloyds [2003] EWCA 1887 
that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered by s.2 LA or an action brought for 
a sum recoverable by statute within s.9 LA. Under both of those provisions, a claimant has a 
period of six years to bring a claim from the date on which the cause of action accrued.
As Mr B made a like claim against GE Money under s.75 CCA, its covered by s.9 LA  
which, means he had six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to make 
the claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. So, in Mr Bs case, thats when he could have brought a claim 
for misrepresentation against the supplier or the like claim against GE Money. I think that 
was the date he entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare, so in 2005. It was at that 
time that they entered into an agreement based, they say, on the misrepresentations of 
Business A. He says, had the misrepresentations not been made, he wouldnt have bought 
the timeshare. And it was on that day that he suffered a loss, as he took out the loan 
agreement with GE Money.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued on 24 May 2005, so Mr B had six 
years from then to bring a claim. But he didnt try to contact GE Money about his claim until 
2019, which was outside of the time limits set out in the LA. So, I think GE Money acted fairly 
in turning down this misrepresentation claim.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising out 
of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination but I 
think this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.The LA applies to a claim under s.140A CCA too. It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] EWHC 
3264 (QB) that when considering s.140A CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran from the 
date that the credit agreement ended if it was not still running at the time the claim was 
made. As with an action under s.75 CCA, the limitation period is six years, so Mr B would 
have to bring an action within six years of the end of the credit agreement. As mentioned 
previously, GE Money no longer has a record of the end date of the loan, meaning its more 
likely the loan had closed before the claim was raised. Our investigator noted that GE Money 
didnt normally keep records for more than six years after an account was closed, so they 
concluded that meant the account was likely to have closed more than six years before the 
claim was made. And in response to the view, Mr B hasnt provided any evidence that 
contradicts that. Because of this, I think its likely the loan was settled more than six years 
before the claim and that means it was brought too late.
GE Money said that the claim was out of scope for s.140 as it was brought too late, which I 
think is reasonable. So I dont think it needs to do anything further.
Conclusion
Ultimately, as Ive said before, its for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that 
Mr B may have against the Business A or GE Money has expired under the LA. But, as far 
as I can see from the information available, any claim that Mr B might have against GE 
Money is likely to have been made outside the time limits set out in the LA. And for that 
reason, Im not persuaded that GE Money needs to do anything to put things right in this 
complaint.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against GE Money Consumer 
Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman