DRN-3240241
The complaint
Mr J complains about the advice given by D C Financial Limited (DCFL) to transfer the 
benefits he held in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP). The BSPS is a defined benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme. He 
says the advice was unsuitable for him.
Mr J is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely refer 
to representations as being made by Mr J.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Js employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In September 2017, the BSPS provided Mr J with a summary of the transfer value of his 
scheme benefits. The letter explained the value had been updated as a result of the funding 
position of the BSPS improving. This was due to Mr Js employer making a lump sum 
payment into the BSPS  as part of an agreement with the pensions regulator in respect of 
the ongoing restructuring. This letter said Mr Js benefits had a cash equivalent transfer 
value (CETV) of £445,392.74. 
And in October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. 
Mr J approached DCFL in October 2017 for advice about his BSPS pension. The information 
Ive seen indicates the first meeting and discussion between the two parties took place on 
11 October 2017.
DCFL completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Js circumstances and objectives. 
It noted he was 50, employed full time, in good health, unmarried but co-habiting with his 
partner of over thirty years and had two children in their twenties. He owned his own home 
with an outstanding mortgage of approximately £49,500 which was due to be repaid in 
roughly seven years. 
In addition to the benefits held in the BSPS, Mr J was also a member of his employers new 
defined contribution pension scheme. And he and his employer were making combined 
contributions to this equivalent to 20% of his salary. That pension arrangement had only 
recently begun and the BSPS benefits made up the majority of his retirement provisions at 
that time.
DCFL recorded that Mr J wasnt sure hed continue working for his current employer beyond 
age 55 as he didnt want to continue with shift work. It noted that he was interested in 
potentially becoming self-employed when he left his current employer and expected to need 
an income of £2,000 per month when he did retire. It also noted that he was concerned by 
the uncertainty around the BSPS and that it was important to Mr J that the pension could be 
passed on to his dependents in the event of his death.
DCFL also carried out an assessment of Mr Js attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
cautious to moderate.
A follow up meeting took place on 18 October 2017. The meeting notes provided by DCFL 
confirm that, during that meeting, it advised Mr J to transfer his pension from the BSPS to a 
SIPP. The notes say the advantages and disadvantages were discussed and that Mr J was 
confident in his decision to transfer. It said this was because he had a lack of trust in his 
employer, was unhappy with the penalties that would be applied if retiring early under the DB 
scheme, was concerned the pension would be lost if he died and liked the flexibility offered 
by the SIPP. The documents also reiterated that Mr J may stop working for his employer at 
age 55 but repeated that hed probably take other work or become self-employed.
Application forms to complete the transfer were signed following that meeting and submitted 
to the providers.
A written summary of the advice given by DCFL was not produced until 23 October 2017  
after the application had been submitted. The suitability report said the reasons for DCFLs 
recommendation were that Mr J wanted control of his pension because of the ongoing 
uncertainty and was concerned about losing flexibility if he moved to the PPF and the 
inflexible death benefits in general the DB scheme provided. It said Mr J was also unhappy 
with the penalties for retiring early under the PPF or the BSPS2. And that he wanted the 
flexibility to take tax-free cash (TFC) at age 55 but not begin drawing an income until later. 
The report did say that the critical yield  how much a new pension would need to grow by 
each year in order to allow Mr J to purchase equivalent benefits to those the DB scheme 
guaranteed  was unlikely to be achieved. But didnt comment further on why it was suitable 
for Mr J to accept that. The report confirmed that subsequent to the transfer, DCFL would 
provide ongoing servicing and advice to Mr J in relation to the pension, at a cost.
The transfer went ahead in line with DCFLs recommendation.
Mr J complained to DCFL in 2021. He said the advice was unsuitable and he thought a 
transfer should not have been recommended because the benefits the recommended 
pension would provide were unlikely to match the guaranteed benefits that he couldve 
received through the BSPS2. He felt DCFL had misrepresented the value of the benefits 
being given up and hadnt adequately explained these, or what he would realistically be 
entitled to by transferring. Mr J also said he was not intending to retire at age 55 and indeed 
his plans were unknown, he did not have a need for TFC at age 55 and that death benefits 
were not important because he had alternatives in place to provide a legacy to his family. 
DCFL didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. It said it had fully considered Mr Js circumstances, 
provided clear advice, including a detailed suitability letter, and set out the risks involved.  
And DCFL still felt the advice to transfer was suitable based on Mr Js objectives and 
reasons for transferring.
Mr J referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator upheld the complaint and said 
DCFL should compensate Mr J for any loss the DB transfer had led to as well as pay £500 
for the distress caused. He acknowledged that Mr J likely had concerns about the ongoing 
consultation and mightve gone into the discussion thinking transferring might be a good 
idea. But the investigator said DCFLs role wasnt just to put in place what Mr J mightve 
thought he wanted. He though Mr J was always likely to receive overall pension benefits of a lower value as a result of transferring. And he didnt think any of the other reasons for 
transferring given by DCFL were strong enough to justify the transfer or Mr J accepting this 
reduction in benefits. So, he didnt think a transfer was in Mr Js best interests and if he had 
been correctly advised believed Mr J wouldve transferred his benefits to the BSPS2.
DCFL disagreed. It said the BSPS2 was not certain to proceed at the time and that to say 
this shouldve been recommended is unreasonable. DCFL said it doesnt think the critical 
yield and whether this was achievable should be a substantive consideration when looking at 
suitability. It also says the critical yield is not relevant here as Mr J didnt intend to purchase 
an annuity. And the critical yield of the BSPS, which the analysis the Investigator had 
referenced showed, wasnt relevant either as remaining in the BSPS was not an option for 
Mr J. So, if the critical yield was considered it said the only relevant comparison would be to 
the PPF. And DCFL said the performance of the pension since the transfer, while it was 
providing advice, exceeded the critical yield for the PPF. It also thought it was unreasonable 
to say it shouldve had regard for discount rates published by our service as it wasnt 
required to do so by the regulator. 
DCFL said its recommendation was based on an assessment of Mr Js circumstances and it 
maintained that transferring was in his best interests. It said it provided him the control and 
flexibility he wanted and needed as well as addressing his concerns about death benefits  
noting that addressing this through life insurance was considered unaffordable. And DCFL 
said if growth achieved through transferring meant the benefits of the new pension were the 
same as, or even slightly less than the DB scheme, the advice would still have been suitable 
as it provided flexibility. Overall, it said it felt transferring as the only way for Mr J to meet his 
objectives and it thought hed have always looked to transfer even if DCFL had advised him 
against doing so.
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. He said he still thought Mr J 
didnt have a strong reason to transfer at the time of the advice  noting that a lot of the 
reasons for doing so were features of pension freedoms rather that compelling objectives. 
And he didnt agree that transferring was the most appropriate way to meet Mr Js retirement 
objectives, particularly given he was always likely to receive lower overall benefits. He also 
noted that, while DCFL had outlined risks to Mr J, this wasnt a substitute for suitable advice.
As agreement could not be reached, the complaint was referred to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
DCFL has said that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), previously 
undertook a review of its advice process in relation to members of the BSPS and didnt 
highlight any concerns. It has therefore questioned how our service can come to a different 
conclusion  that transfer advice was unsuitable. But our role is different to that of the FCA. 
It is to look at the individual circumstances of a complaint, not a business processes and 
practices as a whole, and decide what we consider is fair and reasonable. That is what Ive 
done here. 
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of DCFL's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The FCA states in COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB 
scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, DCFL should have only considered a transfer if it could 
clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Js best interests. And having looked at all 
the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.
Financial viability 
DCFL has argued that the critical yield should not be a substantive consideration when 
looking at whether advice was suitable. 
The primary purpose of a pension is to provide for the pension holders retirement  by way 
of an income. How the income that the pension holder could expect to receive after 
transferring compared to the guaranteed benefits they were due under their existing 
arrangements is, in my view, an important consideration as to whether they would be better 
off by transferring. Which in turn is important when determining if a transfer was in the 
pension holders best interests. And indeed, the FCA required such a comparison to be 
undertaken and shared with the pension holder  COBS 19.1.2  and for a transfer value 
analysis (TVAS) report, providing analysis of this, to be conducted. And a TVAS, at that 
time, was expected to include the calculation of critical yields.
As I mentioned previously a critical yield, which again the regulator required DCFL to 
calculate and consider when giving pension transfer advice, is an estimate of the growth rate 
required of a new pension to allow the pension holder to purchase equivalent benefits to 
those they were guaranteed under their existing arrangements. So, I think this is an 
important indicator of whether someone would be better off by transferring. Whether a 
transfer is financially viable  likely to result in the pension holder being better off or not in 
terms of retirement income  is not the only consideration when looking at whether advice 
was suitable. And it isnt the only thing Ive thought about here. But I still think it, and in turn 
the critical yield and whether this was achievable, are relevant and important considerations. 
DCFL has said that Mr J did not intend to purchase an annuity as he wanted flexibility. So, it 
says the critical yield is of little relevance. But I dont agree. Mr J was still several years from being able to access his pension benefits. And although hed indicated he was considering 
changing job at age 55 it wasnt certain that hed do so or that hed begin drawing pension 
benefits at that time  indeed his plans overall were not finalised. So, I dont think it could be 
said with any certainty that he wouldnt want at least some guaranteed income in retirement. 
DCFL has also said it indicated in the suitability report that it felt the critical yields were 
unlikely to be achieved. And I can see it did so. But highlighting a risk does not mean that 
the advice that follows is suitable. And the suitability reported offered no additional 
commentary on this. There was no explanation what this meant for Mr J in terms of what 
income he would be able to sustainably draw from the new arrangement or how that 
compared to what he was giving up. Nor was there any detailed comparison for him to 
consider. And DCFL didnt explain why it considered accepting that the critical yields 
wouldnt likely be achieved  and the likely reduction in overall benefits this would bring  
was in Mr Js interests. So, while DCFL says Mr J accepted the risk of not achieving the 
critical yield, I dont think, based on what Ive seen, that he was in a suitably informed 
position to understand what this meant.
The critical yield figures calculated in the TVAS which DCFL instructed were based on 
matching Mr Js existing scheme, the BSPS. But Mr J didnt have the option to remain in the 
BSPS as it was. He either needed to opt into the BSPS2 or move with the BSPS to the PPF 
if he stayed with the DB scheme. While critical yield figures were calculated in respect of 
moving to the PPF, which was appropriate, there was no comparison to the BSPS2. And I 
think there shouldve been. By the time the advice was given here, sufficient details around 
the BSPS2 had been provided for a meaningful comparison to have been made. 
DCFL has said that the BSPS2 was not certain to go ahead, and this wasnt a genuine 
option at the time. So, only the critical yields for the PPF are relevant here. But I still think a 
comparison of the BSPS2 benefits ought to have been carried out as part of the TVAS given 
the details of the BSPS2 that had been released by the time it was instructed, not least 
regarding escalation and revaluation rates. 
And I think DCFL is also overstating the chance of the BSPS2 not happening. The 
restructuring of BSPS had been ongoing for a significant amount of time by the point DCFL 
instructed the TVAS reports and provided Mr J advice. Mr Js employer had agreed actions 
with the pensions regulator, and these had been carried out as scheduled  not least a lump 
sum payment into the BSPS which enabled the provision of improved transfer value 
quotations in September 2017. Mr J had also received his time to choose pack  with 
joining the new scheme one of the options. And details of the new scheme had been 
provided. So, based on what had happened to that point, I think the relevant parties, not 
least the trustees, were confident the BSPS2 would go ahead. Of course, its possible it may 
not have done. But given it appeared likely to proceed I still think the benefits available to 
Mr J through the BSPS2 shouldve been factored into the TVAS reports and subsequent 
advice so that he was able to make an informed decision.
Mr J was 50 at the time of the advice. DCFL says Mr J intended to retire at age 55 and begin 
taking pension benefits at that time.
The TVAS said the critical yield required to match the full escalating annual pension the 
BSPS was likely to provide from age 55 (estimated to begin at £14,244) was 15.28%. To 
match the estimated full pension the PPF would provide at that time (starting at £15,201 and 
escalating, but at a different rate) the critical yield was said to be 8.7%. The critical yield 
applicable to the BSPS2 benefits was not calculated  although again I think it should have 
been. The lower annual increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical 
yields in comparison to the BSPS. The PPF also had more generous early retirement 
reductions that the BSPS2  which wouldve been applicable at age 55. Although the escalation rates of the BSPS2 were better than those of the PPF. Overall, I think its likely 
the critical yield of the BSPS2 at age 55 wouldve been broadly equivalent to or slightly less 
than that of the PPF at that time.
The TVAS also calculated what the critical yield would be if Mr J took the maximum available 
TFC under the PPF at age 55 and a reduced pension. And it said this was 7.45%. No 
equivalent figures were given for either the BSPS or the BSPS2.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website.
DCFL says there was no requirement for it to have regard for the discount rate. But I think it 
is a reasonable additional consideration when seeking to determine what level of growth was 
reasonably achievable at the time of the advice. Under COBS 19.1.2, as Ive mentioned 
already, the regulator required businesses to compare the benefits likely to be paid under a 
DB scheme with those payable under a personal pension by using reasonable assumptions. 
The discount rate would be considered a reasonable assumption of likely returns. And 
businesses were free to refer to it. So, whilst I agree businesses weren't required to refer to 
these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable for a 
typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was 3% per year for 4 full years to retirement (which would be the case if Mr J retired at age 
55). Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained unchanged 
since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection 
rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Js 
cautious to moderate attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. Contrary to what DCFL 
has said, I think there would be little point in Mr J giving up the guarantees available to him 
through a DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme 
 essentially introducing significant additional risk to achieve only the same position. But 
here, I think Mr J was always likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value 
as a result of transferring and investing in line with his attitude to risk than those he wouldve 
been guaranteed under the BSPS2 or the PPF at age 55.
In response to the Investigators opinion, DCFL said that it felt the critical yield required to 
match the benefits the PPF wouldve provided at age 65 was achievable and that the 
performance of the SIPP while it was providing ongoing advice had exceeded this.
The TVAS did include critical yields for matching the benefits the BSPS and the PPF were 
expected to provide at age 65. But DCFL based its advice on Mr J retiring significantly 
before this and taking benefits from age 55. That notwithstanding, I have considered the 
critical yield figures relating to retiring at age 65.
To match the full pension the BSPS was likely to provide at age 65 (estimated to be £26,407 
per year) the TVAS said the critical yield was 7%. To match the full pension the PPF would 
likely have provided at age 65 (estimated to be £21,571.55 per year) DCFL said the critical 
yield was 3.8%. There was again no calculation in respect of the BSPS2. The lower annual 
increases under the BSPS2 would again have likely meant the critical yield was lower than 
that of the BSPS. But due to the revaluation and escalation rates, I think at age 65, the critical yield required to match the BSPS2 benefits was likely to have been higher than those 
reflecting the PPF benefits - and likely closer to those of the BSPS benefits.
The relevant discount rate from that time for 14 years to retirement was 4.2%, with the 
regulators standard projections the same as previously mentioned.
So, based on Mr Js attitude to risk, time to retirement and the composition of the assets in 
the discount rate it does appear, on balance, more likely that the SIPP may have been able 
to match the benefits offered by PPF, if Mr J were retiring at 65. But again, there would be 
little point in introducing significant additional risk to achieve broadly the same benefits  
which seems more likely than Mr J significantly exceeding the benefits hed have been 
guaranteed under the PPF. And I still dont think on balance the SIPP was likely to match the 
benefits potentially payable through the BSPS2.
DCFL has said the performance of the SIPP between the transfer being completed and the 
complaint show that a higher level of growth  enough to achieve the critical yields to 65 - 
was achievable. But past performance is no guarantee for future performance and so I 
consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in 
this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward.
So, from a financially viability perspective, I dont think a transfer was in Mr Js best interests. 
As Ive said though, financial viability isnt the only consideration when looking at whether a 
transfer was suitable. DCFL has said there were other considerations that meant the transfer 
was suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below. 
Flexibility 
DCFL recorded that Mr J thought it was likely hed leave his employer before age 65  
potentially at age 55. DCFL said he wanted the flexibility to be able to take his pension 
benefits early but wasnt willing to accept the penalties that would apply for retiring early 
under the BSPS2 or the PPF. It says he also wanted the option of taking TFC but not having 
to immediately take an income. And he wanted the ability to vary the income he took in 
retirement, with him expecting to need an income of around £2,000 per month.
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that, when he took advice, Mr J was thinking he was unlikely 
to remain with his employer until age 65. But I dont think that decision was finalised and all 
of the information Ive seen supports that, if he did leave, Mr J intended to continue working 
elsewhere. Mr J was 50 at the time and intended to continue with his employer until at least 
age 55. Its entirely possible in that time his plans couldve changed, and he couldve elected 
to continue with his employer for a few years longer. And because he anticipated continuing 
to work, he expected to continue to earn an income. Taking all of that into account, I dont 
think it had been decided at that point that he would require access to his pension benefits 
early. And in any event, Mr J could take benefits from age 55 under either the PPF or the 
BSPS2. So, I dont think he needed to transfer in order to access his pension from age 55.
DCFL has said that Mr J was unhappy with the penalties for accessing his benefits early 
under the PPF or the BSPS.
It is true that if Mr J drew his benefits at age 55, as DCFL has suggested he was interested 
in, under either the PPF or the BSPS2 the amount he could take would be subject to an 
actuarial reduction. But an actuarial reduction is intended to reflect the pension benefits 
being paid for longer. The starting monetary amount when compared with the full pension 
payable from age 65  the normal scheme retirement age  wouldve been less. But by 
taking benefits at age 55 Mr J wouldve been receiving his pension for ten years longer. It 
was a trade-off, rather than a penalty. I dont think, based on what Ive seen, that DCFL gave a balanced explanation of this. And, as Ive already explained, I think Mr J was always 
likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than those hed have been guaranteed 
under the BSPS2 or the PPF at age 55 as a result of transferring.
DCFL indicated that transferring would mean Mr J did not incur these penalties. But while 
taking benefits flexibly under a personal pension would allow Mr J to decide the level of his 
income without penalty the amount he could take was entirely dependent on the sum 
available under the pension plan. The income he took would deplete the plan  potentially 
leaving him with less than he might need later. Whereas the DB scheme benefits, regardless 
of which point they started, were guaranteed for life. And I cant see that it was estimated or 
discussed with Mr J what level of income he could sustainably draw from the pension in 
order to ensure he had enough funds for his entire retirement. And I think if it had been, and 
Mr J had been in a more informed position about the penalties for early retirement, he 
mightve been more willing to accept them.
DCFL has said that Mr J was interested in taking TFC from age 55. But it is interesting to 
note that this wasnt recorded in the fact find as a requirement of his. And again, he wouldve 
been able to do this under the PPF or the BSPS2. 
DCFL also says he wanted TFC without having to draw an income from the pension. But 
while Mr J mightve been drawn to the idea of taking a lump sum when DCFL explained this 
could be an option through a SIPP I cant see that he had a need for this. 
Mr J had a mortgage but from the information Ive seen this wouldve been largely repaid by 
the time he reached 55. And there is nothing to suggest he had need for a lump sum to clear 
this. DCFL has said that the TFC wouldve been used for starting up costs for Mr Js self-
employment. But again, while I think this was probably discussed as a potential option for 
Mr J if he left his employer, I dont think his decision about whether hed actually take this 
action was definitive. There was also nothing noted about what level of costs Mr J might 
expect to incur if he did become self-employed. And there doesnt seem to have been any 
exploration of alternative ways of potentially funding this  which Id have expected to have 
seen, particularly bearing in mind the starting point for pension transfers being that a transfer 
will generally be unsuitable for a customer. 
DCFL has suggested that Mr J needed flexibility in order to meet his income objective. But 
again, it hasnt provided copies of analysis from the time to support that this wouldve been 
sustainable through a SIPP.
And again, I understand Mr J intended to continue working beyond 55. There was no 
suggestion of what the future potential income from this employment would be  which again 
seems to support that his retirement plans were not finalised. But the TVAS estimated that 
under the PPF he couldve taken a guaranteed pension of £15,201.02 from that point. Or 
TFC of £81,653.26 and a reduced annual pension of £12,291.95. These annual pensions 
wouldve continued to escalate in payment. He also wouldve had access to the benefits 
accrued through his employers new defined contribution scheme to potentially use flexibly.
So, I think it appears likely that through a combination of these and any income from his new 
employment if he did in fact change jobs at age 55, he couldve met his income needs from 
that time. And he wouldve then later received his state pension to complement his other 
pension income and allow him to continue to meet his needs.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think Mr J had a need for flexibility at the time of the advice.  
And I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr J to give up his guaranteed 
benefits when he did  particularly given he was always likely to receive benefits of a lower 
overall value by doing so. If Mr J later had reason to transfer out of his DB scheme, I understand that this wouldve been allowed under BSPS2. And he couldve done so closer to 
retirement. 
Death benefits
DCFL says Mr J wanted alternative death benefits. He and his partner were not married, so 
she would not have benefited from the spouses pension the DB scheme provided. And it 
says he was unhappy with the rigid nature of the death benefits provided by the DB scheme 
and the idea of leaving his fund as a lump sum to his partner and children appealed to him.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr J. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr J might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr J about what was best for his retirement provisions. Because a pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. 
Mr J was not married at the time of the advice, so his partner may not have qualified for a 
spouses pension under the PPF or the BSPS2. But Id have expected to see DCFL make 
enquiries of the BSPS about this, before advising Mr J to transfer in order to achieve 
alternative death benefits. And to potentially discuss whether Mr J and his partner had any 
plans to marry  in which case the position may be changed. Neither of which it appears to 
have done.
The CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump sum. But the 
sum remaining on death following a transfer, as well as being dependent on investment 
performance, wouldve also been reduced by any income Mr J drew in his lifetime. Mr J was 
recorded as being in good health, so there was nothing to suggest he was less like to live 
until at least his average life expectancy. And given the implication was that Mr J would draw 
a pension without penalty from the SIPP, potentially from as early as 55, and only scale 
back much later when he began to receive his state pension, it appears likely the fund 
wouldve been significantly depleted, and potentially utilised entirely, by the time Mr J 
reached his average life expectancy. So, the pension may not have provided the legacy that 
Mr J may have thought it would. And in the event he lived a particularly long life, he mayve 
been left with no pension funds to support himself.
The fact-find also recorded that Mr J had death in service benefits from his current employer, 
which appear, in my view, to have been a more appropriate method by which to leave a 
legacy to his dependents. And the new defined contribution pension he was contributing to 
also provided alternative forms of death benefit to his DB schemes. So, it appears that a 
legacy would already have been provided. And I cant see that DCFL explored what level of 
further legacy Mr J thought was necessary.
DCFL has said, in response to the Investigators opinion, that the cost of life cover to replace 
the CETV was considered unaffordable. But I note that the suitability report and meeting 
notes Ive been provided from the time of the sale dont indicate this was discussed.
In any event though, basing an insurance quote on the transfer value of Mr Js pension 
benefits essentially assumed that he would pass away on day one following the transfer, and 
that isnt realistic. Ultimately, Mr J wanted to leave whatever remained of his pension to his 
dependents, which would be a lot less than this if he lived a long life, if investment returns 
were poor or both. So, the starting point ought to have been to ask Mr J how much more on 
top of his existing provisions he would ideally like to leave. As this cover couldve been a lot 
cheaper to provide. But again, DCFL doesnt appear to have asked about this.Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr J. 
Control and concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I think Mr Js desire for direct control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr J was not 
an experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be 
able to manage his pension funds on his own. Indeed, DCFL continued to manage his SIPP 
on his behalf after the transfer. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr J  it 
was simply a consequence of transferring away from the BSPS.
I think this objective was more linked to the uncertainty about the BSPS. I dont doubt Mr J, 
like many of his colleagues, was concerned about his pension. His employer had been 
consulting on its plans for the scheme for some time and itd been made clear he would 
need to make a choice. I also dont doubt Mr J had likely heard negative things about what 
could happen, including entry into the PPF and this was why he said he preferred to have 
control over his pension fund.  Its also quite possible that Mr J was also leaning towards the 
decision to transfer because of his concerns. But it was DCFLs obligation to give Mr J an 
objective picture and recommend what was in his best interests.
By the time advice was given here details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was 
going ahead. The Time to Choose paperwork was clear that opting into that scheme was 
an option  so, Im satisfied it was envisaged that this would go ahead. And I think this 
shouldve alleviated any concerns Mr J mightve had about the scheme moving to the PPF. 
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that DCFL shouldve 
reassured Mr J that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he mightve 
thought. While he was clearly thinking about what he would do in retirement, I dont think he 
had definitive plans around this. But if he did take the course of action hed initially thought 
about, it appears likely the pension payable under the PPF, in conjunction with his other 
means, wouldve provided what he needed in retirement. He was also unlikely to improve his 
pension benefits by transferring out. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were 
lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I 
dont think that these concerns shouldve led to DCFL recommending Mr J transfer out of the 
DB scheme altogether.
Suitability of investments
DCFL recommended that Mr J invest his SIPP in a particular way. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr J, it 
follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is 
because Mr J should, in my view, have been advised not to transfer so the investments 
wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given. DCFL has said that it shouldnt be 
responsible for any losses stemming from those investments after it ceased managing the 
SIPP on Mr Js behalf. But again, the investments would not have arisen at all were it not for 
DCFLs advice. So, I dont agree that its responsibility for loss stemming from its advice 
ceased when it ended its agreement with Mr J.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr J. But DCFL 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr J might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was 
to understand Mr Js circumstances, separate his potential concerns stemming from the 
ongoing uncertainty and unconfirmed potential plans from his genuine needs and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr J was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2 (or the PPF). This action was 
irreversible and, by transferring, the fund Mr J had accumulated within the BSPS, which at 
that point was the majority of his retirement provisions, would be subject to additional risk. 
And Mr J was, in my view, always likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. As Ive 
explained, I dont think there were any other reasons which would justify the transfer and 
outweigh this. So, I dont think he shouldve been advised to transfer. 
Again, DCFL says the BSPS2 was not certain to proceed and that it is unreasonable for us 
to say Mr J shouldve been advised to join this scheme as it wasnt a genuine option. I 
appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when the advice was given. But I think it 
was clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead. And the Time to Choose 
documentation confirmed that scheme members could opt into the BSPS2 but still change 
their mind and transfer prior to March 2018. So, contrary to what DCFL has said, I do think 
this was an option that DCFL couldve recommended at the time. 
Mr J was within five years of being able to access his pension benefits. But, for the reasons 
Ive already explained, in my view, his plans were unconfirmed. And I don't think that it 
would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the 
scheme entering the PPF. I say this because while it is true the PPF wouldve provided a 
more favourable reduction for very early retirement, because his plans were not confirmed, 
there was no guarantee the reduction in pension income he would receive from the PPF 
would end up being offset by the more favourable early retirement benefits. And by opting 
into the BSPS2, Mr J wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his 
retirement age if he needed to. The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was 
also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think if DCFL had correctly advised him 
against transferring Mr J wouldve opted into the BSPS2. 
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr J would've gone ahead anyway, against DCFL's 
advice. DCFL says it this Mr J wouldve still transferred and that he made an informed 
decision to do so.
Ive seen documents that suggest Mr J and DCFL discussed the pros and cons of 
transferring. And a document was completed indicating Mr J had been made aware of the 
risks involved. But ultimately DCFL advised Mr J to transfer out, and I think Mr J relied on 
that advice. 
Im not persuaded that Mr Js concerns about the BSPS consultation, or the potential appeal 
of alternative death benefits, control or flexibility were so great that he wouldve insisted on 
the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out, didnt 
think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. And if DCFL had explained that Mr J was 
always unlikely to exceed the guaranteed benefits available to him by transferring and that 
transferring to achieve the other things listed was either not necessary or not in his best 
interests, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr J would have 
insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think DCFL should compensate Mr J for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Our Investigator recommended that DCFL also pay Mr J £500 for the distress caused by the 
unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr J has been caused distress and concern by finding 
out the advice may not have been suitable  particularly given the circumstances and 
uncertainty under which he first asked for this advice. And Im conscious this upset wouldnt have happened but for the unsuitable advice. So, in the circumstances, I think the award the 
Investigator recommended in respect of this is fair.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr J, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for DCFLs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr J would 
have most likely opted to join the BSPS2 if he'd been given suitable advice. So, DCFL 
should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr J whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or to wait for the new guidance / rules to come into effect.
Mr J would like his complaint to be settled in line with new guidance / rules. I consider it is 
fair that DCFL calculates Mr Js redress in line with new guidance and rules when they come 
into effect. 
The basic objective of the amendments to the redress methodology still remains to put a 
consumer, as far as possible, into the position they would be in if the business had advised 
them to remain in the DB scheme. Having reviewed the FCAs consultation and policy 
statement, Im satisfied that the changes still reflect a fair way to compensate Mr J.
DCFL must undertake a redress calculation in line with the updated methodology as soon as 
any new rules and/or guidance come into effect (rather than to calculate and pay any due 
compensation now in line with FG17/9).  
For clarity, I understand Mr J has not yet retired. So, compensation should be based on his 
normal retirement age, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to 
an appropriate provider promptly once any new guidance/rules come into effect.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Js pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr J as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr J within 90 days of the date 
any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect and DCFL has 
received notification of Mr Js acceptance of my decision. Further interest must be added to 
the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date any changes to 
DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect to the date of settlement for any 
time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes DCFL to pay Mr J.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If DCFL deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr J how much has been taken off. DCFL should give Mr J a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr J asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
In addition, DCFL should pay Mr J £500 for the distress caused by the disruption to his 
retirement planning. For clarity, I dont think this payment should be held back until the new 
guidance / rules are implemented and the calculation discussed above carried out. So, this 
£500 payment should be made separately, within 30 days of DCFL being notified of Mr Js 
acceptance of my decision.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require D C Financial Limited 
to pay Mr J the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
D C Financial Limited to pay Mr J any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
D C Financial Limited to pay Mr J any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
D C Financial Limited pays Mr J the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr J.
If Mr J accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on D C Financial Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr J can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr J may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman