DRN-1960791
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about the way that Aviva Insurance Limited has settled a claim they 
made on their travel insurance policy for the cost of new return flights and expenses.
Mr and Mrs P are represented by Mr T.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P have travel insurance as a benefit of their bank account.
In April 2019, they were on an extended holiday abroad. Their airline got in touch to say that 
their return flight had been cancelled due to operational reasons. So Mr and Mrs P were 
delayed abroad for several days and had to buy new return flights with a different airline. 
They made a claim on their travel insurance policy for the costs theyd incurred.
Aviva said the policy didnt cover the cost of extra costs on a return journey unless the 
airport itself was closed. In this case, the airport hadnt been closed  it was the airline thatd 
cancelled the flight. But it did agree to settle the claim under the travel delay section of the 
policy. Mr and Mrs P had been delayed abroad for a number of days, so Aviva settled their 
claim up to the policy limit of £250 per person  a total of £500.
Mr and Mrs P werent happy with how Aviva had settled their claim. So Mr T asked us to look 
into their complaint. In particular, they felt their bank had led them to believe their situation 
would be fully covered and that it hadnt given them enough information about the policy. 
And theyd bought a trip extension to specifically cover their trip, so theyd expected theyd 
be fully covered.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld. He considered the 
terms of Mr and Mrs Ps policy and he felt the only section which covered their 
circumstances was the travel delay section of the policy. So he felt Aviva had settled the 
claim fairly.
Mr T disagreed on Mr and Mrs Ps behalf. He maintained that their bank had told them they 
would be covered and that it hadnt given them enough information about the policy when 
they bought the trip extension upgrade. He felt that the bank and Aviva had different views 
on what the policy covered and that Mr and Mrs P had been passed between them both. 
And he thought that the bank and Aviva should have joint liability in these situations, given 
their commercial relationship. He asked for an ombudsman to review Mr and Mrs Ps 
complaint.
The investigator got in touch with Mr T to let him know that in this decision, I would only be 
considering whether Aviva, as the insurer of the policy, considered Mr and Mrs Ps claim 
fairly. I need to make it clear that I wont be looking into any complaint points about their 
banks actions or the information it gave them. Thats because Aviva is an entirely separate 
legal and regulatory entity to the bank. It has different regulatory responsibilities and 
obligations and so I cant hold it responsible for any actions on the part of the bank. A 
complaint about Mr and Mrs Ps bank will be considered separately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Aviva has settled Mr and Mrs Ps claim fairly. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive looked carefully at the terms of Mr and 
Mrs Ps policy and the circumstances of their claim to decide if I think Aviva considered the 
claim fairly.
Mr and Mrs Ps policy does include Enforced Stay Abroad cover. This section provides 
some cover if a policyholder is unable to return home on their scheduled return date 
because of the closure of airspace; the closure of an airport or port; or a flight being 
cancelled because of volcanic ash in the atmosphere.
In Mr and Mrs Ps case, while their flight was cancelled, it wasnt because of one the reasons 
set out in the enforced stay abroad section. Neither the airport nor airspace were closed. So 
their claim isnt covered by this section of the policy. 
Aviva considered Mr and Mrs Ps claim under the travel delay section of the policy. This 
says:
If the scheduled public transport on which you are booked to travel is delayed we will pay 
you £50 for every full 12 hour period you are delayed.
Mr and Mrs P were delayed abroad for several extra days because of the cancellation of 
their flight. So I think it was fair and reasonable for Aviva to deal with the claim under this 
section of the policy. Given the period of delay, Aviva calculated its settlement offer in line 
with the policy limits of up to £250 per person. And I think this was the appropriate 
calculation.
I appreciate it mustve come as a real shock to Mr and Mrs P when their flight was cancelled 
and that they were put to significant additional cost. I understand how disappointing it 
mustve been when they learned that their full costs werent covered. But in my view, the 
travel delay section of the policy is the only section which covers their specific situation.  So 
overall, Im satisfied that Avivas settlement of £250 per person under the travel delay 
section of the policy is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. This means Im not 
telling Aviva to pay anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman