DRN-3898555
The complaint
Mrs M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc incorrectly charged her interest for 
purchases she made on her credit card.
What happened
Mrs M applied for and was accepted for a NatWest credit card. There were introductory 
offers on the account such as 30 months 0% interest for balance transfers and three months 
0% interest rate for purchases on her card. Mrs M says that on her third statement she was 
charged interest for her purchases, despite her paying her purchases in full each month. Mrs 
M says she contacted NatWests customer services and they advised her that her 
repayments were allocated first to her balance transfer outstanding balance and this meant 
she was paying interest on her purchases once the introductory offer ended. Mrs M had 
made balance transfers and purchases with third party providers previously and wasnt 
charged in the same way NatWest charged her, so she believed the information she was 
given was incorrect and she made a complaint to NatWest.
NatWest did not uphold Mrs Ms complaint, but as a gesture of goodwill they refunded the 
£13.15 interest which they had applied to the account and waived three months worth of 
interest. They said her introductory interest rate ended on 11 June 2022. They said as per 
the terms and conditions of her account, and also stated on her statements, after this date, 
the standard purchase interest rate would apply. NatWest said their website confirmed that 
when she applied for the credit card that if she made any purchases after her introductory 
offer had ended, then she would be charged interest on those purchases from the date they 
were debited to her account. And interest would also be charged on any purchase balance 
brought forward from a previous month. 
Mrs M brought her complaint to our service. She says that she has since transferred her 
balance to a third party provider, with a 24 month 0% introductory interest offer for balance 
transfers and 0% on purchases for three months and she hasnt been charged any interest 
from the third party. She said she couldnt see any difference between the two providers 
terms and conditions (or her previous provider, before she used NatWest), so she was 
confused why NatWest charged her interest.
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Ms complaint. He said the interest had been charged 
correctly as the July statement had more purchases than payments received. He said that 
Mrs M has paid off the outstanding balance in full and no longer uses the credit card. He 
said NatWest also credited the interest charged in full as a goodwill gesture.
Mrs M asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary, she said that up until 11June, she made purchases of £689.62 on the card, 
against which she made payments of £700. She says she believes she was given incorrect 
information that even if she had paid for her purchases in full she would still be charged 
interest on any purchases on the card after the interest free period. This is not what is stated 
in the card's terms and conditions. Mrs M sent us copies of other providers statements to 
show that they have not charged her interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Ive considered what Mrs M has said about her third party credit cards. And that shes used 
them the same way as she used her NatWest credit card. But different products may have 
different terms and conditions. While one credit card may appear to have more 
advantageous terms and conditions than another credit card, Im not persuaded that this 
means another credit card provider is being unfair. Here, I am only able to look into whether 
NatWest have treated her fairly as that is who her complaint is solely against.
Ive looked at the credit agreement that Mrs M agreed to when she was accepted for the 
NatWest credit card. There are a couple of sections here which are pivotal to her complaint. 
The repayment section shows that Subject to any instalment plan you might have on your 
account, balances will also be reduced according to their interest rates with the highest paid 
first. So here, NatWest confirm that balances will be reduced with the highest interest rate 
being paid. When she was on an introductory rate, for both purchases and her balance 
transfer she was being charged at 0% interest. When the introductory period expired, then 
they would have both been charged at 26.436% interest. 
So when Mrs Ms purchase introductory rate finished, NatWest should be applying the 
repayments to the higher rate of interest  the purchase rate of 26.436% before the 0% of 
the balance transfer rate. But Im satisfied that the confusion about how Mrs M was charged 
interest is because the credit agreement says the following about purchase interest For 
purchases, a maximum 56 days' interest-free period is available if you pay your monthly 
statement balance in full and on time and have paid the previous month's balance in full and 
on time.
This is very important. I say this because Mrs M didnt pay her monthly statement balance in 
full during the timeframe she used the card (apart from when she transferred the outstanding 
balance elsewhere). So this is why, when the introductory rate expired, that she was 
charged interest on purchases. As her rate of interest during the introductory period was 0%, 
this is why there was no interest applied initially when she didnt pay her statement balance 
in full and hadnt paid the previous months balance in full. 
When Mrs Ms promotional interest rate ended, she was charged interest on the date the 
purchase was made until the purchase was repaid in full. So Mrs M would have always been 
charged interest  in line with the credit agreement - that she agreed to when opening the 
account when she didnt pay the statement balance in full, and she hadnt paid the previous 
months balance in full and that is why interest was charged on her purchases when the 
introductory period ended.
The summary box that Mrs M sent us shows that after the 56 days interest free explanation, 
under the Interest Charging Information section it says Otherwise, the period over which 
interest is charged will be as follows:
Purchases, cash advances, balance From Until
transfers and money transfers Date debited to your account Repaid in full
As Mrs M kept making purchases after her purchase introductory rate had ended, that is why she was charged interest when these purchases were not immediately repaid when they 
debited her account (as she usually made purchases throughout a month before making a 
repayment days or weeks after a purchase had debited her account). And this is why she 
was charged interest until they were repaid in full as she wasnt eligible for any interest free 
period on purchases (when the introductory rate expired). This was a result of her not paying 
her statement balance in full, and her not paying the previous months balance in full before 
that. So Im satisfied that NatWest acted in line with the credit agreement that Mrs M agreed 
to here. So it follows that I dont require NatWest to do anything further here. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman