DRN-3137630
The complaint
Mr H complains that TFS Loans Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September 2021. In that decision 
I explained why I thought most of the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have 
received a copy of the provisional decision but, for completeness, I include some extracts 
from it below. In my decision I said;
Mr H was given four loans by TFS between April 2016 and November 2018. The later 
loans were used, in part, to refinance Mr Hs earlier borrowing from TFS. Mr H 
agreed to repay each loan in 24 monthly instalments, and the loans were guaranteed 
by Mr Hs brother. A balance remained outstanding on the last loan when Mr H made 
his complaint. A summary of Mr Hs borrowing from TFS is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount
1 06/04/2016 Refinanced £ 2,000
2 06/12/2016 Refinanced £ 3,000
3 22/01/2018 Refinanced £ 3,000
4 12/11/2018 Outstanding £ 3,500
TFS gathered some information from Mr H before it agreed each loan. It asked him 
for details of his income and verified this using a third-party checking service. It used 
some industry statistical data to estimate Mr Hs normal expenditure. And it checked 
his credit file to assess how much he was repaying to other creditors and how hed 
managed credit in the past.
Mr H was entering into significant commitments with TFS. On each loan he would 
need to make monthly repayments for a period of two years. And Mr H borrowed 
repeatedly from TFS over the length of their relationship. I think TFS needed to be 
mindful of both these factors when deciding whether its normal checks were 
appropriate.
 
I think that it was right that TFS wanted to gather, and independently check, some 
detailed information about Mr Hs financial circumstances before it agreed to give him 
the first loan. I think that the checks Ive described above were sufficient to achieve 
that aim  I think that TFSs checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs 
to react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial 
situation. Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan 
application outright. So Ive looked at the results of the checks to see whether TFS 
made a fair lending decision.
When TFS looked at Mr Hs credit file before agreeing the first loan it noted that he 
had defaulted on a payday loan around three years earlier, and a mobile phone 
account just four months before. I think that the more recent default should have 
been particularly concerning to TFS. The credit check also showed that Mr H had two 
credit cards, that were approaching their agreed credit limit, and two other active 
payday loans.
When it discussed the credit check with Mr H he explained that he wanted to use part 
of the proceeds of the loan to repay the two payday loans, and that he would then be 
able to stop using credit of that nature. I think it was reasonable for TFS to rely on 
what Mr H said. It seems to me that there was little, at this early stage of its 
relationship with Mr H, to lead TFS to conclude that it would be likely Mr H would face 
problems repaying this loan in a sustainable manner. I dont think it was wrong for 
TFS to give the first loan to Mr H.
Around eight months into the two-year loan term Mr H asked to borrow again from 
TFS. The amount he asked to borrow had increased by 50% - he said he would use 
the loan to repay his earlier borrowing and to pay for a forthcoming holiday. I think 
the fact that Mr H needed to refinance his earlier loan should have caused concerns 
to TFS.
And I think those concerns should have been amplified by the changes that were 
apparent on Mr Hs credit file. The default to the mobile phone account was no longer 
present  but the payday loan default remained, meaning that what Mr H had 
previously said about the loan having been paid back was untrue. He now said that 
he had tried to contact the lender, but had received no response.
The credit check also showed that Mr H had taken a new instalment loan just over a 
month before. And he now held four credit or store card accounts each of which were 
approaching their agreed credit limit. I think, taken together with the fact this loan was 
to refinance some earlier borrowing, that increase in Mr Hs use of credit should have 
caused TFS to undertake some more detailed checks into Mr Hs financial situation.
Ive looked at Mr Hs bank statements, and what hes told us about his financial 
situation, to see what better checks might have shown TFS. At this stage I want to be 
clear that I am not suggesting that this is the exact check that TFS should have 
carried out. I do think TFS needed further evidence to corroborate what Mr H said 
was happening with his finances. And looking at his bank statements is one way of 
achieving that although there are of course many other ways that level of detail could 
be established. But I think that by looking at Mr Hs bank statements I can get a good 
idea of what better checks might have shown.
Mr H has told us that he was suffering from a gambling addiction at the time he 
asked for these loans. I want to be clear that I think that is distinct from a consumer 
using gambling as a controlled and legitimate leisure activity. Mr Hs bank statements 
from the time show the extent of the problems he faced. In the month before he took 
the second loan from TFS he spent more than three times his normal income on 
gambling transactions. And I agree with Mr H that spending would have been readily 
apparent had TFS done better checks.
 
So I think further checks would have shown TFS that it was unlikely that Mr H would 
be able to repay any further borrowing in a sustainable manner. To do so would be reliant on him either overcoming his addiction, or being successful with his gambling 
activities. I dont think that it would have been reasonable for TFS to conclude either 
outcome was likely, or an appropriate basis on which to lend money to Mr H. So 
I dont think the second loan should have been agreed.
Mr H refinanced his borrowing on two further occasions. And each time TFSs credit 
check showed a further deterioration in his use of credit. By the time of the third 
application Mr H now held five credit cards, and three other home credit loans. And 
by the time of the fourth application things had become even worse. By then Mr H 
held six credit card accounts, and a number of his loan and credit card accounts 
were now showing as being in arrears.
Mr Hs bank statements from the time continue to show his gambling expenditure and 
that he was funding that expenditure by taking loans from other lenders and 
borrowing from family and friends. By the time of the fourth loan Mr H was also 
making regular and significant use of an overdraft facility on his bank account. So 
I dont think it was reasonable for TFS to allow Mr H to refinance his borrowing by 
taking loans 3 or 4 either.
In summary I currently think the checks TFS undertook before agreeing the first loan 
were proportionate and the results didnt suggest that Mr H might struggle to repay 
that loan. But I think TFS needed to undertake further checks before providing the 
remaining loans. And I think that better checks would have led the lender to conclude 
Mr H wouldnt be able to repay that borrowing in a sustainable manner. So TFS 
needs to put things right for Mr H.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Mr H has said that he accepts my provisional findings. TFS hasnt 
provided us with anything further.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided me with any new evidence or further comments I see 
no reason to alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. So I think the checks 
TFS undertook before agreeing the first loan were proportionate and the results didnt 
suggest that Mr H might struggle to repay that loan. But I think TFS needed to undertake 
further checks before providing the remaining loans. And I think that better checks would 
have led the lender to conclude Mr H wouldnt be able to repay that borrowing in a 
sustainable manner. So TFS needs to put things right for Mr H.
  
Putting things right
I dont think TFS should have agreed to lend to Mr H after, and including, the loan that he 
took on 6 December 2016 (loan 2). So TFS should;
refund all the interest and charges Mr H paid on loans 2 and 3.
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 4 and treat all the 
payments Mr H made towards this loan as payments towards the capitalif reworking Mr Hs loan 4 account as Ive directed results in Mr H effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then TFS should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement.
If reworking Mr Hs loan 4 account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
TFS can use the total refund for loans 2 and 3 (after the deduction of tax) to offset 
this. And if there is still an outstanding capital balance then I remind TFS that it 
should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr H
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file in relation to the loans
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold most of Mr Hs complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to 
put things right as detailed above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman