DRN-4489233
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that a timeshare product was misrepresented to them. The purchase 
was partly financed with credit provided by Vacation Finance Limited  (VFL). Because of 
that, Mr and Mrs O say they have a claim against VFL in the same way they have a claim 
against the timeshare company. 
Mr and Mrs O have been represented in this complaint by a claims management business, 
which Ill call C. Any reference to Mr and Mrs Os submissions and arguments, therefore, 
includes those made on their behalf. 
What happened
In January 2018 Mr and Mrs O were on holiday in Malta. While there, they attended a sales 
presentation, at the end of which they bought a points based timeshare product from Azure 
XP Limited, a company registered in the British Virgin Islands. They bought 4,000 XP points 
and Level 1 club membership at a total cost of £11,400. XP points could be exchanged for 
holiday accommodation and experiences, including sailing trips, motor home hire, and 
driving experiences The purchase was financed in part by a 10-year loan of £7,980 from 
VFL, brokered by Azure Services Limited. The loan was in Mr and Mrs Os joint names. 
In 2020 Azure XP Limited and Azure Services Limited were placed into liquidation.
Also in September 2020 Mr and Mrs O complained to VFL through C. They said: they had 
been pressured into buying the XPs; the product had been misrepresented to them; the 
points had been sold as an investment; the lending had been irresponsible; the loan created 
an unfair relationship; and commission had not been disclosed as it should have been.    
VFL did not accept the complaint, and Mr and Mrs O referred the matter to this service. Our 
investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs O did not accept 
that recommendation and asked that an ombudsman review the case. In its further 
submissions on their behalf, C made a number of generic submissions about timeshare 
sales and about the Azure timeshare companies. It also said that the credit intermediary had 
not been properly authorised at the time of the sale. The investigator was not persuaded to 
reach a different view, however, and the complaint was passed to me to review.   
I considered the evidence and arguments and issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
In responding to Mr and Mrs Os complaint VFL made the observation that many of the 
arguments made on their behalf are identical, or nearly identical, to those made on behalf of 
other clients of C. There do indeed appear to be many similarities. That might of course be 
evidence that large numbers of customers were treated in the same way  misled about the 
nature of the timeshare product or pressured into buying, for example. But I do note that 
there is very little detail in this case about what happened and  perhaps more significantly  
almost no evidence directly from Mr and Mrs O about their experience of the timeshare sales 
process and subsequent events.  
I think its important to note as well that my role as the ombudsman dealing with Mr and Mrs 
Os complaint is primarily to resolve it in a way which I consider to be fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint. It is not, for example, to review wider industry 
practices or to make general observations which are not directly relevant to those 
circumstances. I shall therefore discuss the complaint points made in this case. 
 Authorisation
C has suggested that the credit intermediary in this case did not have the necessary 
authorisation at the time to arrange the loan. The intermediary named in the loan documents 
was Azure Services Limited. Our records show that it was an authorised representative of 
VFL in January 2018 and that VFL was itself authorised by the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority. I am satisfied therefore that there is no merit in this element of the 
complaint.
Affordability 
Lenders are required to ensure that loans are affordable and appropriate. What that means 
in practice will vary from case to case. 
I have not seen any evidence to suggest that the loan was not affordable for Mr and Mrs O. 
VFL says its checks indicated that they had a disposable income of more than £800 a month 
after usual expenses  far more than the loan repayments of £103.70. As far as Im aware, 
Mr and Mrs O have not suggested they have had difficulty making payments or, if they have, 
when and why those difficulties began.   
The fact that a borrower has been able to meet loan repayments does not necessarily show 
that the lender did carry out appropriate checks before agreeing the loan. They are likely to 
indicate however that a borrower has suffered no loss as a result of taking the loan out. They 
also indicate that, even if more detailed checks had been made, its likely the loan would 
have been granted in very similar terms in any event. 
I am not persuaded on the basis of what Ive seen so far that the loan was not affordable. In 
order to reach a different view on that, I believe I would need to see concrete evidence of 
any difficulties Mr and Mrs O have experienced.   
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 statements made by a broker in 
connection with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75(1) of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, 
bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
I am satisfied that the links among Axure XP Limited (as seller), Azure Services Limited (as 
intermediary) and VFL (as lender) were such that those conditions were met in this case. I 
have therefore considered what has been said about the sale in January 2018.
MisrepresentationA misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
The Application for Membership recorded that Mr K and Ms T had received the Standard 
Information Document, the Rules of Membership, the Reservation Rules, and the Deed of 
Trust. That is relevant to the question of whether they were misled about what they were 
buying.  
Following the investigators preliminary assessment, Mr O submitted a brief statement, in 
which he said:
We were told that we were BUYING into an investment flat at the resort which they would 
rent out and collect the proceeds on our behalf and remit same to us annually. We were also 
told that we could stay at the flat anytime we wanted as it was exclusively ours. We only 
needed to give them 1 week notice to make sure it was vacant and available for us. Also, if 
we wanted to stay anywhere else in the world, they would make the arrangements and we 
only needed to pay 199 GBP for a 2 week stay anywhere in the world. Furthermore, we were 
told we could pass on the INVESTMENT to our children.
The statement that he and Mrs O were told they had bought a flat which was exclusively 
theirs bears no relation at all to the points-based holiday club membership which they 
actually bought, and which was explained in the documents. No individual property is 
identified, no rental income is mentioned, and it is simply not plausible that Mr and Mrs O 
thought they could buy a flat for just £11,400. I am afraid I simply do not believe that a sales 
pitch would describe a product so differently from what was actually being sold and which 
was so different from what was set out in writing.   
I think its notable as well that no mention of this was made when the complaint was first 
made. I might have expected it to be raised as soon as the first rental payment was 
expected but not paid.
I am not persuaded that the XPs were sold as an investment that Mr and Mrs O could sell. 
They were sold as a means of funding holiday accommodation and experiences. I note as 
well that the contractual documents made it clear that XPs could only be sold through Azure 
and once they had been held for five years. I understand  the resale programme was opened 
in 2022, after this complaint was first brought. I have however seen no evidence that Mr and 
Mrs O have sought to sell their XPs.       
I am not persuaded that Mr and Mrs O were misled.    
But in any event, the Membership Application included, at clause 13:
This Agreement shall constitute the sole agreement between the parties and supersedes all 
prior agreements, representations, discussions and negotiations between the parties with 
respect to the subject matter hereof.
And clause 20 included:
This Agreement is irrevocable and legally binding upon all parties and cannot be cancelled 
or rescinded at any time after the expiry of the statutory withdrawal period stated In this 
Agreement and will supersede any and all understandings and agreements between the 
parties hereto whether written or oral and it is mutually understood and agreed that this 
Agreement and the Standard Information Document and ancillary documents represent the 
entire agreement between the parties hereto and no representation or inducements made 
prior hereto which are not included in and embodied In this Agreement, or the documents 
referred to, will have any force or effect.In my view, that was an attempt to ensure that anything on which Mr and Mrs O sought to 
rely was included in the contract itself. I am not persuaded in this case that they were misled, 
but, if I were to take a different view on that, I would need to consider the effect of those 
provisions.
Breach of contract
C says that the liquidation of Azure companies means that there is a breach of contract. I 
dont believe that is the case. Club properties were held in a trust. On 8 July 2020 the trustee 
wrote to all the club members. Its letter said:
We have good news for all members. Following discussions with the liquidators of both 
Azure Resorts Limited and Azure XP Limited and with the directors of Golden Sands Resorts 
Limited (the owner of the resort) it has been decided that in the best interest of all clubs 
members, First National Trustee Company (UK) Limited (FNTC) be requested to establish a 
new company to act as manager of the clubs on behalf of all clubs members.
This new management company will be a non-profit making entity and its only role will be to 
manage the clubs for, and on behalf of, its members.

Wed like to reassure you that the future of the clubs is secure. From your perspective as a 
member, there is a lot to look forward to as soon as governmental travel restrictions are 
lifted. We are also pleased to report to you that Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Golden Sands 
in Malta has reopened and is available for member use after the resort has successfully 
established COVID-19 health and safety precautions.
The services linked to Mr and Mrs Os purchase of XPs therefore remain available to them 
and are unaffected by the liquidation of the Azure companies. 
C also said that the XPs provided no benefit to its clients and were effectively worthless. VFL 
noted however that Mr and Mrs O had used their Azure membership as part of an exchange 
programme. Whatever Mr and Mrs O may think about the overall value of their purchase, I 
do not believe their membership is worthless. Even if it is poor value (on which I make no 
comment), that is not, of itself, grounds for a claim.
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
In considering whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship, a court can have 
regard to any linked transaction.
Because the loan was made under pre-existing arrangements between VFL and a company 
closely linked to the seller, the timeshare agreement was a linked transaction within the 
meaning of section 19 of the Consumer Credit Act.   
An ombudsman does not have the power to make an order under section 140B. I must 
however take relevant law into account in deciding what I consider to be fair and reasonable. 
And I have the power to make a wide range of awards  including, for example, requiring a 
borrower to refund interest or charges, and to write off or reduce the balance of a loan. I am 
not persuaded however that I should do so here. There were links between VFL and the Azure companies. I do not believe however that this 
led to a conflict of interest in respect of their relationship with Mr and Mrs O. Azure XP was 
selling club membership and XP points, and Azure Services was acting as intermediary (and 
VFLs agent). Whilst it introduced finance options, it was not acting as Mr and Mrs Os 
financial adviser or agent and was under no obligation to make an impartial or disinterested 
recommendation or to give advice or information on that basis.    
C says that VFL did not disclose the commission paid to Azure. VFL says it did not pay any. 
It does not appear that C asked whether any commission had been paid or, if so, what it 
was. That does not suggest that the issue of commission was a real concern to Mr and Mrs 
O, either at the point of sale or subsequently. 
Mr and Mrs O say too that the sale was pressured. They have not really elaborated on that, 
but I note that Azures standard documents included a statement from the buyer to say they 
had not been put under pressure. Its significant too in my view that Mr and Mrs O had 14 
days in which to review the documents and withdraw from both the sale and the loan 
agreements. If they thought they had agreed to any of those agreements as a result of 
undue pressure, it is not clear to me why they didnt take advantage of the option to 
withdraw.  
It is not for me to decide whether Mr and Mrs O have a claim against Azure XP, or whether 
they might therefore have a like claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. Nor 
can I make orders under sections 140A and 140B of the same Act. 
Rather, I must decide what I consider to be a fair and reasonable resolution to Mr and Mrs 
Os complaint. In the circumstances of this case, however, I think that VFLs response to the 
claims was fair and reasonable.         
Neither party responded to my provisional decision within the time limit I stipulated for further 
submissions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have received no further evidence or arguments in reply to my provisional decision, I 
see no reason to reach a different conclusion from that which I set out in it. 
In saying that, I stress that I have considered all the evidence and arguments afresh before 
reaching this final decision.  
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint and do 
not require Vacation Finance Limited to take any further steps to resolve it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman