DRN-3064867
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as J, complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined 
a claim made against its commercial motor insurance policy and avoided the policy.
Mr H, who is a director of J, brings the complaint on Js behalf.
What happened
Js business involves hiring out motor vehicles. It held commercial vehicle insurance with a 
third-party insurer who decided to withdraw from the market in 2019. Js broker arranged for 
the insurance to be placed with Aviva in January 2019. This policy was renewed in 2020.
Mr H says his broker assured him that the policy with Aviva was the same as the policy with 
the previous insurer and at no point, either in January 2019 nor at renewal in 2020, was he 
asked to complete any paperwork. Mr H confirmed that he received the policy documents 
but, as he had been assured nothing had changed, he didnt read them.
In August 2020 there was a flood at one of Js branches and 11 of its vehicles were 
immersed in water. A loss adjuster was appointed who considered the vehicles to be a total 
loss. Mr H says he was told that he would receive a settlement of around £380,000. The loss 
adjuster contacted Mr H again a week later to arrange collection of the vehicles so they 
could be salvaged and disposed of.
J was later contacted to settle the finance for all 11 vehicles, which it says it did immediately, 
believing the settlement would be paid imminently. However, Aviva then contacted Mr H to 
explain that it had some concerns about the information provided at the inception of the 
policy and saying that it needed further information. It said that it thought Mr H, on behalf of 
J, hadnt disclosed information about the directors claims and financial history  and had it 
been aware of that information, it wouldnt have provided cover. After corresponding for 
some time, Aviva ultimately decided to decline the claim and avoid the policy from its 
inception. It did, however, acknowledge that there had been delays in considering the claim 
and offered J £500 compensation for any inconvenience caused. Mr H didnt agree with 
Avivas position and referred the complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think Aviva had acted unfairly. She said 
that Mr H had failed to fairly present the risk to Aviva and she was satisfied that, had he 
done so, Aviva wouldnt have provided cover. So she thought Aviva had acted fairly in 
cancelling the policy and not refunding the premiums paid by J. She also thought that the 
£500 compensation offered by Aviva was fair in the circumstances.
Mr H on behalf of J didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will not be the outcome Mr H was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
carefully, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Aviva made the decision to cancel Js policy on the basis of a misrepresentation made by J 
when taking out the policy. Mr H says he was not asked any questions when the policy was 
taken out and Aviva didnt contact him directly. However, Aviva based its decision to provide 
insurance on the information provided by Js broker, who was acting on Js behalf. 
As this complaint is about Aviva, the underwriter of the policy, I have only considered its 
actions and not those of the broker. Any complaint against the broker would need to be 
raised separately.
When considering whether Aviva acted fairly, the starting point is the Insurance Act 2015. 
Under this Act, commercial policyholders have a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk 
to the insurer when taking out a policy. This means they have to disclose either:
everything they know, or ought to know, that would influence the judgement of an 
insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms; or 
enough information to put an insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries 
about potentially material circumstances. 
If the business decides the policyholder didnt give a fair presentation, this is called a 
qualifying breach.
The statement of fact that was sent to J, and which J thereby confirmed to be accurate by 
not responding, included the following statement:
No Policyholder, director or partner involved with The Business or any other company or 
business has, in the last 10 years:
been declared bankrupt or insolvent or been the subject of bankruptcy proceedings 
or insolvency
been the subject of a County Court Judgement, an Individual Voluntary Arrangement, 
a Company Voluntary Arrangement or a Sheriff Court Decree
Aviva explained that if any of the information provided on the statement of fact were 
incorrect, this could mean that any future claims may not be paid.
Mr H accepts that he failed to check the documentation. 
Aviva has provided evidence that both Mr H, who was a director at the inception of the 
policy, and his son, who was also a director when the policy renewed, have, within the 10 
years preceding the inception of the policy, been directors of other companies which have 
been insolvent and wound up. In addition to this, it has shown that one of the previous 
companies had some County Court Judgments issued against it. 
Although this clause in the statement of fact is not as clear as it might be, I believe its 
references to insolvency and Company Voluntary Arrangements make it sufficiently clear 
that Aviva would have wanted to know about the directors experiences with their previous 
companies and that this information could impact Avivas decision to provide insurance.The statement of fact also states:
The cover(s) now granted is/are based on the loss(es), claims, or incident(s) that might lead 
to a claimin connection with The Business or any other business in which You, Your 
directors or partners are, or have been, involved
Aviva has evidenced that previous companies linked to both Mr H and his son made a series 
of insurance claims between 2010 and 2017. None of this information was declared by either 
Mr H or Js insurance broker. However, I think it is clear from the wording in the statement of 
fact that this information was material to Avivas decision as to whether to provide cover.
While I appreciate that Mr H states he wasnt contacted to discuss the policy, it was for him 
(either directly or through his broker) to ensure that he provided a fair presentation of the risk 
to Aviva. As he didnt do that in this instance, I am satisfied that there was a qualifying 
breach.
As there was a qualifying breach, Aviva then had to consider what would have happened if 
Mr H had provided the correct information during the renewal. The Insurance Act sets out 
the actions Aviva should take. It states:
if the qualifying breach was deliberate or reckless the insurer can avoid the policy 
and refuse all claims and it doesnt have to return the premiums 
if the qualifying breach was neither deliberate nor reckless and the insurer wouldnt 
have provided the insurance, it may avoid the contract and refuse any claims, but it 
must return the premiums; 
if the insurer would still have provided the insurance but on different terms (other 
than the premium) the policy is to be treated as if it had been provided on those 
terms; and 
if the insurer would have charged a higher premium, it may take a proportionate 
approach to any claims. 
Aviva has provided statements from its underwriters, which include underwriting guidance. 
These confirm that, had they been told about the financial background of the directors 
previous companies, they wouldnt have offered terms. On the basis of this evidence, I am 
satisfied that, had the appropriate disclosures been made, Aviva wouldnt have offered terms 
to J. Therefore, I think Aviva has acted fairly in avoiding the policy and declining the claim as 
this puts J back in the position it would have been in had the misrepresentation not been 
made. 
Aviva has said it believes the breach to be deliberate or reckless and, therefore, it doesnt 
intend to refund the premium. It says that it has repeatedly requested information about 
statements of facts provided to previous insurers, or a mandate to allow it to approach Js 
previous insurers, but only limited information has been provided. Aviva has sought this 
information to ascertain whether Js failure to provide a fair presentation of risk was a 
genuine error or whether it should be considered to be deliberate or reckless. 
Js previous directors, including Mr H, are experienced professionals who have been 
directors in several companies and therefore I would expect them to be aware of their 
obligation to provide a fair representation of the risk to Aviva. Furthermore, Mr H has 
acknowledged that he failed to check that the information provided in the documentation 
sent to him was correct. So, considering all the circumstances, including the lack of information provided to Aviva about Js previous insurers, I think Aviva has acted fairly in 
deciding that the qualifying breach was deliberate or reckless. So I dont think it has acted 
unfairly in retaining the premiums.
Mr H on behalf of J has also complained about the way the claim was handled and the 
length of time it took for a decision on the claim to be made. However, I can see that Aviva 
has already offered £500 compensation in respect of any inconvenience caused by the delay 
in requesting information throughout the claim. Having considered the timeline of the claim, it 
appears Aviva took a long period of time to let J know that its claim had been declined, 
though some of this delay was caused by information not being returned by Mr H.
Mr H has also noted that the claim was poorly handled as he was initially led to believe it 
would be settled. However, based on what Ive seen, this is because Avivas initial intention 
was to pay the claim and it was only on further investigation that it discovered material 
information hadnt been disclosed to it.
Taking everything into account, I think the £500 compensation offered by Aviva fairly reflects 
the inconvenience caused to J as a result of the delays in requesting information. If Mr H on 
behalf of J would like to accept this offer, he will need to contact Aviva directly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman