DRN-2969843
The complaint
Mr F is represented by a claims management company (CMC) in bringing his complaint. 
The CMC says Mr F was given unsuitable advice by Nsure Financial Services Limited 
(Nsure) to invest in a bond in 2007.
What happened
The CMC first complained to Nsure in December 2019. It said, in summary that Mr F had 
been misadvised into placing £210,000 into a Legal & General Portfolio Bond.    
It explained how the basis on which the advice was given was flawed. It had been recorded 
that Mr F was going to be made redundant, but this wasnt accurate - Mr Fs longstanding 
employer was in the process of selling the land it operated on, however no redundancy was 
yet confirmed. As it transpired, Mr F did not go on to lose his job through redundancy  he 
retired in 2011. The CMC said that even in the event Mr F had lost his job, the 
recommendation wasnt appropriate because Mr F had less of his free capital available to 
him. 
The CMC also said the recommendation to include equity funds raised Mr Fs risk profile 
unnecessarily and given he was happy with the performance of his current investment, there 
was no need to sell a further product other than to generate income for the adviser. 
Nsure replied to the complaint in January 2020. It said it objected to the complaint being 
pursued at this service, as it believed it had been pursued out of time. Specifically, it said 
that is was made more than six years after the advice in 2007 and more than three years 
after Mr F would have known of cause to complain, given his ongoing awareness of the 
bonds performance throughout its lifetime.
Nsure also addressed the merits of the complaint, notwithstanding that it remained of the 
view that the matter was not within jurisdiction. It rejected the complaint. It said Mr F had 
access to funds of £74,000 on deposit and left £39,000 uninvested which represented a 
healthy emergency fund. Further, in reinvesting the surrender value of the existing bond it 
increased the 5% annual income Mr F could withdraw  and this would be useful if his 
circumstances changed, such as being made redundant.  
In any event, Nsure said the complaint should not succeed because Mr F had suffered no 
material loss. Mr F encashed the bond on 14 December 2017 for £179,197. Had Mr F 
instead topped up the Scottish Widows bond, made the same income withdrawals and 
encashed that bond in December 2017, he would have received £165,593.
  
A different ombudsman concluded that the complaint was one that this service could 
consider. He reviewed the submissions from the CMC and concluded that Mr Fs complaint 
was not about performance of the investment, and did not stem from the surrender of the 
bond. Instead, what Mr F and the CMC were saying now was that the advice to switch bonds 
in 2007 was unnecessary, that it was based on a mistaken understanding of Mr Fs 
circumstances, that it had the effect of altering his risk exposure and that it was not 
necessary given he held a similar bond already  which therefore gave it cause to suspect 
the adviser had subjected Mr F to churning. 
In the ombudsmans view, he felt that the grounds of complaint arose from Mr F having met 
with the CMC in 2019, at which time a review of the sale was undertaken. On that basis, he 
concluded Mr F had complained within three years of the knowledge of the cause for 
complaint. So, an investigator then went on to review the merits of the complaint.  
Our investigator did not think the complaint should succeed. She said she didnt think 
Nsures adviser had acted unreasonably when recommending the bond, as Mr F had 
experience with investments of this type. Further, she didnt think the adviser had placed too 
much reliance on Mr F having said he was facing redundancy due to the expected closure of 
his employers premises. The adviser made his recommendations to account for that 
prospect; though the redundancy did not later take place, this was only known with hindsight.  
In terms of Nsures assessment that Mr F hadnt suffered a financial loss, she didnt think 
this was conducted unreasonably. Though Nsures assumption was that Mr F would not 
leave all of his savings on deposit, that was borne out by the evidence from the time which 
noted Mr F was looking for tax-efficient savings methods.  
Overall our investigator considered the recommendation had been suitable for Mr Fs 
measured attitude to risk, and the advice to take out the bond allowed for the prospect of 
withdrawals that Mr F may have required if his redundancy had been confirmed before he 
had access to his pension provisions.  
The CMC said Mr F disagreed and that he wanted the complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. It said Mr F didnt have sufficient understanding of investments or risk 
categorisation to make an assessment as to what level of risk was appropriate. Instead, he 
was guided by the adviser and the adviser should have discussed this with him and properly 
ascertained his capacity for loss.    
Further, it said that Mr F could simply have used some of the previous years accumulated 
allowances under the existing bond to match or exceed the new investments allowance for 
many years into the future. On this basis, it is clear that there was no real benefit available 
for this transfer and the purported benefit of the increase in income alleged by taking out the 
new investment was not represented in a clear, fair and not misleading way.
Finally it reiterated that given the pending redundancy it believed that Nsures adviser gave 
inappropriate advice and there was no benefit to the advice except to generate income for 
the adviser. 
The complaint has now been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all of the information carefully, I am of the view that this complaint should 
not succeed. Ill summarise my reasons below.  
At the time of the advice, Mr F was recorded as being aged 58 with no dependants. He 
earned £15,000 per annum. He had total assets valued at £561,000 (comprised of two 
properties, bank account savings and two investment ISAs). He also had a portfolio of 
investments that Nsure serviced for him as well as the existing bond worth approximately 
£182,000. Mr F was noted as having £74,000 in a building society account, and it was recorded that he wished to invest £35,000 of these funds, leaving £39,000 for any 
emergencies.  
The fact find documentation states that Mr F wanted to retire fairly soon with a suggested 
age of 60. However, it also records that his longstanding employer (of over 30 years) 
intended to sell the land on which the employment premises were based, and if this took 
place, Mr F would be made redundant. It was for that reason that the adviser factored the 
ability to take income from the bond into account. 
Though the CMC has suggested otherwise, I do not believe the adviser acted unfairly by 
relying on what Mr F had told him about the prospect of redundancy. The new bond did 
provide a greater level of income when combined with the proceeds from the existing bond 
and the new invested funds  and while Mr F could have added to his original investment, 
the new bond was more diversified, with a split across equity funds rather than the property 
fund held with the previous bond provider. Possible income withdrawal from the bond did 
have a greater importance given there was a prospect of redundancy in the near future.  
Mr F was asked a number of questions on the fact find documentation in terms of his needs 
and risk appetite in respect of investments. It was recorded that his priorities were growth, 
tax efficiency and income, and his appetite to risk was set as moderate. It seems to me, on 
balance, that given Mr Fs investment history and circumstances Mr F wanted to place his 
capital into investments where there was a greater possibility of achieving higher returns  
and that he appreciated he would be taking a medium risk in order to do so. 
The adviser also explained how encashing the bond created a chargeable event, however, 
based on Mr Fs current total income subject to income tax, the gains arising from the 
encashment of the existing investment bond would not take him above his current tax rating 
band and therefore he did not incur a tax charge. There was a sum left over from encashing 
the bond of £7,689 (as £210,000 would be invested into the new bond). The adviser 
proposed Mr F utilise £7,000 after 6 April 2007 by placing it in a Maxi ISA for that upcoming 
new tax year. I believe that was reasonable in order to meet his documented priority need for 
tax efficiency, especially since Mr F had a history of taking out investment ISAs. 
I consider that Mr F was able to reflect on and consider the advice he received, and that he 
could have rejected it if required. I say that since the adviser proposed the bond invested in 
a mix of funds, comprising 50% property funds and a further mix of equities and life funds for 
a spread of risk and diversification. Mr F asked for this to be amended, and the result was a 
greater weight towards one specific property fund. I do not believe that the proposal placed 
Mr F at a greater or unnecessary risk exposure, as has been suggested. The type of product 
and the mix of funds within the investment were reasonable to achieve Mr Fs recorded aims 
and objectives.  
Mr F had a healthy amount of disposable income should he need to consider making 
contributions into further savings vehicles at a lower end of the risk spectrum or rely on these 
should his circumstances have changed before he was able to consider accessing his 
pension provisions. I also believe Mr F had sufficient means, without liabilities or 
dependants, to take a risk of the nature set out by the recommendations.  
I havent seen any clear evidence that would lead me to conclude the amount invested was 
inappropriate, that a new bond was unreasonable for the adviser to suggest or that this was 
a churning exercise on the part of the adviser. I cannot use hindsight to determine the 
complaint, and Mr F could have potentially been subject to redundancy. That this did not go 
on to happen does not alter my view when looking at the advice Mr F received.  
 I therefore consider on balance that Mr F likely wanted to go ahead with the investment and 
that on the information Ive seen, the advice was suitable in the circumstances noting his 
financial situation and recorded investment objectives. It is also worth noting that even if I 
were to make findings to the contrary, there would be no financial redress due to Mr F. 
In the event of an upheld complaint regarding an investment sale, the appropriate outcome 
is to put a consumer back in the position he or she would have been in had the investment 
not taken place. On this basis, Nsure has undertaken a comparison to determine Mr Fs 
financial position had he (as the CMC suggested) remained with the existing bond provider 
and made a £35,000 addition to that investment in 2007. That calculation showed Mr F was 
£13,604 better off by having encashed and reinvested into the Legal & General bond. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman