DRN-3149322
The complaint
Mr S complains, through his representative, that Haven Insurance Company Limited (Haven) 
have unfairly declined his claim for the theft of his vehicle and cancelled his commercial 
vehicle insurance.
References to Mr S, or his representative, will include the other.
What happened
Mr S held a commercial vehicle insurance policy with Haven. During the term of the 
insurance he changed vehicles and updated Haven with the change.
After the changes were made, his vehicle was stolen overnight whilst it was parked on the 
road outside his address. He made a claim on his insurance policy with Haven. The vehicle 
was later recovered but it had sustained some damage.
Haven did not pay Mr Ss claim. They also cancelled his policy. It said that within Mr Ss 
policy details it stated that he kept his vehicle in his drive-way over night and that at the time 
of the theft it had been parked on a public road outside his house. Haven said that this was a 
breach of its terms and conditions.
Mr S complained that Haven had been unfair. He said that when he took the policy out he 
had told Haven that his vehicle was kept on a public road. He said that when he updated his 
policy, when he bought the new vehicle, he was not asked where he would keep it overnight 
and so was not aware that this had changed on his policy until he made his claim when the 
vehicle was stolen.
Mr S wants his claim to be dealt with and wants compensation for the distress caused.
Haven maintain that Mr S had informed them when he changed his vehicle that it would be 
kept on the drive-way at the home address of the policy. It said that he had agreed to these 
terms and conditions and that it could not reinstate his policy. The policy would remain 
cancelled and his claim would not be paid.
As Mr Ss representative was not happy with Haven, they brought his complaint to our 
Service.
 
Our investigator looked in to the case and upheld Mr Ss complaint as they did not feel that 
Haven had been fair. As Haven are unhappy with our investigators view the case has been 
brought to me for a final decision to be made.
In my provisional decision I said
Haven said they cancelled Mr Ss policy due to his misrepresentation of where the vehicle 
would be parked overnight. 
Mr S had to continue to pay for the cost of his cancelled policy and in addition he had to take 
out a new commercial vehicle policy to cover the recovered vehicle.
Haven say that when Mr Ss policy started he disclosed that his vehicle was kept overnight 
on a public road. It said that during the term of his policy he changed vehicles and he did this 
by completing an online change of vehicle form through its brokers online portal, and that he 
also contacted it on webchat to confirm that his new vehicle was covered. 
Haven say that when Mr S added the details of his new vehicle via the online change of 
vehicle form that he also changed the overnight location of the vehicle to be parked in his 
drive-way.
Mr S agreed that that he completed a change of vehicle form on its online portal and said 
that he was asked for the details of the new vehicle but was not asked where it would be 
parked overnight. Mr S provided blank screenshots from the online portal showing this was 
not asked. Haven disagreed and said that on the date that Mr S made the adjustment the 
online portal did include the question about where the vehicle was parked.  
On the day that Mr S went to collect his new vehicle he contacted Haven through the online 
chat to check that his insurance was in place before he drove it. 
 
During the online chat the Haven agent explained to him that his policy had been suspended 
and it would need to be reinstated first before he could change the details of the vehicle to 
be covered. Initially he was told that it would take 48 hours to reinstate. The agent managed 
to organise immediate reinstatement of his policy and confirmed the registration details of 
the new vehicle. I have seen the evidence of the content of the online chat and Mr S was not 
asked where he would keep the vehicle overnight.
The policy was not changed when Mr S completed the online change of vehicle form. The 
policy was only changed after the chat agent had organised for it to be been reinstated. I can 
see that in the statement of fact that was produced after the online chat had started, there is 
a section detailing the address at which the vehicle is normally kept and here the overnight 
location is still stated as kept on public road.
Screenshots provided by Haven show that on the online change of vehicle form says that the 
vehicle was kept on the drive-way over night but Mr S does not remember this being asked. 
The update to his policy was not updated from the submission of this form as the policy was 
suspended, it was updated by the chat agent the day after. So I think that the online chat has 
to be accepted as the source of information that updated the policy.
   
As the chat agent asked a number of questions about the vehicle I think that it is reasonable 
to accept that confirmation of anything that was to change in the policy should have been 
confirmed in this chat. 
Therefore I've not been persuaded that Mr S made any deliberate misrepresentation about 
where his vehicle was going to be parked overnight in this case. The correct response to a 
qualifying misrepresentation under insurance law is for an insurer to avoid a policy and then 
any claim is automatically not covered. Cancellation of a policy is from that point onwards 
and means that any prior claim remains to be dealt with.  
In any event I do not think that Haven have treated Mr S fairly and so I think it has incorrectly 
cancelled his policy and his claim should be paid. 
Therefore, I intend to uphold Mr Ss complaint.Responses to my provisional decision 
Haven did not respond.
Mr Ss representative did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there has been no response from Mr Ss representative or Haven, I maintain my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
I require Haven Insurance Company Limited to 
1. Pay Mr Ss claim in line with the terms of his motor insurance policy. 
2. Pay Mr S the cost of the alternative insurance policy he had to take out to cover his 
vehicle after it cancelled his policy. This refund should cover the time it was taken out up 
to the date Mr Ss Haven policy would expire  26 August 2021.
3. Remove any cancellation markers from Mr Ss records  on both internal and external 
databases.
4. Pay Mr S £350 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the unfair 
cancellation of his policy. Haven Insurance Company Limited must pay the 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr S accepts my final 
decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman