DRN-4055549
The complaint
Mr A complains that Ageas Insurance Limited damaged his motorbike when it recovered it 
following a claim on his roadside assistance motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr A said a recovery driver dropped his bike during the recovery causing damage to it. He 
wants Ageas to pay for the repairs. Ageas said it had evidence that the damage was pre-
existing, and it wasnt responsible for the claimed for damage to the bike. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She couldnt see that 
the photos used by Ageas to show the damage was pre-existing had time and date stamps. 
She thought they all showed the bike being delivered to Mr As home, not before recovery. 
Ageas didnt have a collection note to show that the bike had pre-existing damage. And Mr A 
provided a photograph of the bike before the recovery. The bike was then undamaged. So 
she thought Ageas should settle Mr As claim and pay for any costs for getting a quote for 
repairs. 
Ageas replied that its photographs showed the bike before and after recovery with no 
additional damage. Ageas said Mr A hadnt provided a quote for repairs. Ageas asked for an 
Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A said his bike was damaged when it fell on its side whilst being unloaded at his home by 
Ageas recovery driver. He said there was damage caused to the exhaust manifold, engine 
cover, lower fairing and pannier, all on its right hand side. He estimated that it would cost 
about £2,000 to repair his bike. Mr A agreed that there had been some pre-existing marks on 
the tank and scratches to the panier, but he wasnt claiming for these.
We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused as this is a matter for 
the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these 
complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has considered all the available 
evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for additional repairs.
Ageas replied on three photographs to show that the bike didnt have any further damage 
after it was recovered. But Im not persuaded that the photographs prove this. The 
photographs arent time or date stamped. And Mr A provided photographs showing that one 
photograph allegedly taken on collection was actually taken outside his house  the details 
of the pavements match. And the other two photographs appear to show the bike on the 
delivery truck, but I cant ascertain when they were taken. 
So Im satisfied that Ageas hasnt reasonably concluded that the photographs show that the 
bike wasnt damaged after collection.
Mr A sent Ageas an email with a photograph of his bike taken when he was waiting for 
recovery. The photograph has time and date stamps. The photograph shows the bike to be 
then undamaged. This was provided to Ageas after it responded to his complaint. I dont 
think Ageas reasonably considered this evidence when it dismissed Mr As claim. And so Im 
not satisfied that it has justified its decision that its not responsible for the repairs. And I 
think it should now pay for the bike to be repaired.
Ageas asked Mr A to obtain estimates for repairs. But Mr A told Ageas that it would cost £65 
to obtain a quote for repairs and Ageas didnt then approve this. So I cant say it was 
unreasonable for Mr A to not yet obtain a repairs estimate. I think he should now do this, and 
I think Ageas should reasonably meet any relevant costs for this. 
Putting things right
I require Ageas Insurance Limited to settle Mr As claim for the damage caused to his bike 
during its recovery and to cover the costs of any associated estimates. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Ageas Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman