DRN-3241023
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with Aviva Health UK Limited because it gave him incorrect information 
whilst he attempted to buy private medical insurance. 
What happened
Mr H was attempting to buy annual private medical insurance from Aviva, which he intended 
to expense through his employer. He wanted to complete the purchase online, however, was 
unable to find the relevant option on the website. Mr H contacted Aviva twice only to be 
given incorrect information on both occasions. He was told later the same day this could only 
be done by phone. Mr Hs complaint is that Aviva should have given him the correct 
information from the outset.
Aviva recognised the impact this had on Mr H and apologised for not giving the right 
information the first time around. It said that it was updating its website at the time and 
therefore this function was unavailable. It offered a £50 voucher by way of apology. 
Our investigator thought that was fair. He clarified that the ombudsman isnt a regulator and 
therefore wouldnt take punitive action or recommend additional training for Avivas staff. He 
explained the problem occurred due to human error. He also highlighted that it took Aviva an 
hour to get him the correct information and so he didnt recommend it need to do anything 
more in respect of this complaint. 
Mr H, unhappy with our investigators findings, asked for an ombudsman to reconsider his 
complaint. He said in response to the findings, in summary;
He doesnt understand how Aviva has sufficiently trained its staff when errors like his 
have occurred and;
He believes the arguments put forward by our investigator are incoherent and 
illogical.
And so, its now for me to make final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. My reasons for doing so are the same as 
those already explained by our investigator. Im satisfied this was a mistake made by Aviva 
which was put right within the same day. Aviva said it was upgrading its online software 
which meant the function Mr H needed was unavailable at that time. This information, for 
one reason or another, didnt reach the advisers he contacted which is why the incorrect 
information was given. 
However, Im satisfied this was rectified within a reasonable timescale and Aviva 
acknowledged and apologised for the error. I dont think it needs to do anything more here 
because I find the £50 compensation voucher a fair way to put things right. Ive not seen any 
persuasive evidence that leads me to believe the impact of this mistake caused any serious 
problems for Mr H which is why Im not making a further award. 
I thought it might help to clarify my position on the closing arguments made by Mr H about 
the investigators opinion. I find the outcome of his investigation to be clear and logical and 
so I disagree with Mr H on that point. Further, Aviva accepted its advisers made mistakes 
and put things right almost straight away. I accept it wouldve been better had he received 
the right information in the first instance, but thats not to say the apology and compensation 
are unfair in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman