DRN-3217298
The complaint
Mr C complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS) was wrong to 
terminate a hire agreement (HA).
What happened
Mr C entered into this agreement with VFS in November 2020 to hire a new car for 24 
months. Under the relevant terms and conditions, he was required to keep the car 
comprehensively insured. In May 2021 VFS checked with the motor insurance database 
(MID) and couldnt find the car. This suggested it wasnt insured so VFS tried to contact Mr C 
by phone, email and post.
Mr C didnt respond and VFS issued a default notice near the start of May 2021 under 
section 87(1) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). Mr C didnt reply to that either so the 
HA was terminated and VFS instructed a third party collections agent to take the car back. 
The agent managed to get in touch with Mr C and he said the car had been insured 
throughout.
After some further investigation, it became clear that the car wasnt registered at the MID 
because the insurance policy was issued with the wrong registration - the registration 
recorded by the insurers was incorrect by one letter. This has now been rectified and Mr C 
wants to keep the car and carry on with the HA but VFS has refused.
VFS says the HA was terminated properly. It considers Mr C was in breach because he 
failed to keep his details up to date and/or respond to communication attempts. It doesnt 
think the insurance would have covered any claim made while the car registration was wrong 
and considers Mr C should return the car and pay financial compensation of over £3,000.
Mr C feels VFS has acted unfairly. He says hed moved house a few months after he got the 
car and didnt update his address, so he didnt receive correspondence VFS sent by post. 
He acknowledges VFS sent emails and phoned him as well, but says he thought this contact 
about some other products he was offered and didnt want  or possibly phishing  so he 
didnt open it. He got in touch with VFS as soon as he heard from the third party agent - 
because they used personal information which he could see was legitimate. He thinks its 
unreasonable that VFS wont accept this was a genuine error  especially as he never 
missed a finance payment and the car was insured throughout.
Our investigator acknowledges Mr C didnt do everything he should have here. But, hes 
satisfied the car was insured in line with the terms of the HA. And he doesnt think it was 
reasonable or proportionate for VFS to end the agreement in these particular circumstances. 
He recommends VFS should re-instate the HA and make arrangements with Mr C for all 
payments to be brought up to date and clear his credit file of any adverse information - 
subject to any arrears being paid.
VFS disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look into the matter. VFS remains of the 
view Mr Cs agreement was terminated correctly. It says the termination came about 
because the car was flagged as being uninsured and the HA was terminated because Mr C 
failed to respond. VFS considers this would not have happened if Mr C had updated his 
contact details and it is also concerned that the insurer does not actually say the vehicle 
would have been covered in the event of an accident. 
Having considered the available evidence, I was minded to uphold this complaint. My 
reasons werent quite the same as the investigators, however . And I thought it was fair to 
give the parties the chance to see my provisional findings and respond (if they wanted) to 
before I made my final decision. I issued a provisional decision on 13 December 2021. Ive 
set out what I decided provisionally - and why  below. This forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence is incomplete - as some 
of it is here - I make my decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened, in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
This service provides informal dispute resolution and I must take account of the relevant law 
(amongst other things). Im satisfied this includes the CCA here. But, its not my role to apply 
the law - only a court can do that. I make my decision based on what I think is fair and 
reasonable - in all of the circumstances.
I think the crux of Mr Cs complaint is that it was wrong of VFS to terminate this HA in the 
way that it did. I consider sections 87-89 of the CCA are relevant in this situation. These 
provide
87 Need for default notice.
(1)Service of a notice on the debtor or hirer in accordance with section 88 (a default 
notice) is necessary before the creditor or owner can become entitled, by reason of 
any breach by the debtor or hirer of a regulated agreement,(a)to terminate the 
agreement, or (b)to demand earlier payment of any sum, or (c)to recover possession 
of any goods or land, or (d)to treat any right conferred on the debtor or hirer by the 
agreement as terminated, restricted or deferred, or (e)to enforce any security.
88 Contents and effect of default notice.
(1)The default notice must be in the prescribed form and specify(a)the nature of the 
alleged breach; (b)if the breach is capable of remedy, what action is required to 
remedy it and the date before which that action is to be taken; (c)if the breach is not 
capable of remedy, the sum (if any) required to be paid as compensation for the 
breach, and the date before which it is to be paid.
(2)A date specified under subsection (1) must not be less than 14 days after the date 
of service of the default notice, and the creditor or owner shall not take action such 
as is mentioned in section 87(1) before the date so specified or (if no requirement is 
made under subsection (1)) before those 14 days have elapsed.
(3) The default notice must not treat as a breach failure to comply with a provision of 
the agreement which becomes operative only on breach of some other provision, but 
if the breach of that other provision is not duly remedied or compensation demanded 
under subsection (1) is not duly paid, or (where no requirement is made under 
subsection (1)) if the 14 days mentioned in subsection (2) have elapsed, the creditor 
or owner may treat the failure as a breach and section 87(1) shall not apply to it.(4) The default notice must contain information in the prescribed terms about the 
consequences of failure to comply with it and any other prescribed matters relating to 
the agreement. (4A)The default notice must also include a copy of the current default 
information sheet under section 86A. 
(5)A default notice making a requirement under subsection (1) may include a 
provision for the taking of action such as is mentioned in section 87(1) at any time 
after the restriction imposed by subsection (2) will cease, together with a statement 
that the provision will be ineffective if the breach is duly remedied or the 
compensation duly paid.
89 Compliance with default notice.
If before the date specified for that purpose in the default notice the debtor or hirer 
takes the action specified under section 88(1)(b) or (c) the breach shall be treated as 
not having occurred.
In light of the above, Im satisfied that a creditor like VFS is required to serve a default notice 
that sets out the nature of the alleged default in order to terminate a regulated agreement 
(such as this HA) properly. Ive seen a copy of the default notice served by VFS. This says 
(as far as its relevant):-
1. Provision of the agreement breached: It was a term of the Agreement that you must 
keep the vehicle comprehensively insured.
2. Nature of the breach: The vehicle is not comprehensively insured.
3. The action required to remedy the default: You must comprehensively insure the 
vehicle by 24 May 2021.
Im satisfied the breach VFS relied upon in order to terminate the HA was a failure to insure. 
So, if Mr C wanted to put this breach right and avoid termination, he would have needed to 
insure the car by the date specified. I have also seen correspondence from the relevant 
insurer. I am satisfied this confirms that the car was insured throughout the relevant period - 
the insurers say the error was corrected without charge as soon as Mr C notified the mistake 
and the car remained on cover as the description was correct.
I think this means the breach alleged in the default notice never actually took place - which 
renders the default notice invalid. VFS seems to accept the default notice is wrong and it 
now says the HA was terminated on different grounds  namely Mr C didnt respond to 
contact attempts and he failed to keep his details up to date.
I think its more likely than not Mr C genuinely thought the contact he received from VFS was 
spam or suspicious  given he responded to the collections agents in good time - almost as 
soon as he heard from them. And I think its understandable he didnt notice the registration 
was wrong when he received the insurance documents initially  as the letters that were mis- 
recorded look very similar. Ultimately however, Im satisfied that VFS was obliged to tell Mr 
C what hed done wrong - and what he needed to do to put things right - if it wanted to 
terminate this HA. And, even if I accept Mr C should have let VFS know his address had 
changed and he was wrong to disregard the efforts VFS made to try to get in touch, these 
arent the breaches set out in the default notice. Im satisfied this means VFS failed to 
comply with its obligations under the CCA when it terminated the HA.
I note VFS also told Mr C that it would re-consider termination if he was able to show that the 
fault lay with the insurers. I think this suggests the key question for VFS wasnt whether Mr C failed to keep his details up to date and/or respond to correspondence but rather who made 
the mistake that led to the car not appearing on the MID. I understand Mr C then went to 
some time and trouble to get evidence from the dealer (amongst others) about how the cars 
registration came to be recorded incorrectly. Im satisfied this information shows that the 
incorrect registration was provided by the dealer direct to the broker who arranged the 
insurance. And, having led Mr C to believe things would be reconsidered if the mistake 
wasnt his, I dont think it was fair of VFS to disregard that new evidence.
I understand Mr C has now updated his contact details with VFS. He told us he has the 
funds in place to bring the payments due under the HA up to date. And, given the car is 
insured (and has been throughout), Im not aware of any grounds upon which a valid default 
notice could be issued at this point (there seems to be no current or on-going breach).
Taking everything into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable for VFS to 
acknowledge that the default notice served was invalid and take the steps necessary to 
reinstate the hire, on the terms agreed at the outset. If Mr C is not in a position to bring all 
the payments due under the agreement up to date immediately, Id expect VFS to agree a 
suitable repayment plan. I also consider it is fair and reasonable for VFS to arrange for any 
adverse information recorded on his credit file (as a result of what happened) to be removed 
when the arrears are paid off.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to let me have further submissions if they wanted to and Mr C and VFS 
have both responded to say they accept my provisional findings. I see no fair and 
reasonable grounds to depart from my provisional conclusions, in these circumstances. I 
remain of the view that VFS should take the steps necessary to reinstate the hire agreement 
on the terms agreed at the outset. 
I understand that Mr C may not be in a position to bring all the payments due up to date 
immediately. As I said in my provisional decision, Id expect VFS to agree a suitable plan to 
enable Mr C to pay off the arrears, in this situation. And I think its fair and reasonable for 
VFS to arrange for any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file (as a result of what 
happened) to be removed when the arrears are repaid.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, my decision is I uphold this complaint and I require 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited to 
1.reinstate the hire agreement on the terms agreed at the outset;
2.agree a suitable repayment plan with Mr C to pay off arrears; and
3.remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file (as a result of what 
happened) when the arrears have been brought up to date.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Claire JacksonOmbudsman