DRN-3982485
The complaint
Mr F complains about the service he received from Halifax Share Dealing Limited, referred 
to as the business or the transferor.  
In short, he says the business failed to carry out his instructions to transfer his holdings from 
the business to a third-party business (referred to as the transferee), resulting in financial 
loss. As a consequence, hed like the business to pay the losses claimed as well as 
compensation for distress and inconvenience caused.  
What happened
A brief chronology summarised by the investigator is as follows: 
On 9 October 2021, Mr F requested a transfer from the business to the transferee. 
On 19 October 2021, he followed that up the initial request to transfer his stocks and 
cash ISA to the transferee. 
On 1 November 2021, he contacted the transferee for an update after he was told by 
the business that it was awaiting a response to a valuation letter. 
On 3 November 2021, the transferee told him that it had attempted to contact the 
business on three separate occasions but had no reply. 
On 16 November 2021, the cash ISA was transferred and on 17 November 2021 the 
remainder was successfully transferred. 
On 18 November 2021, Mr F complained to the business and raised a number of issues 
including the following:
In short, he wasnt kept up to date and couldnt see what was going on. The only time 
he received information was when he called the business. 
There was a technical error which the business has acknowledged. 
There were delays in transferring the cash element. 
He was advised not to trade whilst the transfer took place and the shares dropped 
from 55p to 30.5p. He couldnt do anything about this and as a consequence has lost 
money. 
Hes unsure about the Synairgen shares transferred and doesnt necessarily 
believe that he owes the business anything. 
The business upheld the complaint on the basis that it couldve offered a better service, and 
consequently offered Mr F £200 compensation. Mr F rejected the offer on the basis that it 
didnt compensate him for the losses claimed. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
The business accepts that it didnt provide the level of service that it shouldve. It 
doesnt seek to dispute that it didnt contact Mr F, although thats probably a role 
more suited to the transferee, which initiated the process.
The business doesnt dispute the technical error - Mr F held 15,809 shares, but it 
only transferred 4,295 shares and this delayed the process. 
It subsequently duplicated the process, somehow leaving Mr Fs account with a 
negative balance. 
Despite Mr Fs concerns, it looks like the business told him the correct information in 
respect of what happened with regards to its error and the overpayment in shares. 
Although the businesss website makes clear that it usually takes around 4-6 weeks 
to transfer cash or UK shares  and the business accepts that it missed an 
opportunity to make the transfer go quicker  it still completed the transfer within the 
overall timeframe.  
Despite what Mr F says about the price drop, the business was correct in advising 
him not to trade, as this wouldve stopped the transfer taking place. That said, the 
initial decision to transfer (and to complete it) was entirely his. 
Mr F says he was advised not to trade and for that reason the value dropped on his 
account. However, his statements show that he continued to trade throughout the 
transfer process. So, regardless of the business making an error  and advising him 
not to trade  the trades by Mr F wouldve prevented/delayed the transfer happening 
sooner. In any case, Mr F couldve sold the shares if he was concerned by the drop 
in value. 
The £200 compensation offered by the business for distress and inconvenience is 
broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
Mr F disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Theres 
been much correspondence between him, the business, and the investigator, but in 
summary he made the following key points:
The investigators view is unfair and incorrect in many ways. Having waited months, 
he expected a thorough consideration and investigation. 
According to the view, £200 compensation is fair, but he still owes the business 
£4,600.57 in respect of its assertion that he was incorrectly issued with shares that 
arent his. 
The transfer debacle was only finalised by the business in the latter half of 
November 2021. In the letter to him, the business made clear that 15,179 Synairgen 
shares were transferred that he wasnt entitled to. 
Although the transferee had initially said that the shares in question were returned to 
the business, hes subsequently found this wasnt correct  this didnt help matters. 
In any case, he doesnt accept that hes done anything wrong despite the business 
suggesting that he sold shares despite being aware of the error, which isnt true.
In an initial email to him, it merely asked for the shares back without providing 
context, which he only read afterwards. 
The email sent to him dated 18 February 2021 and the sale of the shares in question 
on February 2021 is just a coincidence. If he had a malicious intent, he wouldve sold 
them sooner. 
Furthermore, the figure quoted by the business, given the money he made from the 
sale of the additional shares, is incorrect. He now accepts that he owes the business 
£3,187.59, but he still isnt prepared to suffer a loss of £749.84 based on the 
businesss calculations. That said, he thinks the business should write off the amount 
that its seeking, given that it was an error on its part.  
In relation to the losses regarding the Valirx shares, he was advised not to trade 
during the transfer process, and because he was inexperienced and nervous of doing 
the wrong thing, he felt obliged to comply, but (in hindsight) this was to his detriment. 
It was an extremely unlucky coincidence that during the initial period the value of 
the Valrix shares fell by approximately £15,000. He started to trade but only after that 
initial loss which he was aware of, and without any information from the business. He found himself between a rock and a hard place. 
Had he not been advised not to trade he wouldve sold the shares, and that way 
wouldve only suffered a small loss. 
The transferee kept him informed on the status of the transfer, and not just about the 
difficulties it was facing with regards to the business. 
The investigator says it was his choice to transfer but when was the optimal time to 
do so?
He also questions whether its reasonable for him to be locked out of trading for 4-6 
weeks, cash should be transferred within hours or days.  
The business received his transfer request on 11 October 2021, but his transfer 
wasnt completed until 29 November 2021, which was around 35 days. Although not 
significantly outside the times scale, it still reflects the problems he encountered. 
Had he not been caused so much stress by the business he mightve accepted his 
loss. 
The investigator having considered the additional points made the following observations:
Mr F seems to accept that the business made a mistake by transferring additional 
shares that he wasnt entitled to. 
Despite Mr Fs concerns about the time taken to complete the transfer, the additional 
time taken was caused by the time taken to correct the excess share issue. He 
wouldnt include correcting an error as part of the transfer timescales, so he doesnt 
think that further compensation is due. 
Hes not persuaded that Mr F was aware or ought reasonably to have been aware  
before selling the shares on 21 February 2021  that he was selling shares he wasnt 
entitled to. 
At the time, the shares sold for 0.21p, which chimes with what Mr F is prepared to 
pay back. The business wanted £3,937.43 which is what it says it will need to buy 
back the shares. But given that this was as a result of an error by the business, which 
Mr F probably wasnt aware of, its not reasonable that he should now be out of 
pocket. 
On the face of evidence, it seems the business notified the transferee, but it didnt 
make the position clear to Mr F. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, the latest suggestion by Mr F  with regards to 
what he should pay back  is reasonable in order to resolve this complaint. 
Mr F was pleased with the investigators view regarding what he should pay the business. 
However, he feels that he is owed a much higher amount by way of compensation given the 
time taken to resolve this complaint and reach an agreement. But the investigator didnt 
agree. 
The business agreed with the investigators latest view. Despite further contact from the 
investigator about increasing the amount of compensation, it didnt agree. In short, it said:
Our final offer of £200.00 for D&I plus the amount waived from the debt which was 
previously agreed, will be our final response on the matter.
Further points have been made by Mr F with regards to why he should receive greater 
compensation, but the investigator having considered the additional points doesnt agree. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion  that the £200 compensation 
offered by the business is broadly fair and reasonable  for much the same reasons. But Im 
going to uphold this complaint on the basis that the business has offered to pay  but hasnt 
yet paid  Mr F compensation for distress and inconvenience caused. I also note that the 
business has accepted Mr Fs offer to pay back the value of the shares, albeit a lower sum to 
the one it had originally asked for.  
Because the business upheld the complaint  on the basis that it didnt provide a good 
service  the key issue for me to consider is redress and whether or not its fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Having done so, and on balance, in this instance I think 
£200 compensation is broadly fair and reasonable. 
But before I explain why, I think its still important for me to recognise the strength of feeling 
Mr F has about this matter. Hes provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, 
which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings 
focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy.  
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. I 
appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent 
points.
My role is to consider the evidence presented by him and the business, and reach what I 
think is an independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. Its not 
my role to punish the business for any regulatory breaches either, thats the role of the 
industry regulator the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA). My role is to decide if the 
business has done anything wrong and where appropriate award redress for any financial 
losses for which its responsible and/or compensation for any distress and inconvenience 
caused.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice but, perhaps unlike a court or tribunal, Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened.
Theres no dispute that there was an error by the business and Mr F ended up with more 
shares than he was entitled to. I dont think either party seeks to retract from this position. 
Whilst I cant conclude that Mr F deliberately sold the additional shares  purportedly 
knowing that he wasnt entitled to them  I also cant say that the business should let him 
keep the shares that he wasnt entitled to either. So, I cant say the business has done 
anything wrong by asking for them/the monetary value back. 
I appreciate that the business made some efforts to try and notify Mr F about the error but, 
on balance, it wasnt enough to successfully convey the message, therefore I cant say that 
Mr F was likely to have (knowingly) done something that he knew he wasnt entitled to do. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, I think the proposal to pay back what Mr F got for the 
sale of the shares is broadly fair and reasonable, rather than what the business had initially 
demanded. Based on a short chronology of events, and notwithstanding the time limit, its likely that the 
business took slightly longer to complete the transfer process, than it shouldve by its own 
standards. I note that according to Mr F it completed the process just over the allocated time. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, Im unable to blame the business for this. 
Im mindful that Mr F was advised not to trade during the transfer  because this could 
delay/halt the transfer process  but Im mindful that he did so, and this is more likely (than 
not) to have meant the transfer couldnt complete sooner. In other words, Mr F trading, when 
he was advised not to (for clear and obvious reasons) has probably impacted on the length 
of time taken to complete the transfer. 
I appreciate Mr Fs concerns about the value of the shares he refers to. However, in this 
instance the business isnt responsible for the decrease in share price. Im aware that the 
value is dependent on the stock market, and its not something that the business can predict 
or control. Despite what Mr F says, on balance Im satisfied that he couldve sold the shares 
sooner, if thats what he wanted to do, but didnt. 
Despite the points made by Mr F, on balance I think the businesss offer to pay him £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused is broadly fair and reasonable. I 
appreciate Mr F thinks it should pay a much higher sum given the additional time taken to 
agree his proposed refund and so on. But given that the sum offered at the outset was 
higher than what I would expect the business to offer in these circumstances, I dont think 
the amount is unreasonable for the error made by the business. 
I appreciate Mr F will be thoroughly disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, Im not going to ask the business to do anything. On the face of the available 
evidence, and on balance, Im unable to give him what he wants.
My final decision
Having done so, I uphold this complaint on the basis that Halifax Share Dealing Limited 
should pay Mr F the £200 compensation that it has offered him. 
Im also mindful that Halifax Share Dealing Limited has agreed to accept Mr Fs offer to pay 
back £3,187.59, rather than the sum of £3,937.43 it had originally asked for, in respect of the 
share in question. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman