DRN-3944261
The complaint
X complains about how Forsakringsaktiebolaget Agria (publ) trading as Agria Frskring 
(Agria) applied excess deductions to a claim under his pet insurance policy for treatment of 
his dog.
References to Agria include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
In August 2022 Xs dog had surgery at a vet to remove several subcutaneous lesions. The 
lesions had been present for some time and under observation by the vet at six-monthly 
check-ups. The removed lesions were tested, the results of which indicated they had a 
different histology to what had been initially thought. X paid a total of £858.78 for the 
surgery, as well as a separate fee of £74.87 for dental treatment (which wouldnt be covered 
under the policy). The vet that carried out the surgery subsequently submitted two separate 
claims to Agria with two separate invoices. One claim was made for meibomian adenoma 
(£105.74) and the second claim was for trichoepithelioma (£621.04). 
Agria subsequently settled the claims in two amounts. The first was for what the claims 
completion notification described as Eyelid gland adenoma (Vet Treatment) and recorded 
the claim value as £105.74  to which Agria applied a fixed excess of £170 (which was 
greater than the claim value, meaning no payment was made). The second notification 
described the condition as a mass (Vet Treatment) condition. The notification recorded the 
claim value as £621.04  to which (first) the fixed policy excess of £170 and (second) a 
variable excess of 10% (£45.10) were applied. This left a net payment of £405.94. 
X was unhappy at how Agria had settled his claims, so he complained to them. He said his 
dog had undergone one continuous surgical procedure to remove separate lesions, the 
nature of which wasnt known before the surgery. He thought this meant the surgery should 
be considered as treatment of one condition  it shouldnt be split into separate conditions 
based on the outcome of the histology obtained after the surgery took place. He thought it 
unfair of Agria to treat the surgery as being for two separate conditions, therefore unfairly 
applying two fixed excess deductions of £170. He thought Agria should have applied one 
fixed excess of £170 to the total bill of £858.78 (leaving £688.78). And then a variable 
excess of 10% (10% of £688.78 = £68.88]. Had they done so, X calculated he should have 
been reimbursed £619.90 rather than £405.94 (a difference of £213.96).
Agria didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they acknowledged the surgery was 
carried out at one time, but the policy terms and conditions meant claims were assessed on 
a per condition basis, in each period of insurance. The fixed excess applicable was £170 per 
condition, per period of insurance, with a 10% variable excess deducted on each claim once 
the fixed excess had been applied. So, theyd correctly assessed the claim in line with the 
policy terms and conditions in applying the policy excess deductions to two conditions (not 
one surgical procedure). Agria enclosed the policy Insurance Product Information Document 
(IPID) and the policy terms and conditions to support their view. They also noted the two 
conditions for which the surgery was carried out were unrelated, which was why the vet 
submitted two separate claims.
X then complained to this service. He said Agria had unfairly applied the excess deductions 
under policy terms to make two fixed excess deductions from his claim. He thought it unfair 
for Agria to treat the surgery as being for two separate conditions, when it was one surgical 
procedure to remove all the lesions. And it was only because the lesions were subsequently 
tested (and found to have different histology) that Agria were able to treat the surgery as 
being for two conditions. He wanted Agria to apologise, to reimburse the £213,96 theyd 
deducted and pay him £50 for the time and effort hed spent. He was also unhappy at Agria 
not providing their final response within the eight-week period that a business has to respond 
to a consumer complaint.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Agria didnt need to take any action. 
He concluded the policy made it clear if one or more illness or injury was shown to have 
occurred, more than one excess would be payable. It was also clear the diagnoses for the 
lesions differed from the conditions noted on the claim forms from the vet (and given there 
were two claim forms). So, the investigator concluded Agria had acted fairly and reasonably 
in applying two excess deductions for the treatment of the two unrelated illnesses.
X disagreed with the investigators conclusions, and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. In disagreeing, he said the investigator hadnt understood the underlying way the 
claims had been handled by Agria (and simply restated the policy terms and conditions of 
which he was already aware). He said one operation had been carried out, for which he paid 
one vets bill  the bill to him wasnt split in any way. And X wasnt aware the vet had 
subsequently submitted two claims. The surgery was to remove several skin lumps that had 
been observed for some time, and it had been agreed with the vet they should be removed. 
And at the time of the surgery, the clinical signs were the same (skin lumps). So, he thought 
a single condition was treated with a single set of clinical signs. To make a determination 
they were different conditions only after surgery (and the lesions were tested) was unfair and 
unreasonable. This wasnt clear in the policy documentation.
The investigator considered the additional points raised by X. Specifically: that he paid one 
vets bill (and wasnt aware the vet submitted two claims); that the clinical signs were the 
same at the time of the surgery; that the term diagnosis was unclear; and that the policy 
terms were unclear and therefore unfair. However, the investigator issued a further view 
concluding the points didnt change his view that Agria acted fairly and reasonably in the way 
they had applied the excess deductions to the claims. 
X disagreed with the investigators further view and confirmed his request an ombudsman 
should consider the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Agria have acted fairly towards X. 
The key issue in Xs complaint is whether Agria acted fairly in applying the excess 
deductions to two claims, covering two separate conditions. X says Agria acted unfairly to 
treat the surgery as being for two separate conditions, when it was one surgical procedure. 
And it was only because the removed lesions were subsequently tested (and found to have 
different histology) that Agria were able to treat the surgery as being for two conditions. Agria 
say the policy terms and conditions mean claims are assessed on a per condition basis, in 
each period of insurance. The fixed excess applicable is £170 per condition, per period of 
insurance, with a 10% variable excess deducted on each claim once the fixed excess is applied. So, theyve correctly assessed the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions 
in applying the policy excess deductions to two conditions (not one surgical procedure). 
On the issue of the way the excess deductions were applied, Ive first looked at what the 
policy documentation says. Agria refer to the IPID and policy terms and conditions. Looking 
at these in turn, the IPID states:
You are required to pay the amount of the Fixed Excess and Percentage Excess, as 
specified on your Schedule of Insurance1:
oFixed Excess  This is applied once per period of insurance to each separate 
illness and injury your dog receives veterinary treatment for. This means that if 
your dog suffers from one or more illness or injury in the same period of 
insurance, then you must pay a fixed excess for each illness or injury
oPercentage Excess  This is calculated after the fixed excess has been deducted 
and is applied to all claims.
The policy terms and conditions sate that the fixed [excess] amount applies to each 
injury, your pet receives veterinary treatment for in each period of insurance. 
I think this makes it clear the fixed excess applies to each separate illness (condition) in 
each period of insurance. It doesnt apply to a [single] treatment that covers more than one 
condition. So, Ive concluded Agria acted fairly in line with the policy terms and conditions in 
applying a fixed excess to each of the two claims submitted by the vet (and in applying the 
percentage excess to one of the two claims. Ive also checked the calculation of the excess 
deductions for both claims, and concluded they are correct in line with the policy terms).
Ive also noted it was the vet that submitted two separate claims for the surgery  it wasnt 
Agria who split the claim. This reflects the two conditions for which the surgery was carried 
out. One claim records a diagnosis of trichoepithelioma (the claim for £621.04) and the other 
records meibomian adenoma (the claim for £105.74). This supports the view there were two 
separate conditions, for which two separate claims were required to be submitted. The two 
claim amounts are less than the amount paid by X, which suggests items in the overall bill 
paid by X that wouldnt be covered under the terms of the policy. 
Ive also considered the additional points raised by X in disagreeing with our investigators 
initial view. On the point he paid one vets bill (and wasnt aware the vet submitted two 
claims) then this is a matter between X and his vet, given it wasnt Agria that submitted two 
claims. And its common practice for vets to submit claims direct to insurers with supporting 
invoices, clinical history and other supporting documentation and information. 
On the point about the clinical signs were the same at the time of the surgery, while X 
believes they were the same (skin lumps) this doesnt change the fact that subsequent 
testing of the removed lesions identified two separate conditions, reflected in two separate 
diagnoses recorded on the subsequent claim forms. The legions would have been tested for 
sound clinical reasons (to determine their nature and whether they were malignant or 
benign, to inform any future treatment that might be required). I dont think it unreasonable 
that, given the testing identified two different diagnoses, this would be included in (and 
inform) the claims submitted.
On whether the diagnosis was unclear, having considered the policy documentation I dont 
agree it is unclear. Vets will use their professional expertise and knowledge to make a 
1 The Schedule for Xs policy specifies the excess for veterinary fees claims as a fixed excess of £170 and a 
percentage excess of 10%diagnosis of the condition (or conditions) based on examination, treatment and (as in this 
case) further tests carried out after treatment (surgery). And to use that to make a diagnosis 
(or diagnoses) of the condition(s).
On the question of whether the policy terms were unclear, as Ive set out above, Ive 
concluded they were in the way Agria applied the excess deductions. And while X takes one 
view of what he considers to be the clinical signs (the skin lumps) that doesnt preclude 
subsequent, more precise diagnosis of the specific condition (or conditions) affecting his 
dog. And for those subsequent diagnoses to be considered as part of Agria assessing the 
claims submitted.
Ive also considered the issue of Agria not responding to Xs complaint within the eight-week 
period within which businesses have to respond to consumer complaints. Complaint 
handling isnt a regulated activity that falls within the remit of this service (unless it is relevant 
to other aspects of a complaint we are able to consider). X made his complaint to Agria on 
29 August 2022 and their final response was issued on 26 October 2022 (although there is 
some dispute about this, with Agria saying they emailed the final response to X on 13 
October 2022  which he says he didnt receive). But taking the later date, this is 58 
calendar days after X made his complaint, so two days outside the eight-week period for 
businesses have to respond. Which I dont think is a significant difference. Nor does it affect 
my conclusions on the substantive issue in Xs complaint, the way that Agria applied the 
fixed and percentage excesses to the claims.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Xs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman