DRN-4449415
The complaint
EBS Pensions Limited trading as Embark Pensions (EP) administers Mr Js Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP). Its Group Company is the SIPPs Scheme Trustee (ST). Mr J is 
a joint/member trustee of the SIPP. He says EP initially agreed to allow the SIPP to fund 
planning application work for a farmland asset held within the SIPP, then it wrongly refused 
such funding after architect fees had been incurred (and remain unpaid) for the planning 
application.
EP disputes the complaint. It says its position is based on evidence that Mr Js project is not 
wholly for the benefit of the SIPP, and that it is partly for his personal benefit. It says this 
goes against the SIPP rules, and that it has tax liability and tax sanction implications that, as 
ST, it cannot knowingly expose the SIPP to. Mr J disagrees with this assessment.
What happened
In November 2022 Mr J submitted an invoice, related to the project, to EP for payment. 
Thereafter, EP queried the overall project concerning the farmland and both parties 
exchanged emails on the matter.
He explained to EP that work towards submission of a planning application, to build a private 
residence on the farmland, was being undertaken; that no construction was intended at the 
time; that the objective was to submit the application and, if successful, to use the resulting 
planning consent/permission to boost the value of the farmland (potentially fourfold); and that 
the architects engaged in the matter had carried out their work in good faith, so their 
outstanding invoice required urgent payment.
On 16 January 2023, EP confirmed the following to Mr J   the scheme can pay for 
residential planning permission costs. However, the land would need to be sold from the 
pension scheme prior to any development or works starting. 
On 8 February Mr J contacted EP to highlight that a specific outstanding invoice had not 
been paid since October 2022. He also said invoices from the architects remained unpaid. 
Later in the same month EP replied. It said its technical specialist had reviewed the planning 
documentation it had received, and it had identified a major concern. It noted that the plan 
specifically says the project is to build a home for Mr J and his family. 
It said this called into question the assets existence in the SIPP; that the SIPP could not 
fund substantial planning related costs for his personal benefit without facing the risk that 
such funding would constitute an unauthorised payment from the SIPP; and that such 
funding would also require them to notify HMRC of a taxable event, with tax liability and tax 
sanction implications.  
EP suggested that Mr J could fund the planning pursuit personally, but the land would need 
to be sold from the SIPP before any development works began.
Cross correspondence between the parties followed from this, including a complaint from   
Mr J, because he disagreed with EPs position. He said his intention, with planning consent 
secured, was to sell the land to an unrelated third party or to his company for development 
and renting, but he did not want the resulting house in his name for a specific reason (which 
he stated). 
He referred to the information in the planning documents about the house being built for him 
and his family, and said this was a claim introduced by the architects as something they 
thought could help with the presentation of the scheme. He also referred to his personal 
circumstances to say  its [sic] really not very likely that anything would be built for me and 
really the plan would be to sell the site with planning permission.
In addition, Mr J queried why EP had initially told him planning (and even construction work 
up to the point of achieving a certificate of habitation) could be funded by the SIPP, which 
led him to proceed with the project, only to change its position after some invoices had been 
paid but others remained unpaid.
EP did not uphold his complaint and retained the same position (and reasons) it had 
previously stated. It also said the following  
The first invoice Mr J referenced in his February email was paid in October 2022 (the 
same month the invoice was raised). 
With regards to the unpaid architects invoice, the SIPP can fund maintenance or 
development work on land asset held within it, provided they are wholly for the 
benefit of the SIPP; the development of an existing commercial property would 
normally not be an issue; and the SIPP can cover costs associated with obtaining 
planning permission, provided the project aim is wholly for commercial gain on 
behalf of the SIPP.
The verbal indication it gave at the outset, that the projects costs could be covered 
by the SIPP, resulted from the projects intentions not being fully understood during 
the relevant telephone conversation; the architects report it subsequently received 
explicitly confirmed that The house would be for [Mr J] and his family. 
This means the architects work benefits him regardless of whether (or not) the 
planning application is successful, that the SIPP is being asked to face planning risks 
on his behalf, that the costs are therefore not only for the benefit of the SIPP, and 
that meeting those costs (costs for a personal project) would be considered an 
unauthorised payment (with immediate and future tax implications).
It does not disagree that, with successful planning permission, the farmlands value 
could be increased, which should amount to a gain for the SIPP. However, if the 
planning application is unsuccessful there would be no such gain and the SIPP would 
have incurred a loss (in paying the associated costs) in pursuit of a dwelling that is 
intended, personally, for Mr J and his family. 
It has a duty to safeguard the SIPP from unnecessary risks, including the above 
planning outcome risk, and the risks of breaching the SIPPs and HMRCs rules it has 
referred to. It cannot knowingly put the SIPP in a position exposed to those risks, and 
a position where tax charges for an unauthorised payment will occur. 
For the above reasons, the SIPP will not pay the outstanding architects fees or any 
further fees connected with the project.
Mr J referred the matter to our service and one of our investigators looked into it. He concluded that the complaint should not be upheld and broadly agreed with the points made 
by EP. He mainly said  
Up to the paid October 2022 invoice, the SIPP had met invoices related to the project 
totalling around £10,300.
The architects report was sent to EP after its email of 16 January. The report 
confirms the project was to build a house for Mr J and his family. Despite his 
comments about how this claim arose, it was/is not unreasonable for EP to rely on 
the report and conclude that the project is for the purpose stated within it. That 
breached the SIPPs rules.
It also potentially breached HMRC rules  breach of HMRC rules prohibiting a 
pension scheme from directly or indirectly acquiring taxable property (including 
residential property). Such breach would lead to an unauthorised payment tax charge 
and a scheme sanction charge against the scheme administrator. In this context, 
EPs refusal to allow the SIPP to pay the relevant invoices is not unreasonable.
Mr J disagreed with this outcome and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
He maintained his core arguments. In addition, he said the investigator had quoted HMRC 
rules related to purchasing residential property, not to the development of land already 
owned by a SIPP (as in his case); that relevant HMRC rules allow a SIPP to fund such 
development up to when a certificate of occupation is issued, at which point the SIPP must 
sell the asset because it cannot hold residential property; that even if he were to buy the 
developed property he would have to pay full market value for it, so he obtains no benefit; 
that he regrets the architects report referring to the house being for him, when it was not, but 
he went along with that claim at the time; and that as sole beneficiary of the SIPP everything 
in it is ultimately for his personal benefit, so this defeats EPs argument.
We also received the architects evidence about the work it was engaged to perform, and its 
confirmation that it was never instructed to work beyond planning consent stage, so all costs 
incurred were related to the planning application only. They also said that reference to the 
house being for Mr J and his family was solely to establish a narrative and rationale for the 
design decisions, and to add credibility and detail to presentation of the plans at the Design 
Panel stage of the planning application process. They said the reference should not be given 
any greater significance than this.
EP was asked to comment on their evidence and, in response, it said the architects input 
added weight to its position. It considered that the architects were either saying they 
believed the house was/is intended for Mr J and his family or that their report said so without 
that being the intention at all; that the former supports its position, and the latter suggests an 
aim to potentially mislead the local authority in the application process; and that the latter 
also suggests that EP is being asked to allow itself and the SIPP to become complicit in a 
pursuit that raises ethical concerns.
The matter was referred to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and on balance, I do not find grounds to uphold Mr Js complaint.The issues in his case are limited to  
1. Consideration of whether (or not) the unpaid architects fees (part of the overall 
planning related costs of the project) can legitimately be funded from the SIPP  
legitimacy based on the relevant SIPP rules and HMRC rules.
2. If not, the case fails; but if so, the question that follows is whether (or not) EP, acting 
in its Group Companys capacity as ST, nevertheless made a reasonable decision to 
stop such funding from the SIPP. 
Reasonableness in the second consideration (above) inevitably stands in the context of the 
STs fiduciary responsibility towards the SIPP (and the SIPP only). In other words, 
regardless of whether (or not) the costs can legitimately be funded by the SIPP, is EPs 
position justified by its obligation to safeguard the SIPPs interests. This consideration is 
important because matters in this service are determined, in the wider sense, upon a fair and 
reasonable remit, so EPs overarching fiduciary role (in its Group Company ST capacity) 
towards the SIPP is important.
Can the SIPP legitimately fund the projects planning costs?
Mr J has made the point that some of these costs have already been met by the SIPP. EP 
does not dispute this, and the investigator summarised the total of such costs paid by the 
SIPP up to October 2022. It is not clear if Mr Js argument is that the payments that have 
been made sets a precedent that binds EP to allow further payments. If so, I disagree. 
EP did not have a problem in approving the SIPP payments when it understood that they 
related to the project as a commercial enterprise. Its position changed when it learnt about 
information which, it concluded, confirmed the project was a personal enterprise. The 
payments that were made happened prior to this discovery and its refusal to approve 
payments from the SIPP happened thereafter, so there was a pivotal change in 
circumstances that defeats the argument that EP was/is bound, by its past action, to 
continue the payments.
EPs position changed between January and February 2023, when it received and reviewed 
the architects report for the project. Relevant to the matter of legitimacy, its email of 16 
January said  the scheme can pay for residential planning permission costs. However, the 
land would need to be sold from the pension scheme prior to any development or works 
starting. This was stated clearly to Mr J and was not challenged by him at the time because 
it was all he needed. The reason being that, as he and the architects have confirmed, the 
project only went as far as pursuing planning consent. It did not, at the time, extend to 
development/construction work. 
He has argued that he was verbally told by EP that the SIPP could also cover 
development/construction work. He has also cited HMRC rules in this respect. For the same 
reason given above  that is, his project did not extend to construction work  I do not 
consider this argument to be relevant. Furthermore, as I mention below, the schemes rules 
include a clear statement on such work. 
EP also accepts that the SIPP could/can fund planning related work for the farmland, 
provided that it was/is only in the SIPPs interest. This is in line with the fiduciary duty that I 
have mentioned, and is in line with the SIPP terms. Section 4 of the terms document sets out 
key rules about investments within the SIPP. Mr J makes a valid point that his case is about 
costs associated with a land asset that is already within the SIPP, not about a fresh property 
investment in it. However, there are provisions within this section which are relevant to the fiduciary duty inherent in his case. A notable example is section 4.1, which gives a reminder 
of the duty owed by the SIPPs trustees to  act prudently, conscientiously and honestly 
when making decisions in respect of your SIPP and  at all times act in the best interest of 
your SIPP in your capacity as a trustee and not in any other capacity . 
I have noted Mr Js argument that he is the beneficiary of the SIPP, so everything done in it 
ultimately benefits him personally. He is indeed the SIPPs beneficiary. However, that does 
not dilute or remove the fact that, as far as the SIPPs trustees responsibilities are 
concerned, only the SIPPs interests are to be served. As quoted above, Mr J was required 
to serve only this interest in his capacity as member trustee, and he could not act in any 
other capacity (including that of beneficiary).
The SIPP schemes guidance document on commercial property works and development 
includes the following  
There should be a clear and genuine benefit to the scheme in carrying out the works. This 
would generally be by way of an uplift in the market value and rental value of the property, 
but may also include making a property more marketable for sale or let.
The Government has recently simplified the planning process relating to the conversion of 
commercial to residential property. However, the pension regulations have not changed. 
Consequently, Embark does not permit residential development or conversion as this would 
be deemed taxable property and attract penalties.
These scheme requirements are clearly reflected in the position that EP set out to Mr J. His 
project had to be only for the interest of the SIPP and EPs statement that the land needed to 
be sold prior to any development work matched the second quote above. Mr Js point about 
successful planning consent increasing the farmlands value and benefitting the SIPP is not 
in dispute. EP appears to have approved the SIPP payments on grounds inclusive of this 
element. 
However, the SIPPs rules require that the project serve only its interest. Whilst it remained a 
purely commercial pursuit for planning consent that would potentially increase the value of 
the SIPPs farmland asset, this requirement was met. Between January and February 2023 
EP became aware of evidence, directly from the architects, that showed otherwise.
EPs most recent point about the architects overall evidence is an important one. As it 
suggests, there appears to be no reading of that evidence that lends support to Mr Js case. 
The architects report clearly states that the house was/is intended for Mr J and his family. 
Either the architectural plans for the project were/are truthfully and specifically for building Mr 
Js and his familys home, or the reports statements in this respect were seemingly intended 
to mislead the planning application process. 
I do not consider it necessary to determine which was/is the case, because both create 
problems for Mr Js complaint. I will address the first in this section, and then the second in 
the section below (dealing with the reasonableness of EPs action). 
The premise is that the architects report was/is an official document produced by 
professionals as part of a formal planning application process for the project. On this basis, it 
is reasonable to conclude that its contents about the project can serve as reliable evidence. 
The report says the house was intended for Mr J and his family.
If the house was/is intended for Mr J and his family that automatically creates a personal 
interest. It does not matter that, at a future point, he would buy it from the SIPP at market 
value. At the point(s) that he needed the SIPP to cover the projects costs he would have been asking the SIPP to cover the costs of a project that potentially benefitted the SIPP in 
terms of the prospect of an increase in its farmlands value, but also benefitted him 
personally because he was using the SIPPs money to take a chance on what was 
essentially a personal (not commercial) planning application. 
This means the project was not only for the benefit of the SIPP. It was partly for the SIPPs 
benefit and partly for his (personal) benefit. As EP says, if the application failed only the 
SIPP would have borne the risks of such failure, and the costs. Mr J (personally) would have 
faced neither, yet there would have been a direct personal benefit to him if the application 
succeeded because he would have gained planning consent for what was to be his family 
home.
Overall, and for all the above reasons, I conclude that Mr Js SIPP could not legitimately fund 
his project costs after it became clear to EP, based on evidence it was entitled to rely upon, 
that the project was/is not only for the interest of the SIPP (and was partly for his personal 
benefit).
Did EP act reasonably in stopping funding for the project from the SIPP?
Based on my finding above, the straightforward answer to this question would be yes. In 
other words, it was reasonable for EP to stop the SIPP from funding Mr Js project costs 
because the SIPP could not legitimately fund those costs. Even if this conclusion is wrong, 
which I do not consider it is, the findings below refer to other reasons why it was still 
reasonable for EP to stop the SIPP from funding the projects costs.
First, I address the second implication of the architects report. 
If, as Mr J has argued, the home was never intended for him and his family and if, as the 
architects recent evidence appears to concede, the report misleadingly stated otherwise, 
then this creates an additional reason why association with the project was/is not in the 
SIPPs interest. 
As ST, EP and its Group Company were obliged to act prudently, conscientiously and 
honestly [my emphasis] when making decisions about the SIPP. The indication of potential 
dishonesty existed and was brought to EPs attention even before the architects recent 
evidence. Mr Js emails to EP in February contained broadly the same indication  whereby 
he denied and dispelled the notion that the house would be for him personally, and said this 
was known in the project but it was the architects idea to make that claim in the report.
As such, even if EP had decided to ignore the claim in the report  which, as I addressed 
above, it relied upon and was entitled to rely upon  it would have then been entitled to act 
on concern about the report potentially misleading the planning application process and 
concern about the SIPP being complicit in that. On this ground, it would have been 
reasonable for it to safeguard the SIPPs position and to distance the SIPP from the project. 
This would have happened around the same time that it stopped funding the project.
The planning risk mentioned above is another element that makes EPs decision reasonable. 
The idea of undertaking the risk of loss in an unsuccessful planning application (that is, loss 
in the sense of costs incurred) in return for the prospect of a benefit that serves only the 
SIPP is one thing. The idea of undertaking such risk where the potential benefit serves both 
the SIPP and Mr J (personally) is another. The personal potential benefit to Mr J in this 
respect is as I explained earlier. I understand his argument that EP could (or should) have 
focused on the potential benefit to the SIPP (the farmlands increased value) as being 
enough to justify funding of the projects costs. However, on balance, it was not 
unreasonable for it to make a judgment call on the matter  in its ST capacity  and to decide that it was not prepared to expose the SIPP to such risk, especially where Mr J stood 
to benefit personally but was not exposed to the same risk.
The same applies to the risks of a tax penalty and tax liability, where the SIPPs funding of 
the project is determined to have been an unauthorised payment and a taxable event. I am 
mindful of Mr Js challenges in this respect. He says such funding is permitted under HMRC 
rules, so no such risks exist. Even if the proposition is not as certain as EP says it is  
because HMRC action (presently or in the future) cannot always be predicted with certainty 
 the same can reasonably be said about Mr Js assertion that theres nothing to worry about 
[in simplified terms].
At the very least, given evidence in the architects report showing a personal interest in the 
project, the SIPPs continuation of its funding after such awareness created risks of the tax 
implications that EP referred to. HMRC cannot reasonably be expected to ignore evidence of 
the SIPPs funds being used for purposes outside the SIPP  or being used for an interest 
other than the SIPPs.
As EP said, it could not knowingly put the SIPP in a position exposed to all the above risks. 
They were risks it could foresee and determine at the time and risks it reasonably decided 
could not be justified, so they were avoidable risks that it had a fiduciary duty to protect the 
SIPP from  and that it helped the SIPP avoid. Overall and on balance, I do not consider it 
did anything wrong or unreasonable in its conduct. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman