DRN-4467936
The complaint
Mr and Ms Q complains that they missed out a new fixed interest rate product with Lloyds 
Bank PLC for their buy-to-let mortgage, despite being clear that they wished to secure that 
rate as soon as possible.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Q have a buy-to-let mortgage with Lloyds. On 29 September 2022, Ms Q spoke 
to Lloyds. She said she told Lloyds she wanted to switch products to a two-year fixed rate of 
4.16% and make a lump sum payment  but did not want to delay the switch to make the 
lump sum payment.
Mr and Mrs Q later discovered that they had not secured the 4.16% rate. When they spoke 
to Lloyds on 3 October the cheapest interest rate was 5.19%. Mr and Ms Q did not go ahead 
with that rate. They complain that Lloyds did not tell them interest rate products could be 
withdrawn without notice in a clear and timely way. They said if theyd been told that, they 
would have taken steps to secure the rate on 29 September 2022.
I issued a provisional decision saying that I intended to uphold the complaint in part. Subject 
to any further submissions, my provisional findings, which form part of this decision, were:
Ive listened to the relevant phone call between Ms Q and Lloyds on Thursday 29 September 
2022. I consider that it was clear from that Mrs Q wanted to secure the 4.16% fixed rate. 
Lloyds booked Mrs Q in for the next available appointment on Monday 3 October.
I asked Lloyds if there were any other channels available for Mr and Ms Q to secure a rate. It 
said that there were three possible options:
1. The adviser could arrange a new rate. But as he booked an appointment it was likely that 
he did not have capacity to do that. It was a very busy time for its mortgage department.
2. Book a follow up appointment.
3. Explain to Ms Q that they could speak to a mortgage adviser on its main phone line to 
secure a new rate. But it said that wait times were around four or five hours at that time. 
Bearing in mind Ms Q spoke to Lloyds at around 3.30pm, it would be too late for her to get 
through by 7pm on 29 September, which is the latest time to go through a full mortgage 
review and secure a new rate.
Bearing in mind what Ms Q said, and in view of Lloyds duty to give clear, fair and not 
misleading information, I dont consider Lloyds treated her fairly by only booking an 
appointment for the following week. It ought to have told her that she could try calling its 
phone line to arrange a new interest rate.
Usually where a business treats a borrower unfairly, I will try and put the borrower in the 
position they would have been in had they been treated fairly. So Im considering what Mr 
and Ms Q most likely would have done had they been told that they could either wait until 
Monday 3 October to arrange a new rate or try phoning Lloyds.
I asked Mr and Ms Q what they would have done. They said they were at home and 
available on both 29 and 30 September 2022 and they had the time to wait on speaker 
phone until Lloyds answered the phone.
I accept that Mr and Ms Q might have tried to phone Lloyds and that they had the time to do 
so. It doesnt necessarily follow that they would have got through to Lloyds. I am satisfied 
that its phone lines were extremely busy on both the 29 and 20 September 2022. While Mr 
and Ms Q said they were prepared to wait  four or five hours is a long time to wait on the 
phone. They might not have been able to wait that long, they might have been cut off or 
something else could have happened that meant they didnt get through or couldnt wait that 
long. And I consider that Lloyds was reasonably clear that rates could be withdrawn at any 
time.
Further, if Mr and Ms Q did get through to Lloyds, I understand they would have received 
advice and gone through a full application. We dont know what the outcome of that would 
have been  whether Lloyds would have recommended the 4.16% fixed rate or whether the 
application would have been approved.
Mr and Ms Q have not taken a new fixed rate  despite being given the opportunity to 
arrange one on 3 October. That was their decision, but I dont think it would be fair for me to 
say that Lloyds should compensate them for that decision. Where someone has suffered a 
financial loss, they cant recover that loss if they could have avoided or reduced it by taking 
reasonable steps to mitigate the loss.
Overall I do not consider it would be fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of this 
complaint to say that Lloyds should compensate Mr and Ms Q for losing out on the 4.16% 
rate. The evidence we have is not sufficient for me to conclude that they would have been 
able to speak to Lloyds on 29 or 30 September 2022 and even if they had what the outcome 
of any conversation would have been. And they have not taken reasonable steps to mitigate 
their loss.
In saying that, I have found that Lloyds did not treat Mr and Ms Q fairly. I must consider 
whether that has caused them distress and inconvenience and if so, what is fair 
compensation for that. Arguably, they have been saved some inconvenience  they havent 
had to wait on the phone for several hours or go through a full application. But they have had 
the trouble of pursuing this complaint. And I accept they have suffered upset and 
disappointment when they spoke to Lloyds on 3 October 2022 and they found out the 
interest rate they had missed out on the rate they wanted.
I cant make any award for any upset or worry caused by the increase in the interest rate on 
Mr and Ms Qs mortgage after 3 October 2022 as that was caused by their decision not to 
secure a fixed rate. In all the circumstances, I consider it would be fair for Lloyds to pay Mr 
and Ms Q £150 for any distress and inconvenience this matter has caused to them.
Lloyds said it had nothing to add and accepted my provisional findings. Mr and Ms Q did not 
accept my provisional decision. They reiterated that they would have been able to wait all 
day to get through to Lloyds to arrange a new rate  and would have been determined to 
secure the rate if theyd been given the correct information. 
Mr and Ms Q said they didnt want to compensate things by going to a different lender  and 
they didnt take the 5.16% rate as they didnt think the base rate would rise to that level. . 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered everything that both sides have said and provided  including Mr and Ms Qs 
reply to my provisional decision. But after considering everything Im not going to change the 
findings I reached in my provisional decision.
I dont consider that Lloyds treated Mr and Ms Q fairly by not properly explaining all of the 
options available to them to secure a new interest rate product. But to be able to say that Lloyds should offer them that rate, Id need to find that if theyd been given the correct 
information, they would have been able to get through to Lloyds by phone. The evidence I 
have is that the wait times were over four hours. While I accept that with hindsight Mr and 
Ms Q have told us they would have been prepared to wait, its not clear that they could have 
or that there would not have been any other problems in getting through to Lloyds.
Even if I could say that they would have got through on the phone, I would then need to find 
that Mr and Ms Qs application would have been successful. I know Mr and Ms Q think that 
was a formality, but no application has been made. I dont have sufficient evidence to say 
that if they did manage to get through to Lloyds, what interest rate would have been 
recommended or if application would have been approved.
I note Mr and Ms Qs reasons why they didnt mitigate their loss and their point that we could 
compensate them for the difference between the 4.16% fixed rate they wanted and the 
5.19% fixed rate they turned down. But for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont consider 
that would be a fair outcome. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr and Ms Q £150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q and Ms Q to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman