DRN-1539718
The complaint
Mr S complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his account, and recorded markers 
against his name on national fraud databases.
What happened
At the end of August 2018, the balance on Mr Ss Barclays account was just over £1. On 4 
September 2018, a credit was made to Mr Ss account for £4,709.54. The money was 
withdrawn immediately through a cash withdrawal and two bill payments.
On 10 September, another credit was made to Mr Ss account, for £8,766.55. A cash 
withdrawal and two bill payments were again made immediately.
 
On 15 September 2018, Barclays wrote to Mr S saying it had reviewed his account and was 
unable to continue as his bankers. The letter said that Mr Ss account would be closed 
immediately, in line with section 11 of the terms and conditions of his account.
In late March 2019, Mr S complained to Barclays. He said hed been ill with depression in 
2016, and had lost his job in 2017, so hed been using his Barclays card less and less. He 
confirmed he hadnt shared his security details or PIN with anyone. Mr S said that because 
of his depression, hed been unable to read his letters, including the one Barclays had sent 
him in September 2018.
Mr S said hed felt better in January 2019 and had discovered that hed lost his bank card, 
and that hed been a victim of some sort of fraud. Mr S said hed assumed that the reason 
Barclays had closed his account in September 2018 was that he hadnt used his account 
much. He was unhappy that Barclays closure letter hadnt said the reason was alleged 
fraud. Mr S had discovered Barclays had recorded his name on national fraud databases, 
which meant he couldnt open any bank account or have any sort of employment.
Barclays didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said it couldnt remove the markers without more 
information from Mr S. It said it had sent two letters asking him for more information. And 
Barclays had also phoned the home number recorded for Mr S, when someone had said it 
was a wrong number. It had also tried the work number recorded for Mr S, which hadnt 
been answered. 
Barclays said that it had used strict internal review processes, but it couldnt give Mr S 
information about those guidelines. It refused to remove the fraud markers. But it offered Mr 
S £100 as it had taken time to respond to his complaint.
Mr S complained to this service. He said hed lost his bank card, and some sort of fraud had 
been done with his account. Mr S said that all of a sudden hed found out that Barclays had 
put a fraud marker against him and closed his account. He now couldnt open any UK 
account, which was causing him stress. He said it meant he couldnt get a proper job.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. He noted that Mr S had said he hadnt used 
the account for some time as he hadnt been working. But Barclays had sent us Mr Ss bank 
statements, which showed regular transactions, cash machine withdrawals, online transfers 
in and out of the account throughout 2018. And Mr S had said he hadnt used online banking 
for a while  but the information from Barclays had shown regular successful logins 
throughout 2018. This included two new payees being set up, using the right security details 
and PIN. Those payees had been beneficiaries after the fraudulent payments had been paid 
in.
The investigator said hed taken into account Mr Ss personal circumstances at the time, but 
the payments into and out of the account could only have been made by someone with 
knowledge of the account, not just a lost card.
When he received the investigators view, Mr S said that at the time, hed been having an 
affair, and when he was staying at her home she would take his card to buy drink and 
tobacco for him. Mr S said hed kept asking his wife to send him money and shed made 
payments into his account, up to August 2018. Mr S said the lady hed been having an affair 
with then stole his card and left.
The investigator replied that wed expect to see police reports if a third party had used Mr Ss 
account and stolen his card and money. He couldnt understand why Mr S would have asked 
his wife to pay money into an account over which he had no control. And even if the 
transactions had been carried out by the lady with whom Mr S had had an affair, what Mr S 
had said indicated that shed only been able to do so with Mr Ss agreement.
Mr S replied that he hadnt known the lady had his card, and thought it was just at home 
somewhere. He said that nothing credited his Barclays account after the last time his wife 
paid money in. And he said that if the lady had his online banking details and PIN, she could 
have done anything. Mr S said the investigator wasnt very experienced and was confusing 
him by putting different stories without proof. He asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Ss complaint in two parts: whether Barclays acted unfairly when it closed 
Mr Ss account; and whether it acted unfairly when it recorded the markers against him. 
Closing Mr Ss account
Barclays letter telling Mr S that it was closing his account said that it was doing so:
under Section 11, page 30 of the Retail Customer agreement (Terms and Conditions), a 
copy of which can be obtained by visiting the following link  [link given]. Alternatively, you 
can obtain a copy from your local branch or we can send you a copy on request.
The relevant section quoted by Barclays sets out that there are some circumstances when 
the bank can close an account immediately. This includes where the bank has reasonable 
grounds for thinking the customer has done one of a number of things, including.:
- you commit (or attempt) fraud against us or someone else;
-you use (or allow someone else to use) your account illegally or for criminal activity
-you inappropriately let someone else use your account.
When Barclays closed Mr Ss account, it had been notified that a fraudulent payment had 
credited Mr Ss account, and Ive seen that notification. The money from that fraudulent had 
been taken out immediately. Thats common with fraudulent payments, because fraudsters want to access the money before the fraud can be discovered and withdrawals blocked. So I 
consider that Barclays had reasonable grounds to believe that Mr Ss account hadnt been 
used in accordance with the terms and conditions. So I find that Barclays acted fairly when it 
closed Mr Ss account.
Recording fraud markers against Mr Ss name
Organisations which belong to fraud prevention membership organisations have a 
responsibility to report suspicious incidents. Such organisations maintain a large database, 
in order to protect financial organisations and their customers against fraud. Recording a 
marker involves a strict test, and the website for one of these organisations, CIFAS, explains 
that the criteria for putting a marker on the database include:
- There are reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or relevant conduct has been 
committed or attempted;
- The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police or a relevant regulatory 
body. 
As Ive set out above, Barclays had been notified that two credits to Mr Ss account had 
been fraudulently obtained. And the money had been taken out immediately, which is 
common in cases of fraud. 
I also note that Mr S didnt contact Barclays as soon as Barclays sent a letter saying it was 
closing his account with immediate effect. Id expect someone who received that sort of letter 
to have contacted the bank immediately, if they didnt know the reason. But Mr S 
subsequently said that hed been ill at that time, and hadnt opened any post, so I accept that 
he wasnt well enough to do so.  
However, even accepting that Mr S hadnt been well enough to contact Barclays when it sent 
the closure letter, there are still problems with his account about what happened. 
Thats because Mr S hasnt been consistent in what hes said, either to Barclays or to this 
service. For example, he initially said no-one could have accessed his security details. Later, 
he changed this and said the person with whom hed had an affair had had his card and took 
money out. 
Mr S also said that he hadnt been using the account, and didnt know when hed last used it. 
But when the investigator obtained the account statements from Barclays, which showed a 
steady stream of withdrawals and credits, Mr S changed what hed said. It was only at that 
point that he first told us about his wife making credits as hed asked her to, to fund his 
drinking and smoking, and he said that the lady with whom he was having an affair was 
taking out money. 
As Mr Ss story of what happened varied over time, I dont find his version credible. Even if 
the last version was correct, and the card and transactions were carried out by the person 
with whom hed had an affair, its clear that Mr S allowed her to have the card and his full 
security details. A card just being lost, and perhaps picked up by a thief, couldnt account for 
the transactions on Mr Ss account, because full security details would have been needed. 
So I find that Mr S consented to the transactions, meaning hes responsible for them.
The evidence I have indicates that it was either Mr S, or someone to whom he gave his 
security details, who was responsible for the incoming fraudulent payments and the 
immediate withdrawals. In these circumstances, I consider that Barclays acted fairly and reasonably when it recorded fraud prevention markers against Mr Ss name. I do not require 
Barclays to remove these markers.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman