DRN-3175728
The complaint
Miss B is complaining that the car she bought through a hire purchase (PCP) agreement
from MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo) was not of suitable quality.  
What happened
 Miss B went to a local car dealership on 28 July 2019 and asked them to find her a specific
car. She knew the make, and particular model that she wanted. They did not have the exact
car in stock at the local dealership but identified one online at another dealer. She confirmed
this was the type of car she wanted, and the dealer arranged to move it to their showroom so
she could buy it.
Miss B says she queried the shading of the paintwork when viewing it online but was told
that what looked like a different shade on the door panel was in fact just to do with the light
in the showroom where the photograph had been taken.
The following day, when the car had arrived, Miss B was invited back to the showroom to
complete the paperwork to purchase the car. The car was a little under 3 years old and had
covered around 36,000 miles. The cash price was around £20,000 to be financed over a 4-
year PCP agreement.
When she had arrived that afternoon, she says she had been taken upstairs without viewing
the car to complete the paperwork. As it was approaching the end of the day and the
paperwork wasnt complete, she had to arrange to come back again the following day to
finish it and collect the car. Miss B says she had not viewed the car at this stage, other than
online.
The following day she came back, completed the formalities and was given the keys. Miss B
says the car was parked under a canopy so not in the daylight, and her focus was on
working out how it worked so she could drive it away, which she did.
Over the following days and weeks, Miss B became concerned after talking to other friends
and family about the colour of the paintwork. It seemed a panel did not match the rest of the
car. This became more obvious after she washed the car, at which point she queried this
with the dealership. She has told us that their response was to suggest that the panel had
been repainted, but that it just needed to be exposed to sunlight for a while, and the colour
would match the rest of the car.
Miss B was concerned with this as it did not appear to be happening, and in October 2019
complained to MotoNovo. At this time, she had also been having some mechanical issues
with the car, so complained about the quality of the car including both the mechanical issues,
and the paintwork. Miss B has confirmed to us that she had ongoing mechanical issues for a
few months, but these were all dealt with through her warranty she had purchased, and she
has no ongoing complaint about these issues.
MotoNovo responded in November 2019 saying that the independent ACE report they had
commissioned showed no mechanical issues. And with regards to the paintwork, the
photographs of the vehicle showed a slightly different shade, and Miss B had signed the
Purchasers Certificate of Exemption to accept the car. They said as this was a purely
cosmetic issue, that she had accepted at point of sale, there was nothing they could do.
An investigator here investigated Miss Bs complaint, and upheld in her favour, saying that
the car was not of satisfactory quality. They felt that to put things right, the business should
arrange to respray the panel to match the rest of the car. The business did not agree with
this view. They feel that the customer had the opportunity to inspect the car further and
signed a certificate confirming that they accepted the car in its current condition, so they
asked for an Ombudsman to make a final decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 5 November 2021. My provisional findings were as follows:
Miss B has provided the photographs from the internet that she saw prior to purchase, as
well as her own photographs taken after she bought the car. It is clear that the rear driver
side door panel is a slightly different shade to the rest of the paintwork. Miss B has explained
why she had been unable to properly view the car prior to purchase. She also presented
testimony explaining what shed been told when she did query this both before and after
purchase with the dealership. No evidence has been presented which disputes this
testimony.
The testimony from the customer is persuasive. Miss B presents a full explanation as to how
she has ended up driving away in the car without having examined the paintwork. Her
explanation also explains how all the paperwork was signed before she had even seen the
car, so she hadnt had the chance to examine it when she signed the certificate to accept it.
The timeline she presents and the questions she asked along the way are plausible and I
give this evidence significant weight.
The business feels that she could have inspected the car further and has signed to accept it
in its existing state. I agree that she could have inspected it further. However, she was
buying a £20,000 car, where shes provided the specific details of the car she wants. It would
also be reasonable to expect the dealer to highlight any issued with the car that meant it
perhaps didnt meet the specification she had given them, such as an issue with the
paintwork.
MotoNovo are responsible for the information provided to Miss B by the dealership, the
broker in this agreement. There is no evidence that they highlighted the discrepancy with the
paint, either in their dealings with Miss B, or when the car was advertised for sale.
I have considered the Consumer Rights Act 2015 when investigating this complaint. It talks
about the quality of the goods being purchased needing to meet the standard that a
reasonable person would consider satisfactory. In this case, the car was less than 3 years
old, and Miss B was paying around £20,000. There is no evidence that it was being sold with
the paintwork issue having been highlighted to potential customers, or that the price had
been discounted or reduced to reflect this issue. I believe that in this specific case, a
reasonable person would expect the paintwork to be matching on all panels.
I do not believe the car was of satisfactory quality therefore. But while this agrees with the
view previously issued, I have concerns about how this should be put right. The view issued
suggested that the one panel should be resprayed by the business to match the rest of the
car. But I have concerns that this may leave Miss B in the same situation.
It can be difficult to match a panel respray to existing paintwork. I think its fair to say this has
already been proven when the panel in question would appear to have been resprayed prior
to Miss B purchasing the car. I am sure the respray then attempted to match the existingpaintwork, but it hasnt been successful.
I asked Miss B what she felt she would have done at the time of purchase, had she been
aware of the paint issue before buying the car. She said she would not have bought the car,
and that she feels that the business should respray the whole car now to put this right.
I dont feel it is fair and proportionate to expect the business to pay for a full respray of the
car. Similarly, Miss B has been using the car for a long time, so rejecting the car also does
not feel proportionate in these circumstances for something which is a cosmetic issue and
has not prevented her using the car.
Having considered the options for the business to put this right, I think a partial refund to
Miss B to recognise the condition of the car at time of sale is the fairest outcome.
In summary, to fairly and reasonably settle the complaint, my provisional decision is that
MotoNovo should pay Miss B £750. This reflects the equivalent of a reduction in the
purchase price, to compensate for the paintwork not being of satisfactory quality.
Both MotoNovo and Miss B now have until the due date set out above to send in any further
information or comments, should they wish to do so, before I make my final decision.
My provisional decision
Subject to any further submissions received by the due date, my provisional decision is that I
will be upholding the complaint and instructing MotoNovo Finance Limited to pay Miss B
£750.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B responded to my provisional decision. She feels that its no longer just one panel of 
the car which has the same issues with the paintwork and wasnt sure how the figure of £750 
had been calculated when compared to the payments due on the agreement or the cost of a 
total respray. Motonovo have not responded to my provisional decision with any comments.  
Miss B has sent further photos of the car paintwork, but Im not persuaded that there are 
further issues with the paintwork that relate to this complaint. The pictures provided when 
she raised the complaint were clear; there was one panel which had a slightly different 
shade of paint, and I am satisfied, as Ive described above, that Miss B wasnt able to have 
seen this before acquiring the car. 
The additional photos are of different panels and are different to the photos provided 
originally when raising the complaint. None of the further issues she raises now are evident 
in the original photos, and the photos are not clear as to what the problem with the paintwork 
is, or indeed how it might have developed. It certainly doesnt appear to be the same 
problem that she raised with the one panel originally; that was a slightly different shade of 
paint, this appears to be more damage or wearing of the paint. 
As it is now over 2 years since the car was supplied, and Miss B has been using the car for 
this time, Im not persuaded that the evidence shows any further issues which were present 
or developing at the point of sale. There could be other reasons that have occurred since 
Miss B acquired the car which have caused different issues with the paintwork, such as how 
and where the car has been kept or been standing. But no evidence has been provided that these issues can be linked back to the quality of the paintwork at the point of sale. As such, I 
cant hold Motonovo responsible for any further issues with different parts of the paintwork. 
Miss B also queries how the £750 figure has been calculated. As I explain above from my 
provisional decision, I dont think it would be fair or proportionate to expect Motonovo to 
respray the whole car. And Im concerned that asking Motonovo to respray one panel might 
leave Miss B with the same issues she has had up to this point. 
The car has been used by Miss B now for over 2 years. Im sorry that the case has taken this 
long to progress through to this final decision, but I think a payment to Miss B of £750 is a 
fair compromise for the issue with the paintwork. It recognises that the car was worth 
inherently less than she agreed to pay for it at the point of sale due to the issue with the 
paintwork on the one panel when she acquired the car. Its not linked to the costs of the 
monthly payments or the balloon payment to own the car at the end. 
I accept this isnt a perfect solution, but as I have explained to Miss B during this 
investigation, there isnt a clear and obvious fair resolution to this complaint for both parties. I 
am satisfied that the award of £750 is a suitable compromise which recognises the 
difficulties in this specific case and gives a fair outcome. 
Putting things right
Motonovo Finance Limited should pay Miss B £750 compensation for the unsatisfactory 
quality of the paintwork.   
My final decision
I am upholding the complaint and instruct Motonovo Finance Limited to put things right as 
detailed above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman