DRN-4481921
The complaint
Mrs H as personal representative on behalf of the estate of the late Mr H, complains that 
Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to transfer capital from the late Mr Hs ISA to an 
alternative ISA as instructed resulting in the loss of tax advantages for the beneficiary.
What happened
Mr H held an ISA and one other account with Barclays. Mr H died in November 2021 Mrs H 
(Mr Hs surviving spouse) notified Barclays of Mr Hs death. 
Barclays wrote to Mrs H on 6 December 2021 and within its letter explained that a surviving 
spouse can use the ISA allowance built up by their spouse. To do this they would apply for 
an additional permitted subscription (APS) allowance.  The allowance would be the value 
of Mr Hs ISA at the date of his death or if the ISA is subsequently closed the value on the 
date it was closed. The value of Mr Hs ISA at the date of his death was £101,020.33.  
Barclays explains that if Mrs H would like to use this allowance, she could do so by visiting 
one of its branches with certain identity documents and it would help her apply for a new ISA 
with it or another provider. Barclays also enclosed a closure form for Mr Hs accounts which 
asks for details of where funds are to be released and instructs to please return to; Barclays 
Bereavement Team.
Mrs H attended one of Barclays branches with the requisite identity documents and 
completed a closure form providing her account details for where funds were to be released.
A few months later on 6 April Mrs H wrote to Barclays Bereavement Service Centre 
enclosing Letters of Administration confirming her authority to deal with Mr Hs estate. Mrs H 
confirms that Mr Hs ISA is being transferred to her stockbrokers to be added to her ISA in 
accordance with the rules and asks whether they should contact the Bereavement Service 
Centre to make the appropriate arrangements or some other area of Barclays. Mrs H also 
instructs Barclays to transfer the balance of the other account to the former joint account 
held.
On 8 April Mrs H sends a further letter enclosing the completed APS application form 
provided by her stockbrokers instructing Barclays to transfer the late Mr Hs ISA to her new 
ISA held with them. Within the letter Mrs H says I trust the form has been completely 
correctly & will be sent direct to my Stockbrokers. Should you need to send this to another 
office for completion, please do so.
Barclays responds to Mrs H on 25 April saying that the funds from the account Mrs H 
requested to be closed would be sent to the account listed on the completed closure form 
and that if the ISA is being transferred to her under the APS this would fall under a Customer 
Service process and to contact them directly to assist with her query.
Mrs H responded to Barclays on 20 June explaining that she didnt understand what its letter 
meant and asked Barclays again to clarify who she should contact.
Following this Barclays Bereavement team wrote to Mrs H on 20 July confirming it had 
closed Mr Hs accounts including the ISA and paid the proceeds into the account nominated 
on its closure form by Mrs H. 
Mrs H complained to Barclays that it failed to follow her instructions.
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. It believes it provided the correct guidance on how to 
transfer the funds to an ISA account and have been unable to identify a bank error. It says 
as the ISA where Mrs H requested it to transfer the funds to wasnt held with Barclays that it 
needed the financial institute that holds the ISA to contact it to arrange the transfer. As it 
didnt hear from Mrs H or her ISA provider it followed its account closure process and Mr Hs 
estate funds were paid into one of Mrs Hs accounts as advised in the bereavement form 
signed by Mrs H.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Hs concerns and reached the conclusion that 
Barclays had made an error in not passing on the completed APS form to the appropriate 
department or properly informing Mrs H of the correct process to follow. They thought to 
resolve the issue Barclays should put Mr Hs estate in the place it would be in had the 
application been processed correctly and pay £200 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused.
Barclays disagreed, it says Mrs H sent the APS form to the wrong department and that it had 
told Mrs H in its letter it needed to be sent to its customer service team. Barclays says its 
bereavement team wouldnt have returned the APS form as part of its processes and that it 
is an inbound processing department only and wouldnt return any documents that were 
received unless a call was made to it. Barclays have asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 9 November 2023. In my provisional decision, 
I explained why I was proposing uphold the estate of Mr Hs complaint but my direction for 
redress was different from that of our investigators. I invited both parties to let me have any 
further submissions before I reached a final decision. Both parties confirm they have 
received my provisional decision and while Barclays accepts my decision, Mrs H on behalf of 
Mr Hs estate does not.  Mrs H hasnt offered any new evidence that hasnt already been 
considered but says technically the complaint was raised in her name and that I only 
condensed the complaint to Mr Hs estate and that her complaint also needs to be 
considered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that:
I hope that Mrs H wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed this complaint in the 
way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Our rules allow me to do that. And the crux of 
the complaint is that Barclays failed to carry out instructions to transfer the late Mr Hs ISA to 
a new ISA provider resulting in Mrs H losing the tax advantages that would have come had 
Barclays followed her instructions. 
And having considered everything, Im currently minded to uphold this complaint for the 
following reasons.
Although I think Barclays made Mrs H aware that she could use the late Mr Hs ISA allowance and may have followed its processes correctly in dealing with the closure of Mr 
Hs accounts. I think it failed to provide Mrs H with the level of service needed to deal with Mr 
Hs ISA in the way she wished and informed Barclays of.
My understanding is that in order for Mrs H to utilise Mr Hs ISA allowance the following 
needed to happen:
1. Mrs H needed to open an ISA with a provider;
2. Mrs H needed to complete an APS form;
3. Mrs Hs ISA provider would then contact Barclays who would send the funds (in this 
case the proceeds of Mr Hs ISA) to the provider and the transaction would be 
complete. 
I accept that Barclays did inform Mrs H in its letter dated 25 April that transferring the ISA fell 
under a customer service process and she needed to contact it to transfer the ISA. But by 
this point Mrs H had already completed steps one and two and I think made it clear what her 
intentions were and had asked Barclays for clarification who to send the form to, as well as 
instructing it to forward the form on her behalf to the correct office for completion. 
Barclays say that its bereavement team is an inbound processing department only and dont 
return forms as part of its processes. This well may be the case, but I cant see that Mrs H 
was ever made aware of this and I fail to see why it wasnt possible for Barclays to forward 
the form as instructed in Mrs Hs letter of 8 April to the appropriate department or explain to 
Mrs H that it wasnt able to do this. I can also see that Mrs H responded to Barclays letter of 
25 April on 20 June saying that she didnt understand what its letter meant and asked 
Barclays again to clarify who she should contact  yet I cant see that Barclays ever 
responded. 
But I think the real failing on Barclays behalf is that when it didnt hear further from Mrs H - 
despite Mrs H making it clear of her wish to transfer the proceeds of Mr Hs ISA and 
allowance to her ISA provider (her stockbrokers) - it went ahead and closed the ISA and paid 
the proceeds to the account  nominated on its closure form going against Mrs H instructions 
and without giving her the opportunity to put in place the actions she needed to take to 
ensure she received the benefit of the additional allowance. 
If Barclays had simply checked with Mrs H where she wished the funds to go to before it 
paid out the ISA, I think this error could have been avoided and the correct process followed 
for transferring the late Mr Hs ISA to the new provider. As a result of this error Mrs H has 
potentially lost out on receiving the tax advantages that wouldve come with receiving Mr Hs 
ISA allowance and if that becomes the case that is most unfortunate.  
Usually, if I make a finding that a business has done something wrong or treated a customer 
unfairly Id ask it to put the customer  in this case the estate of Mr H  in the position it 
would be in if the mistake hadnt happened. In this case I cant see that Mr Hs estate has 
lost out financially because of Barclays failings  Mrs H has. Indeed, Mr Hs estate is in the 
same place it wouldve been in had the ISA been transferred to another provider. I 
appreciate Mrs H is a beneficiary of Mr Hs estate and the recipient of the proceeds of Mr Hs 
ISA and that she has potentially lost out in receiving a tax benefit. But Mrs H isnt the eligible 
complainant here. The customer who held the ISA in question with Barclays is Mr Hs estate.
So that being the case  and I know this will be disappointing for Mrs H - I dont think there is 
anything more for Barclays to do here as there hasnt been any loss to Mr Hs estate. 
Though I am mindful of the fact that Barclays bereavement teams failure to provide an adequate service has caused some administrative inconvenience and so for that I currently 
think Barclays should pay the estate of Mr H £150. 
Mrs H says that I have condensed this complaint to only look at Mr Hs estate complaint and 
that her complaint also needs to be looked at. And Mrs H is correct  I have only looked at 
the estate of Mr Hs complaint. As explained in my provisional decision Mr Hs estate is the 
eligible complainant and Mrs H merely brought the complaint on behalf of the estate as 
personal representative. If Mrs H wishes to raise a complaint herself separately with 
Barclays  she is of course free to do so  but the remit of my decision is restricted to the 
estate of Mr Hs estate. 
So it follows as neither party has provided any further new evidence or arguments for 
consideration, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional 
decision. It follows that I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold the estate of Mr Hs complaint and direct Barclays 
Bank UK PLC pay the estate £150 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman