DRN-3997372
The complaint
Mr K says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for 
a mortgage.
What happened
Mr K took out a PPI policy for a mortgage in 2005. Mr K paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered him in case he was off work sick or 
lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ks case. 
Ive found that Mr Ks PPI policy was not mis-sold  Ill explain why.
From the records of the sale, I can see that Mr K requested advice on protecting his 
mortgage. The advisor recommended he take PPI  and this was only a recommendation, 
not a requirement. Mr K turned down a different product that the advisor recommended, so it 
seems he knew he had a choice. Its recorded that Mr K was offered a choice about whether 
hed like PPI or not, and that he chose to take it. And Mr K signed the record of the advice to 
confirm what was on there. He also set up a direct debit specifically to pay for his new 
insurance, separately to paying for the mortgage itself  the PPI was not part and parcel of 
the mortgage. And before this, Mr K had already had a mortgage with HSBC for some time 
without PPI, so he wouldve known he didnt need to take PPI to be granted a mortgage. 
Overall, I think that HSBC made Mr K aware he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that 
he chose to take it at the time.
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr K, so it had to check it was right for him. And based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks like Mr K 
was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. 
The policy had a normal deferral period, which I do not think was onerous as the cover was 
there for long-term sickness and unemployment, and the period was short enough that Mr K 
would not have got into any significant arrears before the PPI kicked in. Mr K didnt have any 
other significant cover aside from the very limited statutory benefits, which potentially left him 
at serious risk without PPI. Its worth keeping in mind that if Mr K had fallen significantly 
behind on his mortgage, he couldve lost his home. So the PPI could have really been useful 
for him in protecting his home and providing some peace of mind.
I understand Mr K tried to claim on the PPI in 2020, and that his claim was declined. And 
I understand he feels that because of this, he never could have claimed. But Mr Ks 2020 
claim was declined because he had since become self-employed and he had not ceased 
trading before trying to claim, and because he was receiving substantial government aid 
relating to the Covid pandemic. None of that was relevant back in 2005 when he applied for 
the PPI, since at that time he was an employee and the pandemic had not happened. Mr K 
suggested that his statutory sick pay or redundancy pay-out would have stopped him from 
claiming  but I hope I can assure him thats not the case. The PPI would have paid out in 
addition to his statutory benefits. There were no exclusions for those benefits, and Mr K was 
not affected by any of the other key exclusions at the time of the sale, either.
The cost and benefit of the policy were set out clearly. So I think Mr K wouldve understood 
how much he would need to pay for it, and what it would pay out in a successful claim.
It is possible that HSBC didnt point out all the main things the policy wouldnt cover. But as 
I said above, at the time of the sale Mr K doesnt appear to have been affected by any of 
those things. So I dont think better information about the exclusions was likely to have put 
him off taking out the cover at the time.
Mr K also complained about the commission on the policy, referencing the Plevin rules. But 
Im afraid those considerations are not relevant in this particular case. Thats because the 
rules about commission only apply to certain types of credit covered by the Consumer Credit 
Act. Here, Mr Ks mortgage was whats known as a regulated mortgage, which were not 
covered by the Consumer Credit Act. So the Plevin rules about commission dont apply in 
this case.
Lastly, Mr K pointed out that weve made banks refund lots of other PPI policies, and I do 
understand why he raised this. But not all PPI policies were mis-sold. Different policies 
worked in different ways, were suitable in different circumstances, were sold using different 
methods at different times, and so on. So while some PPI policies were mis-sold, others 
were not. We look at each case on its individual merits, and Ive explained above why I have 
not found this particular policy to have been mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman