DRN-4427042
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund the money she lost to an 
investment.
What happened
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points, and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
In September 2016, Mrs W received information or advice from a financial adviser to invest 
money into an investment - with an organisation I will refer to as G. She initially sent a faster 
payment of £45,000 and later in April 2017, a cheque for £66,000. Both payments were not 
made directly to G but to an organisation I will refer to as B. Mrs W received some returns 
from the investment during 2017-2018. The company then announced it had gone into 
liquidation.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. Whilst he thought the amounts warranted 
intervention by Lloyds, he didnt think any intervention by the bank would have made a 
difference in this case as G looked to be a genuine company at the time.
Mrs W did not accept the investigators conclusions, so the case has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulatory rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
I have carefully noted the representations made by all the parties, but I wont be addressing 
every single point thats been raised. No disrespect is intended, and it doesnt follow that the 
points havent been considered, simply that I dont need to particularise every point in 
reaching an outcome I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Ive 
instead concentrated on the issues I think are central to the outcome of this complaint.
I note G has been dissolved. However, it seems that the outcome to whether this is a scam 
or not is not currently known. But I dont need to wait for that outcome, nor do I need to make 
a finding on this - to reach an overall outcome that I consider to be fair and reasonable in this 
particular case.
A cheque is not considered a payment service under the previous or present Payment 
Service Regulations (PSRs), so the provisions of those regulations do not apply to this type 
of payment.
The starting position is that the bank is expected to process payments that a customer 
instructs it to make without undue delay. So, presented with a cheque drawn or a faster 
payment, in accordance with the terms of the contract, a bank must process the payment 
unless there are legal, regulatory or contractual grounds which may, in exceptional 
circumstances, allow refusal of a payment instruction. 
At the time, Mrs W made the payment in branch for £45,000 and later, when she signed the 
cheque for £66,000, she intended to pay B believing she was making a valid investment and 
there was no mistake made in the execution of the payments  Lloyds was complying with 
Mrs Ws instructions. So, under the terms and conditions of the account, Mrs W is presumed 
liable for any loss in the first instance.
However, a bank may be in breach of its duty of care by not acting adequately or at all on 
information that would or should have triggered fraud alerts and systems required for the 
proper conduct of business.  
I dont consider there to be a material difference between the reasonable, good-practice 
requirements on firms when processing cheques or faster payments when it comes to 
monitoring accounts for the prevention of financial crime and having adequate systems and 
controls in place to prevent misappropriation of funds. 
Lloyds says the cheque and faster payment were payable to B. Mrs W did not make any 
payments to G directly.
If Lloyds had intervened on the payment, I dont think it would have made a difference in this 
case broadly for the reasons the investigator previously outlined  which I have expanded on 
below.
Causation is a critical determination factor in every fraud case. I need to be satisfied that 
suitable intervention would have made a difference to Mrs Ws decision making or that 
Lloyds could have reasonably prevented the loss. In doing so, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  so what I consider more likely than not based on the evidence and 
wider circumstances of the case.
Mrs W made the payment to B. The payment was going to a legitimate destination. If 
questions had been asked about the nature and purpose of the payment Mrs W was 
proposing to make, I think its more likely than not that Mrs W would have explained she was 
investing in G - itself a UK registered company and recommended by her financial adviser. 
Whilst I appreciate Mrs W might have researched things more  I dont think the investment 
would have been cause for concern at the point of transfer or the events that have now 
transpired with G foreseeable. Mrs W was making a payment to B which appeared to be 
legitimate. If Lloyds had probed further, it might have discovered that Mrs W was making an 
investment with an organisation (G). Records held with Companies House indicate G was a 
genuine limited company that was incorporated in 2007 and was actively trading (with no 
suggestion of liquidation) at the time Mrs W sent her money to W. So, the payment didnt 
look like fraud or a scam and it would have needed a considerable amount of investigation to 
unearth the facts about G that have now come to light (and which even now seem 
inconclusive after a considerable amount of time). So, I dont think Lloyds ought reasonably 
to have cause for concern.
Im sorry Mrs W has lost a considerable amount of money and I can understand why she 
would like to be compensated for her losses. But Im only considering whether the bank 
should be held responsible for what happened here, and I dont think that it should.My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman