DRN-4064048
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain QIC Europe Ltd has unfairly declined a claim theyve made on their 
buildings insurance policy following a leak from an underground pipe at their property. 
What happened
QIC is the underwriter of the policy, i.e. it is the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents which QIC accepts it is accountable for. Any reference to QIC includes 
the actions of its agent. 
Mr E has led the complaint with this Service on behalf of himself and his wife, so Ive mainly 
referred to him throughout.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary 
here.
Mr Es local water authority (LWA) noted a high level of water consumption at his 
property and following investigation, it seemed there was likely a water leak on Mr 
Es side of the water supply. 
Mr E reported this to QIC and it appointed an agent to investigate. The agent made a 
number of visits to the property. Initially, it said the fault lay with the LWA at its water 
meter in the street. The LWA reattended but disagreed and restated the problem was 
on Mr Es propertys side of the meter.
The agent revisited and its investigations revealed a tree root had, over time, pushed 
a buried roof tile fragment into the water supply pipe causing it to rupture. The claim 
was declined as QIC said it wasnt covered by the policy terms. Mr E arranged for 
this repair to be completed privately.
The water meter continued to show water usage even when there was no water 
being used in Mr Es property. So, the agent returned again but after some further 
investigations it didnt identify the problem and said it would return for more 
investigations at another time
The agent returned again and did identify a leak on Mr Es side of the water meter 
which the agent did fix but this still didnt resolve the problem with the water meter 
continuing to show water usage even without any being used in the property. 
QIC declined the claim citing deterioration of the pipe and poor workmanship which it 
said were not covered under the policy. Eventually Mr E employed a contractor to 
help him find and repair the remaining leek after he was threatened with legal action 
by the LWA for the slow repair of the leak.
Unhappy with this, Mr E raised a complaint with this Service. Our Investigator upheld 
the complaint, saying QIC hadnt done enough to show the exclusions it had relied on 
to decline the claim, applied or that the original installation of the pipework didnt 
comply with the relevant standards at the time. She said QIC should reimburse Mr E 
with the cost of the repairs he had undertaken privately and should pay interest on 
top of this.
QIC disagreed, so the complaint has come to me for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurer seeks to rely on an exclusion to decline a claim, the onus is on it to 
show the exclusion applies. Ill be considering the complaint in light of this principle 
while keeping in mind what I consider to be fair and reasonable.
The claim was considered under the Accidental Damage section of the policy and 
QIC declined it for two reasons. It said the leaks suggested the pipe was suffering 
from deterioration and the pipe was buried at a depth which was not within building 
regulations.
QIC relied on two exclusions to decline the claim. The first of these was within the 
Accidental Damage section of the policy which confirms theres cover for damage to 
underground pipes subject to the exclusion below:
We wont cover:
a. loss or damage due to wear and tear or gradual deterioration;
b. loss or damage caused by gradual deterioration which means an installation has 
reached the end of its life
The second was within the General Exclusions:
Loss or damage as a result of gradual causes including:
-Wear and tear
-Gradual deterioration (whether you were aware of it or not).
The first decline reason QIC stated was that due to the leaks in the pipe it appeared 
the pipe was suffering from deterioration. But QIC hasnt presented evidence or 
expert opinion which explains the nature of the deterioration and so supports its 
position, it seems to me this is just a supposition rather than a proven cause. 
I have kept in mind here, QICs agents did undertake some repairs to the pipe. 
Ultimately, they didnt actually locate the leak at the heart of this complaint. This was 
eventually located and repaired privately by Mr E and a contractor he employed after 
he was threatened with legal action by the LWA for the time it had taken for the leak 
to be sorted out. So QIC hasnt actually seen the cause of the leek. 
Mr E said while the pipe was exposed during the work, there was no sign of 
deterioration and the pipe was found to be pliable and in excellent condition with no 
sign of brittleness or cracks. He says his contractor was of the same opinion. As QIC 
did undertake some repair work on the pipe and didnt ever find the remaining leak or 
present evidence to support its view the pipe had deteriorated, Im not persuaded it 
can fairly rely on this argument to decline the claim. 
On the second decline reason, regarding the depth the pipe was buried at, QIC 
hasnt presented sufficient evidence to show the pipework didnt comply with relevant regulations at the time it was originally installed. And so, on the basis of the evidence 
Ive been given to consider, Im not persuaded by its poor workmanship argument 
and Im not satisfied it can fairly rely on this to decline the claim.
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not satisfied QIC acted fairly in declining 
the claim.
Putting things right
I think it was reasonable Mr E went ahead and employed his own contractors to 
repair the remaining leak given the threat of legal action from the LWA. In doing this, 
he obviously incurred costs and I think, as a fair and reasonable settlement in the 
specific circumstances of this complaint, QIC should reimburse these from the date 
he paid them until the date QIC pays him together with interest at the rate of 8% 
simple.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct QIC Europe Ltd to:
Reimburse Mr and Mrs E with the costs incurred in fixing the remaining leek subject 
to the provision of supporting evidence showing what they paid.
Pay Mr and Mrs E interest on the costs at the rate of 8% a year simple from the date 
they incurred the costs to the date QIC reimburses them*.
QIC Europe Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr and Mrs E accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
*If QIC Europe Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs E how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs E a tax deduction 
certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman