DRN-2810948
The complaint
Mr G complains about how RAC Financial Services Ltd administered his breakdown cover, 
as he says it increased the cost without telling him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
detail here.
In summary, Mr G says that he didnt receive any letters from RAC to inform him the cost of 
his policy would be increasing. Hes unhappy RAC charged him more than he says he 
agreed to. He wants RAC to refund the difference between what he was told the policy 
would cost and what he was charged. And he says RAC shouldve contacted him by email.
RAC says it sent Mr G letters to let him know when the policy cost would be increasing. Its 
provided copies of the letters; and internal screenshots which say the letters were posted.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The policy terms Mr G agreed to say that when his membership is coming to an end, 
RAC will write to him and explain about renewing the policy and any changes to its cost 
 which the letters Ive seen show RAC has done. So its acted in line with the terms 
Mr G agreed to when he took out this cover.
RAC has provided copies of the letters it sent to Mr G informing him about the annual 
review of his policy and the premium increase. I can see these are correctly addressed 
to him and RACs internal screenshots show the letters were sent. The vast majority of 
correctly addressed post is correctly received. Ive not been provided with any evidence 
to show there were postal issues in Mr Gs area. So I see no reason why these wouldnt 
have been received.
The letters clearly set out that the premium is increasing and to what amount. And gave 
Mr G enough notice so he could compare the cost of cover elsewhere. RAC has charged 
him in line with these letters and the increased amounts wouldve also shown on Mr Gs 
bank statements. So he had another opportunity to question the amount if he was 
unhappy with it.
Mr G says RAC shouldve emailed him, but RAC is able to send this information by letter. 
He says he gave RAC an email address, but he hasnt said he set out this should be 
used at renewal and his postal address shouldnt. Ultimately RAC has sent the required 
information to him at the address he gave it, so I consider its met its obligations by 
sending the letters by post. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman