DRN-3211928
The complaint
Mr H complains Sainsburys Bank Plc (trading as Sainsburys Finance) gave him four 
unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr H took out two loans  the second within two weeks of the first  in August 2016 and a 
further two loans in April 2017 and June 2017. The original loan was for £3,000 and the final 
one was for £15,000.
In 2020 Mr H complained to Sainsburys Finance saying that the loans hed taken out were 
unaffordable. He said, when he complained, that hed been taking out payday loans and 
other lending at the time. Sainsburys Finance has said the last loan Mr H took out was 
repaid in full during 2020.
Sainsburys Finance looked into Mr Hs complaint and said it didnt agree the loans were 
unaffordable given the credit checks it had done. Mr H was unhappy with Sainsburys 
Finances response and so complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint and, having asked for additional 
information about his finances and circumstances at the time, said that they thought the third 
and fourth loan had been lent irresponsibly. Our investigator thought that Sainsburys 
Finance should have done more checks when he came back to refinance his debt so soon 
after taking out his previous loan and asking for increasing amounts of borrowing. Our 
investigator thought that would have led Sainsburys Finance to come to the conclusion, 
given what was going on with Mr Hs finances, that further borrowing was unsustainable. 
Sainsburys Finance disagreed saying that all the checks it had done showed the loans were 
affordable and that until the fourth loan Mr H hadnt missed any payments. Sainsburys 
Finance asked for an ombudsman to look into Mr Hs complaint. So thats what Ive done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H took out his second loan from Sainsburys Finance shortly after his first loan  he didnt 
make any payments on the first loan as a result. Our investigator thought, in the 
circumstances, that they should start their assessment from the second loan. I agree that 
this is the appropriate thing to do in the circumstances. I know Mr H doesnt  hes told us 
that being able to take out two loans so shortly after one another got him to think he could go 
back for loan after loan and increasing amounts of lending. Hes told us that this ultimately 
resulted in him taking on very significant amounts of debt. I can see what hes saying, but I 
do think its right to look at each loan separately starting from loan two given that it was 
taking so soon after the first loan. I can see that Mr H told Sainsburys Finance that the 
reason hed come back for a larger loan was because he wanted additional borrowing to 
purchase a laptop. His first loan was to consolidate debt.
Ive seen the checks that Sainsburys Finance carried out when Mr H applied for the second 
loan. I do think those checks were reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances. So, I 
dont think it would be fair to say to Sainsburys Finance that it should have concluded the 
second loan was unaffordable. Sainsburys Finance carried out similar checks for loans 
three and four and has said that those checks ought to have been sufficient too. I dont, 
however, agree, and Ill explain why.
Mr H told Sainsburys Finance that he was taking out the third and the fourth loans were also 
in order to consolidate his debt. Those consolidations not only took place within a short 
space of each other, but they were for increasing amounts. The first loan was a 
consolidation too. I agree with our investigator that Mr H repeatedly apply for loans to 
consolidate his debt within a short space of time and asking for larger and larger loans 
should have prompted Sainsburys Finance to do additional checks beyond the ones they 
did as these were signs Mr Hs finances were not in a good state  such checks would have 
been reasonable and proportionate. Had Sainsburys Finance done that, Im satisfied that 
they would have discovered not only that Mr H was not only relying on pay day loans to 
manage his debt but that he was also spending more and more money on gambling. More 
importantly, Im satisfied that Sainsburys Finance would have come to the conclusion that 
further lending was unsustainable. In other words, Im satisfied that Sainsburys Finance 
wouldnt have gone ahead and lent to Mr H. So its fair that hes put back into the position he 
would have been  in so far as that is possible  had the third and fourth loan not gone 
ahead.
Putting things right
Our investigator recommended the following steps, namely that:
1. Sainsburys Finance should refund all the interest and charges Mr H has paid to date 
in relation to loans three and four.
2. If the borrowing is still in place, Sainsburys Finance should reduce the outstanding 
capital balance by the amount calculated at Step 1.
3. If, after Step 2, there remains an outstanding capital balance, Sainsburys Finance 
should ensure that it isnt subject to any historic or future interest and / or charges. 
But if Step 2 leads to a positive balance, the amount in question should be given 
back to Mr H and 8% simple interest should be added to the surplus.
4. Sainsburys Finance should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs 
credit file as a result of the interest and charges.Our investigator noted that HM Revenue & Customs may require the business to take off tax 
from any interest it adds. They said if it does then Sainsburys Finance must give Mr H a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr H asks for one.
I think the steps our investigator recommended are a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint, so those are the steps Im going to require Sainsburys Finance to take in full and 
final settlement of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Sainsburys Bank Plc to carry out the four steps outlined 
above in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman