DRN-3431292
The complaint
Mr E complains Monzo Bank Ltd unfairly recorded a Cifas marker against him on the 
national fraud database. He wants the marker removed.
What happened
Mr E is a minor and is represented by his father in bringing this complaint.
Mr E opened a Monzo account in November 2020. He says he fell victim to a scam in 
December 2020. He says he sent money to a person who said they were a forex trader who 
said he would receive a £200 return. He says he was added to an online group chat and he 
thought the person was legitimate based on the testimony of others in the chat.
On 27 December 2020 Mr E sent three payments to the alleged trader. After the first 
payment he was told he needed to pay a further fee, so he sent another two payments. He 
didnt receive £200 that day, so he contacted Monzo to tell them he thought he had fallen 
victim to a scam.
Monzo investigated what Mr E said. They requested more detail about what had happened, 
as well as any evidence he had to show communication with him and the alleged scammer. 
They decided they would not refund the payments he made, but they tried to retrieve the 
payments by contacting the alleged traders bank. They were told no funds remained.
A replacement card was ordered for Mr Es account on 5 January 2021, which was activated 
three days later. The address the card was sent to was different to the address for Mr Es 
account and where he lives with his father.
On 14 January 2021 £270 credited Mr Es account and £240 of this was withdrawn at an 
ATM using the replacement card. Monzo were then contacted by the payers bank who 
reported the payment as fraudulent. Monzo blocked Mr Es account and decided to record a 
Cifas marker against him. They closed the account immediately. Mr E discovered the marker 
when another bank declined his application to open a new account. 
Mr E originally said he didnt receive a replacement card and he didnt know about the £270 
payment or the £240 withdrawal. He said his account should not have been closed, and the 
Cifas marker shouldnt have been recorded because he was a victim of a scammer. He said 
he is young and was nave about financial matters, and he didnt suspect anything was 
wrong when he paid the alleged trader. 
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. They found:
Monzo recorded a misuse of facility Cifas marker against Mr E. To do so, they didnt 
need to prove Mr E was guilty of a financial crime. But they still needed to have 
reasonable grounds to believe that he was, and there needed to be enough clear, 
relevant, and rigorous evidence for them to confidently report him to the police. This 
is the standard of proof Cifas require.
Mr E said he never received the replacement card, but the evidence showed he 
activated the replacement card using his mobile phone  the same phone he used to 
verify his identity when he opened the account. Also, the card was sent to his 
mothers address who he stays with at weekends. It was unlikely the alleged trader 
would have wanted the card sent there if they had ordered the card to commit fraud.
Someone logged into Mr Es account on Mr Es mobile before and after the ATM 
withdrawal. Mr E hadnt said someone had taken or used his mobile, so it was likely 
that Mr E was looking at the activity on his account at those times. As a result, he 
would have been aware of both the £270 credit and the withdrawal.
Mr E would have seen that the £270 was sent by someone else and not the alleged 
trader who he had paid. It would be reasonable to expect Mr E to have questioned 
the payment and not to have concluded it represented proceeds of an investment.
There was enough information available to fairly conclude that the standard Cifas 
required of its members to record a marker was met.
Mr E rejected the outcome. But importantly his father revealed that what Mr E had told us 
wasnt truthful, which he had only just discovered. What had really happened was:
Mr E did know about the £270 and he did withdraw £240. He thought the payment 
was genuine and was paid because of his earlier payments to the alleged trader.
In his excitement Mr E had told his stepbrother about the £270. His stepbrother lives 
at his mothers address. They asked to borrow £240, so they both went to the ATM to 
make the withdrawal. 
His stepbrother told him not to tell anyone. His father says Mr Es stepbrother has a 
controlling influence over his son and has subjected him to physical abuse in the 
past. So, Mr E was scared to tell the truth.
Mr Es mum was shocked to discover what had happened and she is willing to pay 
back the £240.
The investigator reconsidered the complaint, but still decided it shouldnt be upheld. In 
addition, they said:
Mr E had said he hadnt ordered a replacement card before, and he had always kept 
his card with him. But he only changed his story following the finding that the card 
had been ordered using his mobile. He now says his stepbrother helped him order 
the card. But previous account history shows he attempted to order another card 
earlier than January 2021 using his mobile.
Mr E also said he hadnt used other devices on his account. But, again Monzos 
evidence showed he had used at least two other devices. He had verified his identity 
on those devices and the evidence showed this. For one of those devices he had 
needed to record a short video of himself.
Mr Es father responded and said each time a replacement card was ordered Mr Es 
stepbrother had helped him. He said Mr E had just remembered that he had used his 
stepsisters device once when he couldnt access his account through his mobile. He 
reiterated that Mr E wasnt knowingly involved in a fraud, and it was normal to seek the help 
of close family members. Mr E misused his account by allowing another family member to 
access his account, so Monzo didnt need to reopen it, but they should still remove the Cifas 
marker. He asked for a final decision by an ombudsman, so the complaint was given to me 
to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Es complaint, so I will not be directing Monzo to remove the 
Cifas. Ill explain why.
There is a difference between what is required for a firm like Monzo to record a Cifas 
marker, to the standard of proof required to convict someone of fraud or another financial 
crime. Monzo do not have to establish Mr E was guilty of fraud or a financial crime beyond a 
reasonable doubt. Neither does Monzo need to have contacted the police for them to carry 
out a criminal investigation.
Mr E and his father may disagree Monzo should be able to record a marker based on a 
lesser standard of proof. But the rightfulness of fraud prevention agencies and the standard 
of proof they require of members is a matter for the courts or Parliament to decide. Cifas is a 
widely used fraud prevention agency used by many banks, and its standard of proof has 
existed for some time. So, my role here is not to question the rightfulness of firms being able 
to record fraud markers in general.
Firstly, I must make clear that I can never know fully what happened to explain why Mr E 
made payments to the alleged forex trader. Nor can I know fully why he withdrew money 
which clearly wasnt deposited by the person he paid, or whether he did so at his 
stepbrothers request.
So, when facts are less clear, I need to draw conclusions based on what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened. And one of the factors I need to account for is how credible and 
persuasive is Mr Es explanation for what happened when weighed against the other 
information and evidence available to me.
The investigator set out the standard of proof Cifas requires of its members to record a 
marker. So, I must consider whether the standard of evidence is enough in the 
circumstances of this complaint for the marker to remain. Based on all the information I 
have, Im satisfied Cifas evidential standard has been met.
Mr Es father has emphasised Mr Es youth and financial inexperience as a relevant factor 
And I have considered what he has said. Being under 18 years old can mean someone is 
more vulnerable to a scammer, and they might also be less aware of risks or suspicious 
behaviour than someone who is older. But its also important to reflect that being under 18 
doesnt mean that someone cant still act dishonestly or that they should not be held 
responsible for their actions.
Mr E hasnt been able to demonstrate that he was convinced to make the payments to the 
third party because of an investment scam. In my experience as an ombudsman, this kind of 
evidence is often readily obtainable. So, I have placed weight on Mr E not being able to 
provide anything other than his own testimony to verify his version of what happened.
It strikes me as odd that Mr E appears to have received multiple payments from three 
different family members, including his father, the same day he made the payments to the 
alleged trader. While Mr E received payments from his father previously, this sudden 
payment activity from family members hadnt happened before, and it was these funds which 
were used to make the payments to the alleged trader. Its also very odd that Mr Es 
stepsister would pay funds to Mr E after he told her about an investment opportunity.
Mr E changed his version of events several times. His father says this was because he was 
scared of his stepbrother. I have considered what hes said very carefully, and Ive not taken 
it lightly. But I have to account for the possibility that Mr E didnt admit to knowing about the payment into the account or the ATM withdrawal for a very different reason  that being, he 
knew the payment was suspicious. Mr Es fathers point that his son wouldnt have told his 
stepbrother about the payment if he thought the payment was suspicious isnt persuasive. I 
cannot independently verify what if any conversation took place between Mr E and his 
stepbrother.
The evidence shows Mr E checked his account the day the £270 was deposited. It looks like 
he checked the account shortly before the payment was made using a device which he used 
to verify his identity the day after the payment. And he then checked the account using his 
mobile shortly after the payment credited his account. This points to him knowing the 
payment would be made. So, I doubt what Mr Es father has said  that Mr E received the 
£270 unexpectedly  is likely. And, if it was Mr Es stepbrother who checked his account 
before the payment was made, this casts doubt on what Mr E said  that he told his 
stepbrother about the payment afterwards.
I find it would have been very clear to Mr E that the £270 he received was not from the 
alleged trader. The payer had a very different name and the amount was larger than the sum 
he expected to receive in December 2020. Also, by the time of the payment, Mr E had 
already reported the alleged trader to Monzo, and, according to him, the trader had blocked 
him. So, he should have been suspicious about any payments he thought originated from 
that same person. 
I dont find Mr Es youth or financial inexperience fairly explains away the above 
circumstances. Instead, I find someone who was Mr Es age would have understood 
something was wrong with the payment, and that withdrawing the funds wasnt the right 
thing to do. I find this more likely explains why Mr E originally said he didnt know anything 
about the payment or the withdrawal. He may now very much regret withdrawing the money, 
particularly because of the impact of the Cifas marker, but this isnt a valid reason to ask 
Monzo to remove it. Neither is Mr Es mothers offer to repay the £240 a proper reason to 
remove the marker. 
Mr E made statements such as not requesting a replacement card and not using other 
devices, which he then changed after being told of evidence which contradicted what he 
said. Its possible Mr E kept remembering things which were in stark contrast to what he 
originally said. But I must also account for him changing his version of events each time for 
less genuine reasons. On balance, I have reason to doubt the credibility of what he is now 
saying due to how much his version of events has changed.
Mr Es father made a point of saying that had Monzo asked for evidence showing Mr Es 
communication with the alleged trader before it was deleted, Mr E would have been able to 
provide it. But when Mr E reported the payments he made as fraud, Monzo asked him to 
provide evidence of his communication with the alleged trader. I cant see he provided it at 
that time. So, I find he was given a proper opportunity to provide this type of evidence.
On balance, I find Monzo had reasonable grounds to believe Mr E was knowingly involved in 
a fraud or financial crime. And I find there is enough evidence for Monzo to have confidently 
reported his conduct to the police. So, I am not going to tell Monzo to remove the Cifas 
marker or reopen his account. I also find Monzo were entitled to immediately close Mr Es 
account given their grounds for concern.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold Mr Es complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman