DRN-2393166
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E are unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc wouldnt let them make a lump sum 
payment to their mortgage without incurring an early repayment charge (ERC). 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs E told us that they wanted to reduce their mortgage when they received Mr Es 
tax-free pension lump sum. The notes weve received from Clydesdale show Mr and Mrs E 
asked about porting their mortgage to a new property, and reducing the balance by over 
£40,000. The following day Mr and Mrs E said they werent going to port as theyd found a 
better rate with a different lender. The mortgage was then redeemed a month or so later 
when Mr and Mrs E moved house.
Mr and Mrs E have told us that they always intended to reduce their mortgage using Mr Es 
tax-free lump sum and that they discussed this in a call with Clydesdale in April 2018. On our 
complaint form Mr and Mrs E have said ... clearly stated I want to pay large amount off the 
mortgage as taking retirement tax free sum from my pension. they were vague as to what 
the maximum amount I could pay off when I took out the mortgage, without incurring 
charges. Clydesdale has said the switch was applied for online by Mr and Mrs E in 
June 2018 without them speaking to an adviser, so no advice was given as to the suitability 
of the product.
Clydesdale has provided us with evidence of the searches it has undertaken and those 
indicate there were no calls between it and Mr and/or Mrs E in April 2018. It searched back 
to January 2018 and the search shows three calls on 11 January 2018 (which related to a 
banking matter), a call on 21 June 2018 (which Ill come on to now) and then the next call 
wasnt until 5 November 2018.
The call of 21 June 2018 is relevant to this complaint as Mr and Mrs E applied online on 
18 June, the mortgage offer was generated on 22 June and they signed to accept it on 
25 June.
The call starts with Mr E explaining that hes applied for a new rate online but hadnt heard 
anything, so he was wondering what the process is. The call handler (who Ill refer to as CH) 
explains the process and the call moves on. Ill now set out some extracts of the call. This 
isnt a full transcript, however:
Mr E:Could I knock a year off it or have I got to come in to see you to do that?
CH:That would require a full new application for the mortgage to reduce the term, so its 
a full appointment an hour to an hour and a half. What you can do though is you can 
just wait until your mortgage is in place, so put the rate in place and then ask to 
increase your monthly payments. So we can tell you how much extra you need to 
pay so say it was £500 and you needed to pay £550 to make it a year less so though 
on paper your term would stay the same youd actually be paying more to it so youd 
know that youre paying it off quicker.
Mr E: Can we pay what we want off?
CH: So as long as its not a lump sum payment as long as its not a one off £10,000 that 
kind of thing as long as it is just an increase onto your monthly payments that you 
feel is affordable then theyll allow you to do that.
CH: Its actually in section 10 on the paperwork if you check there itll discuss your 
overpayment options with you.
Its clear from this call that Mr E was told, before he and Mrs E signed to accept the new 
rate, that he wouldnt be able to make a lump sum payment to the mortgage.
Whilst I understand Mr Es point that there was no mention of what the maximum amount 
they could pay each month was, the 21 June call handler did refer him to section 10 of the 
mortgage offer. That says;
If you repay the loan in full or in partwithin your Fixed Rate period you will have to pay an 
Early Repayment Charge.  It goes on to explain how that would be calculated, and possible 
amounts it would be.
The next section, section 11, makes a distinction between lump sum payments which would 
trigger an ERC and overpayments which would not. The section doesnt define what these 
are, other than referring to overpayments as regular overpayments.
Clydesdale says that it defines overpayments as being affordable from normal disposable 
income and that they should be made on an ongoing basis, and the substantial lump sum 
reduction that Mr and Mrs E wanted to make (which was over half of their outstanding 
mortgage amount) didnt fall into that category.
As Mr and Mrs E wanted to substantially reduce the balance of this mortgage during the 
preferential rate period then they would have to pay an ERC; this is explained in the 
mortgage offer. The words overpayment and lump sum payment are often used in the 
mortgage industry, and its generally accepted that an overpayment is made each month and 
would be expected to be for a modest amount; that is, an amount that is reasonably 
affordable from monthly income. Whereas a lump sum payment is an extra amount paid to 
the mortgage, perhaps coming from an inheritance, the sale of an asset such as another 
property or  as here - a pension lump sum.
Having considered the mortgage offer and listened to the 21 June call, Im satisfied that 
when Mr and Mrs E took out this mortgage they got fair warning that if they wanted to 
substantially reduce the balance of this mortgage during the fixed rate period that they would 
have to pay an ERC. 
Im satisfied the substantial reduction in their mortgage balance that Mr and Mrs E wanted to 
achieve, even if split into a few payments (rather than as one lump sum) wouldnt have been 
normal regular overpayments from their normal disposable income, but instead would have 
been a way of trying to circumvent paying an ERC on a lump sum payment. As Im satisfied 
what Mr and Mrs E wanted to do could only reasonably be seen as a lump sum payment 
which was intended to substantially reduce the balance of this mortgage within the preferential rate period I believe that Clydesdale could fairly charge an ERC.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied that Clydesdale didnt act unreasonably and for 
that reason I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs E to accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman