DRN-4127976
The complaint
Mrs M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money she lost when she was 
the victim of a scam.
What happened
In around June 2018, Mrs Ms daughter told her that she was experiencing financial 
difficulties. Mrs M then arranged to release some equity from her home in order to help with 
her daughters situation, and made a number of payments to her  totalling over £40,000.
Following this, Mrs Ms daughter said that the money Mrs M had sent her had caused further 
problems. These included her and her partners bank accounts being blocked and her IVA 
being affected. She said she was now involved in a legal case to get their accounts 
unblocked, and a friend of hers who was a barrister was helping them with it. Mrs M then 
made a number of further payments to her daughter over the following 18 months to help 
with these problems  totalling over £150,000. Ive set out the payments Mrs M made to her 
daughter on the attached spreadsheet.
Unfortunately, we now know Mrs Ms daughter was lying to her about the problems she was 
experiencing and the reasons for needing money from Mrs M.
That Mrs Ms daughter had been lying was discovered in early 2020 when Mrs Ms friends 
and family became suspicious and spoke to the daughters employer, who confirmed she 
had been coming in to work and was not in hospital for treatment  as the daughter had 
been claiming. Mrs Ms daughter has since admitted to Mrs Ms friends and family that she 
was lying about her circumstances. And Mrs M then reported the situation to HSBC and 
asked that it refund the money she had lost.
HSBC investigated but said it had followed the correct policies and procedures when making 
the payments, and that Mrs M had instructed it to make the payments. So it didnt agree to 
refund the money Mrs M had lost. Mrs M wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so referred 
a complaint to our service.
I sent Mrs M and HSBC a provisional decision on 10 March 2023, setting out why I was 
intending to uphold this complaint in part. An extract from my provisional decision is set out 
below:
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code). This code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim 
of authorised push payment scams, in all but a limited number of circumstances. But it only 
applies to payments made after the code came into effect on 28 May 2019.
So I will consider the payments Mrs M made before the code came into effect, separately 
from the payments she made afterwards.
Payments made before 28 May 2019
These payments were made before the CRM code came into effect. And Mrs M accepts she 
made these payments herself, either in branch, over the phone or via online banking. So 
while I recognise she was misled by her daughter about the reasons for the payments, she 
did authorise these payments. And so, under the Payment Service Regulations, the starting 
position is that she is liable for the payments and HSBC doesnt have to refund them.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I think HSBC 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So Ive also considered whether HSBC should have identified that Ms M was potentially at 
risk of fraud as a result of these payments, or otherwise done more to protect her.
From looking at the statements for Ms Ms accounts, the first payment she makes to her 
daughter after her daughter started lying to her about her circumstances was for £10,000. 
This is a significant amount, and was significantly larger than any other payments made out 
of the account in the previous six months. It was also made soon after a significant credit 
into the account. So I think HSBC should have identified that Ms M was potentially at risk of 
fraud as a result of this first payment, and so carried out additional checks before allowing it 
to go through.
Its not for our service to dictate the checks banks should do or the questions they should 
ask. But banks should take steps designed to protect their customers from the risk of 
financial harm. And, in these circumstances, I think it would be reasonable to expect those 
checks to include questions about the purpose of the payment and then appropriate follow-
up questions.
But if HSBC had asked these kind of questions of Ms M when she was making this payment, 
I think she would have said she was sending money to her daughter to help with her 
financial situation. And this is a plausible and legitimate reason for sending a large amount of 
money, so I dont think it would have caused HSBC significant concern. And even if HSBC 
had asked further questions designed to uncover common scams, such as whether Ms M 
had spoken to her daughter in person or how she had been given her daughters bank account details, Ms M had spoken to her daughter in person and had sent money to these 
bank account details before.
So I dont think any questions HSBC could reasonably have been expected to ask would 
have uncovered any significant concerns or prevented Ms M making the payment.
Ms M has suggested that HSBC could have stepped in at other times as well, including 
when she visited an HSBC branch to cash in some investments in February 2019. And while 
I agree HSBC could have been expected to step in at various other times over the following 
months due to the amount of money Ms M had been sending her daughter, I dont think 
interventions at any point over this time would have uncovered significant concern either. If 
asked, I think Ms M would still have told HSBC that she was sending money to her daughter 
to help with her financial situation. And even if HSBC had been given more detail about what 
Ms M had been told about her daughters situation, such as needing help with an IVA or a 
court case, I think this information would have sounded plausible and legitimate too. So I still 
dont think HSBC could have been expected to uncover any significant concerns.
I sympathise with the position Ms M has found herself in. She has been the victim of a cruel 
deception and I appreciate how she feels about this case and that my decision in relation to 
these payments will come as a disappointment to her. But I dont think anything HSBC could 
reasonably have been expected to do would have prevented her from making these 
payments. And so I dont think it would be fair to require it to refund them.
Payments made after 28 May 2019
These payments were made after the CRM code came into effect.
The CRM code applies to payments made as a result of an APP scam, which it defines as 
where:
(i) The customer intended to transfer funds to another person, but was instead deceived into 
transferring the funds to a different person; or
(ii) The customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed were legitimate 
purposes but which were in fact fraudulent.
In this case, Mrs M transferred funds to her daughter for what she had been told and 
believed were legitimate financial and legal issues. But her daughter had been lying to her 
about her circumstances, in order to get her to send the money. So I think the purposes 
Ms M had been given for the payments were fraudulent. And so I think the payments Ms M 
made fall under the definition of a scam from the CRM code, and so the payments she made 
after 28 May 2019 are covered by the code.
As I explained above, the CRM code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been 
the victim of authorised push payment scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
And it is for the firm to establish that one of those exceptions to reimbursement applies.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
 The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimateThere are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
HSBC hasnt suggested that Ms M ignored an effective warning in relation to any of these 
payments. And I havent seen any evidence that she was shown an effective warning when 
making any of these payments. So I dont think HSBC has established that this exception to 
reimbursement applies.
I also dont think HSBC has established that Ms M didnt have a reasonable basis for belief 
when making the payments. Ms M was making the payments to her daughter, who she 
obviously knew personally and had an existing relationship with. She was speaking to her 
daughter and seeing her in person, so there was no risk of impersonation. And her daughter 
was giving her plausible explanations for needing money and reasonable detail on her 
circumstances. This is also a relationship where people wouldnt be expecting to be 
scammed or misled, and Ms Ms daughter played on their existing parent and child 
relationship and Ms Ms understandable want to help her child when they were in need. So I 
think Ms M did have a reasonable basis for belief when making these payments.
And so I dont think HSBC has established that any of the exceptions to reimbursement 
under the CRM code apply. So it should refund the payments Ms M made that are covered 
by the code, in full.
I said Id consider anything further Mrs M and HSBC sent in following the provisional 
decision, provided it was received by the deadline given.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC hasnt sent in anything further to be considered following the provisional decision.
Mrs M replied to the provisional decision via her representative and argued that, if HSBC 
had stepped in and asked questions about the purpose of the payments when she visited 
the branch with her daughter in February 2019, the scam would have been uncovered. Her 
representative said that, if asked, Mrs M would have said the money was needed as her 
daughters account had been frozen as a result of her IVA and she needed to pay money in 
to unblock the account. And the representative said that, if told this story, the HSBC branch 
staff wouldnt have found it plausible and the scam would have been uncovered.
I appreciate that its not possible to know for certain what would have been said if Mrs M had 
been asked about this, but I must make a decision based on what I think is most likely to 
have happened. And if HSBC had asked the types of questions I think it should have done, I 
think its unlikely Mrs M would have given such a detailed account of her daughters 
circumstances. As I said in my provisional decision, I think Ms M would have told HSBC that 
she was sending money to her daughter to help with her financial situation. Even if HSBC 
had been given more detail about what Ms M had been told about her daughters situation, 
such as needing help with an IVA or a court case, I think this information would have 
sounded plausible and legitimate. And, particularly as Mrs Ms daughter was also present in 
branch at this time, I think its unlikely that HSBC would have had any concerns or that the 
scam would have been uncovered.
Mrs M has also argued that she shouldnt have to show that the scam would have been 
uncovered, and that it should be enough to show that HSBC made no effort to detect 
anything untoward. But while I agree HSBC didnt do what Id expect and should have 
carried out additional checks before allowing some of the payments Mrs M made to go through, I must also consider what difference it would have made if HSBC had done what Id 
expect. And, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think any questions HSBC could 
reasonably have been expected to ask would have uncovered any significant concerns or 
prevented Ms M making the payments. So I still dont think it would be fair to require HSBC 
to refund any of the payments made before 28 May 2019.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I did think HSBC should refund the payments Mrs M 
made to her daughter after 28 May 2019. And neither Mrs M nor HSBC has sent in any 
evidence or arguments about these payments. So I still think the conclusions I reached here 
are correct, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require HSBC UK Bank 
Plc to:
Refund Ms M the payments she made from 28 May 2019 onwards, minus the 
payments her daughter made back to her during that time, as set out on the attached 
spreadsheet  for a total of £24,868
Pay 8% simple interest on the refund of the payments from her current account, from 
the date it initially responded to her claim until the date of settlement
Pay the account interest rate on the refund of the payments from her cash ISA, from 
the date in initially responded to her claim until the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman