DRN-4125498
The complaint
Ms C complains about Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declining a claim under her bicycle 
insurance policy for theft of her bike. 
Aviva use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to Aviva includes 
these agents.
What happened
Ms C has a bike insurance policy which provides cover for her bicycle. The policy began in 
August 2022. 
Ms C says she informed her insurer that her bike had been stolen at the end of July 2022. 
She provided the insurer with a crime reference number. 
Ms C says the claim wasnt logged by Aviva and so she called back to report the matter 
again. She was told that due to a system outage Aviva didnt have a record of her original 
claim. Ms C was asked to send in various documents in order for Aviva to validate the claim. 
As part of the claim validation Aviva asked for a copy of the receipt for the like lock but Ms C 
wasnt able to locate it. Ms C says because she was unable to produce a receipt for the lock 
the claim was declined. 
Ms C was unhappy with the service she received from Aviva and so she complained. Aviva 
said the terms and conditions of the policy werent met with regards to the security 
requirements of the policy. Aviva said the lock Ms C purchased was one she brought locally 
and so it wasnt a sold secure bronze rated lock as stipulated by the policy. On that basis the 
claim was declined and Ms Cs complaint wasnt upheld. 
Ms C wasnt satisfied with the response from Aviva. She says its unfair for Aviva not to pay 
out on the basis she is unable to find the receipt for the lock. So she referred her complaint 
to this service. Our investigator looked into things for her. She said Aviva had acted in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy since Ms C was unable to evidence the lock used 
to secure the bike. 
Ms C didnt agree. She said Aviva couldnt prove she didnt have the required lock as per the 
policy. She said it was unfair that the claim was being declined just because she couldnt find 
the receipt. Because Ms C doesnt agree the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have great sympathy for Ms C in this situation. She has clearly taken steps to ensure the 
bike was insured and purchased a lock to ensure it was secure. She has now found herself 
not covered for a loss of around £200 due to the theft. I can appreciate how frustrated and 
upset she must be. 
I do, however, agree with the investigators view and do not uphold this complaint. Ill explain 
why. 
Aviva have a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a 
claim unreasonably. The policy provides cover for, theft of your bicycle while away from 
your home, unless, the bicycle is attended, or the security requirements when away from 
home have been met. 
The policy anticipates that bikes may be kept in a variety of different places and it details 
what is required for each of these. When away from home the policy says, the bicycle must 
be secured to an immovable object through the frame and any quick release wheels with an 
approved lock.
The policy defines an approved lock as follows; 
a nominated lock which is specified in the Sold Secure list of cycle locks or any Thatcham 
approved lock which is appropriate to the Insured Value of the Bicycle. 
Insured Value under £500 require a Thatcham approved or Sold Secure Bronze 
rated lock. 
When Ms C reported the bike stolen Aviva acknowledged receipt of the claim and asked Ms 
C to provide it with a number of documents including proof of purchase of the bicycle and 
proof of purchase of the lock used to secure the bicycle. 
Ms C provided evidence showing ownership of the bike together with a crime reference 
number to show it was stolen. Ms C considers the bike ought to have been secure as it was 
locked while it was left unattended.  I can see in her email to Aviva Ms C confirms the lock 
was, purchased from a local store cheap bike lock for which I still have the key.  Ms C was 
unable to evidence the lock she purchased was approved as defined by the policy. 
The policy defines evidence of ownership as, original sales purchase or till receipt or other 
evidence which clearly demonstrates ownership. This may include but is not limited to 
bank/credit card statement, dealer valuation including a photograph of the bicycle. The 
evidence should clearly show date, price paid and details of the bicycle, accessories and 
approved lock.  So I cant say Aviva acted unreasonably in declining the claim on that basis. 
Ms C said Aviva couldnt prove she didnt have the required lock as per the policy. She said 
it was unfair that the claim was being declined just because she couldnt find the receipt for 
the lock. 
Ive thought very carefully about Ms Cs arguments here. In my opinion its fair to expect a 
consumer who is making a claim to show that its a valid claim. The intention of the security 
requirements in the policy is to reduce the risk of the bike being stolen. I think its reasonable 
for Aviva to consider that a bike that is away from home should be secured with an 
appropriate lock. 
The policy terms state Aviva will only pay out for a theft when the bike is away from home if 
the security requirements are met. These are set out in the policy terms as explained above. 
Unfortunately I cant fairly say the circumstances of the theft met the requirements as theres 
no evidence to show the correct lock was used. So I cant say Avivas position on this is 
unfair. Ms C referred to her friends bike which was stolen at the same time and the insurance 
company has settled that claim. I cant comment on that claim  only the one thats the 
subject of this complaint. 
Aviva is entitled to decide what level of risk it wishes to take, and it had explained in the 
schedule of insurance that the cover was subject to the terms and conditions, limitations, 
and exclusions contained in the policy wording. It was up to Ms C to read them to ensure it 
covered her needs and that she was aware of what was and wasnt covered. 
Overall Im satisfied Aviva considered Ms Cs claim fairly and havent declined it 
unreasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman