DRN-4196936
The complaint
Miss M has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her an Additions 
and Additions Active account that she took out in September 2006 and June 2009, 
respectively. 
Miss M paid monthly fees for these accounts, which came with a number of benefits. Miss M 
says that she was told that she had to have these accounts.
What happened
Our adjudicators looked into Miss Ms complaint. They did not think that the Additions 
account was mis-sold. They did however think that the Additions Active account had been 
mis-sold. So they recommended that Barclays put Miss M back into the position that she 
would have been in had she not been sold the Additions Active account and therefore 
remained with the Additions account instead. So the adjudicator said that Barclays should 
refund the difference in fees that Miss M paid between the two accounts and add 8% simple 
interest to this, less tax.
Barclays agreed to refund the difference in account fees between the two accounts, although 
it is unclear if they agreed to the 8% interest as well. Miss M did not agree with this and so 
asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
This decision is only relating to the sales of the Additions and Additions Plus account. I note 
that Miss M has mentioned that she was in financial difficulties, and she was unaware that 
she could cancel these accounts. If she remains unhappy about how Barclays dealt with her 
whilst she was experiencing financial difficulties, she would need to refer her concerns to 
Barclays to investigate in the first instance, as our rules state that we need to give it a 
chance to resolve matters first.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide what to do about Miss Ms complaint. 
Additions account
I've started by thinking about whether Miss M was aware the Additions account was optional 
and whether she was given a clear choice in taking out the account. I think its more likely 
than not that she was. I say this because she had previously had a fee-free bank account. 
So, I think that Miss M wouldve been aware that free accounts existed and was an option for 
her.
Miss M says that prior to upgrading to the Additions account, she was told that she would 
need the Additions account. Barclays does not have a record of this. I find it unlikely that the 
member of staff wouldve intentionally mis-led Miss M into upgrading her account online, as 
it would not benefit that member of staff to do so. 
I accept that it is possible though that Miss M may have thought that she had to take out the 
Additions account, but there is not enough for me to say that it is more likely than not that it 
was Barclays who made her believe this. So Im satisfied, albeit on balance, that Miss M was 
given a fair choice as to whether to take out this account.
This account was not recommended to Miss M as it was taken out online, without the 
presence of a Barclays member of staff. This means that Barclays did not need to ensure 
that the benefits were suitable for Miss M. But it did need to provide Miss M with enough 
information to decide this for herself. 
Again, I think its likely Barclays wouldve mentioned the major benefits that the account 
came with as it was, after all, trying to make the account seem attractive to Miss M. 
I accept that Miss M may not have been told everything about all of the benefits that the 
account came with. But I cant see anything about her circumstances at the time that makes 
me think she wouldve been put off from agreeing to the account, had she been given more 
information about it. 
I note Miss Ms comments that at the time the account was taken out, that she could not use 
any of the benefits that the account came with. Looking at all the evidence though, there are 
indications that she couldve used some of the benefits - such as transactions to Vodaphone 
and her registering a phone for internet banking suggesting a need for mobile phone 
insurance. I am satisfied, albeit on balance as I cant see all the online application screens, 
that Barclays did enough to do this, and it was down to Miss M to decide for herself as to 
whether she wanted the account and whether the package would be a good fit for her 
circumstances.
I should also add that I have looked at an archived copy of Barclays website from 2006 and 
it does make it clear, prior to the application process, that standard current accounts were 
available. It also clearly set out what the Additions account cost and what benefits that it 
came with. So as this was made clear, it was ultimately up to Miss M to decide whether to 
apply for the account herself online.
So, having carefully considered everything, I dont think the Additions account was mis-sold 
to Miss M. I therefore think it would be unreasonable to require Barclays to refund Miss M 
the account fees that she has been charged whilst she held the Additions account.
 I understand that this may be frustrating to Miss M, as she strongly feels that her Additions 
account was mis-sold. I also understand, that with the benefit of hindsight, the Additions 
account may not have represented good value for money. But I cant uphold her complaint 
due to this. I can only uphold the complaint about the sale of the account if it was sold 
incorrectly. And for the reasons set out above, I dont think it was.
Additions Active account
In this instance Barclays and Miss M have agreed that it should not have sold Miss M this 
account. Given this I think that Barclays should put Miss M back into the position that she 
would have been in had Miss M not upgraded her account again.Putting things right
I uphold this complaint in part and require Barclays to do the following
1) Refund the difference between the Additions Active fees that Miss M paid and what 
account fees she would have paid, had she continued to hold the Additions account 
instead. 
2) Pay simple interest at 8% per year on the above fees to be refunded, calculated from 
the date each account fee would have been paid, until the date of settlement (less 
any tax properly deductible).
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint in part, and require Barclays 
UK Bank PLC to do what I have outlined above, in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman