DRN-3584304
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc (Santander) defaulted his car finance 
agreement without notifying him and sold the debt on before he could take action to deal 
with it. 
What happened
Mr S acquired a car in 2019 through a conditional sale agreement with Santander. In 
September 2019, his partner had an accident in the car and the police seized the car as they 
said there was no valid insurance in place. 
Santander recovered the car in October 2019 and produced a default notice for the 
agreement. This notice set the termination of the agreement for November 2019 and 
confirmed the amount Mr S would need to pay to clear the finance by that date. 
Mr S has told us he didnt receive the default notice, and so hadnt contacted the business. 
In December 2019 Santander sold the car and the proceeds were credited against the 
outstanding balance. 
In February 2020, Santander sent Mr S a final demand for the outstanding amount. This said 
that if they didnt hear from Mr S within 7 days, they would instruct solicitors to begin 
proceedings to recover the money, including interest and costs. 
However, the first contact Mr S had with them was in March 2021, a year later. By then, 
Santander had sold the debt on to a third party, and that company contacted Mr S in March 
2021 wanting payment of over £17,000 to clear the account in 30 days. After this, Mr S 
contacted Santander to find out what was happening, and in May 2021 he complained 
saying that he hadnt been sent a default notice and hadnt been made aware of the 
outstanding debt he owed. 
Santander did not uphold the complaint, saying that they had sent him the relevant 
correspondence and had sold the debt on now. Unhappy with this Mr S brought his 
complaint to our service. He told us that he had received no correspondence from Santander 
about a debt and had assumed that after the insurance dispute was settled, that the 
insurance had cleared the finance. He mentioned that he had contacted Santander 
previously because they had sold the car on with some of his personal possessions in, but 
they hadnt told him about any debt at that point. 
An investigator here investigated the complaint and did not uphold it. They said that as the 
letter of default and other correspondence informing him about the debt had been produced 
and Santander said they had sent them; they didnt expect Santander to have to prove that 
they had been received. They also confirmed that Mr S had in fact spoken to someone from 
the dealership network about his possessions left in the car when it was sold, not the finance 
company, so its reasonable that person didnt know anything about the debt to be able to 
inform him about it. 
Mr S didnt agree with this view and asked an Ombudsman to review the case and make a 
final decision. He said he still hadnt received copies of the paperwork which was supposed 
to have been sent and didnt believe it had been sent. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of the repossession of the car dont appear to be in dispute between the 
parties now. The police seized the car saying it wasnt insured, and in these circumstances, I 
agree with the comments made by our Investigator here. Under the terms of the agreement, 
Santander were entitled to repossess the car from the police compound, and to initiate 
proceedings to recover the outstanding balance on the finance. 
Ive considered Mr Ss comments that he never received any correspondence from 
Santander. Theyve provided us with a correctly addressed default notice sent in October 
2019, and a correctly addressed demand for full repayment of outstanding money sent in 
February 2020. I can see from their system notes that a termination confirmation appears to 
have also been sent in November 2019, although I havent seen a copy of this. Mr S hasnt 
provided us with any explanation as to why he might not have received any of this 
correspondence, just that he didnt. 
Ive gone on therefore to think about the circumstances, and what I might have done in his 
situation. He was aware that the insurance was disputed; I understand that his partner was 
driving the car and potentially wasnt insured to do so. Mr S has told us when he brought the 
complaint to us that he assumed the insurance had settled the outstanding balance and that 
was why he had assumed it was all sorted. 
Im afraid I dont give this explanation great weight. If the insurance dispute had been 
resolved in their favour, then the insurance company would have confirmed they were 
clearing the finance or provided Mr S/his partner with the proceeds to use themselves. If the 
dispute hadnt been settled in their favour, then it wouldnt be reasonable for Mr S to assume 
the insurance had paid out to clear the finance if they had lost their claim/dispute.
Either way, I would have expected Mr S to have followed this up. This was clearly a 
considerable amount of money, and I dont think its reasonable, even if letters hadnt been 
received, to have assumed the debt had gone away. Id have expected him to have made 
contact with the finance company and/or the insurance company to see what was 
happening. No evidence or testimony has been provided to suggest this happened. 
Mr S has said he spoke to someone about his possessions being left in the car to complain 
about this. I can see from the system notes at Santander that a regional sales manager from 
the dealer network tried to speak to Santander about Mr S in early 2020, and also that it 
appears a third party contacted Santander later in 2020 to complain about this issue, 
possibly his partner. 
I can also see around the same time in 2020 notes of discussions between Santander and 
their solicitors. Santander had said in issuing their demand for full repayment in February 
2020 that they would put the matter in the hands of their solicitors if not settled in 7 days. 
The notes show some discussions with the solicitors in the following months, which appear 
to be about whether to pursue the debt at that point in time or delay. This was shortly after 
the Coronavirus pandemic had begun, so it appears they were deciding whether to continue 
to pursue or to pause things at that time in line with a lot of their business practices in that 
period. I can see in July and August 2020, the decision to get the solicitors to begin proceedings to 
recover the funds was taken, but the notes suggest that post sent to Mr S about this, to the 
same address, was returned as no longer resides at the address. 
Again, this is the same address previously used, the same address as when the agreement 
was taken out and the same address Mr S gave us as his current address when he brought 
his complaint to us a year or so later.
Im not persuaded that none of the post was received by Mr S. I think its unfortunate that 
problems caused by the pandemic have delayed some parts of this process, but I am 
satisfied that Santander have treated Mr S fairly. They and their solicitors issued 
correspondence on several occasions to the correct address he has provided to them. 
System notes at the time (mid 2020) also suggest that attempts to call were made but the 
contact number was invalid. Mr S has provided no testimony suggesting he changed 
address at any point, or that he moved back in again or anything similar. 
Alongside this, I can see, in raising a complaint about the personal effects left in the car, that 
Mr S or his partner were capable of contacting Santander themselves. Im not persuaded 
that he didnt know the debt remained owing.  
Im sorry for the stress the situation has caused, but I cant agree that Santander have done 
anything wrong here, and I wont be asking them to do anything different.    
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman