DRN-1139927
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy they were told by Bank of Scotland that they had to have a life 
policy in place before taking out a mortgage. 
What happened
In October 1997 Mr and Mrs K took out an interest only mortgage with Bank of Scotland 
through an independent financial advisor (IFA). 
Mr and Mrs K said that Bank of Scotland requested that a life policy be in place before the 
mortgage was completed. So Mr and Mrs K took out a level term assurance policy through 
their IFA with a company Ill refer to as S. 
Mr and Mrs K felt Bank of Scotland shouldnt have asked for a protection policy to be in 
place before agreeing to their mortgage so they made a complaint in June 2019. Bank of 
Scotland asked S to answer the complaint. S sent a final response  dated 24 June 2019  
saying it wasnt responsible for the sale of the protection policy. It felt Mr and Mrs K should 
make their complaint to their IFA. 
Mr and Mrs K were unhappy with this response, so they brought their complaint about the 
Bank of Scotland to this service in August 2019. Our investigator reviewed the complaint but 
felt Bank of Scotland hadnt done anything wrong. She said Bank of Scotland wasnt 
responsible for the sale of the term assurance policy and she didnt think it had done 
anything wrong by asking for a protection policy to be in place before accepting the 
mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs K didnt agree. They think it wasnt mandatory to have a protection policy in 
place. And they feel there was enough equity in the property in order to cover any financial 
outgoings in the event of their death. 
So this complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr and Mrs K feel strongly about this complaint and this will come as 
a disappointment to them, so Ill explain why.
First of all, I need to be clear that the Bank of Scotland didnt provide any advice on the sale 
of this mortgage. And Mr and Mrs K took out the level term assurance policy through an IFA. 
So Im not going to consider any potential mis-sale complaint here or whether the advice Mr 
and Mrs K received at the time was suitable or affordable. If Mr and Mrs K would like their 
advice to be considered they will need to make a complaint to the IFA in the first instance. Ive reviewed the relevant regulations which were in place when Mr and Mrs K took out the 
mortgage. Having done so, I dont agree that Bank of Scotland wasnt entitled to ask Mr and 
Mrs K to have a protection policy as a condition of the mortgage. These say Bank of 
Scotland can make a protection policy a requirement of a mortgage as long as this is made 
clear at the time - which Im satisfied from the evidence it did. So I dont believe it was unfair 
or unreasonable for Bank of Scotland to ask for the protection policy to be in place before 
agreeing to the mortgage. 
I note Mr and Mrs K said there was enough equity in their property so the protection policy 
wasnt necessary. However, Bank of Scotland didnt provide any advice to Mr and Mrs K. 
Bank of Scotland only had to make it clear that the condition of taking their mortgage was to 
have a protection policy in place. Any subsequent decision to proceed with the mortgage 
and the protection policy was between Mr and Mrs K and their IFA. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 January 2020.
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman