DRN-1786044
The complaint
Miss F complains that KL Law Ltd gave her misleading advice and information before she 
agreed to use its services to help her with an employment dispute.
What happened
In November 2018, Miss F asked KL Law for some advice about some issues she was 
having with her employer concerning discrimination, bullying and harassment. Miss F paid 
KL Law £900 (+VAT) for it to help her with her claim against her employer.
Shortly afterwards KL Law drafted a letter of resignation for Miss F and she gave this to her 
employer. KL Law then attempted to negotiate a settlement offer with Miss Fs employer and 
registered her claim with the Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration Service (ACAS) for 
conciliation.
Miss Fs former employer didnt offer to settle her claim for constructive dismissal and 
discrimination. So in January 2019, KL Law advised Miss F that the next step was to issue 
proceedings to an employment tribunal. It quoted her £800 (+VAT) to draft and issue her 
claim and to continue negotiations for 28 days. Miss F agreed for KL Law to proceed for a 
reduced fee of £600 (+VAT). 
There was still no offer of a settlement from Miss Fs former employer and a date was set for 
a preliminary employment tribunal hearing.
Miss F complained to KL Law about poor service. She said there were errors in paperwork 
including a letter it had sent to the tribunal. It hadnt been clear about what she was paying 
for and had lured her to pay more money. She said it had given her the wrong advice  
telling her to resign as soon as possible and her claim would be settled at ACAS stage. She 
asked it to return what shed paid and compensate her for lost salary.
KL Law denied giving Miss F misleading advice or incorrect information about its fees and 
the service it had agreed to provide. So, Miss F brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Miss Fs concerns but didnt think her complaint should be 
upheld. He said he didnt have any evidence KL Law had advised Miss F that it would be 
best to leave her job. He also thought KL Law had carried out the tasks it said it would in the 
first and second agreement.
Miss F disagreed with our investigators view. She said he hadnt taken into account that KL 
Law was bound to inform her of all steps it would take in respect of the case and the 
financial involvement involved. He hadnt considered KL Laws lack of care and 
professionalism. KL law had lied about the date her employment had started. She said the 
investigator hadnt looked at the facts in respect of her case such as documentary evidence, 
video, audio etc of her victimisation and race discrimination shed complained about.
As Miss F has disagreed with our investigators opinion, her complaint has been passed to 
me.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt this services role to investigate Miss Fs complaint against her former employer. But I 
can consider if KL Law has treated her fairly and reasonably when giving her advice and 
investigating or representing her claim.
Fees
Miss F says KL Law led her to believe that her initial payment of £900 + VAT would be 
enough to handle her case.
Ive seen a copy of the agreement KL Law sent to Miss F before she agreed to use its 
services. This says:
The scope of our work (if necessary) under this agreement is as follows:
a.conference where instructions are taken
b.drafting provisional heads of claim 
c.instigating ACAS conciliation procedure
d.negotiating settlement on your behalf
 
We may be required to perform all or some activities enumerated above under the below 
fixed fee.
You have not instructed us to carry out any further work under this agreement.
It goes on to say that there is a fixed fee of £900 + VAT (20%) for the service. 
From what Ive seen and been told, KL Law did what it had agreed to do in the scope of 
work. Miss F says KL Law led her to believe that the matter would be settled through ACAS 
and she wouldnt have to pay any extra fees.  But KL Law says it didnt promise to win    
Miss Fs case through ACAS or at any stage. It felt she had a reasonable prospect of 
success, based on the information Miss F had provided.
I havent got any notes to tell me exactly what was discussed in Miss Fs initial meeting with 
KL Law. But I think its unlikely to have guaranteed that Miss Fs claim would be settled at 
ACAS stage, even if it told her she had a strong case. Theres also nothing in the paperwork 
to say this.
Miss F has referred to an email KL Law sent her a couple of months later with the wording if 
you wish to reach a quick settlement as evidence that she was previously assured she 
would win at ACAS. The email was about the amount KL Law was proposing to settle her 
claim at ACAS stage. It suggested proposing a lower amount than she might win at tribunal 
to take into account the costs. I cant see that KL Law was giving any guarantee that the 
settlement offer would be accepted, even if this is what Miss F interpreted it to mean.
In January 2019, KL Law sent Miss F an email which suggested drafting a claim to the 
employment tribunal to preserve time limits and continue negotiations. Miss F paid £600 
+VAT for KL Law to draft and submit her claim to the employment tribunal, continue with 
negotiations for up to 28 days and to temporarily come on the tribunals records as her 
representatives.I think KL Law gave Miss F clear information about what the £600 would cover. And Miss F 
confirmed that she understood this before she paid the money because in one of the emails 
shes said:
I can afford to pay the 600 pounds for you to make the claim to the tribunal and continue 
with the negotiations but if the negotiations did not work out, I can only continue on No win 
No fee as I am not working at the moment. You can either help me with No win No fee or 
allowed me to continue the case through the union after the negotiations as I am member.
It isnt disputed that KL Law did what it agreed to do in the second agreement. Its 
unfortunate for Miss F that her former employer didnt agreed to settle the claim at this stage. 
But I think KL Law gave Miss F clear information about the fees before she agreed to pay 
them. 
Advice
Miss F says that when she first asked KL Law for advice about her work related issues it 
pressed her to quit her job. Shes also said she wouldnt have quit her job if shed realised 
how much it would cost to take her case to tribunal and that KL Law didnt give her this 
information in their initial discussions. 
KL Law says that from the information it had, it was of the view that she was entitled to a 
claim for constructive dismissal in addition to a claim for race discrimination and 
victimisation. It said it was its duty to advise her of this. It says it did tell Miss F its normal 
fees for taking cases like hers to tribunal. 
As Ive said, I dont know exactly what was discussed in the meeting. But Miss F says she 
was experiencing discrimination, bullying and harassment in her employment. So, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for KL Law to advise her that quitting her job and claiming for 
constructive dismissal was an option.
I dont think the decision to quit her job would be something that Miss F would have taken 
lightly. There would have been several factors involved. KL Laws role was limited to giving 
her information and guidance to help her make this decision. I havent seen enough 
evidence to show me that KL Law said or did anything to make Miss F quit her job. So, I 
dont think it would be fair to conclude that KL Law is responsible for Miss F ending her 
employment and subsequently being out of work. 
Professionalism
Miss F complains that KL Law has shown a lack of care because of errors in some of the 
paperwork. There was an incorrect date in one of the agreements that KL Law has admitted 
was a typing error. Miss F says the incorrect date for her commencement of employment 
was wrong on paperwork submitted to the tribunal. She says KL Law lied about this when it 
said her boyfriend had given it that date. 
Ive considered Miss Fs points about this, but I cant see that she was caused any detriment 
by what appear to be minor errors. She says that KL Law gave two different dates to the 
tribunal for her employment commencement. But from what shes said, there were only two 
days difference between the dates, so I think its unlikely that this would have had any 
impact on how her case was considered.
I appreciate that Miss F has been through a difficult time and it must have been 
disappointing for her that KL Laws involvement in her employment claim, didnt result in a satisfactory conclusion for her. But having considered her points, I havent concluded that KL 
Law has done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman