DRN-1994934
 
 
The complaint
Mrs W complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) have not handled her legal expenses 
insurance claim fairly.
What happened
Mrs W is unhappy that UKI have not given her a choice of panel firms to choose from based 
in her location, and believes it is the insurers responsibility under the policy to source legal 
representation.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 25 June 2020. I said I did not intend to 
uphold it, and set out the following findings:
"The policy terms and conditions state that UKI will pay the costs to help you claim from the 
person who was responsible for [an] accident. In terms of such costs, the policy document 
states that UKI will pay for all properly incurred, reasonable and proportionate legal fees, 
expenses and disbursements charged by an appointed representative.
The term appointed representative is defined in the policy as the preferred law firm, 
solicitor or other suitably qualified person appointed by us to represent you under this policy. 
As such, it does not promise to appoint a panel firm specifically (i.e. a preferred law firm) as 
this is just one of the categories of legal professionals that are regarded as an appointed 
representative under the policy.
Legal expenses policies often include restrictions regarding which solicitors the policyholder 
can choose to represent them, and at what point. But in this instance, UKI had given Mrs W 
the freedom to choose her own solicitor from the outset, which is usually only reserved for 
claimants who are at the stage of initiating legal proceedings. The fact that UKI refer to the 
representative as appointed by us does not, in my opinion, mean that the insurer is 
responsible for sourcing the representative. If freedom of choice is granted, then it is for 
the policyholder to choose which firm of solicitors they want to instruct/be represented by, 
and it is for the insurer to appoint and pay for the services of that firm, subject to their terms 
and conditions.
As such, I do not consider UKI are under any obligation to have to provide a panel solicitor if 
they do not have a preferred firm in Mrs Ws location, and neither do I consider it to be 
incumbent on them to choose another firm on her behalf in such circumstances. Indeed, it is 
Mrs W who is best placed to decide who she wants to represent her based on her specific 
needs and the particular specialisms required for the nuances of her legal claim.
I appreciate that the letter UKI sent to Mrs W on 6 September 2019 made reference to panel 
solicitors, and the insurer has conceded that this was misleading as they did not have any 
panel firms to offer in the location she was based. But they apologised and offered £50 
compensation for this oversight, which I think is a fair and proportionate reflection of the 
distress and inconvenience it was likely to have caused. However, It does not mean that UKI 
must then provide a panel solicitor where there is not one available. Even if UKI did have a 
panel firm in Mrs Ws location, there may be many reasons why such a firm could not 
represent her in any event (a conflict of interest, for example, or the firm not having capacity 
to take on the case). But so long as the insurer provides Mrs W with the freedom to choose 
her own solicitor in these circumstances, they are still honouring their obligations under the 
policy to cover the legal costs for a law firm to pursue her claim. So she has not been 
disadvantaged by her location in this respect, as she is still able to obtain cover under the 
policy.
As such, I do not believe UKI have acted unreasonably in these circumstances by declining 
to appoint a solicitor on Mrs Ws behalf. I can see they are willing to appoint a firm of her 
choosing, so long as she lets them know which firm she wants to instruct. I cannot see any 
reason why Mrs W is not able to choose her own solicitor, so I do not intend asking UKI to 
do anything further".
I said I'd look at any more comments and evidence so long as it was received by 10 July 
2020. However, neither party responded to my provisional decision with any further 
submissions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Given that neither party has presented any further evidence or submissions, I see no reason 
to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman