DRN-4195948
The complaint
Miss K complains HSBC UK Bank Plc allowed transactions that she didnt carry out to take 
her significantly over her overdraft limit and that it has refused to refund her. Miss K also 
complains HSBC UK Bank Plc closed her account without warning and a third party is 
chasing her for the money HSBC UK Bank Plc says she owes.
What happened
Miss K had an account with HSBC with a debit and a credit card.
Miss K says she noticed her account had gone significantly over her overdraft limit when she 
obtained a statement at an HSBC branch. She says she subsequently reported over 200 
transactions  all of which had been carried out abroad  to HSBC as fraudulent. HSBC 
investigated Miss Ks claim and said that it wasnt going to uphold it. Miss K complained.
HSBC looked into Miss Ks complaint and, having done so, said it didnt think it had made a 
mistake when it said it wasnt going to refund her. HSBC also said that it was going to close 
Miss Ks account.
Miss K complained to us saying shed not been abroad, that she had no idea how the 
transactions had been done and that HSBC shouldnt have allowed her account to go over 
her overdraft limit. Miss K also said that HSBC should have been protecting her account.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ks complaint and said that they didnt think HSBC 
had acted unfairly or unreasonably and so they werent going to uphold this complaint. As 
Miss K was unhappy with our investigators recommendation, her complaint was referred to 
an ombudsman for a decision. As a result, Ive looked into her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that the transactions Miss K is disputing have all been carried out using a digital 
payment service and that the transactions have been spread across two different cards. Im 
also satisfied that the transactions took place over a significant period of time, were for small 
amounts and all took place in a country linked to Miss K. In the circumstances, I agree with 
our investigator that I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable of HSBC to hold Miss K liable 
for them on the basis that its more likely than not that she shared her account details. I can 
understand too why shes unhappy HSBC allowed her to go over her overdraft limit. But in 
this case, thats not enough on its own to say that HSBC acted unfairly when it said it wasnt 
going to refund her.
I can see that HSBC has also now closed Miss Ks account. Im satisfied that HSBC did so in 
line with the accounts terms and conditions. In the circumstances, Im not going to ask 
HSBC to do more here.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman