DRN-3850308
The complaint
Mr C complained because Revolut Ltd refused to refund him for transactions which he said 
he didnt authorise.
What happened
On 15 August 2022, there were three debits from Mr Cs account, for a total of £7,540. 
Mr C logged in on 17 August, when the account balance was €0.71. He said he knew there 
was nearly €9,000 in the account, and hed paid in €1,000 on 4 August. He contacted 
Revolut. 
Revolut asked a number of questions, including whether his phone and / or Revolut card had 
been lost or stolen, and how he logged into his Revolut app.
Mr C told Revolut that his Revolut card wasnt missing, but hed lost his phone on 22 July. 
The phone was secured with Face ID or passcode, with the phone asking for the passcode if 
it didnt recognise the face.  He said his Revolut app was secured with a PIN.  He said hed 
tried to recover it using a finding app, but it couldnt be tracked because the phone was 
turned off. He put the phone into Lost Mode and reported this to his insurance on 26 July, 
and received a replacement phone two days later. 
Mr C said that on 5 August hed received a text saying the phone was now on, and asking 
him to log on using his phone passcode and Cloud password. Mr C said he entered these, 
but the screen went blank. He contacted his phone supplier, which said the text had 
probably been a scam, and Mr C should change his passcode and passwords straightaway, 
which he did. He hadnt received any other suspicious calls.
Revolut told Mr C to change his in-app passcode, and his email password, and said it would 
investigate.
The next morning, Mr C had a message from Revolut. It said it had reviewed Mr Cs case, 
and wouldnt be reimbursing him. It said that its protections had been in place, and both 
phone and Revolut app has also been protected, and Revolut had found no signs of 
fraudulent activity. 
Mr C complained. In Revoluts final response to Mr Cs complaint, it said it had escalated the 
matter to its fraud team. The fraud team had checked and had found no signs of account 
takeover. So Revolut said it wasnt liable for the three payments.
Mr C said he couldnt understand how Revolut had decided that no fraud had been 
committed. He said that one way to prove it was to check which device was logged in at the 
time the payments had been made  and he said it had to be another device than his phone. 
Mr C said Revolut had been negligent, and since hed opened the account hed only paid 
money in which hed then transferred to euros. So he had no reason to transfer back to 
pounds, which should have been a red flag. He said this was his entire saving and it had 
been stolen, and he didnt accept there was nothing that could be done.
Mr C contacted this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. She said that because Mr C had put the 
phone into Lost Mode on 26 July, she didnt think anyone other than Mr C could have 
accessed the phone after that. She also thought the timescales made it unlikely that a 
fraudster had made the transactions. She thought it was more likely than not that Mr C had 
authorised the transactions himself.
Mr C didnt agree. He said the investigator was basically saying hed approved the 
transactions, using a phone he no longer had. He said there was clear evidence to prove he 
didnt have the lost phone.  He also said hed found three emails from Revolut in his deleted 
folder, which he hadnt deleted  which he said proved that someone else had had access to 
his emails on 28 July and 1 August. 
Mr C also sent further comments. He said that the three transactions had been completed in 
a short space of time, and Revoluts systems should have flagged this and frozen the 
account. He said that as it was a new payee, he should have been sent an email or text to 
make sure hed genuinely set up the payee  and this hadnt happened. Mr C also said that 
Revolut had proof that it was the old phone which had logged in on 12 August, then made 
the payments on 15 August. He hadnt had the phone since 22 July, so he hadnt made the 
payments. Mr C suggested that the money should be traced to where it went, so Revolut 
could find the person that had stolen his money. Mr C said that he was the victim, not the 
fraudster, and the money was savings for his wedding. He said theyd been paying for things 
in euros using the Revolut card, and wouldnt have transferred it back into sterling. Mr C said 
he worked long hours and didnt want the hassle and stress, or to be accused of making it 
up.
Mr C asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in 2022 are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In 
general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, and the 
customer is liable if they did authorise them. 
The regulations also say that account holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments 
under certain circumstances  for example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to 
such an extent that it can be termed gross negligence.
The technical evidence shows that Mr Cs old phone was used to log into his Revolut 
account on 12 August. It was the old phone which logged in again on 15 August, and made 
the three disputed transactions. 
I recognise that Mr C says he lost his old phone on 22 July, and put the phone into Lost 
Mode on 26 July. Hes also provided a copy of a very short message from his phone 
supplier, which says that the replacement device Mr C had ordered was on its way. 
But as Mr C had put the phone into Lost Mode on 26 July, I dont think anyone else could 
have used it after then. Lost Mode locks the device to protect the owners personal 
information.  Mr C said that he had phishing messages on 5 August, and he entered his old phones 
passcode and his password. But I dont think this would have been enough to enable a 
fraudster to access Mr Cs Cloud account. When accessing Cloud from a new device, the 
user would have had to enter a verification code, which a fraudster couldnt have received. 
Ive also taken the timescales into account. If a third party fraudster obtained Mr Cs phone 
on or around 22 July, I dont consider its likely that theyd have waited until 5 August before 
attempting a phishing call. And even if the information Mr C entered had provided a fraudster 
with sufficient information to enable them to access the account  and as Ive explained I 
dont think this was enough - its most unlikely a fraudster would then have waited even 
longer before carrying out the disputed transactions. The technical evidence shows that the 
old phone was logged into on 12 August  but no transactions were made. This isnt what a 
fraudster would do. Instead, whoever logged in waited until 15 August before carrying out 
the disputed transactions, having theoretically had the phone since 22 July.  
Ive also borne in mind that, as Ive set out above, the relevant Regulations say account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments if theyve failed to keep their details 
secure to such an extent that it can be termed gross negligence. Here, Mr C told Revolut 
that he stupidly (in his words) clicked a link and provided some of his security information 
to a phishing text. I dont think this alone would have been enough for any third party 
fraudster to have been able to access Mr Cs Revolut account. But the fact that Mr C didnt 
keep his details secure, means that Revolut considered hed acted negligently in the terms 
of the relevant Regulations.
Finally, I recognise that Mr C says that Revolut should have stopped the transactions as 
atypical behaviour, and that it should have traced the recipient of the funds. But the 
transactions were fully authenticated so I dont consider it had any duty to stop them. And I 
consider that there was significant evidence to indicate that the transactions hadnt been 
made by a third party fraudster, so I dont agree that there was any obligation on Revolut to 
try to trace the recipient. 
Taking all the evidence into account, I consider its most likely that Mr C carried out the 
disputed transactions himself. So I dont require Revolut to refund him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman