DRN-3555725
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos Card has 
treated him unfairly by defaulting his account and preventing him from re-paying his balance 
due to his disability. He says hes been subjected to discrimination.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. But before proceeding to my 
final decision, I will outline what I said in my provisional findings issued on 31 May 2022.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing so, Im required to take into account  amongst other things  relevant law and 
regulations. In this complaint Mr C feels Argos failed in its duty to make reasonable 
adjustments under the Equality Act 2010. So, Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account 
when deciding this complaint  given that its relevant law. But Ive ultimately decided this 
complaint based on whats fair and reasonable. If Mr C wants a decision on whether Argos 
has breached the Equality Act 2010, then hed need to go to Court.
Despite the above, I can consider whether Argos has acted in a fair and reasonable manner.
In order to do that I will consider a number of things, including the Equality Act 2010. Firstly, 
it is not in dispute that Argos incorrectly defaulted Mr Cs account. Argos has explained that 
during a review of its systems and processes it came to its attention that Mr Cs account had 
been incorrectly defaulted. Argos has provided evidence to show that it had asked for all 
credit reference agencies to remove the adverse data from Mr Cs credit file. However, 
Argos hasnt been able to show how long the adverse data had been recorded, as such, it is 
unable to determine how long Mr C would have been impacted by this.
Argos have also advised that Mr C has previously made it aware of the error it had made 
and asked for the data to be removed, but Argos failed to action his request. Again, Argos 
hasnt been able to provide any further information in regard to this  as such, it is hard to 
determine the impact it had on Mr C.
I have gone on to consider Mr Cs personal circumstances and the service he received from 
Argos. I would like to acknowledge Mr Cs frustration; he says our investigator failed to 
understand that due to his disability, he was unable to contact Argos to discuss the issue by 
phone and the options available to him to repay the outstanding balance on his account 
were limited, he says he asked Argos how he could repay the balance online and he was 
ignored. As such, he says Argos failed to make reasonable adjustments.
The Equality Act says that businesses have a duty to make reasonable adjustments for 
customers who are placed at a substantial disadvantage due to their disability. However, in 
law, Argos is only required to make adjustments which are reasonable, and ones that dont 
fundamentally alter the nature of its service. Thats relevant law and Ive taken it into account 
when reaching my decision.
I accept Argos response that Mr C had alternative ways to pay, which is outlined on its 
statements and on its internet banking website. As such he would have been aware of the 
alternative options available. Therefore, I cant say Argos has acted unfairly, or not made 
reasonable adjustments when it comes to the options available to customers in order to 
repay money owed on an account.
However, Mr C says he asked Argos for its assistance on how he could repay his balance 
online, and Argos ignored his request and closed his account. And while I havent seen any 
evidence of this correspondence (nor would I have expected Mr C to have made copies of 
his request) on balance I am persuaded Mr C did ask Argos for assistance with this matter. I 
say this because, Argos has said in its correspondence to our service, that there is no 
reason why assistance wouldnt have been provided. However, it hasnt evidence that Mr C 
was assisted, by either sending its response to Mr C, or its contact notes. 
Secondly, I can see Argos addressed Mr Cs discrimination allegation in its final response. 
While, I accept the different ways customers can pay is made readily available, I have also 
taken into account that Mr C is a vulnerable consumer who also has a disability. And having 
made a request for assistance, I think Argos should have identified his vulnerability, 
responded to his question and ensured it was assisting a vulnerable consumer to prevent 
further financial detriment. 
Mr C is also unhappy as Argos, in its final response to him said:
I can assure you that we do discriminate against our customers
Argos has said this was a typing error and it should have said :
 I can assure you we do not. 
While I appreciate Mr Cs frustrations with this error and the distress it may have caused 
receiving a letter saying an organisation does discriminate, I am persuaded this was a typing 
error. And while I accept it did impact Mr C, I think its reasonable to conclude, that human 
errors do occur.
Mr C is very unhappy his account was closed. But Argos has explained that when an 
account is defaulted (in this case we accept it was done so in error) an account is closed 
once the balance has been repaid. And as the account has been closed, it cant be 
reopened.
Again, its important to highlight that Mr Cs account was defaulted incorrectly due to an error 
caused by Argos. But for that error, Mr Cs account wouldnt have been defaulted and as 
such he would still have access to his account. So I can see why Mr Cs is frustrated and the 
fact Argos hasnt addressed that issue is disappointing.
I can see in its final response letter, Argos admitted some of its service failings and offered 
Mr C £100 for the inconvenience it had caused. However, I dont think this truly reflects the 
distress, upset and inconvenience that has been caused to Mr C.
In summary, an error occurred, which impacted his credit file. Mr C made Argos aware and 
asked it to remove it. Argos didnt do this straight away, causing further inconvenience to Mr 
C. And as a result of its error, Mr Cs account was closed, and he was prevented from using 
his account, and as a result his account now cant be re-opened. I also think the level of 
service provided, given Mr Cs vulnerability, was not satisfactory. As such, I require Argos to pay Mr C £250 for the distress, upset and inconvenience caused by the overall service it has 
provided.
Mr C responded to my provisional decision, he explained that the provisional findings came 
at a difficult time for him due to his daughter passing away and the fact he is still mourning 
the loss of his mother. 
He said when he received the text message from Argos he was away visiting his mother in 
Mauritius. And due to his disability, he was unable to call Argos, to enquire how to make a 
payment. So, his only options were to pay online and for Argos to respond to his emails 
providing the bank account details. Mr C has also gone on to say he feels Argos should 
amend its policies and procedures in regards to reinstating his Argos card.
Argos also responded to my provisional findings outlining that it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my provisional findings remain the same. I will explain why. But at the 
outset Id like to extend my condolences to Mr C, its clear this has been a very difficult and 
upsetting time as he has suffered some close bereavements during this period, and I am 
truly sorry for his loss.
In my provisional findings I acknowledged Mr Cs disability and due to Mr Cs thorough 
explanation on how this impacted him, I am aware that he is limited to corresponding in 
writing and prevented from using the phone to handle his financial affairs. In the provisional 
findings, I referred to Mr C having alternative options to making a payment. And while I am 
aware he was unable to use the telephone and due to him being abroad unable to go into a 
Argos store, I am aware (due to Mr Cs testimony) that he had access to the internet. 
Having reviewed Argos website, it is clear Mr C could have logged on to his online account 
and under manage my card there is an option to pay his balance. This is highlighted clearly 
on Argos website. 
Mr C has gone on to provide email correspondence evidencing him asking Argos to provide 
bank details. However, in my provisional findings I said while Mr C hadnt provided evidence 
of such email (nor would I expect him to), I didnt disbelieve him because while Argos has 
said in its correspondence to our service, that there is no reason why assistance wouldnt 
have been provided it hadnt evidenced that Mr C was assisted. By either sending its 
response to Mr C, or providing its contact notes. So again, while I have seen evidence Mr C 
did contact Argos asking for its bank details and I am persuaded Argos didnt respond to this 
email (which I have taken into consideration when making an award for inconvenience to Mr 
C) I dont think this prevented Mr C making a payment, as there was alternative options as 
outlined above.
Mr C has gone on to say he feels Argos should amend its policy. I understand his strength of 
feeling towards this, but I think its helpful to clarify our role. We provide an informal dispute 
resolution service and we have no regulatory or disciplinary powers. That means we cant 
tell a business how to operate. Where we think things have gone wrong, we look to put 
things right on a fair and reasonable basis. I agree Argos hasnt treated Mr C fairly and in my 
provisional findings I outlined how they should put things right. And my decision remains the 
same. Putting things right
In summary Argos should Pay Mr C £250 for the distress, upset and inconvenience it has 
cause by the overall service it has provided and how it treated Mr C as a vulnerable 
consumer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint and require Home Retail Group Card 
Services Limited trading as Argos Card to pay Mr C £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman