DRN-2952090
The complaint
Mrs P complains that John Lewis Financial Services Limited (JLFS) were unreasonable 
when they rejected a claim she made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (section 75). She also complains about delays in responding to her claim.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
Mrs P has been represented throughout this complaint but for ease I will refer to Mrs P in 
this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs P, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mrs P made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
was the food of satisfactory quality?
Its an implied term of the contract that the food should be of satisfactory quality.
Mrs P says it wasnt. She says the starter was cold and the main course didnt taste the 
same as it had during the tasting session in which she and her husband to be, selected the 
courses to be served to their wedding guests.
JLFS think there isnt enough evidence that the food was of an unsatisfactory quality. They 
say that the supplier has explained guests were seated late and they dont agree that the 
main course was different. JLFS have explained that the contract says theres no guarantee 
food will be the same as during the tasting session.
I was really sorry to hear about the problems Mrs P experienced and I understand the 
importance of getting things right on such an important day.
I have to decide whether JLFS have been reasonable when rejecting the claim for the 
reasons it did. I think it has been. I dont think theres objective evidence that the main 
course was different than that provided during the taster session. That would be 
understandably difficult to prove as only those at the taster session would be able to decide 
if that was the case and those parties cant be said to be independent of the matter. 
I understand Mrs Ps concerns that the contract was unfair, but I dont think its unfair to 
insert a clause explaining that because of seasonal variations and scale up, the dishes might 
not be exactly mirrored. 
Im also not persuaded that there is sufficient evidence the starters were cold or of 
unsatisfactory quality. Whilst the parties dispute the time the guests were seated I dont think 
theres acceptance or objective evidence the food wasnt of satisfactory quality and I 
therefore dont think JLFS were unreasonable when rejecting the claim.
was the service of satisfactory quality?
I think its fair to suggest the contract covered the service and provision of food and Mrs P 
claims that one of the serving staff was intoxicated.
The supplier has explained that the staff member had a bad reaction to medication.
Overall I dont think I have sufficient evidence to suggest the service was unsatisfactory on 
that basis and I dont think JLFS have been unreasonable rejecting the section 75 claim 
regarding that issue.
was there a delay?
There are no time limits in which businesses are required to respond to section 75 
complaints. Thats because the complexities of claims vary and the evidence gathering can 
be time consuming.
Whilst its true that Mrs P asked JLFS for a deadlock letter on 8 June 2021 and that wasnt 
provided, I dont think that has particularly impacted Mrs Ps ability to have her complaint 
considered. Thats because she was able to refer it to this service on 6 October 2020 and 
JLFS didnt oppose that.
was the offer from the hotel group an admission of fault?The hotel group offered Mrs P a free weekend break to resolve the complaint. Mrs P has 
explained that the hotel group own the catering suppliers she is complaining about. But I 
cant see there was an acceptance of fault from the group that JLFS should have taken into 
account.
The offer appears to have been made as a goodwill gesture and as this was a significant 
event for Mrs P I can understand the group wanting to make a gesture to minimise the 
dissatisfaction she clearly felt.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman