DRN-2882984
The complaint
S has complained about the decision of Allianz Insurance Plc to decline its business 
interruption insurance claim for losses sustained following the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
S held a commercial insurance policy underwritten by Allianz. The policy provided cover for 
a number of areas, including business interruption. Following closure of Ss premises in 
March 2020 due to the national government-imposed lockdown intended to control the 
spread of COVID-19, S made a claim on that policy to cover its losses.
Allianz declined the claim, saying no cover was provided by the policy in the circumstances. 
Allianz said that there had been no Damage as required by the policy and that COVID-19 
was not included in the specified list of diseases the policy covered.
S complained about this decision. And when Allianz did not alter its decision to decline the 
claim, S brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator did not consider the complaint 
should be upheld though. He thought Allianz had fairly applied the terms of the policy to the 
circumstances of the claim.
S remained unsatisfied and this complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
S is represented in this complaint. Ss representative has submitted detailed arguments as to 
why it feels Ss claim should be met and the complaint upheld. The arguments submitted 
and pursued by Ss representative are largely the same arguments that it has submitted on 
other complaints from other policyholders.
The role of this service is to consider each complaint based on its own individual 
circumstances. However, we have developed certain approaches that are then applied to 
those individual circumstances. And where circumstances are similar, it is inevitable that 
similar conclusions will be reached. Ss representative has had this services approach to its 
arguments explained, including within other final decisions of this service. And, unless the 
circumstances of this particular complaint are dissimilar from those previous cases, the 
same approach will be applied to this case.
However, for the benefit of S, I will set out in this decision why its representatives arguments 
have not persuaded me to uphold its complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact lockdown had on S. But, largely 
for the same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain 
why.
The starting point is to consider the specific policy S took out and what situations the 
insurance it provides responds to. As such Ive considered every aspect of the policy S held 
with Allianz to determine whether there are any sections that would require Allianz to meet 
the claim S is making. Having done so, I dont think there are.
Damage
The core cover provided by the Business Interruption section of the policy, along with 
several of the extensions (including Denial of Access), requires there to have been 
Damage. This is defined within the Business Interruption section of the policy as:
Destruction, damage or loss insured under Sections 1,3,4 and 7 of this Policy.
Effectively, this means that where destruction, damage or loss, that is insured under one of 
these numbered sections, has led to an interruption of Ss business, it would be covered for 
the financial losses incurred by that interruption. The numbered sections relate to Trade 
Contents, Goods in Transit, Deterioration of Stock, and Buildings. However, there hasnt 
been any destruction, damage or loss to any of the things insured under these sections that 
has led to the interruption of Ss business. 
S has said that the building suffered damage due to dampness. However, it doesnt actually 
have cover under section 7 (Buildings) as part of the cover included in its policy  as shown 
by the policy schedule. And whilst, depending on what exactly has been damaged, the 
damage items might be covered under the Trade Contents or Deterioration of Stock 
sections, it doesnt seem likely damage caused by dampness as a result of the premises 
being closed would be a cause covered by these sections. The Deterioration of Stock 
section largely provides cover relating to the failure of refrigeration machinery. And although 
the Trade Contents section does provide cover for Any Cause, dampness is specifically 
excluded. Additionally, regardless of whether such damage might be covered, this damage 
would not have been the cause of the interruption to Ss business. 
Ss representative has argued that COVID-19, and the related Government restrictions, were 
damage. And that such damage does not need to be physical. It has argued that the Any 
Cause provision in the Trade Contents section means that, unless specifically excluded, any 
cause of damage is covered and that this would include COVID-19 and its impact. It has said 
that this damage does not need to be physical.
However, I am not persuaded by these arguments. I consider that destruction, damage or 
loss as used in this policy is most likely to refer to something physical. The cover provided by 
sections 1, 3, 4 and 7 is for the repair or replacement of the property insured. Such property 
is material in nature, and damage, etc. to something material must inherently be physical. 
Ss representative has referred to a number of legal cases to argue that the virus leading to 
COVID-19, SARS-COV-2, is capable of causing damage. However, having considered the 
cases S has referred to, as well as the rest of the legal landscape, I do not agree. Instead, I 
agree with the investigator that damage, as it is required under the policy, would require 
either a physical change to property or specialist cleaning to remove the cause of damage.
I dont consider it can be said that physical changes were caused by SARS-COV-2 to 
property, whether that be Ss property, its suppliers property, or property within the 
immediate vicinity or a mile of Ss premises. And I also dont consider that any specialist 
cleaning of such property was required. So, I dont think there was relevant damage, and I 
think Allianz acted fairly and reasonably when declining Ss claim under the parts of the 
policy that required such damage.I also dont think, for similar reasons, that there has been destruction of property. And I dont 
think the temporary loss of use of Ss premises (or the premises of their suppliers) would 
constitute loss as required by the policy. I consider this would need to be more than a 
temporary loss, where recovery was uncertain  the basic principle being that the relevant 
sections listed above would provide indemnity to replace that lost property. I note Ss 
representatives comments that S had not been able to fully make use of its premises at the 
time that evidence was submitted. But I do not consider that to mean the property was lost.
Whilst I appreciate the pandemic has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think 
COVID-19, or the related government measures, caused Damage which has led to an 
interruption of Ss business.
So, I dont think either the standard business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely 
on there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Ss claim. And I think 
Allianz acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Ss claim under these areas of cover.
Specified Illnesses
A further extension to the business interruption section of Ss policy provides cover 
disruption to business activities as a direct result of, in part:
a any occurrence of a Specified Illness at the Premises or attributable to food or 
drink supplied from the Premises
b any discovery of an organism at the Premises likely to result in the occurrence of a 
Specified Illness
c any occurrence of a Specified illness within a radius of 25 miles of the Premises...
However, the term Specified Illness is defined as meaning an:
illness sustained by any person resulting from:

b Acute Encephalitis, Acute Poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chickenpox, Cholera, Diphtheria, 
Dysentery, Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Malaria, Measles, Meningococcal Infection, 
Mumps, Opthalmia Neonatorum, Paratyphoid Fever, Plague, Rabies, Rubella, 
Scarlet Fever, Smallpox, Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Typhoid Fever, Viral Hepatitis, 
Whooping Cough or Yellow Fever an outbreak of which the competent local authority 
has stipulated shall be notified to them. 

This means cover is only provided under this extension where the relevant illness is listed. 
COVID-19 isnt one of the specified diseases listed as being covered by the policy. So, Im 
not persuaded this section of the policy would have provided S with cover.
When reaching this finding Im mindful that COVID-19 isnt something Allianz are likely to 
have known about when the policy was drafted, but I dont think that changes anything. 
Thats because I dont think Allianz intended to, or suggested they would, provide cover for 
all diseases  either all infectious or contagious disease or all those that might be added to a 
government defined, regularly updated list. Allianz deliberately chose to define Specified 
Illness by reference to a static list of certain diseases.
S's representative has said that this is not an exhaustive list. However, I disagree. I dont 
think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, and I think it is an exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge. 
I think the purpose and effect of the policy is to provide cover in the event of the diseases 
listed in the policy. There are many potential illnesses and diseases that the policy does not 
cover including, for example, SARS (another type of Coronavirus). I dont think the policy 
can or should fairly be read as covering any and all diseases that fall outside of the defined 
list. So, the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can 
fairly and reasonably be read in a different way.
Ss claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. As 
cover was not provided under this area of the policy for losses resulting from business 
interruption caused by COVID-19, I am satisfied Avivas decision to decline the claim was in 
line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.
Sanitary arrangements
Subclause f of the Specified Illnesses extension provides cover for losses as a result of:
any accident causing defects in the drains or other sanitary arrangements at the 
Premises which causes restrictions on the use of the Premises on the order or advice 
of the competent local authority
Ss representative has said that there was defective sanitation at Ss premises because safe 
social distancing could not be maintained and, as a result, regulations were imposed on Ss 
business. 
However, I consider a key question here is whether or not an inability to enforce social 
distancing could be said to qualify as a defect in the sanitary arrangements at Ss premises.
To reach a fair and reasonable outcome Ive considered, amongst other things, relevant 
case law, in particular the case of Brushfield Ltd (T/A The Clarence Hotel) v Arachas 
Corporate Brokers Ltd & Anor [2021] IEHC 263. This case took place in the Irish courts, but 
in the absence of a comparable English case, I feel it is useful to consider the points made in 
this case in terms of considering how an English court might decide this point of contractual 
interpretation. The judge in this case considered policy wording similar to that in Ss policy 
and considered, in part, the meaning of the term other sanitary arrangements, when used 
in context similar to Ss complaint.
The judge in this case said at paragraph 164:
 it is essential to consider the meaning of a contractual provision as of the date 
when the contract was concluded. The question, accordingly, is whether a 
reasonable person, in the position of the parties at the time the contract was 
concluded, would understand that the reference to a defect in the other sanitary 
arrangements at the premises was intended to capture an inability to ensure that 
appropriate social distancing was maintained.
This reflects the position of English Law that the meaning of a contract should be interpreted 
objectively, by considering what would be understood by a reasonable person, with the 
relevant background knowledge, at the time the contract was entered.
Ss policy was entered in November 2019, potentially before COVID-19 even existed and 
certainly prior to the disease being widely known. And, whilst social distancing has been 
practiced throughout history as a means of preventing the spread of disease, until recently, 
this was not the case in the UK. So, I am not persuaded that a reasonable person reading the particular wording of Ds policy in November 2019 would have considered this subclause 
to refer to an inability to enforce social distancing at Ss premises. 
Additionally, it isnt clear what Ss representatives consider the defect at Ss premises 
actually is. As the judge in Brushfield said at paragraph 166, A defect inherently involves 
some element of deficiency or fault. S is a public house and no evidence has been provided 
to suggest there was any deficiency or fault in its sanitary arrangements. Im not persuaded 
that the normal operation of a business can be called a defect, and certainly not a defect 
specific to Ss premises which led to its closure.
Ss representatives have said that the public order to close was to specifically limit the 
spread of disease and virus at Ss premises and these circumstances are covered by the 
term other sanitary arrangements. However, I havent been provided with any evidence to 
suggest it was the circumstances at Ss premises in particular that led to the Governments 
decision to introduce the restrictions it did in March 2020. For these reasons, I consider 
Allianzs decision to not to meet Ss claim under this subclause was fair and reasonable.
Ive carefully looked at the rest of the terms in Ss policy. But I dont consider Ss claim ought 
to have been met under any of them. I know this decision will be disappointing for S and its 
directors, but I hope Ive provided them with a thorough explanation of why this policy 
doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of Ss claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or reject my decision before 
7 January 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman