DRN-3850706
The complaint
Miss G and Mr K have complained about the way in which AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) 
settled their claim for damage under Mr Ks buildings and contents insurance policy for 
landlords.
For the avoidance of doubt the term AXA in this decision letter includes reference to its loss 
adjusters, representatives and agents and Mr K includes the submissions made on his 
behalf by his representative, Miss G.
What happened
In February 2021, Mr Ks property was broken into, and Miss G and Mr K reported the matter 
to the police. They also made a claim to AXA for damage caused to locks, doors and to the 
interior of the property under the insurance policy which Mr K had taken out with AXA. 
During investigations, the police discovered that the property was being used to grow 
cannabis and parts of the property had suffered damage. The police report confirmed there 
had been a break-in, that a window and plaster board wall had been damaged, and it was 
suspected that cannabis plants had been stolen. AXA declined to meet the entire claim. It 
said that on the balance of probabilities, the majority of the damage was caused by tenants 
who were illegally cultivating cannabis, and not by the people who broke in. It said that Mr K 
wasnt covered for malicious damage. Miss G and Mr K was unhappy with AXAs decision to 
decline the claim and they referred the complaint to this service.
This services investigator didnt uphold Miss G and Mr Ks complaint. She noted that AXAs 
loss adjusters had stated that it wasnt possible to confirm the extent of the damage caused 
by the break-in, as the property had been completely stripped back and reinstatement works 
had started. Neither had she seen pictures of the damage before repairs started, although 
she did consider the description of what was damaged. She concluded that, on the balance 
of probabilities, most damage was consistent with cultivation of cannabis rather than a 
break-in.
Miss G and Mr K remain unhappy with the outcome of his complaint. The matter has 
therefore been referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to determine is whether AXA acted in an unfair or unreasonable 
manner in its application of the terms and conditions of the policy and in declining Miss G 
and Mr Ks claim. I cant say that it has, and Ill explain why. In reaching this decision, Ive 
also considered the submissions made by both parties as summarised below.
Miss G and Mr K thought that the property, which Mr K let out to tenants, had been 
maliciously damaged by unknown third parties during a break-in which was confirmed by the 
police. They considered that such damage was clearly covered under the policy. They 
thought that AXA was presuming that the damage was caused by tenants and not intruders 
who broke into the property by smashing the doors and windows to gain access. Miss G and 
Mr K said that the property needed substantial repairs and theyd paid for these even though 
no income was coming in, as the property was no longer being rented out. Theyd also 
suffered the stress of having to deal with AXA and said that its loss adjusters; were just 
horrendous to deal with. They wanted AXA to honour the claim and put things right.
Miss G and Mr K said that theyd provided AXA with all the necessary documents it had 
asked for, including the police report. They were claiming for the malicious damage caused. 
During the break-in, they said that damage had been caused with piping and radiators being 
ripped off the walls which caused extensive water damage. The water damage had affected 
the contents of the property as well as the property itself. They said that water damage had 
gone into the walls, the flooring and had damaged the ceilings below and the electrics. 
Shower cubicles were also smashed, along with toilets and tiling. Miss G and Mr K said that 
all of these were covered under the policy. As the damage was getting progressively worse, 
theyd been advised by AXA to start remedial works and keep records of the works carried 
out. Miss G and Mr K asked for a surveyor to come out to the property, however AXA didnt 
do so until much later and after remedial works had been progressed.
Finally, Miss G and Mr K said that all pictures theyd provided, showing the extent of the 
damage were also conveniently lost by the assessors. They said that theyd made it clear 
that damage had been caused to all entrance doorways as well as adjoining windows front 
and back, yet they are only covering the front door and front window. He added that All 
action was taken to keep the property from further damage which any responsible owner 
would have done to stop the spread of any further damage. At every step pictures were 
submitted. As to his landlord responsibilities, Miss G and Mr K said that the Covid-19 
restrictions had made some landlord responsibilities harder to action and because of this, felt 
he was now being penalised. 
Turning to what AXA has said about the matter, AXA said that it was sorry to note the 
circumstances of the claim. In its final response letter, it referred to Miss G and Mr Ks initial 
claim when theyd advised AXA that there had been a break-in at the property which was 
owned as a tenanted property. AXA said it had appointed loss adjusters to conduct 
investigations to validate the claim. Aside from the break-in, it said that what had become 
apparent was that; a cannabis farm had been set up within the property. AXA confirmed 
that it subsequently declined most damage and items claimed for.
AXA noted that the police report verified that there had been a break in at the property. 
Following the loss adjusters input and report, AXA was satisfied that most damage was 
more consistent with the cultivation of cannabis than a break-in. It said that the policy 
wording excluded malicious damage caused by the tenant. It concluded that cover wasnt in 
place for anything other than a broken window and door and the cost of making the property 
secure. It said that ultimately, the police were primarily concerned with the criminal aspect of 
what had occurred. Whilst they did note down damage that could have been caused due 
break-in, AXA considered its loss adjusters report to have been thorough and they acted as 
property experts. It said that the loss adjusters had given clear reasoning why damage to 
plaster walls was consistent with the cultivation of cannabis and not the break in. It said it 
was clear that the tenants had caused considerable damage to the entire property when 
converting it for the cultivation of cannabis. It considered that thieves would not have had  
any motivation to carry out internal damage or to be in the property longer than necessary.
Having considered all the available evidence, I confirm that the starting point for my decision 
is the wording of the policy document. In principle, the policy would normally cover damage 
caused by a break-in. It also includes loss or damage caused by malicious people. It doesnt however cover malicious damage caused by an owners tenants. It would have 
been covered if Miss G and Mr K had purchased additional cover for such eventualities, 
however unfortunately they didnt do so. The policy booklet references this; Malicious 
damage caused by tenants or persons lawfully in the home (covered up to £5,000 if optional 
Buildings plus additional cover selected - please refer to your schedule for selected cover). .
Ive carefully considered the available reports. These include the police report and the loss 
adjusters report. As Miss G and Mr K have stated, the police report does confirm a break-in. 
It doesnt however confirm the cause of the very significant internal damage to the property. 
This is itemised in the loss adjusters report.
As illegal activity has occurred within this tenanted property, I consider that the tenants had 
flouted the residential nature of the property and significant alterations are likely to have 
been made in order to support such activity. Im satisfied that the most likely cause of the 
substantial damage within the property will have been malicious damage by Mr Ks tenants, 
and he will no doubt be pursuing this avenue in relation to the damage caused.
In conclusion, the evidence doesnt support the notion that the extensive damage to the 
property was caused by the break-in. It appears that cannabis plants were stolen, and Im 
not persuaded that any thieves would have drawn attention to themselves by ripping off 
radiators and cisterns and damaging walls. The significant illegal activity at the property 
hadnt been identified by the landlord and its not therefore known how long this had been 
going on. A landlord would be expected to manage his/her property in a responsible manner, 
notwithstanding the difficulties encountered during the pandemic. An insurer cannot be 
expected to cover general damage which has occurred at a tenanted property in such 
circumstances. The terms and conditions of the relevant policy support this clear conclusion.
I consider that AXA acted fairly and reasonably in covering damage to window, door and of 
making the property secure. This being in circumstances which were a direct result of a 
break-in, but which was likely to be the indirect result of the illegal use of the property. AXA 
cannot be expected to have covered the further extensive damage to the property in such 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Miss G and Mr Ks complaint against AXA 
Insurance UK Plc and I dont require it to do anything else in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G and Mr K 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman