DRN-3848811
The complaint
A company, which I will call H, complains that Bank of Scotland plc withdrew its overdraft 
without giving any warning.
Mr C, who is a director of H, brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
All parties agree:
As at the beginning of March 2022, H was a longstanding client of Bank of Scotland 
with an existing overdraft facility.
On 18 March 2022 the bank wrote to Mr C to say Hs business overdraft was due for 
its annual review, and to ask Mr C to let the bank know if Hs needs had changed. 
The bank also said to continue to use your facility over the next 12 months, youll 
need to pay an Annual Fee of £398.00, which well take from your Business current 
account on or around the 7th May 2022  Your overdraft will continue unless you 
hear from us.
The bank did not take a payment of £398.00 (or any other amount) on 7 May 2022. 
Instead, the bank withdrew Hs overdraft entirely  without first contacting H.
When Mr C discovered the overdraft had been withdrawn, he complained to Bank of 
Scotland on Hs behalf.
Bank of Scotland apologised for its failure to contact Mr C as promised, and it paid £100 to 
compensate H for its poor customer service. It also paid £80 to cover Mr Cs costs in 
corresponding with it over the issue. But it is not prepared to reinstate the overdraft without 
first reviewing the account. 
Mr C told us that he would like the previous overdraft facility to be reinstated. He does not 
want to make a new overdraft application or agree to a review, in part because the bank has 
since told him that it no longer has an appetite to provide overdrafts to businesses operating 
in the same market as H and he believes a new application would be declined.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. He agreed that Bank of Scotlands 
customer service was poor, but he thought the bank had already done enough to apologise. 
He didnt think it would be right for him to ask Bank of Scotland to reinstate the overdraft 
without carrying out a review.
Mr C did not accept our investigators findings. He reiterated that the bank removed the 
overdraft without any communication whatsoever, despite having previously written to him to 
say it would not do that. The banks actions put H at risk of insolvency, and that outcome 
was only avoided because H was able to obtain a Bounce Back Loan (also from Bank of 
Scotland).
Our investigator could not reach agreement between the parties, so the matter was referred 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to further disappoint Mr C there is very little I can add to 
what our investigator has already said. Bank of Scotland clearly made a mistake, but I think 
its mistake was in poor communication rather than in withdrawing Hs overdraft. Overall, I 
agree with our investigator that the bank has already done enough to apologise for its 
mistake.
Ive looked carefully at the terms and Hs account with Bank of Scotland. They say:
At any time we may withdraw or restrict any right to an overdraft or ask you to repay 
your overdraft. We do not have to give you advance notice before we do, but we will 
tell you in writing if we require repayment of your overdraft.
Bank of Scotland was therefore entitled to withdraw the overdraft at any time. I consider that 
the bank was entitled to use its commercial judgement to decide whether to do so, and I do 
not criticise it for deciding it was not willing to continue to offer an overdraft to H. There have 
been significant changes at H since the overdraft was first agreed  including the setting up 
of a sister company to facilitate applications for grants  and Bank of Scotland (like all 
banks) also reviews its lending criteria on a regular basis. The fact that a bank was prepared 
to offer an overdraft facility in the past is never a guarantee that the same bank will be 
prepared to continue to offer an overdraft facility in the future.
I acknowledge that Mr C says H would have been in serious financial difficulty if it had not 
been able to find an alternative to the overdraft. He explained that although the overdraft 
was not in use at all times, the nature of Hs business means that it expects to borrow at 
certain times of the year. Im sorry to hear of Hs difficulties, but I dont think Bank of 
Scotland did anything wrong in withdrawing the overdraft  and so I wont order the bank to 
reinstate it.
It is however clear that the bank made a mistake when it wrote to Mr C on 18 March 2022. It 
promised that it wouldnt withdraw Hs overdraft without warning, only to do exactly that a 
couple of months later. I consider that Bank of Scotlands letter of 18 March 2022 was 
misleading, and wrongly led Mr C to believe that the bank would continue to provide H with 
an overdraft facility. But the letter did not override the banks terms and conditions, and did 
not prevent the bank from withdrawing Hs overdraft. 
If everything had happened as it should, Mr C would have discovered earlier that Bank of 
Scotland was no longer prepared to offer an overdraft to H without first carrying out a full 
rewview. But I dont think the banks customer service failings in keeping Mr C informed 
about the status of the overdraft caused H to suffer a financial loss. It did cause 
inconvenience, but I think Bank of Scotland has already done enough to apologise for that 
inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman