DRN-3849858
The complaint
Mrs B complains Ageas Insurance Limited has unfairly declined her Buildings Insurance 
claim.
All references to Ageas also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
again here. But in summary Mrs B made a claim for storm damage to her garden wall. 
Ageas have declined the claim as it says the wall has deteriorated over time due to a defect 
in the wall s construction. Gradual deterioration is excluded under the terms of the policy.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said Ageas report didnt 
confirm damage was occurring to the wall gradually and she hasnt seen any other evidence 
of deterioration  such as mortar decay. Therefore, she felt the exclusion had been applied 
unfairly.
Ageas disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter.
Further developments
I wrote to Ageas in November 2022. I said:
Ageas have said a clear lean defect in the wall has led to its deterioration over time.
However, Ageass report doesnt confirm how this has caused damage to the wall gradually. 
And from reviewing the photographs provided, I cant see anything that persuades me the 
wall has been subject to deterioration  for example mortar decay. The wall has stood since 
1950, and had gradual deterioration occurred, I would expect to see this highlighted in the 
general condition of the wall. Its also not in dispute that storm conditions were present at the 
time of the incident.
While the report confirms defects to the wall, I havent seen anything that persuades me 
wear and tear has occurred to the wall over time as a result. 
So, Im currently minded to uphold this complaint as I dont think Ageas has applied the 
exclusion fairly.
Ageas didnt agree with my initial findings. It didnt agree the storm was the proximate cause 
of the damage. It pointed out the wall didnt conform to modern building methods and hasnt 
collapsed but is leaning. It said there wasnt evidence to show the wall wasnt leaning prior to 
the storm, so Ageas maintained the claim should remain declined. 
Mrs B provided no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Ageas has said. But having done so, my decision remains as set out in 
my initial findings and for the same reasons.
Whilst Ageas can provide hypothetical reasons as to how the wall has come to lean, its not 
provided evidence to support it. Or that the condition of the wall was essentially the same 
prior to the undisputed storm events.
In its final response Ageas has referenced the general exclusion for wear and tear and 
gradual damage to decline the claim.  While the report mentions the construction of the wall, 
it doesnt confirm how this has caused damage to the wall gradually. And from reviewing the 
photographs provided, I cant see anything that persuades me the wall has been subject to 
deterioration  for example mortar decay. The wall has stood since 1950, and had gradual 
deterioration occurred, I would expect to see this highlighted in the general condition of the 
wall. 
So, for these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Ageas should now continue to consider the claim under the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
To put things right, I direct Ageas Insurance Limited to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman