DRN-1888293
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy that her claim for pipe damage with Covea Insurance Plc has been 
declined under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss B was contacted by her local water authority (W). W said it was trying to trace a leak 
and that the leak might be coming from her address by way of a shared pipe. W did some 
tests but was unable to find a leak at Miss Bs home. The water was turned off as part of Ws 
testing and when the water was turned back on Miss B could hear water flowing underneath 
her home. Miss B made a claim on her home insurance policy.
Covea told Miss B there was no valid claim as her home hadnt suffered damage. But as 
Miss B was without water as shed had to turn it off again Covea did agree to send out a 
contractor (I) to offer support. I couldnt find a leak and suggested it would be easier to re-
route a pipe. So Covea then appointed C who also decided a re-route of the pipe would 
likely be the best option. But C did say there was no damage to the home. Covea said if 
when the work was done it could be shown that it had been caused by an insured event it 
would consider the claim. Miss B did get the work done urgently during this time but Covea 
maintained its position and didnt settle the claim. Miss B brought her complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said prior to W contacting Miss B there had been 
no issues with her water. Despite Covea saying the damage was due to age/wear and tear 
our investigator referred to the policy definition of accidental damage of sudden and external. 
She felt Covea had acted unfairly when it declined the claim. Despite the property not being 
damaged she said the buildings section of the policy covered pipes. She also suggested if 
later damage was uncovered underneath the property this service would expect Covea to 
cover it as it hadnt checked it at this point. Our investigator said Covea should review paying 
for the pipe. She also said Covea should pay Miss B £100 for the delays and the distress 
and inconvenience this caused her.
Covea didnt accept this and asked for the case to be passed to an ombudsman for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres been no evidence to show that Miss Bs property had a leak prior to Ws tests and 
investigations. Its clear that afterwards Miss B did then have a leak. To its credit Covea 
agreed to allow I to visit the property to check the claim. It also followed up and sent C at a 
later date. Both agreed that the pipe should be re-routed, and C accepted there was now a 
problem with a leak.
Due to the situation Miss B went ahead and got the pipework re-routed. Covea said without 
proof of an insured event it wouldnt pay the claim. But I think there was an acceptance that 
the problem was caused when W turned the water back on. I dont think anybody can truly 
make a link to any other more likely cause.
Under the policy the definition of accidental damage is Unexpected and unintended damage 
caused by sudden and external means.
And the definition of buildings includes:
(c ) tanks, drains, pipes and cables which service your home.
The evidence states that there was no leak found at Miss Bs home prior to the water being 
turned off. Miss B had no problems prior to this incident.
Covea has said the pipes were old, they suffered wear and tear and that no insured event 
occurred.
But after the water was turned on again then there was a leak and so I think its only fair that 
this falls within the accidental damage definition noted above. I think the leak was 
unexpected, unintended, sudden and external. The policy definition of buildings very clearly 
includes pipes too.
Based on these details I dont think Covea has acted fairly when it declined to deal with 
Miss Bs claim. I think Covea should pay Miss B the amount she paid to re-route the pipe 
once she has produced evidence of the costs involved.
I agree with our investigator that if later damage is found under the house and its linked to 
the leak this service would expect Covea to consider any such claim.
Its clear that this has caused Miss B distress and she was without basic water facilities at 
certain points throughout her claim. In view of this I think Covea should compensate Miss B 
£100 for her inconvenience.
Putting things right
On receipt of Miss Bs costs to re-route the pipe settle her relevant claims costs.
Pay £100 for Miss Bs distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Covea Insurance Plc to:
On receipt of Miss Bs costs to re-route the pipe settle her relevant claims costs.
Pay £100 for Miss Bs distress and inconvenience.
Covea Insurance Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
it Miss B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 John Quinlan
Ombudsman