DRN-2521743
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Hannover Ruck SE will not allow him a cash lump sum in place of his 
annuity with it.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has complained alongside his wife, who has a separate complaint, that Hannover Ruck 
should allow them to cash in their annuities. The key point of their argument is that they are 
aware of other instances where customers have been allowed to do so. And this has been 
documented in the media. Furthermore, theyd like the same options for them and others like 
them, that are now available under the pension freedoms legislation.
I know that Mr and Mrs G are knowledgeable on this subject and have done their research, 
so a lot of what Im explaining they will already know. But I do still have to set out the context 
and reasoning for my decision.
When Mr G took out his annuity in 2003, he didnt have the option to take the pension 
benefits as a lump sum. His options were largely restricted to taking out an annuity.
Since then legislation around annuities has changed and since the introduction of pension 
freedoms legislation, providers can now offer customers the opportunity to take the whole 
fund as a lump sum rather than taking an annuity. But this legislation didnt say that annuities 
already in payment could be taken as a lump sum.
The government looked at introducing a secondary annuity market, where customers would 
be able to cash in their annuities. But, after consultation, the government didnt carry this 
forward, mainly because of concerns that it wouldnt be in the consumers best interest to 
cash in annuities. And also because of the complexities around valuing this and whether this 
would provide fair value to customers.
So, the current rules generally dont allow a customer to cash in an annuity and take a lump 
sum payment. However, in instances where the value of that annuity is less than £10,000, it 
can be cashed in if the provider offers this. Mr Gs annuity was purchased for £7,850.01, so 
its under £10,000.
However, Hannover Ruck says that it has chosen not to offer this option to its customers. I 
know that Mr G knows of other cases where businesses have chosen to allow others to do 
so. But the majority of providers have chosen not to offer this option to their customers. On 
the majority of occasions, it has been offered, a commercial decision has been taken for a 
group of customers or decisions have been made on an individual basis for those with a 
particular set of circumstances.
As the legislation is only enabling, i.e Hannover Ruck have a choice, I cant say its wrong 
not to offer this to all its customers. However, I have considered Mr Gs particular 
circumstances and whether Hannover Ruck has been unfair or unreasonable in its stance 
that they wont allow him to cash in his annuity.
Whilst I appreciate that Mr G didnt have any choice at the time, when taking out his annuity 
Hannover Ruck (or more precisely the business then responsible) did explain that the 
annuity couldnt be cashed in at the time. And Mr G signed to agree to this. Whilst I 
appreciate that legislation has since changed, it does show that Mr G bought his annuity on 
this understanding. And that Hannover Ruck has been consistent in what it has told Mr G.
Mr G bought his annuity in 2003 and it was setup to pay six monthly which provided an 
annuity of £445 a year. Mr G has talked about his money and Hannover Ruck in not 
agreeing to cash-in his annuity, depriving him of whats his. But when Mr G took out the 
annuity, his savings built up in the pension were used to buy that annuity. This began a 
separate contract from that of the pension. This contract was to pay the annuity for the rest 
of his life.
This means, in effect, that Mr G sold his pension savings to Hannover Ruck in exchange for 
an income for life. So, this means there is no money in Mr Gs name any longer, he used 
that to buy the annuities. So I dont agree that Hannover Ruck is withholding Mr Gs money 
from him.
Furthermore, Mr Gs fund totalled £7,850.01 and he has been receiving £445 now for 
approximately 17 years, so it wont be long until hes received more from the annuity than he 
put into it. In this instance, if I was now to say that Hannover Ruck should pay him the value 
of his annuity as a lump sum, hed not only have had the benefit of the annuity for 17 years 
but also the cash value of that annuity now. So I dont think Hannover Ruck in saying it will 
continue paying the annuity contract agreed to, is being unfair or unreasonable in its 
treatment of Mr G. I dont agree that this is an injustice as Mr G states. 
As Hannover Ruck explained, commercially for them as a business it would be detrimental 
here for it to pay out a lump sum on top of the all the annuity payments already paid. And 
legislation allows it to decide whether to offer this option to its customers. So I dont think it is 
being unfair in applying its discretion here.
Mr G has also put forward a number of more general arguments such as small annuities 
having a negative effect on other benefits. We look at every case on its own merits and 
whilst this may be a strong argument to show detriment, it doesnt apply here, I am only 
considering Mr Gs case and circumstances.
I appreciate why Mr G would prefer a lump sum now and I am sorry to hear about his 
daughters ill health. The amount of annuity he is being paid yearly comes to £445 a year. I 
know this isnt a huge amount of money but it will still have some material benefit to Mr G. 
And part of the reason the annuity amount is low, is because Mr G took his benefits early. 
Commonly an annuity is taken at 65 and so the pot is converted into an annuity amount, in 
part, based on how many years it will likely be paid for. 
Mr G has pointed to the other providers who are allowing annuities to be cashed in and 
cases where business have previously allowed cashing-in on certain cases but no longer do. 
In our experience the majority of cases cashed in have generally been on annuities worth much less in value than Mr Gs would cost to provide now. Or the decision has been made 
for commercial reasons. I know that it may seem unfair that depending on who a customer 
has their annuity with, their access to this option differs. But Im afraid this is a product of the 
legislation, it allows the providers to make a choice.
And the same applies to pension freedoms, depending on when a person has taken 
retirement, the options down the years have changed. Changes in legislation are rarely 
retroactive for obvious reasons. I can understand it might be frustrating for Mr G and others 
in the same position as him, that legislation has changed to give customers more choice. 
But, this is no different to anything else, legislation, law, opportunities differ throughout time.
We have seen some businesses changing their stance on cashing-in annuities. And if in the 
future if Hannover Ruck changes its position on cashing-in annuities or legislation changes, I 
would expect Hannover Ruck to look into this again afresh for Mr G.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman