DRN-3704223
The complaint
Mr M complains about problems when using the PINsentry card reader to access his 
Barclays Bank UK PLC account. 
What happened
In 2019 Mr M has told us he contacted Barclays on a number of occasions to report a 
message given by his PINsentry card reader. Mr M says that when using the card reader, he 
received the message PIN locked contact Bank. Mr M says that when he discussed the 
issue with Barclays he was told to unlock the PIN via a cash machine. But Mr Ms explained 
hes unable to use a cash machine due to disability. Mr M complained about problems he 
experienced and Barclays sent him a final response in September 2019. 
Barclays said there was no evidence Mr Ms PIN had been locked or of associated issues 
with his bank account. Barclays said Mr M could continue to access his online banking 
facility and gave a contact number for customer services as well. Barclays didnt uphold 
Mr Ms complaint. 
In October 2020 Mr M contacted Barclays again and said the problem persisted and that his 
account was locked. A few weeks later, Barclays responded and said it had taken the step of 
unlocking the PIN to allow Mr M to use his card. In January 2021, Barclays sent a follow up 
letter to confirm the PIN was active on his account and not blocked. Barclays said Mr M 
could reset his PIN at a cash machine. 
At the beginning of 2021 Barclays sent Mr M a new bank card. Mr Ms confirmed hes had no 
problems since the new card was issued. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ms complaint. They thought Barclays had dealt 
with Mr Ms complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Mr M disagreed and said the bank had provided unclear and inconsistent information about 
how PINsentry works and how to reset a PIN. Mr M also said the way the bank had handled 
his enquiries had wasted a substantial amount of time. As Mr M asked to appeal, his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr M for his patience while weve been dealing with his complaint. Im aware 
the issues raised go back some years and that Mr M complained and ultimately went back to 
Barclays following problems using the PINsentry card reader. We recently asked Mr M to 
give us an update and provide some further information about the problems hes 
encountered. 
Mr Ms told us he saw the PIN locked message three times in 2019. Mr M has also 
confirmed the problem appears to have been resolved when his bank card was replaced at 
the point it expired. Mr M also told us he wasnt able to reset the PIN via a cash machine due 
to a disability. I can see that Mr M has also raised concerns about the consistency of the 
information Barclays gave him.  
I understand why Mr M feels the answers hes received couldve been clearer. But I think the 
lack of consistent explanations at the time reflects the fact Barclays was unable to find 
evidence there of a card block on its systems when Mr M first raised the issue in 2019. At 
that point, Barclays says the card and PIN were both working without issue. Barclays 
response gave details of how to access its online banking facility and its customer services 
telephone number for further problems. I understand that Mr Ms circumstances mean using 
a cash machine to unblock his card isnt possible. But Im satisfied Barclays gave details of 
other ways to keep in touch about problems with his account. 
Mr M went back to Barclays in 2020 and wrote to its CEO. At that point, Barclays says 
Mr Ms card PIN had been recently blocked due to being entered incorrectly. So when Mr M 
got back in touch, his PIN was blocked. Barclays reactivated the PIN and this was confirmed 
to Mr M by letter. And I think its fair to note that Barclays went on to confirm the card was 
active with no PIN blocks a short time later. 
In January 2021, a replacement card was issued and Mr Ms confirmed hes not experienced 
the same error message since that time.
In his response to the investigator, Mr M said Barclays told him the only way to unblock his 
PIN was to use a cash machine. But the information Ive seen shows Barclays gave Mr M a 
number of options to get in touch with it to discuss his account. I havent seen anything that 
says the only way Mr M could reset his PIN is via a cash machine.  
I agree with Mr M that there were gaps in the communication from Barclays. But I also think 
its fair to say there were periods of no contact after it responded to Mr M. As Ive said 
above, I havent seen any evidence of account blocks in 2019. I agree that receiving those 
messages was a concern, but once Barclays received Mr Ms correspondence it confirmed 
there was no issue with his account. At the point Mr M got back in touch in 2020, his PIN had 
been locked. But Barclays confirmed it had reset the PIN and the account was available for 
use a short time later. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M as whilst I agree there were times where Barclays couldve 
responded sooner, I havent been persuaded to uphold his complaint. As Im satisfied 
Barclays dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly Im not telling it to take further action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman