DRN-3578057
The complaint
Mr M complains about the actions of TSB Bank plc when he was the victim of a scam in 
which he sent money to one of its customers.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in full 
here.
In November 2019 Mr M was tricked into transferring £625 from his bank account with D to 
an account held with TSB. At the time he believed the payment he was making was to his 
daughters university (for her fees). He later discovered that the emails between him and his 
daughter had been intercepted. Mr M reported this to TSB. He also informed D who too sent 
notification of fraud to TSB the same day. TSB responded to advise none of Mr Ms funds 
remained.
Mr M complained. He asked that TSB refund him as it hadnt done enough to prevent his 
loss. He also asked that it provide him with details of its investigation into the beneficiary 
account. TSB didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said it couldnt have prevented his loss, and 
that it had complied with its regulatory obligations in relation to the opening and monitoring of 
the beneficiary account, and upon notification of fraud had taken prompt actionbut 
unfortunately no funds remained. It also said that it couldnt share with him information in 
relation to its customers account due to data protection.
Dissatisfied with TSBs response Mr M referred his complaint to our service. Our Investigator 
thought there were limits as to how much of Mr Ms complaint we could consider. And for 
what we can consider, she didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr M didnt accept the Investigators outcome. He asked for the matter to be reviewed again, 
so the complaint was passed to me. On 5 July 2022, I issued a jurisdiction decision in which 
I explained the limits on which parts of Mr Ms complaint I can consider and why. In short, I 
explained our service could only look at alleged acts or omissions that took place on or after 
31 January 2019. This is because that was the date from which a change to our jurisdiction 
rules applied. Specifically, this meant I couldnt consider Mr Ms complaint about TSBs 
actions when opening the beneficiary account, as the opening of the account took place prior 
to that date. Now that the jurisdiction matter has been decided, Ill share below what I 
think about the aspects of Mr Ms complaint I do have the power to investigate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im sorry to hear Mr M has been the victim of a scam. I can see he acted in good faith 
and can appreciate why it would feel unfair to him that he should bear the loss. But having 
thought very carefully about everything Ive come to the same outcome as our Investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons. I can understand this will be a very disappointing 
outcome for Mr M, so I will explain why. 
An account later found to have been utilised to misappropriate funds doesnt automatically 
entitle an unwitting victim to a refund nor does it definitively mean that the recipient bank 
reasonably failed to prevent the victims loss or did something wrong where it would be fair to 
ask it to provide a refund. Naturally, with the benefit of hindsight its easy to say that TSB 
ought to have identified the payment as being fraudulent. But in practice this isnt always 
possible and can be quite challenging as there are many millions of payments made each 
day and it would not be realistic or reasonable to expect a bank to stop and check each one. 
There is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments.
With that in mind, Ive reviewed the statements for the account which received Mr Ms funds. 
The account was an established account, operating normally  with regular credits and 
debits. Im satisfied that Mr Ms payment crediting the account, or the subsequent spending 
of those funds would not have stood out as being atypical  and certainly would not have 
given TSB cause for concern in a way that Id say it ought to have intervened. TSB have also 
confirmed that prior to Mr Ms notification of fraud it had not received any other fraud 
notifications about the beneficiary account. And I can see that Mr Ms funds were spent 
some time before TSB received notification of fraud from D (or from Mr M directly). Im 
satisfied TSB took prompt action upon receipt of notification of fraud from D and correctly 
informed it that no funds remained that could be returned. As such, I dont think I can fairly 
say that TSB failed to prevent Mr Ms loss or that it could have reasonably done more to 
recover his money.  
I appreciate Mr M feels strongly that his payment was intended for his daughters university 
and that TSB should have checked that the payee name matched the accountholders name 
before crediting the account. And by not doing so, it has missed an opportunity to prevent his 
loss. However, at the time the payment was made, there was no requirement on receipt of a 
payment for the receiving bank to check whether the name on an account matched the 
named payee. If the funds were credited to the specified account number and sort-code (or 
IBAN) the payment was considered to have been executed correctly. Im satisfied that was 
the case here. So likewise, I cant fairly say that TSB couldve prevented Mr Ms loss in this 
way. 
But to be clear, by reaching this outcome Im absolutely not, in any way saying that banks 
such as TSB are not required to, or can choose not to have mechanisms and processes in 
place to help reduce fraud and its accounts being used to misappropriate funds. Im simply 
saying that in the circumstances of this complaint based on all the above to say TSB ought 
to have known Mr Ms payment was fraudulent is an unrealistic expectation and I think 
placing too high a burden on them. So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to ask that it refund 
the loss which ultimately was suffered by Mr M because of the scammers actions  not 
TSBs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman