DRN-3179027
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H run a company, V. Theyve complained about their motor insurer Zenith 
Insurance Plc as they believe it didnt complete repairs and caused further damage to their 
accident damaged vehicle. They said they paid for repairs and incurred out of pocket costs. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H operate a fleet hire company. Their minibus was damaged in the front and 
rear on 4 November 2019. Their broker spoke with them about using a claim management 
company and whilst Zenith did do repairs to Mr and Mrs Hs vehicle, it didnt arrange or 
supply a courtesy vehicle for them, this was done via the other drivers insurance company.
Mr and Mrs Hs vehicle was returned to them on 29 November 2019. But they noted that 
only the rear of the bus had been repaired. They said the front door was also catching. 
Zenith accepted the front-end repairs had been overlooked, but said the door was likely 
suffering wear and tear, unrelated to the accident. It took the vehicle back to undertake the 
front-end repairs. On 16 December 2019 the bus was returned to Mr and Mrs H. Mr H noted 
there was still an issue with the door and that a brake warning light had come on. In early 
January 2020 Mr H arranged to have the vehicle collected for repair by his own garage. 
The bus was repaired by mid-January 2020. But Mr H said it had to get MOTd and then 
checked by the council, and by the time this was done hed been unable to renew the licence 
he held with the council, meaning he had to apply for a new one. He said money had been 
lost on account of the delayed and failed repairs. Mr and Mrs H created three invoices and 
sent them to Zenith requesting payment:
£150 plus £30 VAT as compensation for out of pocket expenses incurred due to the 
incompetence of its repairer.
£460 plus £92 VAT as compensation for extra costs incurred whilst a courtesy vehicle 
was organised.
£726 plus £145.20 VAT in reimbursement for costs incurred in getting the minibus to the 
garage for brake repairs, and those repairs being done. (The invoice from the garage 
was attached totaling £423.36, including the bus transport cost).
£65 plus £13 VAT for repairing the door trim. 
In mid-February 2020 Zenith issued a final response stating it had no liability for the door 
trim or brake issue. In June it issued a further final response in which it offered Mr and Mrs H 
£100 compensation for rectification works needed. In a further final response issued in 
July 2020 Zenith maintained it had no liability for the door trim or hinge, or for the brake 
issue. And said it had no liability in respect of the courtesy vehicle arrangements. But it 
accepted it had caused some distress and inconvenience when it had returned the bus to 
Mr and Mrs H without all the insured repairs being done. For that Zenith offered an apology 
and said it would pay £200 compensation. 
When Mr and Mrs H complained to us, our investigator felt Zenith should pay £423.36 for the 
brake repair, £50 for fixing the door, and £522 for the consequential loss he was satisfied 
was caused by the need for Mr and Mrs H to get the brake repair done. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt object to the outcome. Zenith said it was unlikely the door was damaged 
during the incident. Or that the problem with the brakes stemmed from it having transported 
the bus. It pointed out that vehicles do break down and the bus had done over 300,000 
miles. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision to be made. I wasnt minded to uphold the 
complaint. I wasnt persuaded that any of the invoices Mr and Mrs H had presented should 
be paid by Zenith. Whilst I felt Zenith could, and should, have handled the repair of their 
vehicle better, I thought the compensation it had paid was fair and reasonable for the upset 
caused by its failures. The parties have now responded to my findings. My provisional 
findings are quoted in the following section of this decision, in italics and, where appropriate, 
Ive interspersed them with the parties responses and my replies on those points.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
June 2020 final response
Ive mentioned above that in June 2020 Zenith issued a final response letter offering £100 
compensation. This is mentioned in its file notes. But despite asking Zenith for a copy of this 
letter, I havent seen it. So I dont know exactly what the £100 was offered for, or if it was 
paid. If a letter with this offer was issued; for completeness Id like to see a copy. But given 
what Mr and Mrs H have said and the evidence I have been presented with by both sides to 
date, Im not persuaded this letter is integral to my consideration of this complaint. As such 
Im satisfied that its reasonable for me to complete my assessment of the complaint without 
sight of it. So I have.
Mr and Mrs H said this was never received or even offered. In reply Zenith hasnt sought to 
confirm this sum was offered or sent. Im satisfied it wasnt. But as I noted provisionally, the 
offer or otherwise of this sum, doesnt materially affect my findings.
Invoices
Im discounting entirely the invoice for £150 plus VAT. The invoice says it represents 
Mr and Mrs Hs out of pocket expenses. But that is not sufficient substantiation of such a 
loss, not least because theres no explanation of what these losses were.
Im also discounting the invoice for £460 plus VAT. The invoice says this is for costs incurred 
whilst waiting for a hire vehicle to be arranged. Similarly to the above mentioned invoice, the 
costs arent detailed. But also here, Zenith wasnt responsible for arranging the hire vehicle. 
So if there were delays, which meant cost were incurred  those costs arent for Zenith to 
reimburse.
Finally Im discounting part of the invoice totalling £726, plus VAT. Part of this invoice has 
been substantiated by a bill from the garage (for £423.36)  so Ill consider whether Zenith is 
liable for the garages bill. But, again similarly to the first invoice I mentioned above, the 
remainder of the £726 plus VAT (a total of £871.20) invoice is unsubstantiated with no detail 
of what makes up the remaining £447.84 (after deducting the garages bill from the total 
including VAT).Mr and Mrs H said they werent asked for breakdowns of any sums. And regarding the 
charge of £460 they say these costs relate in part to the delay caused by Zeniths improperly 
completed repair.
A complainant needs to evidence their loss. And my provisional view was that Mr and Mrs H 
havent done that. They then had an opportunity to show me otherwise  and whilst they 
state they havent been asked to do so before they havent given any explanation or 
evidence to support the invoices they created.  
I appreciate that Zenith caused delays. But regarding the charge of £460 the invoice 
Mr and Mrs H created said this was for losses incurred whilst waiting for a hire vehicle to be 
arranged. A hire vehicle was arranged for them by another party, not an agent of Zenith, 
after the crash occurred. Zeniths delay in repair came later. So if losses were caused when 
there was a delay in a hire vehicle being arranged, Zenith wasnt responsible for that. 
Im not minded to amend anything I said provisionally in this respect.
Brake repair (garage invoice £423.36)
When the bus was returned to Mr and Mrs H after the further repairs a warning light was on. 
This was traced to a fault with the brake sensor, situated in the rear wheel hub. 
Mr and Mrs H said they thought this had been damaged when the bus was transported back 
to them by Zeniths garage on a low loader truck. Their broker told Zenith it was felt the 
sensor may have been damaged during the rear end repairs which necessitated taking out 
the wheel liner. Zenith asked its engineer for their view on this. The engineer noted the fault 
was showing on the diagnostic check completed by the garage in December, before the bus 
was returned on the low loader. And the engineer said he didnt think the fault would have 
been caused during the original repairs. 
Ive seen the diagnostic check completed in December. It does show a fault with the rear 
brake sensor. So Im satisfied that this fault pre-dated Zenith returning the bus after the 
further repairs.
The invoice from Mr and Mrs Hs garage just details the charge for work and that this 
includes costs incurred collecting the bus and fixing the brake sensor. There is no view given 
by the garage about what caused the problem with the sensor. 
The view from Zenith, put to it by its engineer, that the sensor wasnt damaged during the 
repair isnt detailed. But brief though it is, it is still an expert opinion. And whilst 
Mr and Mrs Hs broker put forward the idea that the sensor may have been damaged during 
the rear-end repair  the broker, in suggesting this, appears to be putting it forward as a 
hypothesis. I say that as the broker is not an expert and I havent seen any expert opinion 
that supports the idea that the brake sensor was damaged during the original rear-end 
repairs. So Im not minded to say Zenith should pay for the brake sensor repair.
Mr and Mrs H said that moving the car on the transporter had caused the damage, and this 
had been proven. They said their broker had never given a view on the damage  it was 
their garage which had.
Prior to our investigator reaching a view, Mr and Mrs H were asked to submit any written 
evidence they had from their garage as to the cause of the accident. Nothing was provided. 
As I said provisionally, the invoice theyd previously submitted from the garage recorded the 
repair completed, not the cause of the damage. And it was an email from their broker to 
Zenith which said:Following recovery of the vehicle the ABS sensor light is now illuminated on the vehicle and 
having taken the vehicle to his local garage it is understood that the sensor has been 
damaged and needs replacingIt is believed that the sensor was damaged whilst the 
original garage repaired the bumper as they would have had to take out the wheel liner 
which has damaged the sensor.
In any event, even had an opinion from the garage been provided, Id have to set that in light 
of the fact that Zenith has shown this fault was showing on a diagnostic its garage completed 
before the bus was returned to Mr and Mrs H on the transporter. So it seems unlikely to me 
that a fault, which is shown to have already existed prior to the transporter journey was 
caused during that journey.
Im not minded to amend anything I said provisionally in this respect.
Door trim
Mr and Mr H believe the door was fine before the accident so they feel the damaged trim 
must have been caused by it. But I note that Zenith says its engineer doesnt agree and is of 
the view the damage to the trim pre-dates the accident. I also note Zenith has said its 
unclear to it how the drivers door trim would likely have been damaged in the crash where 
the front-end damage was situated off centre of the front bumper, towards the near-side of 
the vehicle.
Again, Ive seen no expert view presented by Mr and Mrs H to support their position. 
I understand how strongly they feel about this  including that the bus wouldnt have passed 
an inspection undertaken by the local council shortly before the accident if the trim had been 
damaged. But I cant reasonably put their word above the expert opinion of Zeniths 
engineer. At least not without evidence to corroborate what they say, which I understand 
they dont have because the inspection undertaken by the council is a visual one and they 
are given no record of it. So I simply dont know that:
someone suitably qualified from the council to be considered an expert in vehicle 
damage, inspected the bus;
with a view to identifying damage like that in question in respect of Mr and Mrs Hs door 
trim; and 
noted no damage of this nature was present. 
As Mr and Mrs H are alleging that this loss stems from the accident, it is up to them to 
present proof in this respect. Without such I cant reasonably assume that Zenith is liable for 
this damage. So I dont intend to make Zenith pay the invoice for £78 (£65 plus VAT) for 
repairing the door trim.
Neither party commented on this section of my findings. Ive no need to add to or change 
anything I said.
Delay
Zenith accepts that it initially overlooked the repairs necessary at the front of Mr and Mrs Hs 
bus. I note Zenith has paid £200 compensation for the inconvenience this caused, and 
offered its sincere apologies. But Mr and Mrs H have explained that whilst the bus was away 
the second time the MOT ran out which caused them further losses due to requirements 
from the local council in respect of their operators licence. So they dont feel the 
compensation offered is enough. Its unfortunate that Zenith didnt identify all of the claim related damage and complete all of 
the necessary repairs in the first instance. Mr and Mrs H should never have been left in a 
situation where the vehicle needed to go back for the remaining repairs to be completed. But 
Im not persuaded that this failure of Zeniths reasonably resulted in the MOT running out 
and the further issues that then transpired with the operators licence. Mr and Mrs H are in 
business and they must have known when they found more work was needed to the 
front-end of the bus that the MOT date was approaching, as was the seasonal holiday 
period. I think they could and should have thought ahead to make arrangements to ensure 
the further work needed by Zenith didnt impact their business. So Im not minded to say that 
Zeniths delay in repairing their vehicle reasonably means it must compensate them for any 
financial loss they suffered because the MOT expired.
But they did suffer inconvenience because the bus had to go back for more work. And 
I appreciate it was worrying and frustrating that not all the work had been done as theyd 
reasonably expected it would have been. I think that Zeniths payment of £200 
compensation, along with its apology, is a fair and reasonable resolution in this respect. Im 
not minded to make Zenith pay anything more.
Mr and Mrs H said they hadnt received any payment in this respect. I asked Zenith to show 
this had been paid. Which it duly did. 
But Mr H said he also wanted to know where a copy of any apology was  that this needed 
to come from the garage, not Zenith. I appreciate that Mr H wants an apology from the 
garage. But, in this instance, the garage was acting as Zeniths agent in carrying out the 
repair. So Zenith was responsible for the garages actions and failures. In its final response 
dated 20 July 2020, Zenith said it was sincerely sorry. I note that when Mr H made his 
complaint to us, he sent us a copy of this letter. 
Overall Mr and Mrs H said they felt it was unfair for them to be expected to have foreseen 
Zenith wouldnt repair their bus properly and, having done so, act to protect themselves in 
the event that came to pass. I appreciate this was a difficult position for Mr and Mrs H to be 
in. And I think they should have been able to reasonably expect that their vehicle would be 
returned to them in good order without further repair being necessary. But I think they knew 
by late November that Zenith had failed them in that respect. And I think they had the 
opportunity, at that time, to act to prevent themselves from experiencing all the losses they 
did. I dont doubt they suffered because of Zeniths failure to properly repair their vehicle, but 
I remain of the view that they could have prevented a lot of that from happening. 
Im satisfied by what I said provisionally, that no further compensation is fairly and 
reasonably due to Mr and Mrs H. And with Zenith having satisfied me that £200 was paid by 
it and received by them, I wont make any award.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Zenith Insurance Plc.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman