DRN-2618996
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct (FD) relates to a number of 
matters surrounding the accessing of his bank account and also the granting of a personal 
loan. 
What happened
Mr M initially complained in March 2020 that for a week he was unable to access his account 
via FDs mobile app. This, he said, caused him anxiety and stress especially so as it was at 
the start of the pandemic. Mr M also said he didnt get a response to his complaint. Then in 
August 2020 Mr M made a further complaint as his account balance and transaction 
balances werent displaying in the app. He also reminded FD that he was still waiting for a 
response to his March complaint.
 
In September 2020 Mr M received a text message from FD telling him that his arranged 
overdraft was decreasing, and he needed to deposit funds to his account to avoid going into 
an unarranged overdraft. Mr M then spent time calling FD and was put on hold for 40 mins 
but had to leave the call as he had to go to work. He did however receive a call from FD later 
in the day apologising and confirming that the text had been sent in error. Mr M is also 
unhappy that the complaint handler told him that FD didnt send such texts which he feels 
implies he is lying. He is also unhappy that he was given conflicting information.
Mr M has also complained about a personal loan he took out with FD. He said that when he 
originally spoke to an FD advisor he was told the interest rate was 15% and that after 
making roughly 8-10 payments he would be able to call FD and request a lower interest rate. 
Mr M says that it was only on this basis that he agreed to take out the loan. He has now 
learned that it is not possible to vary the interest rate on his loan because it was a fixed term 
fixed rate loan and therefore, he feels that he was mis-sold the loan.
FD have said it has no record of Mr Ms complaint in March and has checked its systems for 
calls and secure messages but cant locate any. FD accepted it had received Mr Ms 
complaint in August but said it had no record of any App or system issues at the times Mr M 
complained about. It did however acknowledge that from time to time it did experience what 
it described as occasional outages. FD also accepted that there had been some failings on 
its part in respect of the text messaging and for that offered Mr M £30 compensation to cover 
his wasted time and call costs. In respect of the personal loan FD did not agree it had mis-
sold the loan but did accept that its advisor had given him incorrect information about the 
possibility of getting a rate change. For this incorrect advice FD offered Mr M £100 
compensation.
Mr M was unhappy with FDs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that although there had been 
poor service, the amount of compensation FD offered was enough to put things right. Mr M 
didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken account of both sides views when considering whether FD acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. 
IT Issues
FD have no record of any IT related issues around the times Mr M complains, but they do 
acknowledge that there can be such issues from time to time. On the other hand, Mr M said 
he did have such problems and contacted FD and I have no reason to disbelieve him when 
he says he experienced difficulties. On balance therefore I think it more likely than not that 
he was experiencing some problem, perhaps one of the outages FD describes. I can fully 
understand the frustration this would have caused Mr M, but against that I have to balance 
that FD are the type of bank which is specifically set up for on-line and telephone banking 
customers, so it would have been possible for Mr M to have called FD to find out any 
information he could not get through the App. So, I dont think that any difficulties Mr M did 
experience can be said to have had more than a very minor impact upon him.
Text Message
FD have seemingly now accepted that Mr M would have received a text message from them. 
It is unfortunate that the complaints handler took a different view at one point but as I 
understand FDs position it has now accepted that was wrong. I can also understand the 
indignity Mr M would feel and the inference such a statement implies. FD have apologised 
for this and offered Mr M £30. Whilst Mr M believes the overall compensation offered on all 
his complaints is too low, on this aspect I think it is fair especially when I take into account 
that FD resolved the issue the same day.
Delay in response to March Complaint
FD have no record of Mr M making a complaint in March and although I have not doubted Mr 
M when he says he contacted FD I think that on balance if he had made a complaint at that 
time FD would have recorded it, as in fact they did when he contacted them later in the year. 
So, I dont uphold this element of his complaint. 
Personal Loan
In relation to the personal loan FD accept that their advisor gave incorrect advice. That 
advice was that Mr M could contact FD after 8-10 payments to ask for the interest rate to be 
looked at. The issue here is whether that advice had any material bearing on Mr Ms 
decision to accept the loan. He says it most certainly did and had he known the correct 
position he wouldnt have taken the loan from FD.  Ive listened with some care to that call 
and heard that very early on into the call Mr M said hed looked on line at the loan offered 
and had seen the interest rate was 15% which he said was fine. He explained he was 
wanting the loan to repay existing credit debts and went into some detail about them. At this 
point in the call it was clear to me Mr M had already decided that he wanted the loan if 
offered. 
After taking details and going through his application and finances the advisor confirmed his 
application had been approved and then explained the terms of the loan. In particular she 
set out the interest rate at 15.9%, the loan repayments, the interest to be paid, and period of 
the loan and asked Mr M if he still wished to take it, to which he replied he did. Mr M was 
advised he could if he wished make overpayments and he was also told how to expect the 
hard copy documentation through the post. There was nothing said at this stage in the call 
that could lead me to believe that Mr M was hesitant or unsure about taking the loan, and to 
the contrary was very happy to have been offered it. The advisor then said that as the interest rate was quite high Mr M could come back to FD 
after 8, 9 or 10 months and ask them to restructure the loan. Mr M then explained how he 
had had much higher rates of interest previously and generally expressed his views on that 
before saying that he might call FD in about 18 months. The advisor then discussed at some 
length how FD were always willing to help their customers and that Mr M should not be 
afraid of looking around at other rates and encouraged him to come back to FD when he had 
been paying his loan for about 12 months. She also discussed the advantages of opening a 
savings account and Mr M took her up on her offer to speak to a colleague about doing so. 
Having set out the main parts of the discussion with the advisor I am satisfied that Mr M 
would have taken this loan out even if he had been given the correct advice. I say that 
because the advisor approved him for the loan before she raised the issue of Mr M being 
able to come back to ask for the loan to be restructured. I accept Mr M said he might come 
back in 18 months, but he did not say anything during the conversation with the advisor 
which could lead me to think that this was a precondition of him accepting the loan. In fact, 
he had already accepted it by the time the discussion arrived at this issue. I do however 
accept Mr Ms point that he had a cooling off period during which he could have changed his 
mind if he had wanted to and I understand his argument that he didnt think to change his 
mind because he thought he could go back to FD and restructure. But I think it unlikely he 
would have cancelled this loan in the cooling off period because he was obtaining a much 
better interest rate from FD when compared against the other debts he had and so there 
would be no incentive for him to do so. It seemed from the call that Mr M was very content to 
accept the loan.
FD has accepted that it didnt get things right regarding the loan and because of that it has 
offered £100 in compensation to Mr M. Ive thought about whether this is sufficient and given 
that I think Mr M would have taken the loan out in any event, I think it is.
My final decision
FD has already made an offer to pay Mr M £130 to settle this complaint, and I think that is 
fair and reasonable. It is not entirely clear whether FD have already paid Mr M the 
compensation it offered in relation to this complaint. If it has then no further compensation 
shall be paid, but if it has not, then my final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay 
Mr M £130.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman