DRN-4529701
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the advice he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays)
to invest into a Barclays Personal Investment Management Portfolio (BPIM). He says that
the advice to invest was not suitable for him at the time and in particular it carried too much
risk.
Mr H is being represented with this complaint by a CMC.
What happened
In December 1998, Mr H was advised by Barclays to invest £50,000 into a BPIM.
The investment was surrendered between June and July 2002, with Mr H receiving proceeds
of approximately £48,100.
Mr H complained through a CMC in August 2021 that the BPIM was unsuitable for him. They
said that Mr Hs attitude to risk hadnt been fully assessed and his future needs hadnt been
considered. They also said that an inappropriately low amount of free assets were left after
the investment and the level of risk taken was too high.
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. In response to the complaint issues raised, they said,
that the investment had met Mr Hs attitude to risk. They also said it met his future objectives
at the time of investment and was affordable with a sufficient cash reserve left. Mr H wasnt
happy with this response, so he brought his complaint to us.
The investigator recommended upholding the complaint. She thought that the level of risk
within the portfolio was unsuitable based on Mr Hs circumstances at the time. She was
particularly concerned that the portfolio seemed to include Mr Hs cash reserve as an
uninvested amount and in her opinion, make it seem a more balanced investment. She set
out the steps she felt Barclays needed to take to put things right.
Barclays didnt agree. Maintaining it was suitable for Mr H and pointing to other decisions
reached by this Service regarding a BPIM.
As the complaint hasn't been resolved, it comes to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on this case. An extract from which, forms part of my decision 
below. 
My Provisional Decision
Ive looked at what I know about Mr Hs overall financial situation when he took out 
this investment. In addition to what the parties have told me, I think its reasonable for 
me to rely on information in the fact find document and other point of sale 
documents.
Barclays has provided details of other cases this service has decided on, in similar
circumstances, regarding the same product. Whilst I am aware of them and the 
decisions reached, each case is decided on its own merits.
Mr H was a director of his own company along with his wife (who received advice to 
invest into the same managed portfolio a few months later). He was recorded as 
having £80,000 as available cash funds and a net monthly disposable income of 
£800. He had no dependants and owned his own home with his wife, mortgage free. 
He was said to be looking to achieve capital growth whilst willing to take a medium 
risk.
Medium risk doesnt appear to have been defined at the point of sale, according to 
the paperwork I have been provided with. But it was the option selected by Mr H, with 
the options being risk adverse, low risk, medium risk or high risk. Following this Mr H 
was advised to invest £50,000 into the BPIM.
The January 1999 guidelines (just after this investment but we havent been provided 
with prior ones) for this portfolio are Fixed Interest 10%, UK equities 70%, 
International Equities 10%, Liquidity 10%. This meant Mr H retained £30,000 as cash 
and the portfolio had a further 10% (£5,000 approximately) held as cash under the 
guidelines.
I can accept that, superficially at least, an argument could be made that the BPIM 
involves a fairly high concentration of assets which might typically be regarded as 
being risky. But in context, I think that such an argument takes too narrow a view of 
Mr Hs circumstances. And in particular, the amount of uninvested cash hed 
retained, along with his disposable income. Its my view that Barclays was correct to 
take account of Mr Hs uninvested cash when tailoring its recommendations to his 
circumstances. Doing so meant that whilst roughly 57% of his money was invested in 
the BPIM, and a good percentage of that was in equities, the remaining 43% of his 
money was kept stable in cash that he could earn interest on. Barclays also appears 
to have factored in that Mr Hs disposable income willve allowed him to top up his 
savings, and replenish any losses he mightve made on the BPIM.
Acting fairly and reasonably, I wouldnt expect Barclays to have assessed the risk   
Mr H was taking by focussing narrowly on a single product. In my opinion, giving 
suitable advice would mean taking account of all of Mr Hs circumstances when 
making any recommendations. And Im satisfied on balance that the banks likely to 
have done that in this case. Its my view that the risks taken in the BPIM are 
balanced by the considerable cash element that was accounted for in the banks 
advice. Looked at as a whole, Im not persuaded Barclays recommendations 
exposed Mr H to more risk than the evidence available suggests he was prepared to 
take at the time.
Overall, in summary, I think Barclays made a suitable recommendation to Mr H. He 
retained a large cash reserve and had sufficient disposable income to cover any 
unexpected costs or losses. Whilst the portfolio exposed him to some riskier 
investments, overall, I think his portfolio was in line with his elected and appropriate 
level of risk. So, I am satisfied that the recommendation was suitable for him. This 
means Barclays dont need to do anything further. For these reasons, I am not 
upholding this complaint.Barclays responded to acknowledge receipt of the provisional findings, but confirmed they 
had nothing further to add. 
Mr H responded through his CMC with several points, including:
More consideration for pension contributions should have been given and not ruled 
out, with a shortfall in this area.
Impact on the cash reserve by future increased pension contributions should have 
been factored in.
Impact on the cash reserve by potential further investment into fixed rate bonds 
should have been factored in.
The advice was unsuitable, particularly because Mr and Mrs Hs income was very 
variable and dependent on the profitability of their business.
Mr and Mrs Hs remuneration from the business was lower than recorded, when 
taken on an average over the three years prior. They maintained this would have 
been the fair calculation rather than just looking at the year previous.
A business loan to Mrs H had not been repaid at the time of the advice.
It wasnt appropriate for Mr and Mrs H to have been recorded with the second most 
adventurous investment objective of capital growth with safety. 
They concluded that, overall given the variable company income and the associated 
impact on Mr & Mrs Hs income, the limited reserves held within their company and 
the significant loan they owed to the company; and the lack of pension provision 
which was to be considered further in the near future we consider the investment was 
inappropriate particularly given the level of risk.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered this and the responses to my provisional decision in full, I remain of the
opinion that Barclays made a suitable recommendation to Mr H. I will address each of the 
specific considerations that their representative provided in response to my provisional 
decision.
The CMC has said that it should have been factored in that Mr and Mrs H would likely 
increase their pension contributions. This would in turn impact on the net disposable income 
and cash reserve. However, it was noted in the fact find that Mr and Mrs H did not want to 
discuss pension planning in more detail. I cant see anything that would have made it clear to 
the adviser that there was going to be an increase in contributions in this area, they declined 
the recommendation to discuss increasing contributions.
I appreciate the CMC says an increase in contributions later happened and that it should 
have been clear to the adviser at the time due to what Mr H said he needed in retirement, 
but I dont agree. Mr H might have been planning to fund it with an alternative source which 
wasnt clear at the time, and he declined the opportunity to go through that in detail. I 
wouldnt have expected this advice to be tapered by something that Mr H had declined to do. Mr H also declined to discuss fixed rate products at the time but confirmed he will consider 
them. Again, I wouldnt expect a future prospect of an investment there, to taper this 
investment. That can be considered at a later point, if Mr H did decide he wanted to go 
ahead with some other investments such as fixed rate products. 
The CMC has also said that the advice wasnt suitable because Mr and Mrs Hs income from 
the business was usually lower than it was at the time of the advice. However, I cant see 
anything to show that Barclays were made aware of this or an outstanding business loan to 
Mrs H. This wasnt included in the fact find, so I wouldnt have expected Barclays to have 
considered it. I also think it was fair they only considered the previous years income, as that 
is all I can see they were made aware of. 
The CMC has also said that it wasnt appropriate for Mr and Mrs H to have been given the 
second highest investment objective category. Whilst I understand this, I havent focused my 
decision on ratings. But rather the suitability of the advice considering the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs H at the time. 
In summary, my findings on this case havent changed following the responses to my
provisional decision. I still believe the recommendation made by Barclays to Mr H was 
suitable. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman