DRN-4056912
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the administrative mistake National Savings and Investments (NS&!) 
made when processing his maturity instruction.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
Mr Hs savings account was due to mature towards the end of February 2023, so NS&I 
wrote to him in January to ask what he wanted to do with the money. Mr H returned the 
maturity instruction form promptly but NS&I had concerns with the signature, so returned 
the form. Mr H complained about this and NS&I admitted it had been over-cautious. It 
paid £40 compensation to Mr H in recognition of the concern he was caused and 
ensured his maturity instruction was processed without further delay.
Mr H wasnt happy with NS&Is response and referred a complaint to this service. Our 
investigator thought NS&I had done enough to put things right. But Mr H asked for the 
matter to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator for much the same 
reasons.
NS&I has already admitted that it ought to have accepted Mr Hs signature on the maturity 
form as being an evolution of the one it already held on file. And Im pleased to see that the 
payment of Mr Hs maturity proceeds to his nominated bank account wasnt, ultimately, 
delayed as a result of NS&Is actions.
Ive considered what Mr H has said about the time he spent, as well as the related stress 
and inconvenience caused, dealing with this matter. But, overall, Im satisfied an award of 
£40 is fair and reasonable compensation. Its my understanding that this money has already 
been paid to Mr H and I so make no additional award.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman