DRN-3110864
The complaint
Miss S has complained that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118118 Money lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
There is limited information available about this matter but from what Ive seen, Miss S 
borrowed £1,670 from Madison in September 2019. The loan was due to be repaid in 24 
monthly instalments of about £99. The total amount repayable was around £2,396.
One of our adjudicators has looked into the complaint but didnt think there was enough 
information to say that Madison had been wrong to provide Miss S with the loan. Miss Ss 
representatives disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. As the complaint has not been 
settled, it has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Miss Ss complaint.
Madison needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Miss S 
irresponsibly. I think there are key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Madison carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss 
S was in a position to sustainably repay the loan? If not, what would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have shown at the time? Did Madison make a fair lending 
decision about the loan?
Did Madison act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss S in some other way?
Madison was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment or affordability check. 
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so Madison had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss S. 
Madison had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss S 
would be able repay the loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that Madison had 
to do, but it could consider a number of different things such as the loan amount, the length 
of the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers overall financial circumstances.
In light of this, I think that reasonable and proportionate checks ought generally to have been 
more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
Ive carefully considered all the evidence, arguments, and information Ive seen about this
matter and what it means for Miss S.
Madison says that Miss S applied for her loan on its website. The lender asked Miss S for 
information about her income and expenditure and it acquired a credit report before 
providing the loan. Madison thinks its checks were reasonable and proportionate, and that 
the loan was affordable for Miss S.
As Ive explained, there is limited information available about what happened at the time. 
The credit report shows that Miss S had outstanding credit of around £9,300 including two 
loans and a number of credit cards. The balance to limit ratio was around 96% but there 
wasnt a large amount of adverse information on the report. 
Madison thinks its checks were reasonable and proportionate. But Miss S was applying to 
Madison for a costly loan, repayable over an extended two-year period. I would have 
expected the lender to want to obtain a thorough understanding of Miss Ss financial 
circumstances to satisfy itself that she could sustainably repay the loan over the whole loan 
term. Miss S doesnt appear to have been asked to supply independent evidence of her 
income such as a wage slip, or her expenditure such as a bank statement. Overall, I cant 
fairly say that I think Madisons checks were reasonable or proportionate.
Miss S has provided bank statements from around the time she applied for the loan from 
Madison. I have reviewed these carefully. Different checks might show different things. But 
from what Ive seen, even if Madison had carried out more thorough checks at the time, such 
as requesting a bank statement, I cant fairly say that  on balance - I think it ought 
reasonably to have concluded that it should decline Miss Ss application for the loan.
I dont think Madison would reasonably have thought that Miss Ss bank account was 
showing significant signs of financial distress, such as frequently returned requests for 
payment or very high bank charges for an unarranged or arranged overdraft. I recognise that 
Miss S was overdrawn each month but she was keeping largely within her agreed overdraft 
limit and the small transfers into her account might reasonably have given comfort to 
Madison that she was managing her account quite carefully and might have access to 
savings or other sources of income. I note that the purpose of Miss Ss loan from Madison 
was recorded on the I&E form as debt consolidation which might have suggested to the 
lender that Miss S intended to improve her credit position overall. There doesnt appear to be 
very frequent, significant borrowing from multiple short-term lenders or other indications 
which might have signalled to Madison that Miss S was experiencing severe financial 
difficulties. 
I appreciate that Miss S had existing credit commitments and was spending more of her 
disposable income than she had estimated, but on balance, I dont think there is sufficient 
evidence that her financial position was so poor that it ought reasonably to have led Madison to decline her loan application. Miss Ss financial position might have been more difficult than 
she had disclosed to the lender, but I dont think reasonable and proportionate checks would 
have picked this up at the time. In the circumstances, I cant fairly say that Madison ought 
reasonably to have concluded that it would be irresponsible to lend to her.
Ive not seen anything which makes me think that Madison treated Miss S unfairly in any 
other way. And as I have explained, on the information provided, I cant fairly say that I think 
Madison ought reasonably to have declined to lend to Miss S. I know Miss S will be 
disappointed by my decision and Im sorry that she experienced difficulties repaying the 
loan.  But Id like to reassure her that I have carefully considered all the information that has 
been provided about this matter. Having done so, I do not uphold Miss Ss complaint about 
this loan.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint or make any award against 
Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118118 Money.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 April 2022.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman