DRN-2848588
The complaint
Mr T is complaining that his insurer declined his car insurance claim. He doesnt think this is 
in line with the terms of his policy. Mr Ts insurer is a member of Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) 
which takes responsibility for claims against its members.
What happened
Mr Ts brother was very ill. He asked Mr T to take his car out for a drive and put some fuel in 
it  which Mr T did. A few weeks later, it came to light that Mr T had put the wrong fuel into 
the car  petrol instead of diesel. This caused considerable damage to the car and Mr T paid 
for the repairs as he felt it was his fault. 
Mr T contacted his insurer but they told him that he wasnt covered for the incident so they 
wouldnt reimburse him. Mr T was unhappy. He thinks the terms of his insurance arent clear 
and his reading of it was that the incident should have been covered.
Mr T quoted several parts of the policy documents when raising his complaint. He said these 
clauses meant that he should have been covered. In their final response, Mr Ts insurer 
quoted a separate part of the policy document, saying that the claim was declined primarily 
because the driving other cars benefit doesnt provide cover for the vehicle being driven. 
Because Mr T wasnt happy with his insurers response, the complaint was passed to 
Lloyds. Lloyds said they thought Mr Ts insurer had acted fairly in declining Mr Ts claim and 
explained this by reference to some of the policy terms. But Mr T wasnt happy, so he 
brought his complaint to our service. He said he wanted Lloyds to reimburse him for the 
repairs to the car, and also to change their policy wording so that it clearly reflected the 
cover Lloyds were prepared to offer. In summary, he said the documentation supplied by his 
insurer didnt bring to his attention that there was no cover provided for any damage he 
caused to a vehicle that didnt belong to him whilst in his charge. And, he said, the wording 
of the documentation implied that he was covered for damage to another persons property.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. He said he thought it was clear from the 
policy documents that any other car Mr T was driving (i.e. not his own) wouldnt be covered. 
Mr T wasnt happy with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to consider the 
matter. In doing so, Mr T said that the entire documentation, read together, was 
contradictory, unclear and incomplete. And he reiterated his view that the summary table of 
cover and the schedule of insurance imply that he should have been covered for the 
incident. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I appreciate itll be a disappointment to Mr T, Im not upholding his complaint. Ill 
explain why. As Mr Ts complaint is primarily about the documentation, Ive concentrated on 
whether the information provided to Mr T is fair, clear, and not misleading. 
The policy document says that its a legally binding contract of insurance when taken 
together with the policy schedule and Certificate of Insurance. Similarly, the Certificate of 
Insurance says it relates to Road Traffic Act cover only and that for full details, reference 
needs to be made to the insurance document and schedule. So its clear the three 
documents need to be considered together  rather than individually.
I appreciate Mr T feels the documents are contradictory and misleading. In particular, he 
noted that the Summary of Cover on page 10 of the policy document states: Your policy 
schedule provides details of any special cover, excess, endorsements, or exclusions which 
apply to your policy. Mr Ts interpretation of this is that all exclusions should be listed on the 
policy schedule. But Mr Ts policy schedule doesnt show any exclusions at all  I think its 
clear that its only special exclusions that would be shown on the policy schedule. 
In communicating the terms and conditions of insurance, providers have to choose what 
information is most important and include this information in a summary of the insurance 
cover. The relevant guidance says that this summary should include significant or unusual 
exclusions or limitations and defines significant exclusions as something that would tend to 
affect the decision of consumers generally to buy, and unusual exclusions as one that is 
not normally found in comparable contracts.
In Mr Ts case, the exclusion in question is that hes not covered for damage to a car hes 
driving or in charge of if its not his own. Mr Ts upset that this wasnt brought to his attention 
in a summary document. But Im satisfied this exclusion isnt unusual  its common across 
many motor insurance policies. And Im not persuaded its significant. In general, consumers 
buy motor insurance for the primary purpose of driving their own vehicle. They dont 
generally anticipate driving other peoples cars  or the implications of having an accident 
whilst doing so. I dont think showing the exclusion on a policy summary would affect the 
decision of consumers generally to buy. So Im satisfied Mr Ts insurer didnt need to include 
this exclusion in any summary of the policy.
Im aware Mr T has compared the Certificate of Insurance with one provided by a different 
insurer. But my role isnt to make comparisons between insurance providers  the fact that 
the wording is different on a different certificate of insurance doesnt mean that its 
insufficient on the one in question. 
Im satisfied the cover available for driving other cars and the relevant exclusions are clearly 
explained in Section 1 on pages 11 and 12 of the policy document. In essence this begins by 
saying the policyholder is insured for death or injury to other people or damage to their 
property if these result from an accident. So, taking this on its own, I can understand why 
Mr T might think he should have been covered for damage to his brothers car. But the 
exclusions are clearly shown in a grey box and are referenced in bold font. Under Driving 
other cars the exclusions include Loss of or damage to the car you are driving. 
Im satisfied its clear that no part of the policy document should be read on its own, and that 
the wording of the exclusion is clear, fair and not misleading. It follows that I think the insurer 
acted fairly in declining Mr Ts claim.
Its clear that none of the rest of the sections of the policy document apply to this claim. 
Section 2 covers Loss of or Damage to Your Vehicle and the definitions make it clear that 
this means the vehicle(s) stated on the policy schedule. And the remaining sections are 
about other specific types of claims which dont include driving other cars or mis-fuelling.
I appreciate Mr Ts questioned the Summary of Cover table and said this suggests his 
incident should be covered. But I think its clear this table is intended to show the main 
differences between comprehensive insurance and third party, fire and theft or third party 
only insurance. And that its intended to be used as a reference point with the detail being in the rest of the document. It seems Mr Ts interpreted the Yes marked against Liability to 
Others as a broad intention to cover any liability to any other person. But this table gives no 
details at all and so I cant see any justification for this interpretation. 
Taking everything together, Im satisfied that the documents provided to Mr T are clear, fair 
and not misleading. And that his insurer acted fairly in relying on the exclusions to decline 
his claim. So I wont be asking them to reimburse Mr T for the cost of repairs.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint about Society of Lloyds. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject 
my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman