DRN-2786368
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as O, complains Conister Finance & Leasing Ltd 
unfairly declined its application for a Bounce Back Loan.
Os director, Mr A, brings the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened
O applied to Conister for a Bounce Back Loan on 26 August 2020. Shortly afterwards, the 
application was declined. Conister said Os application didnt meet its criteria.
  
Mr A was unhappy. He said O was being prevented from accessing support. He also said he 
knew that CIFAS, a fraud prevention agency, held some adverse information about him on 
its database. And he thought this was the reason Os application had been declined. Mr A 
said the adverse information had been recorded in error, and he provided Conister with 
evidence to show it had been removed. 
Conister revisited Os application in September but it maintained its decision not to lend. 
O remained unhappy so it complained about the decision. 
 
In its final response, Conister clarified that it had considered what Mr A said and provided 
about the information held by CIFAS. But when the application was reviewed again, O still 
didnt meet the banks criteria. Conister went on to say that, although O wanted specific 
reasons for the decision to decline, it couldnt provide any more information. 
Mr A remained unhappy, so he referred Os complaint to our service. He said O was an 
eligible business, and Conisters decision to decline the Bounce Back Loan application was 
unfair.
 
An investigator here considered what had happened, but he didnt think Conister had done 
anything wrong. In summary, he said:
Under the Scheme, the decision to lend ultimately rests with Conister; 
Conister had carried out the checks expected under the Scheme rules and reached a 
reasonable decision to decline Os application based on the information it had 
received; and
Conister wasnt obliged to provide any more information than it already had.
Mr A disagreed with the investigator. He still felt it was unfair that Os application had been 
declined. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to assure Mr A at the outset that I note his strength of feeling, and Im sorry to hear 
about the impact this matter has had on him and O. But while I know it will disappoint him, I 
dont think Conister has done anything wrong. Ill explain why. 
The Bounce Back Loan Scheme rules set out that the decision to lend ultimately lied with the 
lender  and that in reaching that decision, there were certain checks that had to be carried 
out before a loan was provided. In short, applications were subject to customer fraud, anti-
money laundering and Know Your Customer checks. These checks are an important legal 
and regulatory requirement, which were necessary under the Scheme rules.
Mr A thinks its unfair that Os application failed these checks. He thinks O was declined 
because of information loaded to CIFAS, in error, by another bank. And hes provided 
evidence to show the bank responsible acknowledged a mistake on its part. So I accept 
what Mr A has said about an error with that particular CIFAS entry. But the information was 
present at the time Conister completed its checks, and it was reasonable for the bank to rely 
on it at the time  and therefore to decline Os application.
 
I think it was fair for Conister to reconsider Os application in light of Mr As challenge. It says 
that, when doing so, it took the erroneous CIFAS entry into account  and Ive no reason to 
doubt that it did. Nonetheless, Conisters checks still found information  aside from what 
Mr A had already brought to its attention  which caused Os application to fail the checks 
again. And with that in mind, because Conister relied on the information it was presented 
with at the time, I dont think it acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining Os application on 
the second occasion either.
 
Mr A is frustrated that Conister wont explain in more detail why it declined Os application a 
second time. But as the investigator explained, Conister isnt obliged to provide any more 
information than it already has. Ive seen the investigator recommended that O contact the 
agencies  like CIFAS  which hold information about it. And thats a route O can still take if 
it wishes.
 
I know Mr A will be disappointed by what Ive set out. But for the reasons Ive explained, I 
dont think Conister has done anything wrong in how it dealt with Os Bounce Back Loan 
application. So I dont require it to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021. 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman