DRN-2071315
The complaint
Mr L says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-is-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1997. The policy was added to 
Mr Ls credit card account when he applied for the card. Its clear from Mr Ls application 
form that he applied for the card by post after receiving a mailshot.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint's been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr L has told us that he wasnt asked whether he wanted PPI, and wasnt told that it 
had been applied to his account. Ive seen a copy of the credit card application form 
which Mr L completed and signed. It included equally prominent options to take or 
decline PPI. Mr L ticked the option, indicating that he wished to take the cover. I think 
Barclays made Mr L aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it  
although I can understand how he may no longer remember this, more than 20 years 
later.
Mr L applied for the credit card and PPI by post. I think its unlikely that hed have had 
any direct contact with Barclays staff about his application. So Im satisfied, on 
balance, that Barclays didn't recommend the PPI to Mr L. This means it didn't have to 
check if it was suitable for him. But it needed to give him clear enough information to 
enable him to decide for himself whether he wished to take PPI.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr L about the PPI wasn't as clear as it 
should have been. But Mr L chose to take out the policy. So he appears to have 
wanted this type of cover, even if hes understandably forgotten that now. Ive borne 
in mind that Mr L has told us hed have been entitled to six months pay from his 
employer if hed been off sick. But the PPI would have protected his monthly credit 
card repayments for up to 12 months per successful claim for accident, sickness or 
unemployment. So if hed made a successful claim on the policy, it would potentially 
have paid out for longer than Mr L would have been entitled to sick pay for. And it 
would have paid the same benefit if hed made a successful unemployment claim. 
Whats more, the policy would have paid out in addition to any payments Mr L 
received from his employer. So he could have used those to meet other day-to-day 
expenses, at what its likely would have been a difficult time.
So taking everything into account, I think the PPI policy could have been useful to 
Mr L, especially as hes told us that aside from payments from his employer, he didn't 
have any other means he could have used to make his monthly credit card 
repayments if he was off sick, or if he lost his job.
Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, Mr L wasn't affected by any 
of the main things the policy didn't cover (such as unusual employment 
arrangements, or existing medical conditions). The policy was competitively priced 
and apparently affordable. And since Mr L was paying for it monthly, he could have 
cancelled it at any time if his circumstances changed, or if he decided he no longer 
wanted the cover.
Taking everything into account, I think its unlikely that Mr L would have made a 
different decision even if better information had been provided. On balance, I think 
hed still have taken out the policy.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman