DRN-2897924
The complaint
Mr B complains Paragon Bank Plc (Paragon) didnt tell him he needed to provide proof of 
address when he was changing the nominated bank on his ISA. He says this caused him 
distress and inconvenience and thinks he should be compensated.
What happened
Mr M called Paragon as his ISA was about to mature and hed been locked out of his 
account. He explained the account linked to his ISA, where he thought the interest would be 
paid to, had been closed and he needed to update this. The call handler Mr M spoke to 
explained that interest was set up to be added to his ISA and helped him access his online 
account. He also told Mr M hed need to update his nominated account. As Mr M didnt have 
access to a printer, the call handler agreed to send a form for Mr M to complete and return.
Mr M returned the completed form. But a few days later, Paragon wrote to him explaining it 
needed proof of ownership of the nominated account. Mr M complained that he hadnt been 
told this during the call with Paragon. And he added to his complaint that he wasnt happy 
with how he was spoken to when he initially raised the complaint. He says both matters had 
caused him distress and inconvenience.
Paragon didnt uphold the complaint. It said the form Mr M had been sent explained he 
needed to provide proof of ownership such as a bank statement. And it was satisfied with the 
level of customer service provided.
Mr M didnt accept this and referred the complaint to us where one of our investigators 
looked into it. Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said Mr M was 
told during the call hed need to provide a bank statement, and the change of nominated 
bank account form also made this clear. 
Mr M didnt accept this. He said whilst Paragon mayve met its minimum requirements, it 
caused him great duress and stress and poor service led to delays in his nominated bank 
account being changed. He asked our investigator to consider compensation for him and to 
provide feedback to Paragon. He added that there were equality issues that needed to be 
taken into account. 
As Mr M didnt accept our investigators opinion, its been passed to me to review and make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been provided with a copy of the call Mr M had with Paragon when he first asked to 
change the nominated bank account on his ISA. Mr M says he wasnt told of the need to 
provide a bank statement during this call, but I dont agree. Towards the end of the call, the 
call handler explains that he will send Mr M a copy of the form which he will need to 
complete and return together with a copy of a bank statement from the nominated account. 
Ive also seen a copy of the form. Whilst Mr M says the request for the bank statement is 
hidden within the small print, I disagree. Whilst the request for a bank statement may not be 
within the cover letter, its in the first paragraph of the change of nominated bank account 
form. And its in the same size text as the rest of the form.
Given that Paragon both told Mr M during the phone call that he would need to provide a 
bank statement, and the form also confirmed this, Im satisfied Paragon did make Mr M 
aware of its requirements. I also note that, whilst there was a delay in the nominated bank 
account being changed because of this, this didnt impact Mr Ms ability to add to his ISA. 
So, Im not persuaded hes suffered a financial loss because of this.
Mr M has said our investigator hasnt taken into consideration equality issues. But he hasnt 
elaborated on this point. I cant see that Mr M has ever asked Paragon to communicate with 
him in a specific manner, nor that hes made it aware of any additional needs he may have. 
So, I cant see what equality issues it shouldve taken into account.
Mr M has also asked our investigator to feedback to Paragon. But that isnt the role of this 
service  we arent the industry regulator. A copy of the investigators view and this decision 
will also be provided to Paragon, it will be made aware of his thoughts. But given that both 
the investigator and I dont agree that Paragon has done anything wrong, Im not sure what 
Mr M would expect us to feedback on. I also note that Mr M was able to make his thoughts 
known when he complained to Paragon. And it told him in its final response that it had noted 
his feedback.
Lastly, Mr M says hes unhappy with the way in which the complaint was handled. As our 
investigator explained, complaint handling isnt an activity that falls within the remit of this 
service. So, I wont be considering this part of his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman