DRN-4111331
Complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Tide Platform LTD (Tide) recorded a fraud prevention marker against 
him. 
Background
In September 2020, a Tide account in Mr Fs name received payments totalling thousands 
from a third-party. The funds were soon transferred on to a third party. Shortly afterwards, 
Tide received a notification from the bank which sent the payments stating that the payer of 
the funds had reported being a victim of fraud. Tide reviewed the account, decided to close it 
and also record a fraud prevention marker against Mr F.
Mr F eventually learned of the fraud marker. Mr F took this action after his accounts with 
other banks were closed and he couldnt open another one. Mr F complained to Tide. Tide 
looked at Mr Fs complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr F remained dissatisfied he referred the 
matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Fs concerns. He didnt think that Tide had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr F unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr F disagreed with our adjudicator and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for 
a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Tide has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility  
relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it isnt 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr F is guilty of fraud or a financial crime, 
but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous.
What this means in practice is that Tide must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered the account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, Tide 
also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr F was deliberately dishonest in allowing 
fraudulent funds to be received and knew they were, or might be, an illegitimate payment.
This could include Mr F allowing someone else to use his details to open an account in order 
to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone 
who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Fs complaint, I need to decide whether I think Tide had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered the account in his name and that his actions 
suggest he was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Tide has done 
this here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered the 
account in Mr Fs name in September 2020, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the 
only matter which remains in dispute here is whether Mr F was complicit in this activity. 
Mr F says she had nothing to do with what happened as the account was opened without his 
knowledge or consent and he didnt know it even existed until just before his complaint. He 
says he suspects his identity was stolen to open the account and has provided a letter from 
HMRC to show that there was an attempt to open a VAT account a couple of years after the 
activity took place. 
Ive thought about what Mr F has said. But Im afraid that his version of events simply isnt 
supporting by the available evidence. Not only was an application for a bank account made 
using all of Mr Fs correct details, but documentation and a selfie of Mr F was provided to 
verify his identity. 
Furthermore, a phone with the mobile number Mr F still uses to this day, was registered on 
the account. Mr F hasnt provided a reasonable and plausible explanation as to how an 
opportunistic fraudster would have been able to obtain so much of his information and his 
documentation. This is especially as Mr F hasnt really been able to explain how someone 
would have been able to obtain all of this and the information Mr F has provided from HMRC 
is from some time after this activity took place.
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Tide did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered an account that was in Mr Fs name. And 
given what Ive said about the identification information obtained to open the account and the  
communications required to carry out the activity, it was also reasonably entitled to conclude 
that it was more likely than not Mr F was complicit in this. 
As this is the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Tide to record a fraud prevention marker 
in the circumstances that it did. So Im therefore not upholding Mr Fs complaint. I appreciate 
this will be very disappointing for Mr F  especially given the impact hes said the marker is 
having on him. But even though this is the case, I hope hell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman