The complaint
Mr V complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited declined a claim under his mobile 
phone insurance policy following the theft of his mobile phone.
What happened
Mr Vs mobile phone was insured with Assurant and he made a claim when the phone was 
stolen from inside his bag. He stated in the claim form we were playing football and my 
phone was kept in my bag, after the game when I checked my bag, my phone was missing. 
Also, some of my friends phones were also nicked. 
In the subsequent call with LV, Mr V is recorded as having said hed left his bag containing 
the mobile phone unattended under a tree in a shaded area of a public park whilst he and 
his friends played football twenty meters away. He said nobody had stayed to look after the 
bags, and they had a limited view of the area from the pitch. It was very busy and members 
of the public were walking round. Mr V explained he had not kept the mobile phone on him 
while playing football as it may have got broken. He also explained that the bags had been 
kept in the position they were in order to reserve a shaded area. He explained there were 
multiple mobile phones stolen from bags kept in the area. 
Assurant declined the claim explaining it wasnt satisfied Mr V had been taking reasonable 
care of the phone at the time it was stolen. It explained the policy didnt provide cover for 
loss, theft, damage or breakdown as a result of not taking care of your mobile phone.
Mr V wasnt satisfied with the outcome of the claim and so he complained to Assurant. But 
Assurant maintained its position. It explained Mr V had told it his phone was in a bag and he 
was 20 metres away from the bag while he played football. Hed confirmed the location was 
in a public place when it was stolen, therefore it didnt accept he had taken reasonable care 
of the phone.
Mr V complained to this service. He told the investigator the phone had been inside his bag 
which was just outside the side-line of the football pitch, roughly twenty metres away. He 
said if he played near the side-line, the bag was only five yards away and that his friends 
who were not playing were sitting around the bags, therefore the bag was attended.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied the relevant 
terms and conditions of the policy were fair. He thought it was likely Mr Vs view of the bag 
would have been intermittent due to the nature of playing football and he commented that 
around three mobile phones were taken at the same time, suggesting the group of bags 
werent being watched at all times. He concluded that, because of this, Assurants decision 
to decline the claim was fair and reasonable.
DRN-1226355Mr V responded to clarify that while he was playing football, if he came near the side-line, he 
was less than 5 yards away. And he had friends who came to watch the match who attended 
the bag while he was playing football.
But our investigator maintained his view. He explained hed taken into account what Mr V 
first told Assurant about the location of his bag when the phone was stolen. And he 
commented that while Mr Vs friends may have been near the bag, as he understood it, he 
hadnt specifically left the phone or bag in the possession of a person to look after. 
Mr Vs asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He maintains hed left his 
bag with friends who attended it throughout the football game and that his other belongings 
had been in the bag, including his wallet, headphones and extra clothes. He doesnt accept 
he left his bag unattended under a tree and points out that there were no locker facilities 
available at the park, so he left the bag with someone he trusted believing it was the right 
thing to do. Hes unhappy our investigator has reached a decision based on what he thinks 
is fair, rather than what is right.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to note at the outset that our investigator was right to base his assessment of 
the complaint on what he felt was fair and reasonable.
The terms and conditions are clear that the policy doesnt provide cover for loss, theft, 
damage or breakdown as a result of not taking care of your mobile phone. Taking care is 
described as not knowingly leaving your mobile phone somewhere it is likely to be lost, 
stolen or damaged, just think would you leave your wallet or purse there? If you need to 
leave your mobile phone somewhere then we expect you to lock it away out of sight if at all 
possible. If you cannot lock it away then you must leave it with someone you trust or 
concealed out of sight in a safe place.
According to Assurants records, Mr V told them during a telephone call on 19 June 2019 
that his phone had been inside a bag which hed left unattended under a tree while he 
played football 20 meters away. The note states that nobody had stayed to look after the 
bags and the view from the pitch was limited. Mr V has since given a different account of 
what happened, insisting he left his bag to be looked after by friends who attended the bag 
throughout the duration of the football game. 
Assurant has said that due to a technical issue, the recording of the call that took place on 
19 June isnt available, but it has supplied a screenshot of the note that was made when the 
call was listened to as part of its investigation of this complaint. In circumstances where 
theres a dispute concerning what was said during a telephone call, its preferable to listen to 
a recording of that call. But, as the call recording isnt available and the transcript was 
produced as part of Assurants investigation into this complaint, Im satisfied it represents 
reliable evidence of what was said during the call. 
While I recognise peoples recollections of events can change, the fact Mr Vs phone was 
stolen along with other phones is inconsistent with his later account of it having been 
attended at all times by friends. The fact the thieves had time to remove the phone from his 
bag without being seen is more consistent with it having been left unattended while 
members of the public were walking round, as per Mr Vs initial account to Assurant, and Im 
more persuaded thats what happened.I accept there were no lockers or a secure place for 
Mr V to leave his bag, and that the phone was concealed within a bag, alongside his wallet. But the reference in the policy to whether you would leave your wallet there doesnt mean 
you have taken care just because you have also chosen to leave your wallet there. And the 
fact the phone was concealed doesnt mean it was secure, because it was neither locked 
away or being looked after. 
At times during the football game, Mr V was twenty meters away from the bag and, Im 
satisfied that, for a period of time that was long enough for several phones to be stolen, it 
was unattended and unobserved in a public place where members of the public were 
walking round. In these circumstances, I think Assurants conclusion that Mr V hadnt been 
taking reasonable care of the phone at the time it was stolen was reasonable, and Im 
satisfied its decision to decline the claim was fair.
I understand Mr V will be disappointed but for the reasons outline above, I wont be asking 
Assurant to do anything.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman