DRN-2479063
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the actions of Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (CFS), trading 
as Barclays Partner Finance, when her car lease came to an end.
What happened
Mrs S took receipt of a used car in February 2016. She financed the deal through a 
conditional sale agreement with CFS. 
The final payment was due on 3 March 2020 and CFS say they sent Mrs S a letter in 
November 2019 setting out her options at that point. She could either part exchange the 
vehicle; hand it back or keep it and pay the balloon payment listed in the finance agreement. 
Mrs S says she didnt receive that letter. Shes explained that she told the broker she wanted 
to return the car, but she didnt receive an answer. She was therefore surprised and upset to 
find that CFS tried to take the balloon payment from her account in March 2020. She said 
this caused her some financial difficulties as other direct debits were therefore refused.
The business didnt think theyd done anything wrong. They said theyd sent the November 
letter to the address they had for Mrs S and had also sent text messages to her on 7 and 8 
February 2020 to explain the amount that they would be debiting.
Our investigator explained that it was Mrs Ss responsibility to inform CFS of any change of 
address. She thought theyd done what was expected of them in the circumstances and the 
options at the end of the term were also explained to Mrs S in the finance agreement. She 
thought the onus was therefore on Mrs S to clarify what she wanted to do with the car before 
the term ended and she didnt think CFS needed to take any further action.
Mrs S has explained that the business have subsequently taken the car back and have sold 
it. Theyve credited the amount raised to the account and Mrs S has paid the £174 that was 
outstanding on it. Mrs S says the business should remove any adverse reports theyve made 
to her credit file in relation to this issue.
Mrs S has raised a further complaint with CFS about their demands for payment of the £174 
and this is being looked at separately by them. Shes asked for an ombudsman to review her 
initial complaint about the hand back of the car that our investigator has already considered.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs S, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs S acquired her car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it. 
I can see from the business contact notes that the November 2019 letter explaining the 
options Mrs S had was sent. It shows as printed and Im persuaded it is most likely to have 
been sent to Mrs S. 
Mrs S has explained that she had her mail redirected so, regardless of her change of 
address, Im persuaded she should have received the November letter.
And, even if it wasnt received because of the address change, I dont think it would be fair to 
hold CFS responsible for that. It was Mrs Ss responsibility to inform them of any change of 
address.
CFS also say that they sent two text messages to Mrs S in February 2020 to remind her 
theyd be taking the balloon payment in March 2020. Mrs S says she didnt receive those, 
and I think there is sufficient evidence to suggest that is the case. I say that because Ive 
seen the mobile number the business gave to the collection agents was wrong by one digit. I 
think its likely that was the same mobile number they tried to contact Mrs S on in February 
2020. 
So, I dont think Mrs S received the text messages advising her that a balloon payment 
would be taken the following month, but I do think she should have been aware that was the 
case. I say that because the November letter explained that if Mrs S wanted to keep the car 
she didnt have to take any action and the balloon payment would be taken automatically. I 
dont think theres evidence Mrs S did take any further action. Ive not seen that she 
contacted CFS.
So, Im not persuaded CFS were wrong to try to take a balloon payment. And, as that 
payment wasnt made, I dont think it would be fair to suggest they were wrong to report the 
non-payment to Mrs Ss credit file and I think they have been reasonable to agree to take the 
car back, sell it and credit Mrs Ss account with the sales value.
Im not therefore asking CFS to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman