DRN-2573095
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the service he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc when he raised 
chargeback disputes with it.
What happened
In September 2020 Mr H contacted HSBC to raise some chargeback disputes, totally 
£4,207.46. These were in relation to services he said hed not received online. Mr H has said 
that when he initially spoke to a representative from HSBC in September 2020, he was told 
there was a delay in progressing chargebacks at that time. But that Mr H would receive a 
temporary refund of the disputed amounts into his account, whilst the disputes were 
awaiting, and under investigation.
But Mr H has explained he didnt receive the temporary funds into his account within the two 
delays explained. He chased HSBC for this  and felt the service he received from it was 
poor. So, he raised a complaint about the fact the money wasnt in his account when he was 
told it would be  and the service he had received in relation to this.
HSBC initially sent Mr H £30. It said it couldnt see logs on Mr H making calls to it  and 
couldnt find where it had said the temporary funds would be with him within 2 days. 
However, it said it was sending Mr H the £30 as a gesture of goodwill. At this point Mr H 
received part of the money he was expecting to have seen already enter his account. This 
was 16 days after he thought he would receive the funds.
Mr H raised further concerns that he still hadnt received £2,000 of the temporary refunds. 
This was sent to him three days after the above money was placed in his account  so 19 
days after he expected to receive it. HSBC again apologised for the delays experienced and 
sent Mr H another £100 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.
Mr H remained unhappy with this. He didnt think HSBCs action resolved his complaint. Mr 
H reiterated he had been told the money would, although temporarily at that stage, be with 
him in two days  and he wanted HSBC to admit he was told this. Mr H also felt it was 
unreasonable HSBC had put the £130 compensation into his bank account without prior 
agreement from him. Particularly because he didnt accept the £130 was fair compensation 
in this case.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said 
HSBC hadnt been able to locate a copy of the call where Mr H was told he would be sent 
the money within two days. But HSBC had now accepted it had said that. Our investigator 
noted there was a delay Mr H experienced, but she felt the £130 offered was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr H didnt agree. He said he was told he would get the money in two days  and wanted 
this service to look at HSBCs contact notes to confirm this. Mr H also reiterated that he was 
unhappy the compensation was put into his account without his agreement.
Because Mr H remained unhappy, his complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. This is because Im satisfied the 
compensation HSBC has provided Mr H with, is a fair and reasonable resolution to his 
complaint. Ive explained why I consider this to be the case below.
Firstly, it is important to note that a chargeback isnt a consumer right. A bank, such as 
HSBC, does not have to raise a chargeback dispute. However, this service does consider it 
to be fair and reasonable for a chargeback dispute to be raised by a bank, where a 
consumer contacts it to raise a dispute, and there is a reasonable prospect of it being 
successful. 
Mr H contacted HSBC and provided it with information in relation to the chargeback disputes 
he wanted to raise, explained why he wanted to raise these, and provided information to 
HSBC to assist with the chargebacks. So, I do think HSBC acted reasonably in raising these 
disputes on Mr Hs behalf.
But Mr H has said the service provided to him by HSBC when raising the chargebacks fell 
short. In particular, in reference to its promise to temporarily refund the disputed amounts, 
whilst investigations were pending. 
Mr H would like me to review contact notes from when he first spoke to HSBC about the 
chargebacks  because he said he was told he would get the temporary refunds in two days. 
Whilst I understand why Mr H wants to me look at these notes, Im satisfied I dont need to. 
The reason I say this is because HSBC has now accepted that it likely told Mr H he would 
receive the money within 2 days, and it also accepts this didnt happen. As what Mr H said 
isnt in dispute  and I can see from Mr Hs bank statements that the funds werent 
temporarily returned within two days, I havent needed to investigate this further. Instead, 
what I have needed to consider is what HSBC should do, to put the matter right, and resolve 
the complaint.
When the complaint was referred to this service, the funds that were supposed to enter Mr 
Hs account had already been placed there. And this puts right Mr Hs concern that he didnt 
have the money. So, I dont require HSBC to do anything more in this respect  it has 
already rectified Mr Hs concerns.
So, Ive just needed to think about whether there is anything HSBC should do to resolve the 
complaint. As above, HSBC has already offered, and paid, Mr H £130 compensation. And 
given this, Ive thought carefully about whether this compensation is fair and reasonable, or 
whether this should be increased.
Having done so, Im satisfied the £130 compensation provided is fair. And so, I dont require 
HSBC to do anything more. As above, it is not a right for a chargeback dispute to be raised 
by the bank, and therefore for temporary refund to be provided. But it took 19 days longer 
than Mr H expected, based on information HSBC has accepted it likely gave Mr H, for him to 
receive the temporary refund. I can see how this would have been frustrating, and it would 
have been inconvenient to need to chase HSBC. But Im satisfied the £130 provided to Mr H 
does reasonably recognise this distress, frustration, and upset.  I appreciate Mr H didnt want to accept the £130 offered. And he doesnt have to accept this 
in full and final settlement of his complaint if he doesnt want to do so. The money being in 
his account doesnt prejudice his ability to pursue the matter if he would like. But HSBC 
offered and provided the funds, and I think this amount is fair. So, I wont be requiring it to do 
anything more.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Im satisfied the £130 
compensation offered is fair and reasonable. And so, I dont require HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman