DRN-3131090
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Evolution Insurance Company Limited didn't successfully pay a 
claim on her guaranteed asset protection (GAP) policy.
In bringing this complaint Mrs Bs been helped by a family member. But for ease of reading 
Ill refer to his comments as being Mrs Bs.
Reference to Evolution includes its agents and representatives.  
What happened
Mrs Bs car was stolen. Her comprehensive motor insurer paid her the market value of the 
car at the time of the theft. Mrs B claimed on her GAP policy for the difference between that 
settlement and the amount shed bought her car for initially. Evolution eventually told her it 
would pay her claim and asked her for her bank details, which Mrs B gave. A fraudster, 
whod hacked Mrs Bs email account, then sent Evolution an email purporting to be from 
Mrs B, saying that the bank details shed given were incorrect and providing an alternative.
Evolution then paid the GAP settlement sum to the alternative bank account details provided 
by the fraudster. Mrs B contacted Evolution to say that she hadn't received payment. It then 
came to light that Evolution had paid the GAP settlement to an account that wasn't Mrs Bs. 
Evolution told Mrs B to report the matter to police, which she did. It then said it couldn't be of 
any more assistance to her.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didn't think Evolution had handled the 
matter fairly. He said that Evolution had been the victim of fraud. He added that the policy 
said Evolution would pay a successful claim but it hadn't paid Mrs B in this case. So he said 
Evolution should pay Mrs B the claim settlement of £7,905 and add simple interest to that 
sum.
Mrs B accepted our investigator's assessment of the complaint, Evolution didn't; so it's been 
passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to uphold it. 
As well as questioning our investigators assessment of the complaint, Evolution also 
disputed that we had jurisdiction to look into the matter at all. It argued that, as Mrs Bs 
complaint was about an authorise push payment (APP) scam we didn't have jurisdiction to 
look at that complaint against Evolution. I issued a separate jurisdiction decision setting out 
why Im satisfied that we do have jurisdiction to look at this complaint. So, save for where 
I think it might be necessary to do so in order to explain my findings on the merits of Mrs Bs 
complaint, I don't intend to repeat matters I've previously addressed in my jurisdiction 
decision. 
It seems the key question for me is whether or not Evolution has settled Mrs Bs GAP claim 
fairly and reasonably in line with the terms of her policy. The policy says that Evolution would 
pay Mrs B the difference between her motor insurers settlement of her claim for the total 
loss of her car (less the motor insurers excess) and the net invoice price she paid for it. The 
policy also covers a contribution of up to £250 towards the motor insurers excess. Evolution 
calculated the GAP settlement owing to Mrs B was £7,905, which Mrs B was happy to 
accept.
But Evolution didn't pay Mrs B £7,905. It paid that sum to an unknown scammer. So it hasn't 
settled Mrs Bs claim in line with her policy. Evolution has argued that, in fact, it has settled 
the claim in line with the policys terms. This is what it said:
[Evolutions] obligation is worded as 'we pay' [the prescribed amount]. The holder of the 
policy is not explicitly stated as the recipient of the payment, neither it is [sic] stated that the 
payment obligation will only be discharged when the policyholder receives the payment in 
clear funds.
In other words Evolution appears to be arguing that it can discharge its duty to pay the claim 
simply by making a payment of the appropriate settlement figure, regardless of who it pays 
that sum to. If that were the case Evolution could, in theory, settle the claim by making a 
payment to itself or any other person or entity whether known to Mrs B or not. That clearly 
wouldn't be fair or reasonable.
Further, what the policy actually says is:
Any amount due will be paid to You...
The policy defines You as the person named in the policy schedule, which is Mrs B. So the 
policy says that Evolution will pay Mrs B. And, while I understand that if Mrs B had given 
instruction to Evolution to pay the money to a specific account, then Evolution would have 
discharged its duty to settle her claim by doing so. But Mrs B didn't give Evolution an 
instruction to pay the sum into a different account, a fraudster did. So Evolution hasn't 
discharged its duty to pay Mrs B's claim under the terms of her policy.
Evolution has also argued that it wasnt the victim of a fraud. Instead it said Mrs B was the 
unfortunate victim. But while it was Mrs Bs email account which was hacked it wasn't Mrs B 
that was tricked into paying the money to a fraudster. It was Evolution that was tricked on 
this occasion. And I note it asked its bank to recover the payment. If its bank had 
successfully recovered the sums it wouldn't have remained the victim of the fraud, 
regardless of Mrs Bs involvement in the matter. And it would, I think, without question have 
passed the recouped funds to Mrs B. But the bank was unsuccessful and couldn't recover 
the money. So Evolution remained the victim of a fraud, which it reported to the appropriate 
agency, and Mrs B remained out of pocket. 
Further, I explained in my jurisdiction decision that we are often asked to investigate frauds 
of this nature, which are known APP scams. And those are usually brought by the payer of 
the funds who's been tricked into paying the fraudster. In this case the victim whos been 
tricked into paying the funds into the fraudsters account is Evolution and not Mrs B. So, 
while the fraudster hacked Mrs Bs email in order to carry out the scam, the victim of the 
fraud who paid the money into the wrong account was Evolution. So I think its reasonable to 
say that Evolution has been the victim of a fraud. Conversely, Evolution has argued that it has robust IT systems in place, and it wasn't its 
email account that was hacked. The implication being that Mrs B has somehow been 
negligent or unfortunate to allow the fraud to take place. But, as I've said above, it was 
Evolution that was tricked into physically paying the funds to the fraudsters account, not 
Mrs B. 
So, it would appear that Evolutions processes aren't rigorous enough to protect itself from 
such a scam. Evolutions argued that its under no obligation to put such a rigorous process 
in place. Thats entirely its choice. But if it chooses not to adopt processes to protect itself 
against such a scam, I don't think its fair for it to make the policyholder liable for the 
consequence of that choice. 
Evolution added that our investigators recommendation to uphold the complaint didn't:
take into account the prior payment warning sent by  [Evolutions agents] and the 
complainants failure to respond.
In referring to a prior payment warning, I believe Evolution is referring to its email to Mrs B, 
with a letter attached, advising it would be raising payment to settle her claim. The attached 
letter said the funds would be in Mrs Bs account within 30 days. I haven't seen anything in 
the email or the attached letter which indicated that Mrs B needed to reply. So I don't think 
there's any evidence of a failure to do so. 
Similarly, Evolution said recently that it had notified Mrs B two weeks prior to making the 
payment that it would pay the funds to the newly advised bank account. But I don't think 
thats right. The email Evolution sent to Mrs B simply said it had raised payment. It didn't say 
which bank account it was making payment to. Likewise the letter attached to that mail didn't 
say to which account it would send the funds. So Evolutions communications didn't say that 
it was paying the funds to the newly advised bank account. I can see that the fraudsters 
email advising of the updated bank details was included in the email chain Evolution sent to 
Mrs B. But I've seen noting in the email from Evolution that would have brought this to her 
attention. It follows that I don't think there was any failure on Mrs Bs behalf to ensure 
Evolution settled her claim fairly and reasonably in this regard. 
Also while Evolution referred the matter to the relevant fraud agency  as has Mrs B  its 
further argued that Mrs B has provided no evidence that she hasn't received the payment. 
I find Evolutions arguments here somewhat puzzling and contradictory. It initially argued that 
we didn't have jurisdiction to look at the matter because it solely referred to an APP scam, 
that Mrs B was the victim of. But its argued in the same submission that in fact no such 
scam has taken place and that it has successfully paid Mrs B for the claim. So either it 
thought a scam had taken place or it didn't, but Evolution seems to be adopting both 
positions at the same time. I don't think thats reasonable.
Further, I'm not sure what evidence Evolution believes Mrs B could provide to prove that she 
wasn't the recipient of the payment to the rogue account, as that would seem to be almost 
impossible to do. But Evolutions bank has told it that the rogue account was essentially a 
pre-paid card from which the funds were removed almost immediately. And Mrs B has 
been consistent that she didn't receive the funds. She reported the matter to the police when 
Evolution suggested she do so. As such I'm not sure what additional evidence Evolution 
thinks she should be providing. 
Evolution has more recently added that Mrs B hasnt shown that she didn't receive the funds 
via an intermediary. I can't see that Evolution ever asked her to show that evidence 
previously. Indeed, until our investigator issued his assessment upholding the complaint, Evolution apparently accepted that Mrs B hadnt received the funds. It's only begun to doubt 
that when faced with the prospect of having to pay those funds again.
In doing so it seems to me that Evolution's essentially implying that Mrs B is attempting to 
defraud it. That is, it appears to be alleging that shes claiming not to have received a 
significant insurance claim pay out, in order to persuade Evolution to pay it to her again. 
I need to say that it's not my role to determine if Mrs B - or anyone else - is guilty of fraud. 
That's a matter for the police and the relevant enforcement agencies. But an allegation of 
fraud would be a serious matter. It goes to someone's integrity. It alleges a criminal act (and 
might expose them to the risk of criminal investigation and prosecution). So before making 
such an allegation or implication I would expect an insurer to have reasonable evidence on 
which to do so. But Evolution has shown no tangible evidence - beyond suspicion and the 
desire to avoid paying a claim - on which to fairly and reasonably base such an implication. 
So I don't think it would be fair to ask Mrs B to provide further evidence now to somehow 
prove that she hasn't received the funds.
It follows that I'm satisfied that Evolution hasn't paid the GAP claim settlement to Mrs B 
which she is entitled to under the terms of her policy. So I don't think its dealt with her fairly 
and reasonably. To put things right I think it should pay her that settlement now and add 
simple interest to that sum as set out below. 
    
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Evolution Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mrs B £7,905 as settlement of her GAP claim. To that sum it should 
add simple interest, at a rate of 8% a year, from the date of Mrs Bs claim to the date it 
makes payment to her1.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman
1 If Evolution considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs B how much its taken off. It should also give her a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.