DRN-4277873
The complaint
Miss R complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund payments she made 
after falling victim to a scam.
Miss Rs complaint was brought with the help of a representative. However, as the account 
is in Miss Rs name, and Miss R had the call with the scammers and made the payments, Ill 
refer to Miss R throughout the decision.
What happened
In November 2022, Miss R noticed a transaction on her account of £70 relating to a parking 
charge notice fee. Miss R hadnt received a notice and didnt own a car, so she reported it to 
Santander. 
Miss R called Santander to report the fraud on 25 November 2022. During that call 
Santander got details of the transaction Miss R was disputing and at the end of the call read 
out a scripted scam warning to Miss R. As part of this warning Miss R was told about the 
importance of keeping her personal and security information safe and not to share it with 
anyone else. Miss R was also told that fraudsters may contact her pretending to be the bank 
but that any trusted organisation would never ask her to withdraw, transfer or send money 
from her bank account and if they do its a scam.
Miss R was told that she should keep an eye on her account as the £70 may just be 
refunded to her bank account. It was unclear whether she would be called back about her 
claim. The £70 was refunded to Miss Rs bank account without her receiving a call from 
Santander.
A few days later on 29 November 2022, Miss R got a call from someone saying they worked 
for Santander. Miss R says that the call had no caller ID which she thought was odd and 
questioned, but the caller told her it was for security reasons. The caller told Miss R they had 
noticed fraudulent activity on her account and asked if she recognised some transactions 
done in Aberdeen. They also told Miss R that someone was logged into her online banking 
in Aberdeen. Miss R confirmed that she didnt recognise the transactions and that she wasnt 
logged into her online banking. Miss R says the caller knew her phone number, where she 
lived and about her prior call to Santander about the parking fee. Miss R was told that her 
account was at risk and that they would need to give her a new sort code and account 
number. They got Miss R to make three transfers from her account to a new payee. The 
payments were for £550, £405 and £350.
Miss R says the caller walked her through the mobile banking process to make the 
payments, told her what to write and told her to select the payment purpose transferring to a 
friend rather than the payment purpose of transferring to own account. She says that when 
the Confirmation of Payee (COP) no match occurred, they told her it was because her new 
account hadnt been activated yet, so it wasnt being recognised.
Miss R says she had concerns about why she was being asked to transfer money, saying it 
didnt feel right, but that the caller kept reassuring her. Also, that each time she made one of 
the transfers they made her log out of her online banking, which was a bit strange.
Miss R says it wasnt a good time when they called her as she was out with friends, but she 
was concerned about losing all her money, so she made the transfers. 
Once the transfers had been made, the caller told Miss R they would call her back at 6pm 
and help her log into her new account. By the time they called back, Miss R was concerned 
that shed been the victim of a scam so asked them to call her the next day  but they never 
called back. 
Miss R reported the scam to Santander and asked them to refund the money shed lost. 
Santander considered her fraud claim but declined to refund Miss R. They said Miss R had 
received a warning during the call of 25 November, which she had ignored. Also, that she 
hadnt done enough checks to make sure the call was genuine.
Miss R wasnt happy with Santanders response, so she brought a complaint to our service.
As part of her complaint Miss R and her representative raised the following points:
Santander didnt do enough to protect Miss R.
Theyd requested Santander provide transcripts of the calls Miss R had with them, 
but theyd been given a CD with the call recordings which they were unable to listen 
to.
Santander hadnt provided the investigation report into either the £70 disputed 
transaction or the later scam.
Miss R was vulnerable as she was a student, away from home for the first time and 
was inexperienced in financial matters.
Santander shouldve implemented a password or phrase as a security feature for any 
calls with Miss R, following the first fraud report.
Santander provided inadequate communication after the event which exacerbated 
the distress Miss R experienced.
Santander was asked to provide a copy of their Vulnerable Customer Policy and 
details of their vulnerable customer identification processes  which they hadnt.
An investigator looked into Miss Rs complaint but didnt uphold it, for the following reasons:
Santander are a signatory to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code) and the investigator considered 
Santanders liability under the Code. 
The investigator didnt think Miss R met the definition of vulnerable as set out in the 
CRM Code, highlighting that Miss R did have concerns and asked questions during 
the call she had with the fraudsters  which suggested she was able to take steps to 
protect herself. 
Based on the payment size and Miss Rs previous account use, the investigator 
didnt think Santander shouldve identified a scam risk, therefore Santander werent 
required to provide an effective warning. 
The investigator wasnt satisfied that Miss R had a reasonable basis for believing the caller was genuine based on the concerns she had during her interaction with them. 
The investigator felt Santander had completed an appropriate investigation into   
Miss Rs fraud claims, provided sufficient information about why they were declining 
the fraud claim and werent required to provide Miss R with a copy of their 
investigation notes. 
The investigator hadnt relied on the warning Santander gave Miss R in the call on 25 
November in deciding whether Miss R had a reasonable basis to believe the call was 
genuine. 
Our service cant ask Santander to change their security measures or ask them to 
apply passwords to calls.
The investigator gave Miss R a copy of the call recordings that Santander had shared with 
our service.
 
Miss R disagreed with the investigators opinion and asked for the case to be passed to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Miss R and her representative that Ive read their responses explaining 
why they disagree with the outcome the investigator reached. I might not address each 
individual point theyve raised, but Ive considered them all in reaching my decision.
The starting position is that Santander are expected to process payments and withdrawals 
that its customers authorise, in accordance with the Payment Service Regulations and the 
terms and conditions of the customers account. So, when Santander made the payments, it 
was complying with Miss Rs instructions. Although I appreciate that Miss R didnt realise 
that she was the victim of a scam at the time she was making the payments.
Is Miss R entitled a refund under the CRM Code?
Santander are a signatory to the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code) 
which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like 
this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that an exception applies. In this case, Santander say Miss R made the payments without 
having a reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the customer was 
expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or 
business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
Im satisfied that Santander can rely on this exception to reimbursement for the following 
reasons:
Miss R had concerns when she took the call, as there was no caller ID despite the 
caller saying they worked for Santander. Im not satisfied that the callers explanation 
that their number was withheld due to security reasons was believable. 
Miss R had concerns about why she was being asked to transfer money out of her 
account but didnt take any steps to check what she was being told or try to call 
Santander on a known phone number.While the caller knew Miss Rs phone number, where she lived and that she had 
disputed a transaction previously  I cant see that they followed the usual security 
steps that Santander would complete.
Miss R had concerns about why she was being asked to log out of her online banking 
after making each payment. Its not clear what questions she asked about this, or 
why her bank would require her to log out of her online banking during the process of 
making payments.
Miss R was told to select a payment purpose that referred to paying a friend, rather 
than one for transferring money to her own account. Its not clear why Santander 
would ask her to choose an incorrect payment method. Im also concerned that there 
was a Confirmation of Payee no match, especially as Miss R had set up the payee as 
her own name and was expecting to pay money into her own (new) account. Miss R 
was told it was due to her account not being activated, however Im not satisfied this 
was a reasonable explanation.
Its clear that throughout the call with the fraudster that Miss R had doubts about who she 
was talking to and what she was being asked to do. Having these doubts, I wouldve 
expected her to do some basic checks on who she was talking to  which would include 
calling Santander back on a registered number. Or, for Miss R to not make the transfers and 
simply ask the caller to block her Santander account which they would be able to do if they 
were calling from the bank. Taking all of the points above into consideration as a whole, 
rather than on an individual basis, Im not satisfied that Miss R had a reasonable basis for 
believing that she was talking to her genuine bank.
I also considered whether Santander met its obligations under the CRM Code. Based on the 
size of the payments, previous account usage and the pattern of the payments, Im not 
persuaded that Santander shouldve identified a scam risk. On that basis, they werent 
required to provide an effective warning and have met their obligations under the Code.
 
I appreciate that Miss R thinks the payments shouldve triggered as suspicious as they were 
made while she was in her overdraft. However, when deciding whether a payment should be 
of concern to a bank, there are multiple factors that we consider. Looking at her statements I 
can see that Miss R had been using her overdraft earlier in the month of November, and as 
this was a student account with an agreed overdraft facility, Im not persuaded that the use 
of the overdraft for the payments was that unusual or out of character that Santander 
shouldve been concerned. 
As Im satisfied Santander has met its obligations under the CRM Code and can rely on an 
exception to reimbursement, I cant fairly ask them to refund Miss R.
Does Miss R meet the definition of vulnerable set out in the CRM Code
I considered whether Miss R was vulnerable as set out in the CRM Code, which would 
entitle her to a full refund regardless of whether an exception to reimbursement applies. But 
in the circumstances of this case, Im not satisfied that she was.
 
The CRM Code describes vulnerability as Miss R being vulnerable to the extent that she was 
unable to protect herself at the time of becoming the victim of the scam, against this 
particular scam and to the extent of the impact she suffered.
In this case, Miss R told us that she questioned why the fraudster was calling her from a 
withheld number, had concerns about why she was being asked to transfer money and 
thought it was odd that she was being asked to log out of her online banking after making each payment. All of these concerns suggest she identified that the caller may not have 
been genuine and persuades me that she couldve protected herself against this scam.
 
I appreciate that Miss R was living away from home for the first time and had started 
university, all of which are big changes and can be unsettling, and that she may be 
inexperienced in financial matters. But, in these circumstances and for the reasons Ive 
given, Im not satisfied that I can fairly ask Santander to refund Miss R due to vulnerability 
under the CRM Code.
Miss Rs dissatisfaction with Santanders processes and procedures
Miss R feels that Santander shouldve put a security password or phrase in place after she 
reported the first fraud, so that she would know it was them calling. However, I cant fairly 
require or ask Santander to change their processes or procedures as this isnt within our 
remit. Also, from what Ive seen, Santander do complete security when they call a customer.
 
I think its worth noting too, that Santander did warn Miss R she might be contacted by 
fraudsters when she reported the first fraud on the 25 November. This warning specifically 
referred to Miss R potentially being called by someone pretending to be the bank and using 
her information to convince her they were genuine. Miss R was told that no trusted 
organisation would ask her to withdraw or transfer money from her account. I think it was 
appropriate for Santander to provide this warning.
Miss R has asked for a copy of Santanders Vulnerable Customer Policy and details of their 
vulnerable customer identification processes. But Im conscious that this may not be 
something they share with customers as vulnerability is often established based on 
individual circumstances of a customer and how they respond to that vulnerability may vary 
based on those circumstances. Also, this policy is likely to be considered commercially 
sensitive, and I wouldnt expect Santander to share commercially sensitive information.
 
Some of Miss Rs concerns around vulnerability and Santanders processes and procedures 
relate to her not having access to information in order to protect herself against scams and 
fraud. I can see that Santander have information available on their website about the most 
common types of scams, guidance as to how consumers can protect themselves from falling 
victim to these scams, as well guidance on what to do if a consumer believes they are the 
victim of a scam.
Also, Im not persuaded that based on Miss Rs personal circumstances as shes explained 
them to us, that Santander shouldve identified her as vulnerable or put any additional 
security measures in place as a result. And Im satisfied that they took appropriate steps 
during their call with Miss R by explaining that she may be contacted by a fraudster and 
gave some warning signs that she should look out for.
The level of customer service Miss R received
Miss R has raised dissatisfaction with the information that she was given by Santander in 
relation to both of her fraud claims and feels that Santander shouldve provided her with a 
copy of their investigation notes in relation to her claims.
 
Id like to reassure Miss R that based on what Ive seen, Santander carried out an 
appropriate investigation into her fraud claims. They upheld her first fraud claim and 
refunded the money directly to her account, and for the second fraud claim they wrote to 
Miss R and explained why they wouldnt be refunding her loss.
 I wouldnt expect Santander to provide Miss R with a copy of their investigation notes which 
are likely to contain confidential or commercially sensitive information. I appreciate that 
Santander couldve provided a better level of service by telling Miss R that her first fraud 
claim was upheld, but in the call with Miss R on 25 November she was told that she might 
not be contacted and that the funds might just be credited to her account  which they were.
I can see that Miss R asked Santander for a transcript of the calls she had with them, as a 
result Santander sent her an audio CD with the call recordings. Miss R says that she couldnt 
listen to the CD, and I think Santander couldve provided a better level of service by 
explaining what methods they could use to provide this information to Miss R, so she was 
aware of her options. However, our investigator has provided Miss R with a copy of these 
calls.
Having carefully considered all the points that Miss R has raised I think Santander couldve 
provided a better level of service, but Im not satisfied that this warrants a compensation 
payment. 
Im very sorry that Miss R has lost this money after falling victim to a scam and the impact 
this has had on her. But having considered everything shes told us I cant fairly ask 
Santander to refund her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman