DRN-1754417
 
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Aviva Insurance Limited disposed of her vehicle salvage by mistake, 
despite her requesting that it wasn't destroyed, following a motor insurance claim.
What happened
In early 2018, Mrs Cs vehicle was involved in a serious crash. A relative was driving the car, 
and they were trapped inside. The car caught fire and the relative suffered serious injuries as 
a result. 
Aviva dealt with the claim as a total loss and made a payment under the policy. Mrs C had 
spoken to Aviva in late 2018 to say that her relative was looking to make a claim against the 
vehicle manufacturer for injuries, so requested the salvage wasn't destroyed.
The vehicle salvage was kept by the Police as part of an investigation, before being released 
to Aviva in early 2019. Mrs C called Aviva in early 2020 to ask what happened to the vehicle, 
as a solicitor had advised there may be a case against the vehicles manufacturer. It was at 
this point she discovered that the vehicle salvage had been disposed of.
Mrs C complained that Aviva had destroyed the vehicle salvage. She said shed given clear 
instructions for this not to happen and so Aviva had prejudiced any legal case her 
relative may have initiated. Aviva upheld the complaint and accepted the salvage had been 
destroyed against Mrs Cs wishes. It paid her £150 compensation for this error. But Mrs C 
wasn't happy with this, as she said the salvage was the key evidence.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He acknowledged that Aviva accepted responsibility 
for its mistake, but didn't feel £150 was fair. He was mindful that we can only look at the 
impact on Mrs C as the policyholder, rather than the relative who wasn't named on Mrs Cs 
policy as an insured driver. But he recommended Aviva increase its compensation offer to 
£350. Aviva accepted this, but Mrs C didn't so the case has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to first acknowledge that the accident has had a significant impact on Mrs C and her 
family. It can't be easy for Mrs C to still be dealing with matters such as this.
The relative was not named as an insured driver on the policy and so was not a customer of 
Avivas under this policy, or an intended beneficiary of it. Mrs C is the policyholder for the 
insured vehicle, so we can only look at the impact Avivas actions had on her. 
Its clear that Avivas mistake is likely to have had more impact on the relative than Mrs C. 
Its the relatives legal case that is potentially impacted but for the reasons in the preceding paragraph, I cant ask Aviva to make an award to the relative. And equally, it would be 
unreasonable for me to do that vicariously through Mrs C. 
Mrs C had made it clear to Aviva that she wanted to retain the remnants of the vehicle. Aviva 
had put a marker on the claim stating this, but it was removed when the car was released by 
the police. And subsequently the vehicle was crushed at Avivas request. Its clear that this 
was done erroneously.
Mrs C only discovered the disposal in early 2020 when she called Aviva. She was 
understandably unhappy, feeling that a potential legal case had been prejudiced. Mrs C has 
been candid notifying Aviva that the police had told her that it couldn't determine the cause 
of the fire due to the state of the remnants. I've seen photos of the remnants and the vast 
extent of the damage from the fire was clear.
Putting things right
As the vehicle remnants have now been destroyed, its not possible for Aviva to put Mrs C 
back into the position she wouldve been in had it not been for its mistake. So, Ive 
considered what would be fair compensation for the impact this had on Mrs C. Its clear Mrs 
C was caused distress given her clear instruction had been mistakenly overridden by Aviva. 
And given that it potentially impacted a legal case her relative might have wanted to bring, 
the disposal had more of an impact on Mrs C.
Aviva has agreed to pay Mrs C a total amount of £350 compensation and Im satisfied thats 
a fair reflection of the impact on Mrs C. But as Ive explained, I cant award compensation for 
the impact caused to Mrs Cs relative or for the potential outcome of their legal action. So, 
Im satisfied £350 is a fair amount to resolve the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right, Aviva Insurance Limited 
must pay Mrs C a total of £350 compensation.
If the £150 compensation offered within Aviva's final response has already been paid to Mrs 
C, then Aviva should pay her a further £200.
Aviva must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs C 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the outstanding 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman