DRN-4156828
The complaint
Mrs and Mr G complain about Euroins ADs settlement of their travel insurance claim and 
about the emergency assistance it gave. My references to Euroins include its agents.
What happened
Mrs and Mr G had an annual travel insurance policy, Euroins was the insurer. They booked 
a special holiday abroad and were due to spend time in one location between 8 to 
12 September 2022 and then move to another location from 12 to 19 September 2022.
Unfortunately on 9 September 2022 Mr G fell and the hospital diagnosed a fractured hip. 
The hospital doctor gave Mr G a fit to fly certificate and told him not to put any weight on his 
leg and that he would need a wheelchair. Mrs and Mr G contacted Euroins the same day to 
tell it about the situation and to ask for help to return home early. They sent the medical 
report to Euroins on 10 September 2022 and they made numerous calls to Euroins to try to 
find out what was happening. On 13 September 2022 Euroins repatriated Mrs and Mr G to 
the UK. 
Mrs and Mr G claimed on the policy for medical costs, costs as a result of Mr Gs injury and 
the costs of their unused holiday.
Euroins accepted the curtailment claim but only paid some of the costs. It wouldnt pay the 
taxi costs, as there were no receipts, or the hotel tax and hotel room service fees which it 
said the policy didnt cover. It paid the curtailment claim on the basis that 6 days were lost 
from the 11 day holiday as it said under the policy terms curtailment was only from the day 
Mrs and Mr G returned home. 
Mrs and Mr G complained to Euroins about its emergency assistance service and claim 
settlement. Euroins said it had correctly settled the claim and made no comment on the 
service issues Mrs and Mr G raised.
Mrs and Mr G complained to us. in summary they said:
They made many calls and sent emails to Euroins from 9 September until 
13 September trying to get help. On many occasions after Euroins recorded phone 
message the line either went to engaged or just rang out. At other times Euroins told 
them it would call back but rarely did so.
They felt helpless with no wheelchair for Mr G and virtual prisoners in the hotel room 
which was a very stressful and upsetting time. Mr G had to go to a pharmacy to buy 
crutches.
They found flights to their local UK airport for 10 September but Euroins told them 
they had to wait until it received medical advice as to whether Mr G needed a 
medical escort to accompany him home.
They were only told on the morning of 13 September that they would be flying home 
later that day. Euroins said it would book two extra plane seats to give them more 
room on the plane but the seats werent together. When they arrived at the airport 
they were asked to pay extra for their baggage as that hadnt been booked in 
advance by Euroins.
For the curtailment claim Euroins had unfairly counted the days they were confined to 
the hotel room waiting for it to repatriate them as them being on holiday. It had also 
made an equal division of the costs not taking into account the more expensive 
accommodation at the second location and the excursions they had booked.
The hotel service charges should be covered as they had no choice but to order 
room service, they hadnt claimed for food. The hotel tax was part of the cost of the 
room and they had to take taxis.
Our investigator said Euroins had unfairly settled the claim. She recommended Euroins pay 
the curtailment claim from 9 September 2022 and the settlement should take into account 
the amounts Mrs and Mr G paid for each part of the trip. Interest should be added to the 
additional settlement payment and Euroins should pay Mrs and Mr G £100 compensation for 
their distress and inconvenience due to its poor service.
Mrs and Mr G accepted our investigators recommendation. Euroins didnt respond so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulatory guidelines say insurers must handle claims fairly and promptly and 
mustnt unreasonably decline a claim. 
I uphold this complaint as I think Euroins unreasonably settled Mrs and Mr Gs claim and 
didnt fairly and promptly handle their claim. Ill explain why.
The policy says under the cancellation and curtailment section:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for the unused 
portion of Your travel and accommodation costs that you have paid or contracted to 
pay and you suffer a financial loss because you cannot get a full refund if you cancel 
before the start of your trip or cut Your trip short and return home early during the 
period of insurance because of the following:
the death, bodily injury or illness of you, your travel companion
Under the strict interpretation of the policy terms Euroins correctly applied curtailment from 
the date Mrs and Mr G returned home. 
But I also consider whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Im satisfied that 
Mr G was medically advised not to put any weight on his leg following his injury, he didnt 
have a wheelchair and that from the date of his injury, 9 September 2022, he was confined 
to his hotel room until he returned home. So I think its reasonable for me to say that Mrs and 
Mr Gs holiday was effectively curtailed from the 9 September 2022.
The policy says that Euroins will pay the costs that have been paid by Mrs and Mr G so I see 
no reason why the curtailment calculation from 9 September shouldnt take into account the 
more expensive costs Mrs and Mr G paid for the second part of their trip, which they couldnt 
take.
Mrs and Mr G say the hotel tax they paid was part of the overall cost of the room and 
I havent seen any evidence from Euroins to dispute that. So I think Euroins should include 
the hotel tax as part of the payment Mrs and Mr G made for their accommodation when it 
recalculates the settlement for curtailment.I think Euroins reasonably declined to pay the hotel room service fee. I understand why Mr G 
wasnt able to leave the hotel room but I havent seen any evidence to show that Mrs G was 
unable to leave the room to bring back the food for her and Mr G. 
I also think Euroins reasonably declined to pay for the taxis. Under the policy terms, and 
reasonably, Euroins requires a receipt to evidence the cost claimed and I havent seen that 
Euroins received a receipt for Mrs and Mr Gs taxi costs. 
Overall, I think its fair and reasonable for Euroins to pay Mrs and Mr Gs curtailment claim 
from 9 September 2022, taking into account my above points, and subject to the remaining 
policy terms and conditions. The additional settlement should be paid to Mrs and Mr G plus 
interest as Ive detailed below.
As to service, I can see from Euroins emergency assistance notes that Mrs and Mr G were 
in frequent contact trying to find out what was happening about their return home and they 
were worried and stressed about the lack of updates. Euroins hasnt disputed that it should 
have given better service. Mrs and Mr G were further frustrated when they arrived at the 
airport to find the luggage situation and that the extra plane seats Euroins booked werent 
together, so of no use to them unless another passenger swapped seats.
Mrs and Mr G told Euroins there was an available return flight on 10 September 2022. But 
that was the same day Euroins received Mr Gs medical report. I think Euroins reasonably 
wanted to consider the medical evidence, confirm cover and see if Mr G needed a medical 
escort before it could finalise arrangements to repatriate Mrs and Mr G.
Mrs and Mr G have accepted our investigators recommendation that Euroins should pay 
£100 compensation for their distress and inconvenience due to its poor service. Euroins 
hasnt disputed that it should pay compensation. Im satisfied that £100 compensation is a 
reasonable amount to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience Euroins poor service 
caused Mrs and Mr G
Putting things right
Euroins must recalculate and pay Mrs and Mr Gs curtailment claim with the curtailment 
starting from 9 September 2022, including the hotel tax as part of the accommodation cost 
and taking into account the amounts Mrs and Mr G paid for each part of the trip, subject to 
the remaining policy terms and conditions. Interest must be added to the additional 
settlement payment as Ive detailed below.
Euroins must also pay Mrs and Mr G £100 compensation for their distress and 
inconvenience due to its poor service.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Euroins AD to:
recalculate and pay Mrs and Mr Gs curtailment claim with the curtailment starting 
from 9 September 2022, including the hotel tax as part of the accommodation cost 
and taking into account the amounts Mrs and Mr G paid for each part of the trip, 
subject to the remaining policy terms and conditions. Interest* must be added to the 
additional settlement payment at 8% simple a year from the date of claim to the date 
of the additional settlement, and 
pay Mrs and Mr G £100 compensation for their distress and inconvenience due to its 
poor service.*If Euroins AD considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest it should tell Mrs and Mr G how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs 
and Mr G a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman