DRN-4421808
The complaint
Mr M has complained that First Central Insurance Management Limited is pursuing him for a 
debt for a car insurance policy Mr M says he didnt set up. He is unhappy that First Central 
acknowledges two other policies were set up fraudulently, but not a third policy. Mr M says 
he has never set up a policy with First Central.
What happened
In August 2022 First Central wrote to Mr M to say it had identified two polices that had been 
set up in his name which it believed to be by somebody impersonating Mr M.
It asked Mr M to provide his driving licence if he had set up the policies. In response, Mr M 
confirmed he had never bought a policy with First Central. First Central said it would cancel 
the policies and add a marker on a fraud prevention database to show Mr M had been a 
victim of identity theft. 
In December 2022 First Central passed a balance it said Mr M owed for a third policy ending 
in 99 to a debt recovery agent (DRA). First Central said this related to a balance owed 
under a correct policy Mr M had with it since 2017, which he cancelled in 2020. First Central 
said it had asked Mr M to pay this balance since then, but because he hadnt paid it, it had 
correctly passed the debt to a DRA.
In December 2022 Mr M complained to First Central. He said he had never bought a policy 
with it and he didnt owe the debt. He said its error created a negative marker against his 
credit record.
Mr M provided us with a copy email from the DRA dated 12 January 2023 which confirmed it 
had cancelled the debt and passed it back to its client, First Central. The DRA said no 
negative credit marker would be added by it in relation to this debt. The DRA apologised to 
Mr M by email on 14 January 2023.
On 21 February 2023 First Central replied to Mr Ms complaint by email. It said it would 
remove all adverse credit markers in relation to the policy ending 99. It apologised for the 
upset caused and said it would send Mr M £75 compensation by cheque. It said it had 
contacted the DRA to confirm this policy (ending in 99) had been taken out fraudulently and 
that Mr M didnt need to pay the outstanding balance.
However, on 27 February 2023 First Central emailed Mr M to say it didnt agree the policy 
ending in 99 had been set up fraudulently. The reason given was that it said Mr M had been 
in touch with First Central over the four year period this policy had been in place (as it had 
automatically renewed since 2017).
In February 2023 Mr M asked us to look at his complaint. He said hes never lived at the 
address for the policy ending in 99 and had never bought a policy with First Central.
Our Investigator asked Mr M to provide evidence of insurance elsewhere. Mr M provided a 
screenshot of a renewal confirmation notice with another insurer in August 2020. This 
showed different car registration details to the one First Central held a policy for in Mr Ms 
name, since 2017. He also provided a screenshot from CIFAS to show that in September 
2022 First Central had recorded attempts had been made to impersonate Mr M in order to 
buy policies with it.
First Central provided us with a copy of information held in Mr Ms name under a central 
database. It said this showed Mr M had made a number of claims and that he had set up a 
replacement policy with another insurer the day after he cancelled the 99 policy with it in 
2020.
First Central said according to the electoral role Mr M lived at the address which matched 
the 99 policy from 2017 to 2020.
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He thought First Central 
had acted reasonably. He was satisfied that Mr M had cancelled the policy ending 99 
shortly after its renewal date in December 2020 and correctly owed a balance. As the 
database showed a policy had been taken out in December 2020 with another insurer, and 
the electoral role showed the address matched the policy First Central held since 2017, the 
Investigator thought First Central was entitled to pursue Mr M for the debt.
Mr M didnt agree. So the case was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 October 2023. I didnt think First Central had shown it 
had acted reasonably and so I recommended Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. I thought 
First Central should put things right by removing any negative credit marker against Mr Ms 
record for the debt which it should write off, and pay him compensation of £400 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr M is happy with the findings in my provisional decision but is disappointed with the 
compensation award as he doesnt feel it reflects the level of inconvenience he has been 
caused dealing with the issue. 
Frist Central provided activity logs which it says shows the correspondence it sent to Mr M. It 
says during the policy term it received evidence that Mr M lived at an address listed for the 
policy in question. It hasnt provided any new evidence to support this statement. 
So as both parties have replied to my provisional decision, the case has been passed back 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my final decision is along the same lines as my provisional decision. 
I asked First Central to provide evidence it informed Mr M of the debt it said he owed under 
the policy ending in 99 - so that First Central could demonstrate it had acted fairly. But First 
Central has failed to provide evidence to show how it informed Mr M of the debt.
According to a central database where insurers record policy and claims information about 
policyholders, First Centrals policy lapsed on 29 December 2020, the day after the start 
(renewal) date of 28 December 2020. First Central says Mr M owes a balance, so it must be 
able to explain what that balance is for - and provide reasonable evidence to show it 
explained this to Mr M as it seems the policy was cancelled after the renewal date.As it hasnt done this, it follows that I find it unreasonable of First Central to have pursued Mr 
M for a debt it cannot show was justifiably owed - or that it let Mr M know about the balance 
to give him an opportunity to either pay it or review it before it was passed to a debt recovery 
agent.
In response to my provisional decision., First Central has provided a screenshot of activity 
logs which list dates and types of communication: email, SMS, letter. But they dont show me 
what they are for and what they said. And so it remains that First Central hasnt shown what 
the debt was for and how this was explained to Mr M. So it doesnt change my view from my 
provisional decision. 
This means I think First Central has acted unfairly and should put things right.
I think First Central should provide Mr M with a letter confirming it has pursued a debt for 
policy ending 99 in error. It should arrange for the removal of any negative credit markers 
against Mr M in relation to this debt for this policy.
I dont think First Central has provided persuasive evidence to show that the policy ending in 
99 was correctly set up by Mr M, compared to its discovery of two other policies which it 
says were attempts by an identity thief.
The database screenshot provided by First Central shows a number of policies with different 
addresses and registration details for vehicles in the name of Mr M.
Mr M has provided us with a screenshot of a renewal invitation with a different insurer for 
August 2020 for a different car to the one First Central provided insurance for, at a different 
address. As this is a renewal invite, it means Mr M held a policy with this insurer from August 
2019. This policy is listed on the database along with other policies which appear to overlap 
and are for different vehicles at different addresses.
So - I dont think First Central has acted reasonably. It hasnt provided evidence to show why 
Mr M owes a balance, or that it informed him of the balance to allow him the chance to pay it 
before passing it to a debt recovery agent.
I dont know if this policy was set up fraudulently - and it isnt for me to decide this. But I dont 
think First Central has provided reasonable evidence to support why it believes this one is 
correct, compared to the policies it found to be fraudulently set up.
So I think First Central needs to put Mr M back in the position he would have been in - 
before First Central said he owed a balance - and before the fraudulent policies were set up 
in Mr Ms name.
I think First Central should pay Mr M £400.00 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience its failings have caused him. This is because of the worry about the potential 
impact on his credit rating, the distress and inconvenience of being pursued for a debt and 
his time in attempting to resolve the issue with First Central
I understand Mr M is disappointed with the level of compensation Im awarding. I appreciate 
that he has had to spend considerable time dealing with First Central about this matter. But 
the awards we give are modest, and I think £400, along with putting Mr M back in the 
position he would have been had First Central not acted as it did, is enough to resolve his 
complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require First Central Insurance 
Management Limited to do the following:
If First Central has added a negative marker to Mr Ms credit file - or the Debt 
Recovery Agent has on behalf of First Central, it needs to arrange for their removal. 
For the avoidance of doubt, I agree that First Central should add a marker to alert 
other companies to the fact that Mr M has been the victim of identity theft in relation 
to the policies identified. If it hasnt already done so, it should arrange this with 
immediate effect.
Provide Mr M with a letter confirming it has incorrectly pursued him for a debt owed 
under policy ending in in 99.
Pay Mr M £400.00 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
failings.
First Central Insurance Management Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it Mr M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at a simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman