DRN-1863096
The complaint
Mr Ks complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out to protect a 
credit card in 1991. Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard has offered Mr K 
compensation for the sale of the PPI policy, but Mr K says the compensation amount is too 
low.
What happened
Mr K took out a credit card in 1991 and at the same time Barclays sold him a PPI policy to 
protect his repayments.
In 2019 Mr K complained to Barclays about the way it sold the PPI to him.
Barclays agreed to uphold Mr Ks complaint. It wrote to Mr K with an offer of £639.53 to 
compensate him for the mis-sold policy.
Mr K told us he didnt think the offer fully compensated him. An adjudicator from this service 
looked closely at compensation paid by Barclays and how it was calculated. The adjudicator 
thought the offer was fair.
Mr K still didnt think Barclays had properly compensated him, so he asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ks case.
Barclayss agreed to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale of the policy. So I wont look 
into how the PPI policy was sold to Mr K. But I have looked at what Barclays has done to put 
things right.
Where a PPI policy has been mis-sold Id normally expect a business, as far as is practical, 
to put a consumer in the position theyd be in if the PPI policy wasnt sold to them. To do this 
Id expect the Barclays to work out how much extra Mr K paid because the PPI was added to 
his credit card account. And Id expect Barclays to pay interest at 8% simple interest (15% 
before April 1993) to compensate him for the time hed been out of pocket.
However Barclays only has records of Mr Ks monthly statements from May 2001. I dont find 
this surprising as I wouldnt expect a business to keep detailed records indefinitely. Mr K 
hasnt been able to give us any statements from before May 2001 either.
So its not possible to know for certain what Mr Ks monthly credit card balance was between 
June 1991 and May 2001. It follows that Barclays isnt able to say what PPI premiums were paid by Mr K during this period. This is because the level of monthly PPI premium was 
directly linked to the outstanding balance on Mr Ks monthly statements.
So Barclays took the following approach. It looked at the balance on Mr Ks monthly 
statements in the 12 months between May 2001 and May 2002. Then it made assumptions 
of what his balance might have been between June 1991 and May 2001. It assumed that Mr 
Ks account was opened with a nil balance and gradually increased to the May 2001 levels. 
It then estimated the PPI premiums Mr K wouldve paid on these assumed monthly 
balances.
So it worked out Mr Ks compensation based partly on the estimated premiums he paid from 
June 1991 to May 2001 and partly on the actual premiums he paid from May 2001 onwards.
Without any other persuasive evidence about the premiums Mr K paid between 1991 and 
2001, I think this is a fair and reasonable approach.
But Mr K has said he used the card much more in the early years before 2001. Mr K says he 
used the Barclays credit card as his main card between 1991 and 2001 because it offered 
him insurance on purchases. But after 2001 Mr K says he began using another card as his 
main credit card. So Mr K says Barclays has underestimated his spending and therefore the 
PPI premiums he paid between 1991 and 2001.
Ive thought about this but I think the method Barclays has used is generally fair when there 
is missing data. I appreciate Mr K has told us the assumptions and estimates are flawed and 
Ive no doubt Mr K has given us his honest recollection of the way he used his Barclays card. 
But I also have to take into account that most of the missing data is from over 20 years ago 
and memories do fade over time. And without any more persuasive evidence such as a bank 
statement from the missing period I dont think it would be fair for me to direct Barclays to do 
anything different in this case.
Ive taken into account what Mr K has said about the statements Barclays has from May 
2001. I can see that in the few years from May 2001 onwards Mr Ks use of the card and the 
PPI premiums gradually increases. But in my view this is persuasive evidence that the 
method used by Barclays is fair.
So taking everything into account I think the way Barclays has calculated the compensation 
is fair. Its compensated Mr K for the PPI premiums he was charged from 1991 but its 
estimated the premiums in a fair way for the time it doesnt have accurate records.
My final decision
My final decision is that I think Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard has fairly 
compensated Mr K for the mis-sale of the PPI policy in 1991. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman