DRN-1521770
 
The complaint
Mr R complains that Ageas Insurance Limited has turned down a claim he made on his 
home insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr R discovered water had gotten in through the roof of an annexe at his 
home. The leak had caused damage to the ceiling and lights, and to some items kept in the 
room. Mr R made a claim on his home insurance policy.
Ageas appointed a surveyor to investigate the cause of damage. The surveyor found that the 
roof damage was down to the gradual decay of the fibreglass flat roof. They noted thered 
been previous repairs to it. They didnt think there was any evidence that the roof and ceiling 
damage had happened because of something the policy covered. So Ageas turned down Mr 
Rs claim for the buildings damage. But it did agree to settle his claim for the items thatd 
been stored under the room because he had accidental damage cover for his contents. 
Mr R was unhappy with Ageas decision and asked us to look into his complaint. He said the 
surveyor had thought the buildings claim should be covered under the accidental damage 
section of the policy. But the surveyor had been overruled by Ageas.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. She didnt think there were 
storm conditions around the time of the claim. So she didnt think the buildings claim could 
be dealt with under the storm section of the policy. And she didnt think there was evidence 
of a sudden one-off event thatd caused the roof and ceiling damage. She thought the 
evidence showed the damage had happened over time, which isnt covered by the policy.
Mr R disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review. He also asked whether its worth 
having a roof repaired at any stage if the roof wont be covered under a policy. He queried 
whether hes required to check whether his roof is sound every couple of months. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided it was fair 
for Ageas to turn down Mr Rs claim. Ill explain why.
Ageas originally asked a surveyor to investigate the cause of Mr Rs roof damage  either as 
a potential storm claim or to see if it was covered by the accidental damage cover Mr R has 
on his buildings policy.
When we look at complaints about storm damage, there are three questions that we need to 
ask: Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
 Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
 Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed. 
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
Ageas hasnt defined what it means by a storm in its policy. Where an insurer hasnt 
included a definition of what a storm is in its policy wording, wed generally say that a storm 
involves violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow.  So this is what Ive 
thought about when deciding whether there were storm conditions on or around the date of 
Mr Rs claim.
Ive carefully considered local weather reports for a few weeks around the time of the claim 
to see if there were prevailing storm conditions. But there was nothing during this period to 
suggest there were violent winds, accompanied by rain, hail or snow. And while I accept 
there was, at times, heavy rainfall; theres nothing to suggest there was exceptionally heavy 
rainfall during this period. In the absence of storm force winds, I dont think the rainfall was 
sufficiently intense to constitute storm conditions.
Overall, having considered the evidence, I dont think there were storm conditions on or 
around the date of the claim. This means the answer to the first question is no. 
Was the claim covered by the accidental damage section of the policy?
Mr R has chosen to add on accidental damage cover to his policy. So the surveyor 
investigated whether the claim should be covered under this section of the policy.
Accidental damage is defined in the terms and conditions. The policy states accidental 
damage is: an unintentional and one-off incident that causes damage to your buildings or 
contents. So for a claim to be covered under this section of the policy, it needs to be down 
to a one-off event.
Ive carefully considered the findings of Ageas surveyor to help me decide if it was fair for 
Ageas to turn down Mr Rs claim. The surveyors report says:
The cause of damage was due to a gradual process loss causing decay of the fibre glass 
covering.
It also states: Close inspection confirmed no evidence of storm, impact or any other damage 
caused by an insured peril, however evidence of historic repairs was observed, no doubt 
undertaken due to the deterioration of the roof coveringIt is our considered opinion the roof 
has reached the end of its useful life and the recent poor weather conditions have merely 
aggravated the pre-existing poor condition of the roof covering.
Ive placed significant weight on this report, because its the only expert evidence I have to 
help me decide what the most likely cause of the damage was. The surveyor had the 
opportunity to inspect the roof and I think their findings are detailed and persuasive. Mr R 
hasnt provided me with any expert evidence to counter Ageas findings.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, it seems more likely than not that the damage happened 
over time, due to the fibreglass decaying. The surveyor found this was likely to have been an ongoing problem that happened over time. So it doesnt appear that the deterioration of the 
roof was down to a one-off incident of accidental damage  it was a gradual process. This 
means I dont think it falls within the definition of accidental damage.
While I sympathise with Mr Rs position, I think its most likely his buildings damage was 
down to wear and tear and happened over time. This is specifically excluded by the terms of 
Mr Rs policy. So overall, I think it was fair for Ageas to turn down Mr Rs claim.
I appreciate Mr R feels it isnt worth getting repairs done if it means future claims wont be 
covered. Insurance policies arent maintenance contracts, and they dont cover general 
maintenance. It isnt the case that the presence of existing repairs means theres no 
buildings cover if the cause of a future claim is something covered by the policy.
It also isnt for us to tell Mr R how often he should inspect his roof. The policy suggests a 
policyholder should regularly check their roof for signs of wear and tear. It doesnt define 
what it considers regularly. Its open to Mr R to decide how often he feels its appropriate to 
get his roof checked for signs of ongoing wear and tear.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman