DRN-2808891
The complaint
Mr M complains that Ageas Retail Limited disadvantaged him when he renewed his motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M searched for a policy online through a comparison site. He chose a policy with Ageas 
and this renewed the following year. Mr M was involved in an accident four months later and 
his policy was cancelled. Mr M thought he was due a refund of some of his premium. He 
also thought that at renewal Ageas hadnt made the previous years premium clear and 
hadnt told him he could shop around for cheaper cover. Ageas offered Mr M £25 
compensation for not making it clear that he could shop around.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Ageas 
had put the previous years premium on page two of the renewal document and this was 
reasonably clear. She thought Ageas had told Mr M that he could contact it if he didnt want 
to automatically renew his policy. And she thought Mr M was aware that he could shop 
around as hed previously used a comparison site. So she couldnt see that Mr M had been 
financially disadvantaged by Ageas.
Mr M replied that hed been denied the opportunity to shop around. He thought Ageas 
should increase its compensation offer to £100.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what I can see, this matter started when Ageas contacted its customers when it was 
reviewing its renewal documents. It thought these may be made clearer by positioning the 
previous years premium and a reminder to shop around on the front page rather than the 
second page. Mr M responded that he felt hed been disadvantaged by the positioning as he 
wasnt prompted to shop around for a cheaper quote. 
But I havent seen any evidence to show this. I think Mr M knew that he could shop around:
Mr M used a comparison site to first find Ageas quote.
Mr M completed the purchase on the phone and matched his previous policy excess.
And Ageas renewal document states, in bold, on the first page that Mr M could call it 
if he didnt want his policy to automatically renew. 
And Mr M hasnt provided evidence to show that he was financially disadvantaged by having 
the previous years premium on the second page. I can see that he was directed on the first 
page to look for the previous years premium on page two. 
Mr M called Ageas at renewal and his policy was amended, leading to a premium increase, 
which Mr M accepted. Mr M had asked why this premium was different, meaning that he was 
aware from his renewal document of the premium. If hed read this, I think he would have 
seen the direction to the previous years premium.
Ageas responded to Mr Ms complaint that it thought its document could have been clearer 
and it offered Mr M £25 as a gesture of goodwill. I think this is sufficient for any 
inconvenience caused and I dont require Ageas to increase this.
Mr M also thought he should receive some refund after his policy was cancelled following the 
total loss of his car. But I can see that Ageas gave him two weeks, which it extended by a 
week, to put another car on cover. I think this is in keeping with industry practice and is fair 
and reasonable. Mr M didnt replace his car and so I think Ageas reasonably cancelled the 
policy as it had no insurable interest to cover. 
A claim had been made and so Ageas said no refund was payable. I think this is correct as 
the policy, which is an annual contract, had been used as Ageas had paid Mr M the market 
value of his car. And so the entire premium was payable. This is stated on page 27 of the 
policy booklet. So I think Ageas acted fairly and reasonably, and in keeping with the policy 
terms and conditions when it retained the full years premium.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman