DRN-3680592
The complaint
Mr C complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) didnt make him aware that he 
needed to have been invested in the with-profits fund five years before he retired, in order to 
have access to a Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR). 
What happened
Mr C had a personal retirement annuity contract with a business which is now part of Aviva. 
The plan started in March 1988 and had a selected retirement age of 60. I understand that 
Mr C was invested in two funds which were deemed to be higher risk than Avivas with-
profits fund.
The plan contained an option to switch from the two funds Mr C was invested in into the 
with-profits fund, and then to access a GAR.  
GAR are sometimes used to convert a pension fund into a lifetime income, or annuity, from 
retirement. Theyre normally higher than rates that are available on the open market. But in 
this case, in order to have access to the GAR, Mr C was required to have invested his 
pension fund in Avivas with-profits fund five or more years before his retirement date. 
I understand that Mr C transferred the value of his pension - £146,821.51 - away from Aviva 
in November 2020. He said he did this because he felt he couldnt leave it with Aviva, as it 
wasnt in a format in which he could access it. 
Aviva wrote to Mr C on 25 June 2021. It said that Mr C had previously had a plan with it that 
had an optional benefit which may have been valuable. It said it wanted to speak to him to 
understand why he didnt take up this benefit, and to check that this was right for him. It said 
that if it wasnt it would put this right. The letter explained what GARs were and gave 
information about the with-profits fund.
Aviva wrote to Mr C again on 16 July 2021 on the same subject. 
Aviva held a telephone review with Mr C on 28 July 2021. It told him that the GAR his plan 
had couldve led to him getting a much-improved annuity rate. It acknowledged that some of 
the communications that had been issued may not have been as clear as they couldve 
been. So this was why it was now trying to find out if Mr C had known about the GAR. It said 
that in the case where he didnt yet know about the GAR, it wanted to find out if he wouldve 
made a different decision if hed known about it at the appropriate time. 
Aviva asked Mr C what his retirement intentions were. And asked him if he wouldve moved 
into the with-profits fund when he wouldve needed to if hed been given the appropriate 
information in time.
Mr C said he never knew about the GAR. And that he didnt know he could get such an 
improved rate. He also said that he wouldve been prepared to switch his funds into the with-
profits fund in 2016. Mr C said he didnt know if he wouldve chosen to take an annuity, using 
the GAR. But he said it wouldve been interesting. He said this was because it wouldve 
been nice to have a fixed benefit in his retirement. 
Aviva summarised the call by noting that Mr C wouldve switched to the with-profits fund if 
hed had the option to in 2016, as he felt he was at the age where he didnt want to suffer 
volatility. And it noted that in 2020, when hed transferred away from Aviva, the GAR 
wouldve appealed to him. This was because the rest of his income could be volatile. So he 
felt that having some guaranteed income behind him wouldve been desirable. 
Aviva wrote to Mr C on 13 September 2021 with the outcome of its review. It didnt consider 
that Mr C was due any redress because it felt his retirement objectives couldnt have been 
met by switching into the with-profits fund five or more years before his retirement date to 
gain access to the GAR.
On 30 September 2021, Mr C called Aviva to query why it felt the switch wouldnt have met 
his retirement objectives. Aviva told him that hed said he would welcome the switch into the 
with-profits fund as it would take away his volatility concerns. As Mr C disagreed with some 
of what Aviva felt hed said, Aviva said it would listen to the review call again and get back to 
him. It also said it would pass Mr Cs details over to the calculations team. 
Aviva reviewed what Mr C had told it. And on 2 November 2021 it wrote to Mr C to tell him it 
wanted to make him an offer. It felt that it hadnt communicated the GAR option clearly 
enough. It said that as Mr C was yet to retire, it wanted to offer him the opportunity to 
transfer a maximum of £169,129.79 into the Aviva Pension Plan with-profits fund and access 
the GAR in future. It felt this would put Mr C back into the position he wouldve been in if it 
had given him the appropriate information at the correct time. Aviva explained how it had 
calculated the amount Mr C could transfer back. 
Aviva also said that Mr C should carefully consider the offer, and whether it was appropriate 
for his financial aims. It offered to make a contribution towards any financial advice Mr C 
might seek in relation to its offer - up to a maximum of £2,000 (plus VAT). 
Mr C told Aviva that he didnt want to accept its offer. He felt that Aviva shouldve told him at 
the appropriate time about the GAR. He said hed incurred costs in transferring away from 
Aviva. And that he was happy with where his pension funds were now invested.
Aviva asked Mr C if he would be prepared to accept its reinstatement offer if it could do 
something about the transfer fees hed paid. But Mr C said he still wouldnt accept. He felt it 
was more than a financial issue. He said he no longer trusted Aviva after what had 
happened. He said he was happy with where hed transferred his pension to. And that it 
wouldnt be the same if he moved the funds back to Aviva.
Unhappy with Avivas offer, Mr C raised a complaint.
Aviva issued its final response to the complaint on 2 December 2021. It didnt uphold it. It 
said it couldnt make an alternative offer to the one it had already made, which it felt was fair 
and reasonable. 
Aviva said that it made the offer to transfer Mr Cs funds back as this would put him back into 
the position he wouldve been in if hed been provided with appropriate information and 
decided to keep his policy with Aviva. 
Mr C was unhappy with this response, so he brought his complaint to this service. He said 
he didnt want to accept Avivas offer. But felt that it should compensate him in some way. 
Our investigator didnt consider that the complaint should be upheld. She felt that Avivas offer was fair. And that it did put Mr C back to a position in which he could access the GAR, 
as he wouldve been able to if hed been given the appropriate information at the right time.
Mr C didnt agree with our investigator. He made the following points:
Aviva shouldve told him about his options at a point when he had to make a 
decision, which he felt was around five to seven years ago. 
He didnt want to transfer back to Aviva. Hed lost trust in them so didnt want to give 
his money back to the business that didnt do what it said it would. 
Mr C also felt it wasnt a practical solution to transfer back. He said hed paid fees for 
the financial advice to transfer. And was paying his new provider ongoing 
fees/charges. He also said he was happy with how his new investments were doing.
He didn't believe that the offer was fair.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that Avivas offer is 
fair and reasonable and puts Mr C back into the position he probably wouldve been in if hed 
been given the appropriate information at the correct time. I know my decision will be 
disappointing to Mr C. Ill explain my reasons for it.
Its not in dispute that Mr C wasnt made aware of the requirement to transfer to the with-
profits fund at a certain time in order to be able to access the GAR. Aviva has acknowledged 
that it made a mistake in not ensuring its customers were aware of the potentially valuable 
GAR and what they would need to do in order to access it at retirement. 
In accepting it hadnt communicated well, Aviva reviewed Mr Cs situation to work out how to 
put things right. It offered him the opportunity to transfer a maximum of £169,129.79 back to 
Aviva, so that he could still access a GAR at his future retirement date if he wanted to. It also 
offered to contribute up to £2,000 so that Mr C could get financial advice about the offer. 
I needed to decide if Avivas offer was fair under the circumstances of the complaint. In order 
to do this, Ive listened to all of the phone calls between Aviva and Mr C between 6 July 2021 
and 15 November 2021. Ive also reviewed the documentary evidence both parties provided 
and considered what theyve both told this service.
During the initial review call with Mr C on 28 July 2021, the following points were made:
 Mr C said he hadnt yet taken any benefits from his pension, but he was no longer 
working.
 Mr C said he would want to take tax-free cash when he took his retirement benefits.
 He had three rental properties. And expected to get the state pension. His wife was 
currently still working but would retire soon. She also had a pension. Mr C was thinking about possibly taking his retirement benefits when his wife stopped working.
 Aviva explained that if Mr C had opted to take the GAR, hed buy an annuity. And 
that hed have to exchange his pension fund for a fixed rate of income. And when he 
died, the annuity would die with him. It asked him, with that in mind, if he would have 
chosen the annuity. Mr C said he wouldve looked at the GAR if hed know about it, 
as the guaranteed income couldve been attractive to him, depending on how his 
other investments, including three rental properties, were doing. 
 Aviva said that Mr C wouldve had to switch into the with-profits fund in 2016 in order 
to access the GAR in 2021. It said that at that time he was invested in two higher 
risk/growth potential funds than the with-profits fund, which it said had a guaranteed 
minimum investment return of 4% each year. It said historically it didnt exceed this 
rate. In light of this information, Aviva asked Mr C if he wouldve been prepared to 
switch into with-profits in 2016. Mr C said he wouldve been prepared to do so. He 
said this was because he wouldnt have wanted to see the bulk of his fund going up 
and down. 
From what Ive seen, Mr C was clear during this call that he wouldve been happy to switch 
to the with-profits fund in 2016. And that he wouldve been prepared to consider the GAR 
after that. I appreciate that at no point did Mr C state that he wouldve definitively taken the 
GAR option.
I understand that Mr C wouldve actually been required to switch into the with-profits fund in 
2011, given his selected retirement age with Aviva. But Aviva told him during the July 2021 
review call that the switch date was in 2016.
Mr C spoke to Aviva again on 30 September 2021 to query why it felt the switch wouldnt 
have met his retirement objectives. He felt that his retirement objectives couldve been met 
by switching into the with-profits fund five-years before his retirement age. And that he: 
wouldve explored the GAR option if hed known about it.
As Mr C disagreed with some of what Aviva felt hed said, it listened to the review call again. 
And spoke to him again. It asked him if he wouldve switched to the with-profits fund at age 
55. Mr C said he was likely to have done if it had been explained fully. 
Aviva decided to make Mr C an offer to put things right. It felt that as Mr C had indicated he 
wouldve switched into the with-profits fund, and that he wouldve liked to have had the 
option to consider the GAR if itd been explained to him, its offer would put Mr C back into 
the position he wouldve been in if hed been given the appropriate information at the correct 
time. 
From what Ive seen and heard, Mr C has been clear throughout to Aviva that he wouldve 
switched into the with-profits fund in 2016 if hed known it would lead to access to the GAR. 
And that he wouldve been likely to do the same at age 55 if it had been properly explained 
to him.
I say this because Mr C told Aviva that as hed been self-employed, he would value having a 
fixed income in retirement. And he would also benefit from the improved annuity rate the 
GAR would provide. Hed also said that he didnt want to be in a high-risk portfolio at age 60, 
because he couldnt afford to take high risks in retirement.
Taking all these points into account, Im satisfied that moving into the with-profits fund and 
accessing the GAR wouldve appealed to Mr C. I next considered if Avivas offer was fair.Before I cover this point, Id first like to explain how this service considers complaints. 
If a business has made a mistake or treated someone unfairly, and theyve lost out as a 
result, this service has the power to put things right. Usually, well tell the business to put the 
complainant back in the position theyd be in if the business hadnt got things wrong.
Sometimes the business simply needs to correct their mistake. And sometimes well ask the 
business to pay compensation. This may be because we think the complainant lost out 
financially as a result of something the business did wrong. 
In this case, I acknowledge that Mr C doesnt consider that Avivas offer is fair. He feels that 
it shouldve told him about his options at a point when he had to make a decision, which he 
felt was around five to seven years ago. As it didnt give him this information, hes lost trust. 
And doesnt want to transfer back to them.
I also appreciate that Mr C doesnt think that Avivas offer to transfer back is a practical 
solution to his complaint due to the fees hes already paid for the financial advice to transfer 
away from them. Hes also happy with his new provider and how his investments are doing.
However, based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that Avivas offer is fair and 
reasonable. Im also satisfied that it does put things right. Therefore I dont consider Aviva 
should amend its offer.
I say this because Aviva has established with Mr C that he wouldve transferred into the with-
profits fund when he needed to so that he couldve considered whether or not he wanted to 
access the GAR. 
I understand that Mr C is yet to take his retirement benefits. And, from what Ive seen, hes 
not yet decided how - or when - he wants to take his benefits. As such, neither this service 
nor Aviva know how he will eventually take his retirement benefits. 
While I acknowledge that Mr C doesnt consider that its important that we know how he 
intends to take his retirement benefits, Im satisfied that he hasnt provided any evidence to 
this service that transferring back to Aviva and accessing the GAR isnt in line with how he 
intends to take his benefits. As such, theres no evidence for me to be able to ask Aviva to 
reconsider its offer. 
I consider that Avivas offer puts Mr C back into the position he most likely wouldve been in 
had he been given the correct information at the right time. In saying this, Im not concluding 
that Mr C wouldve definitely taking the GAR. Im simply saying that he wouldve most likely 
taken the steps he needed to take so that he could consider whether or not to take the GAR 
when he took his retirement benefits.  
Ive also considered Mr Cs point that he no longer trusts Aviva. And that its offer isnt a 
practical one. I also note that hes happy with his current investment provider, and that he 
paid for financial advice so that he could transfer his pension to them. 
While I understand why Mr C feels the way he does, I consider that in offering up to £2,000 
towards financial advice in relation to its offer, Aviva has offered Mr C the opportunity to 
properly consider whether transferring back is the right option for him. If Mr C were to get 
such financial advice, I would expect it to consider all of the points he has against the offer, 
alongside any perceived positives of transferring back to Aviva, so that Mr C could make a 
reasoned decision on whether to accept. 
I also note that Mr C said he wouldnt be prepared to accept Avivas reinstatement offer even if it could do something about the transfer fees hed paid. I acknowledge that Mr C feels he 
may not have transferred away from Aviva if it had given him the correct information in a 
timely fashion. And if he hadnt transferred, he wouldnt have incurred such costs. But as Mr 
C rejected a hypothetical offer to cover such costs, Im not minded to ask Aviva to amend its 
offer.
I agree with Mr C that Aviva shouldve fully explained his GAR options five to seven years 
ago. But, based on the available information, Im satisfied that Avivas offer to put things right 
is fair. Therefore I dont uphold the complaint. And I dont require Aviva to amend its offer.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman