DRN-3016414
Complaint
Mr G has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) unfairly increased the limit on his 
overdraft when he was in financial difficulty.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that Lloyds should have 
stopped providing an overdraft to Mr G from November 2014. 
Lloyds accepted our adjudicators view. It said that Mr Gs overdraft was consolidated into a 
loan in April 2018. So it proposed to remove all the interest charged on Mr Gs loan and then 
use the interest, fees and charges refund from Mr Gs overdraft to reduce the outstanding 
balance on the loan. Mr G disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Lloyds has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr G is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have.
So where a business increases or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility 
which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer 
in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that 
credit. This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added 
to any credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if 
those interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
In this case, Mr G is likely to be left with an outstanding balance on his loan, once all 
adjustments have been made, and hes been refunded all of the interest, fees and charges 
on and caused by his overdraft. So while Mr G has been left with a balance and he might be 
unhappy with this, Lloyds has done what Id normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Mr G says Lloyds should do something different here. He says the charges created 
additional pressure on his finances which led to him taking out payday loans. 
Ive thought about what Mr G has said. And what hes said is a reason for upholding his 
complaint rather than a reason for departing from our normal approach to putting things right 
in cases such as his. All the interest, fees and charges Lloyds shouldnt have added have 
been removed from what he now needs to pay. So what Mr G is left with to repay are the 
funds which he used and benefitted from and I dont agree that the interest, fees and 
charges have left him with a debt that he wouldnt otherwise have been left with. Indeed, this 
is supported by Mr Gs statements at the time which show significant transactions to parties 
other than existing creditors. 
In these circumstances, and bearing in mind Mr G spent them, I think its perfectly fair and 
reasonable to expect Mr G to repay these funds. And I dont think that Mr Gs unhappiness 
at having a balance to repay on his loan, even after his complaint has been upheld, is in 
itself a compelling reason for me to depart from our usual approach here.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Lloyds has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Mr G is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Mr G to decide whether he 
wishes to accept Lloyds offer.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Lloyds Bank PLC has already agreed 
to do to put things right for Mr G is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his case. So 
Im not requiring it to do anything more.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman