DRN-2811497
The complaint
Mr W complains about the service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclaycard). 
when he asked it to process a number of chargebacks.
What happened
Mr W purchased airline tickets in January 2020 at a total cost of £1,345.48. He purchased 
the tickets and the extra baggage allowance using his Barclaycard. Mr Ws flights were 
scheduled for June/July 2020.
In March 2020, the government advised against all unnecessary foreign travel and the 
country then went in to a full national lockdown. On 7 May Mr W was notified that the flights 
had been cancelled, but Mr W says he wasnt able to obtain a refund from the airline, so he 
contacted Barclaycard to ask it to help him get his money back. Mr W told us:
He telephoned the bank and had to queue for several hours, but when he was finally 
able to speak with someone, he was referred to the banks online claim form;
on 24 May he completed the form five times  once for each transaction  and he 
provided all the necessary information; 
he received temporary credits for three of the transactions on 27 May and he moved 
this money to his other account, but he had to telephone the bank about the two 
missing transactions because it had incorrectly assumed that two of his submitted 
forms were duplicates;
Barclaycard agreed to raised two additional disputes for him and said hed receive 
temporary credits for these transactions as well. But although he could see that all 5 
transactions had now been disputed, the final two temporary credits didnt appear on 
his account, so he had to telephone the bank again;
He telephoned Barclaycard on 3 June and the two temporary credits appeared on his 
account on 4 June  but he was unable to transfer this money to his other account as 
hed been able to do with the previous temporary credits;
he raised an online query with the bank and was told it had been a mistake to allow 
him to transfer the previous payments as they were only temporary credits and he 
wouldnt be able to transfer the two most recent ones;
hes unhappy with the service Barclaycard provided; he says he wasted many hours 
trying to contact the bank and it didnt process his online forms correctly; he says the 
bank didnt respond to his complaint in the timescales it advertised on its website; 
and the banks website has errors on it. Hes unhappy that he couldnt withdraw all 
his temporary credits; hes concerned that a credit balance on his credit card might 
affect his credit rating; and he wants £500 compensation for the poor service hes 
received.
Barclaycard rejected this complaint. It apologised for the distress caused but explained that 
its online submissions portal had faced issues coping with the unprecedented volume of 
dispute claims submitted. Barclaycard said that it had been advised by VISA to hold off 
raising representations to merchants immediately and to allow the travel industry more time 
than normal in the circumstances.
The bank confirmed it had now removed the temporary credits from Mr Ws account and the 
disputed amounts had been refunded in full. But it explained that Mr W shouldnt have been 
able to transfer a temporary credit to another account until 30 days had elapsed  this is 
because a merchant couldve challenged the dispute and requested a reversal within those 
first 30 days.
Barclaycard didnt accept that Mr W had received poor service because it had dealt with his 
disputes within its agreed timeframes and hed successfully been refunded all of his money. 
The bank also confirmed that a credit balance on Mr Ws credit card would have had no 
detrimental effect on his credit file.
Barclaycard told us its operations were badly affected by the pandemic and that all 
categories of dispute were very seriously delayed. Its call centres were closed without notice 
and it had to reshuffle its workforce. Barclaycard apologised for the inconvenience its 
customers experienced but said this had been outside its control. It said it had received 
thousands of travel claims to work through and it had done this as quickly as possible.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he thought it should be upheld. He said he 
could see that the bank had followed the chargeback process and applied temporary credits 
to Mr Ws account between 26 May and 4 June. And that within the 30-day waiting period, 
Barclaycard had cancelled the temporary credits and then credited them in full on 23 July. 
He noted that the airline also refunded £263.20 directly to Mr Ws account on 14 September 
and that because Barclaycard had already refunded Mr W in full, the bank then debited this 
£263.20 to Mr Ws account on 26 September.
The investigator said that although it was understandable that Barclaycard was unable to 
maintain its usual standard of service at this challenging time, the bank had made some 
avoidable mistakes which had inconvenienced Mr W. And he asked the bank to pay Mr W 
£50 in recognition of this.
Barclaycard accepted our investigators opinion and said it would pay Mr W £50.
Mr W disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. Mr W says Barclaycard should be 
paying him significantly more compensation for the time hes spent resolving this matter and 
so that these errors dont affect other customers in the future.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything very carefully, Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator.
In this particular complaint, Im only looking at the delays and the associated level of service 
that Mr W received from Barclaycard. This is because although Mr W paid for flights that he 
wasnt able to use and was also unable to get a refund from the airline, both parties have 
confirmed that the chargebacks were successful and the money was credited to Mr Ws 
bank account in June 2020.
It might be helpful if I explain that in some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund 
from the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment 
settlement disputes are resolved between card holders and suppliers/merchants. They are 
dealt with under the relevant card scheme rules and in this case thats Visas. In certain 
circumstances the process provides a way for Barclaycard to ask for a payment Mr W made to be refunded. Those circumstances include where goods or services arent supplied by the 
company Mr W paid.
Theres no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one.
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists
and there is reasonable chance of success.
In this case, it appears that Mr W wasnt provided with the goods that he originally paid for. 
And in normal circumstances, it would seem reasonable to expect Barclaycard to raise a 
chargeback for him, as Im satisfied that this scenario is one that is covered within Visas 
chargeback rules.
Its not unusual for a chargeback to take some time to process. It can take time for a bank to 
gather the correct and necessary information needed to raise the claim, and the chargeback 
rules also require banks to give suppliers time  usually around a month - to respond to any 
chargeback raised, in case they want to dispute it.
In this particular case, three of the temporary credits were applied to Mr Ws account within 
three days of his submitting the online forms. The mistake here was that Barclaycard 
concluded the additional two forms were duplicates and it took phone calls from Mr W and a 
further eight days before Mr W received temporary credits for these two amounts as well.
Thereafter, the chargeback appears to have followed the usual processes and the time 
taken for the money to reach Mr Ws account was in line with what I would expect.
I dont doubt for a moment that this whole experience was worrying and stressful for Mr W. 
Hed booked flights and spent a considerable sum of money on them, and from what hes 
told us, his inability to obtain a refund from the airline wouldve caused him some anxiety.
But I cant hold Barclaycard responsible for any of this and ultimately it was the airline that 
caused the initial problems here as it didnt give Mr W his money back when it seems it 
should have.
I also need to take into account that these werent normal circumstances; it was an 
unprecedented and unusual time for the banks, when Mr W first contacted Barclaycard, 
dealing with significant numbers of enquires from consumers looking to get money back as 
the global pandemic unfolded. Many of these claims will have brought up issues which were 
relatively novel, and the banks were having to digest new information, rules and guidance at 
a very unusual time. And many firms faced operational challenges during this period.
Ive thought carefully about the service Barclaycard provided. I think it shouldve processed 
all of Mr Ws claim forms at the same time. And although Mr W didnt lose out because of 
this  the refunds for all five transactions were credited to his account in full on 23 July  I 
can understand the worry and inconvenience Mr W experienced at the end of May when two 
of his online forms were overlooked by the bank. And he incurred some inconvenience in 
respect of the lengthy telephone calls he had to make to correct the banks 
misunderstanding.
Putting things rightIm going to ask Barclaycard to pay Mr W £50 in recognition of the worry and inconvenience 
it caused Mr W. I think this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint 
and I dont think Barclaycard needs to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay 
Mr W £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman