DRN-3923525
The complaint
Mr M complains Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund a payment made from his 
account which he didnt authorise. Because of this Mr M says his credit has been adversely 
affected, and he wants it corrected. 
What happened
In December 2019, a payment of £503, through Santanders online banking service, was 
made from Mr Ms account. Mr M contacted Santander to raise a disputed transaction claim.  
Santander looked into his claim but did not uphold it. 
As Mr Ms fraud claim wasnt upheld, Santander raised an indemnity with the third-party 
bank. This was declined by the other bank. Upon Mr Ms request, the indemnity was 
withdrawn by Santander as it caused the third-party banks customer  the beneficiary - 
problems with his bank. 
Mr M wanted his funds refunded, but they were being held by the third-party bank. Mr M also 
complained Santanders actions had caused detriment to his credit file as it fell into arrears. 
So he wants this retrospectively corrected. 
Unhappy, Mr M referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our Investigators then looked into Mr Ms complaint. They approached the third-party 
bank and noted the £503 was being withheld by it in a suspense account. They explained 
this was likely a payment made in error. The bank released the money to its customer  the 
beneficiary to whom Mr M said he didnt authorise the payment to. Our Investigator then told 
Mr M he can speak to the beneficiary to obtain the funds. 
Santander said it did send an indemnity for the transaction initially after not upholding Mr Ms 
disputed transaction claim. But it was withdrawn at Mr Ms request. It adds that as it 
withdrew the indemnity, it was incumbent upon the third-party bank to release the funds to its 
customer at that time. Santander also said that as this doesnt appear to be a fraudulent 
transaction, and by raising another indemnity it would likely lead to the third-party bank 
blocking its customers account again. Something Mr M told it he didnt want. 
In a separate response, Santander said the problems stemmed from the fact Mr M raised the 
transaction as fraud and claimed he knew nothing about it. But it become aware Mr M knew 
the beneficiary as he later called it after raising the claim, that they had had their account 
blocked. And had Mr M said from the outset that the payment was sent in error, the issue 
could have been resolved much more quickly. 
Our Investigator dealt with Mr Ms complaint in two responses. The first looked at the 
disputed transaction claim, and the second with Mr Ms complaint point about Santanders 
actions causing his account to fall into overdraft, and later into arrears. Mr M says this 
impacted his credit file adversely. 
To keep things simple, Ill summarise the key findings our Investigator made in both their 
responses: 
- Santander provided evidence that facial recognition was used to authenticate the 
payment
- They couldnt identify a point of compromise for Mr Ms online banking. The technical 
records showed Mr Ms face was used to access online baking and validate the 
payment. Mr M had made a payment to the same beneficiary in 2018 and it was 
validated using a One Time Password (OTP)  this showed Mr M had a 
relationship with the beneficiary. And this beneficiary was actively trying to help Mr M 
get his funds back. 
On balance, our Investigator was persuaded Mr M authorised the payment and so 
Santander didnt do anything wrong by not refunding the transaction
- Mr Ms credit file showed he met his contractual obligations to Santander between 
December 2020 and September 2020. The evidence showed Mr Ms account was in 
a negative balance from February 2020, and the disputed transaction occurred in 
December 2019. As Mr M had a positive balance between January 2020 and 
February 2020, the failure to pay money owed to Santander has led to factual 
reporting on Mr Ms credit report
- Mr M said he was told by Santanders branch staff that he did not need to pay off his 
overdraft balance and thats why he fell behind. But the letter Mr M provided from 
Santander which showed he attended branch, didnt show what was discussed
As Mr M didnt agree with what our Investigator said, his complaint has now been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr M, 
so Ill explain why. 
Disputed transaction 
In short, Santander is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 
2017). Mr M says he didnt make the payment and is therefore seeking a refund of it. 
Santander has given me copies of its technical records. Having carefully reviewed them, I 
am satisfied facial recognition was used to access the mobile online banking app, and it was 
used to authenticate the payment. So Im satisfied the payment was authenticated in line 
with what the PSRs say.
But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable 
Santander to hold Mr M liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests 
its more likely than not Mr M consented to the transactions being made.
Ive listened to some of the calls Mr M made to Santander when reporting the fraud and 
making a claim for the payment to be returned. Mr M says he was asleep at the time this 
payment was made, he had his phone, and nobody else had access to it. He adds that nobody knew his passcode. 
Mr M initially said he did know the individual or beneficiary that the money was sent to. But in 
a later call he says he spoke to the beneficiary who had gone to his bank to see if Santander 
had recovered the money. Mr M also said initially that he also disputed a previous payment 
to the same beneficiary. But in a later call with Santander he says he did make that payment. 
It's not clear why Mr M has been discrepant here. It could be that the matter caused him 
some distress, and he had simply forgotten. But it does, to an extent, discredit his testimony. 
Mr M isnt disputing the earlier payment anymore, so thats why my decision only deals with 
the payment of £503 made in December 2019. 
Santander has given me copies of its technical records. And having reviewed them closely, 
Im satisfied they show the payment was made using facial recognition from a mobile phone 
device Mr M had been using before.  
As Mr M always had the phone on him, and as there is no explanation as to how someone 
else could have carried this transaction out, Im persuaded its most likely Mr M authorised 
this payment. I also note Mr Ms face had to be recognised to authorise the payment. 
So, given Im satisfied the payment was authenticated, and Mr M most likely consented to it, 
Santander has done nothing wrong by not refunding the payment as a disputed transaction. 
Credit file 
Mr M says that as he wasnt able to recover his money for some time, this led him to fall into 
arrears, in turn adversely affecting his credit file. 
Ive seen a copy of Mr Ms credit report and note his Santander account fell into arrears from 
around April 2020. Ive also seen technical information which shows that after the £503 
payment was made, Mr Ms account remained in a credit balance. 
So, on the face of it, I dont think this payment being debited was enough in of itself to cause 
Mr M to fall into arrears. 
Its possible Mr M may argue that being without the £503 eventually caught up with him and 
caused him to fall into arrears. Mr M initially told Santander the payment had debited his 
account without his authorisation and was therefore fraudulent. Santander looked into his 
claim, and after carrying out an investigation, declined it. Ive already said it acted fairly by 
doing so. 
Santander then agreed with Mr M to raise an indemnity. This in turn led to the third-party 
bank restricting the beneficiarys account. Mr M came to know of this as had spoken to the 
individual  who he later said was a mechanic he had had work done by before. To alleviate 
this issue, Mr M agreed the indemnity raised by Santander could be retracted. 
Ive not seen that Mr M ever said he had made the payment in error  or at worst he wanted 
to retract the payment after making it. It was only until our Investigator approached the 
third-party bank that they agreed to release the funds to its customer. 
Having given this considerable thought, if Mr M did not claim the payment as fraudulent, this 
situation would likely not have arisen. Its also worth noting that Santander isnt responsible 
for the actions the third-party bank took in deciding to withhold the funds.
This means I dont think Santander did anything wrong and didnt cause Mr M to be without the funds for longer than he should have.  So taken together with what Ive said about being 
in credit balance, Im persuaded Santander doesnt need to retrospectively amend Mr Ms 
credit file.
Mr M has said he was told by Santanders branch staff that he didnt need to pay off his 
overdraft balance. The letter he has given doesnt show this is what he was told  only that 
he attended a branch. Santander dont have nay notes or records that show Mr M was told 
this either. So, as theres no compelling evidence to show Mr M was told expressly not to 
pay off his overdraft, Im unable to conclude that this happened, and Mr M relied on it.  
Lastly, as Mr M is talking to the beneficiary, and if he hasnt already, he could speak to them 
about funds he feels should be returned to him. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman