DRN-3355581
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy that Sainsburys Bank Plc approved him for credit which he feels was 
unaffordable for him at those times.
What happened
In 2015, Mr N applied to Sainsburys for a personal loan. His application was approved, and 
Sainsburys provided Mr N with a loan of £8,000. Mr N made further loan applications to 
Sainsburys in 2016 and 2017 (twice), all of which were approved, with Sainsburys providing 
further loans to Mr N totalling approximately £23,350, although some of these loans were 
used by N to consolidate his existing credit commitments.
In 2021, Mr N raised a complaint with Sainsburys on the basis that he felt that the loans that 
Sainsburys had provided to him hadnt been affordable for him at those times, and that this 
should have been apparent to Sainsburys had they undertaken reasonable checks into his 
financial position before approving those loans.
Sainsburys looked at Mr Ns complaint. They noted that they had undertaken checks into   
Mr Ns financial position before approving the loan applications, and that there had been 
nothing resulting from those checks that they felt should have given them any reasonable 
cause to suspect that Mr N wouldnt be able to afford the loans he was applying for. Because 
of this, Sainsburys didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Mr N wasnt satisfied with Sainsburys response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also felt that thered been nothing 
resulting from the checks that Sainsburys had undertaken into Mr Ns financial position that 
should have given them reasonable cause to not approve the loan applications. So, they 
also didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Mr N remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how much 
and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, that before approving a 
customer for a line of credit such as a personal loan, the business would undertake 
reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that any credit being offered to a customer is 
affordable for that customer at that time.
Sainsburys say that they did that here, and they note that at the point of each loan 
application they took information from Mr N about his income and expenditure to check 
whether the repayments that would be due on the loan would in all likelihood be affordable 
for Mr N should that loan application be approved. Sainsburys also note that before 
approving each loan they also obtained and reviewed information about Mr N from a credit 
reference agency in order to gain a better understanding of Mr Ns wider financial position. 
And Sainsburys maintain that there was nothing resulting from these checks in regard to 
any of the loan applications that they feel should have reasonably given them cause to 
suspect that Mr N might not be able to afford to make the monthly repayments on the loans 
that he was applying for, such that the applications shouldnt have been approved.
The checks that Sainsburys undertook here seem reasonable and proportionate to me, and 
I can confirm that theyre commensurate with the types of checks that would be considered 
as being good practice here. And while I can appreciate that Mr N believes that Sainsburys 
should have conducted wider checks into his financial position before approving  including 
that Sainsburys should have reviewed his current account statements  such wider checks 
would only generally be considered as being proportionate and expected where the loan 
amounts under consideration were significantly larger than the loan amounts for which Mr N 
was applying.
At the time of the first loan in 2015, the information that Sainsburys gathered and assessed 
included that Mr N was employed with an annual income of approximately £39,500, and that 
he had disposable monthly income available to him of over £1,600. As such, it seems 
reasonable to me that Sainsburys concluded that Mr N would in all likelihood be able to 
afford the loan repayments of £252 per month over 36 months that he would be liable to pay 
on the loan he was applying for. 
Furthermore, Mr Ns credit file at that time didnt appear to demonstrate that he was 
struggling to meet any of his existing credit commitments, and so Im satisfied that it was 
reasonable for Sainsburys to have approved Mr Ns 2015 loan application as they did.
At the time of the second loan application in 2016, the information that Sainsburys gathered 
and assessed included that Mr N remained employed and that his annual income had 
increased to approximately £41,000. Sainsburys also assessed that Mr N had disposable 
monthly income available to him of approximately £1,200 and again it seems reasonable to 
me that Sainsburys would conclude from that information that Mr N would in all likelihood be 
able to afford the new loan repayments of £159 per month over 36 months that he would be 
liable to pay on this second loan.
Additionally, Mr Ns credit file at that time continued to show that Mr N didnt appear to be 
struggling to meet any of his other existing credit commitments, and so Im also satisfied that 
it was reasonable for Sainsburys to have approved Mr Ns application for this second loan.
In May 2017, Mr N applied for a third loan with Sainsburys. At that time, the information that 
Sainsburys gathered and assessed included that Mr N remained employed but that his 
annual income was now approximately £42,500. Its notable that Mr N applied for this third 
loan with the stated intention of it being a consolidation loan which would be used to 
restructure some of his existing credit commitments. As such, Sainsburys assessed that Mr 
N had a disposable monthly income available to him at that time of approximately £1,435 
and it seems reasonable to me that Sainsburys would conclude from this that Mr N would in 
all likelihood be able to afford the new loan repayments of £278 per month over 36 months 
that he would be due to pay on this third loan.
At this time, Mr Ns credit file also continued to show that Mr N didnt appear to be struggling 
to meet any of his existing credit commitments, and so again Im satisfied that it was fair and  
reasonable for Sainsburys to have approved Mr Ns application for this third loan.The fourth loan was applied for by Mr N in June 2016, shortly after the third loan was 
approved. This fourth loan was also applied for on the same basis as the previous loan, that 
being that it would be used by Mr N to consolidate existing credit commitments.
In June 2016, the information that Sainsburys gathered and assessed included that Mr N 
had the same employment status as per the pervious application and that he had a 
disposable monthly income available to him of approximately £1,220. As such, it again 
seems reasonable to me that Sainsburys would conclude that Mr N would in all likelihood be 
able to afford the new loan repayments of £372 per month over 60 months that he would be 
due to pay on this fourth loan.
It's also notable that the information that Sainsburys obtained from a credit reference 
agency at this time continued to show that Mr N didnt appear to be struggling to meet his 
existing credit commitments, and as such Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for 
Sainsburys to have approved Mr Ns loan application in this instance.
Accordingly, having reviewed the information that Sainsburys gathered and assessed about 
Mr Ns financial position before approving all four of the loan applications, in all instances 
this information appears to have reasonably demonstrated that Mr N would in all likelihood 
be able to afford the loan repayments that would become due, and didnt provide any 
indication that Mr N might have been struggling financially at those times. Additionally, as 
mentioned, Im satisfied that the checks that Sainsburys undertook here were reasonable 
and proportionate, and I dont feel that there was any requirement for Sainsburys to have 
conducted any additional financial checks, above and beyond the checks that they did.
Im aware that Mr N has referenced pay day loans which he began to use around the time of 
the fourth loan and which he feels should have been a clear indicator to Sainsburys that he 
couldnt afford the credit being provided to him. But its notable that Mr N didnt begin using 
pay day loans until shortly after the final Sainsburys loan had been approved, and as such 
these pay day loans werent present on Mr Ns credit file at the times that Sainsburys were 
assessing it.
I dont dispute that it might have been the case that Mr N was struggling financially at the 
time that he applied for these loans. But the question here is whether it was fair and 
reasonable for Sainsburys to have approved the loan applications, which Sainsburys could 
only do on the basis of the information they gathered and had available to them, and which 
included information about his financial position provided to them by Mr N. 
And, as I hope Ive been able to explain clearly in the paragraphs above, I dont feel that the 
information about Mr Ns financial position that Sainsburys did gather and assess at the time 
of the loan applications provided any reasonable indications that Mr N might have been in 
financial difficulty at those times, such that further credit shouldnt have been offered to him. 
All of which means that I find it difficult to reach any conclusion other than it was fair and 
reasonable for Sainsburys to have approved all four of Mr Ns loan applications, and it 
follows from this that my final decision here will be that I wont be upholding this complaint or 
instructing Sainsburys to take any further action at this time.
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr N was wanting, but I hope that hell understand, 
given all that Ive explained above, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Ombudsman