DRN-2767625
The complaint
Mrs B complains that the vehicle she acquired through a hire purchase agreement financed 
by MotoNovo Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. She wants to reject the vehicle 
and have payments refunded.
What happened
Mrs B tells us that she acquired the vehicle from a dealer Ill refer to as F in October 2019. 
She says that she feels misled into acquiring the vehicle as she believes it has a known 
design fault. And that this results in the vehicle suffering from water ingress. Mrs B states 
that she should have been told of this prior to entering the agreement. And she reports that 
the vehicle has been sent back to F for repairs on at least three occasions. She doesnt think 
its fit for purpose.
MotoNovo told us that it had issued a final response letter on 1 December 2020. This 
followed an independent inspection of the vehicle by a business Ill refer to as A. It said that 
A hadnt been able to fault the vehicle. And it said there was no evidence of any faults at the 
point of supply.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said that the 
experts which had examined the vehicle hadnt identified any faults. So she was unable to 
say the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality or fit for purpose.
Mrs B wasnt satisfied with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint 
an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mrs B is dissatisfied with the vehicle and I can see that she feels strongly that 
she wasnt given all the information that shouldve been provided at the point of supply.
Mrs Bs hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. MotoNovo supplied the vehicle so its responsible 
for complaints about the quality of the vehicle.
Mrs Bs complaint is principally about the leaks which she states are affecting the vehicle. In 
terms she thinks theres a design fault which is the cause. And that as she wasnt told about 
this at the time of supply this amounted to a misrepresentation. She feels the leak means the 
vehicle isnt fit for purpose and isnt of satisfactory quality.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant law here includes the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA); the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA); and the Consumer 
Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations of 2008 (CPUTR).
The CRA states that in order to conform to contract goods must be of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined as being what a reasonable person would 
consider to be satisfactory. And this would include aspects of price, previous use and 
durability. But it doesnt include anything that was revealed by an inspection of the goods by 
the consumer or what ought to have been revealed.
The CCA provides that if there was a misrepresentation by F, in the antecedent negotiations, 
then MotoNovo is liable. A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which induces a 
customer to enter an agreement and suffer a loss due to the misrepresentation.
CPUTR requires that the supplier / dealer provides the consumer with sufficient information 
about the goods which the average consumer would wish to know in order to make an 
informed decision as to whether to proceed to acquire them.
At the time of supply, Mrs Bs vehicle was just over a year old with 8,545 miles recorded on 
the odometer. The timeline Ive seen shows that the vehicle was returned to F in July 2020. 
Although F couldnt replicate the faults it didnt dismiss Mrs Bs concerns. And work was 
carried out to reinforce the door seals. And again some weeks later when door seals were 
replaced.
Mrs B says this didnt resolve the problem. And this led to the vehicle being inspected by A 
on 25 November 2020. At the end of As inspection and road test the odometer reading was 
19,777 miles.
It seems from the description given by Mrs B that the water ingress occurs predominantly at 
high speed in wet weather. As it wasnt raining at the time of the inspection, A couldnt 
replicate these conditions and determine if there was a leak. But it did say that there was no 
obvious tears, rips or damage to the seals which would indicate a leak. It said it had also 
carried out a smoke test. This showed two slight leaks but not in the areas where water 
leaks had been reported.
As report also found that the front offside (drivers door) was slightly dropped compared to 
the other doors. But after our investigator sought further clarification from A, it confirmed that 
this was normal. It said the drivers door was typically the most used door on a vehicle.
Mrs B has also suggested that theres a known design fault with the vehicle. Ive not seen 
any information which would lead me to this conclusion. Im aware of the content of a letter 
from the vehicles manufacturers. This read:
Due to the shape of MG3, water can settle on the roof of the car following rain and can enter 
the car when the door is left open.  Similarly, water can build up on the seal which can 
squeeze into the car when the door is then shut closed, although in this scenario, this would 
be an occasional drop rather than a flow, and both of these scenarios would follow heavy or 
persistent rain and the door being left open and so on.I dont see that this is an indication of a design fault. In my opinion, its an explanation of how 
water might get into the vehicle.
Mrs B has also mentioned that she observed a stain on one of the seats at the time she 
acquired the vehicle. She feels this shows there was a leak at the time of supply. Ive seen 
the photographs which depicts the stains.
From the photograph its not possible for me to say what caused the stains. But Id have 
expected that if this was an issue of concern Mrs B wouldve raised it at the time. And as Ive 
not seen anything to show that F gave a false statement about the cause of the stain, I dont 
think that there was any misrepresentation over this aspect.
Im not an expert on motor vehicles. So Ive to place considerable reliance on the opinion of 
those who are experts. And even accepting that the comments of the manufacturer cant be 
viewed as independent, theres still nothing in the report of A which shows that the vehicle 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the time of supply.
Ive also taken account of the vehicle having covered 11,000 miles since supply by the time 
of As inspection. This would be considered to be at least average mileage in the period 
since supply for typical use by a consumer. 
In summary, Ive not seen sufficient information to show there was any design fault with the 
vehicle. And without that information, I dont consider that any alleged omission over this 
factor amounted to a misrepresentation.
Theres also not enough evidence for me to conclude that the issues reported were either 
present at the point of supply and / or due to any failure of repairs. Or that the vehicle isnt fit 
for purpose.
I understand that Mrs B will be disappointed by my decision. But based on the information 
with which Ive been provided Im unable to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman