DRN-2886215
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC is holding her responsible for a loan which she says 
she didnt take out.
What happened
A loan for £25,000 in Mrs Hs name was taken out with Lloyds in 2009. The monthly 
repayments for the loan were made until mid-2010 when they started to be missed. And the 
loan was ultimately defaulted due to missed payments in late 2010.
Mrs H says the loan was taken out by her husband without her consent and that she only 
found out about it when he passed away in 2019. Mrs H says that, when their daughter 
became ill, her and her husband agreed that she would work and look after their daughter 
and he would manage the household and all the finances. So she never checked their 
accounts or questioned anything, but her husband ran up a number of debts  of which this 
loan is one. Mrs H says she reported the loan to Lloyds as fraud as soon as she found out 
about it.
Lloyds investigated Mrs Hs complaint but said it thought she applied for the loan herself or 
was at least aware of or complicit in it being taken out. It said the funds from the loan were 
paid into an account in her name and a number of letters and statements had been sent to 
her about the loan. So it continued to hold her responsible for it. Mrs H wasnt satisfied with 
Lloyds response, so referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint but didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly by 
holding Mrs H responsible for the loan. They said the funds from the loan had been paid into, 
and then spent from, an account in Mrs Hs name so it was likely shed benefitted from them. 
Mrs H didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence available is unclear or inconclusive I must make a decision on what I 
think is most likely to have happened, based on the evidence I do have.
Lloyds says the loan was applied for in person, and there was a loan illustration done over 
the phone beforehand too, so Mrs Hs husband wouldnt have been able to apply in her 
place. But it hasnt been able to send us a copy of this call. And the copy of the loan 
agreement its sent isnt signed. So I dont think this evidence is conclusive one way or the 
other.
Mrs H has been consistent throughout her complaint that her husband managed the 
finances and she didnt know anything about this loan. And shes said he was at home, 
whereas she was going to work, so he would have been able to intercept any post relating to 
the loan. But there would have been several letters sent out when the loan was taken out, as 
well as regular statements sent out and then more letters when monthly payments were 
missed and the loan was being defaulted. And the loan was open for more than a year and 
Mrs H wont have been at work every day during that time.
The funds from the loan were also paid into an account in Mrs Hs sole name, and then 
moved on into a second account in her sole name in a series of payments over the following 
10 months. The monthly repayments made towards the loan were also made out of the 
second account. Ive not seen anything to suggest Mrs H wasnt aware of both of these 
accounts. And the second account was where Mrs Hs salary was paid into, was used for 
day-to-day spending, and continued to be used for day-to-day spending immediately 
following the death of her husband, which I think suggests Mrs H was at least aware of this 
account. And she could have monitored these accounts in a number of ways, including the 
paper statements, telephone banking or internet banking.
So I think its unlikely Mrs H was completely unaware of this loan. Or, if she was unaware, I 
think this is likely because she chose not to monitor her accounts, rather than because she 
was denied the opportunity to do so.
I appreciate Mrs H says it was agreed that her husband would manage the finances. And 
she appears to have given him authority to view and move money to and from accounts in 
her name as part of this agreement. I dont think this is a particularly unusual domestic 
arrangement. But, in allowing him to move some money from her accounts and not 
questioning or checking what he was doing, shes given him apparent authority to move any 
money from her accounts. And made it very difficult for Lloyds to differentiate between 
transactions shes happy with and transactions she isnt happy with.
So, even if she didnt apply for the loan or know anything about it, the funds from the loan 
were paid into her account. And she then allowed her husband to move those funds on from 
her account. So I think its reasonable that Lloyds can then hold Mrs H responsible for those 
funds.
Some of the funds from the loan were moved on from Mrs Hs account into an account in her 
husbands name. So its not possible to say how all of the funds from the loan were spent. 
But the statements for the second account in Mrs Hs name show some of the funds were 
used to pay what appear to be household bills, as well as for retail shopping and some direct 
debits, which appear to be for everyday insurance. And, as Mrs H says her husband was 
managing the household, I think its likely thats what these transactions were for and that 
she therefore also benefitted from at least some of the funds from the loan.
I sympathise with the position Mrs H has found herself in and I recognise that this decision 
will come as a disappointment to her. But, based on the evidence I have, I dont think I can 
fairly say its more likely than not that she was completely unaware of this loan or that it 
would be fair to require Lloyds to stop holding her responsible for the outstanding balance 
from the loan.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman