DRN-2300831
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Santander UK Plc charged them the full Early Repayment 
Charge (ERC) when they redeemed their mortgage.
What happened
In October 2018, Mr and Mrs P took out a mortgage with Santander. The mortgage was on a 
repayment basis with an initial fixed rate of 1.74% until December 2020. It had an ERC 
applicable if the mortgage was repaid in full before the fixed rate period ended. 
Mr and Mrs P have said their financial situation was greatly impacted by the Covid-19 
pandemic and they felt they had no option but to sell their property to avoid further financial 
difficulties. They secured an offer for their property in June 2020 and spoke with their broker 
who informed them of the ERC.  
Following this, Mr and Mrs P wrote to Santander on 16 June 2020 asking it to consider 
reducing the ERC amount in light of how their financial situation had been impacted by the 
Covid-19 pandemic. Santander responded saying it wouldnt agree to waive the ERC and 
Mr and Mrs P raised a complaint. 
Santander said it had put processes in place, in line with government guidelines, to help 
customers struggling financially because of the Covid-19 pandemic. But reducing the ERC 
wasnt something which it could currently offer. It also said Mr and Mrs P could delay the 
sale of their property to avoid incurring the ERC but understood this wasnt an option 
available to them. 
In recognition of the time and effort Mr and Mrs P had spent gathering the information to 
support their request for a reduced ERC - and that it felt its initial automated response wasnt 
sufficient  it paid Mr and Mrs P £50 compensation. Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs P raised 
a complaint with our service. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think Santander had acted unfairly by 
charging the full ERC. They said the ERC was clearly set out in Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage 
offer and that they were aware Santander would charge the full ERC before they proceeded 
with the sale of the property. They understood the reasons why Mr and Mrs P said they 
couldnt delay selling the property  concerns over the future housing market and pressures 
from their buyer  but ultimately didnt think Santander should be held responsible for these. 
Mr and Mrs P disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In summary, they felt it 
was unfair for Santander to charge the full ERC when taking into consideration the impact 
the Covid-19 pandemic had on their financial situation. They also felt they had no option but 
to sell the property three months before the end of the fixed rate period.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs P have kindly provided evidence to support their complaint. Id like to be clear 
that my decision wont address every point or comment made by either Mr and Mrs P or 
Santander. I mean no discourtesy by this, and I would like to reassure both parties that I 
have carefully considered all the evidence provided. But my decision will only address what I 
see to be relevant in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome to the individual circumstances 
of Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
With this in mind, I need to decide whether it was fair for Santander to charge the full ERC in 
light of the impact the Covid-19 pandemic has had on Mr and Mrs Ps financial situation. And 
Mr and Mrs Ps reasons for feeling they had to sell when they did. 
Under the relevant rules, lenders are permitted to apply an ERC to a mortgage. Ive seen a 
copy of the mortgage offer sent to Mr and Mrs P before they took the mortgage out in 
October 2018. Im satisfied that it clearly and prominently sets out when an ERC would be 
applicable and by taking out the mortgage Mr and Mrs P were accepting this condition. Its 
therefore difficult for me to say that Santander cant apply the ERC Mr and Mrs P agreed to 
when taking the mortgage out.
When a lender offers a fixed rate mortgage product, both the lender and the borrower are 
tied into the fixed rate for the term specified. I think its important to note that an ERC isnt a 
penalty applied to the borrower for exiting the fixed mortgage product early, but a charge to 
reflect the pre-estimated costs a lender incurs across a range of mortgages where a 
borrower redeems the mortgage before the fixed rate period ends. 
Under the rules, the ERC doesnt have to reflect the actual costs that have been incurred for 
a borrower exiting an individual mortgage early. The ERC might be more or less than the 
actual costs incurred. A lenders pre-estimated costs are also unlikely to just include the loss 
of interest due to early repayment as there are other costs a lender can reasonably include.  
I understand that Mr and Mrs P have questioned the validity and legality of Santander 
charging an ERC in light of the Covid-19 pandemic. And whether it was fair for Santander to 
charge them the full ERC when taking into consideration the impact the Covid-19 pandemic 
has had on their financial situation. 
The mortgage contract allowed Mr and Mrs P to repay it early, subject to charges. And it was 
possible for Mr and Mrs P to repay the mortgage in line with the terms of the mortgage. So, I 
dont think the mortgage became invalid or illegal because of the pandemic even though 
Mr and Mrs P found it difficult to keep up with their monthly payments.
Im sorry to hear of the impact the Covid-19 pandemic has had on Mr and Mrs P. I have no 
reason to doubt what they have told me about how they have been affected financially and 
the efforts they went to in order to mitigate the situation. I also understand that due to their 
concerns over the future housing market and potentially losing their buyer they felt they had 
no choice but to sell the property, redeem the mortgage early, and incur an ERC. However, I 
dont think it would be fair to say Santander are responsible for the unprecedented 
circumstances Mr and Mrs P now find themselves in. 
I say this because the Covid-19 pandemic and the impact its had on Mr and Mrs P is not 
something Santander has control over. And whilst I understand Mr and Mrs Ps reasons for proceeding with the sale of their property and incurring an ERC - its ultimately a decision 
they made when fully aware the ERC would be applied if they did so. 
The ERC formed part of the mortgage contract Mr and Mrs P had with Santander. I therefore 
dont think its unfair or unreasonable that Santander applied the ERC in line with the 
contract Mr and Mrs P had agreed to. I would expect Santander to give fair consideration to 
any request Mr and Mrs P made and to try to help them when experiencing financial 
difficulties. I can see Santander did this when it gave Mr and Mrs P payment deferrals in line 
with the specific guidance the Financial Conduct Authority issued to lenders with the aim of 
helping mortgage customers whose financial circumstances had been affected by the Covid-
19 pandemic.
With regards to Santanders response to Mr and Mrs Ps initial request for a reduction to the 
ERC, I do agree that receiving an automated response was not sufficient in the 
circumstances. Santander have recognised it should have given Mr and Mrs P a more 
detailed explanation about the consideration it had given to their request by paying 
Mr and Mrs P £50 compensation. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I note that Mr and Mrs P have more recently raised questions about the amount of the ERC 
and the actual costs incurred by Santander. Id like to be clear that Ive not made a decision 
on whether the ERC Santander charged Mr and Mrs P was a reasonable pre-estimate of 
costs, as this was not the original complaint raised with Santander or our service. I have only 
considered whether Santander acted fairly by rejecting Mr and Mrs Ps request to reduce the 
ERC in light of their current financial situation.   
In summary, I dont think Santander have been unreasonable by rejecting Mr and Mrs Ps 
request for a reduced ERC or charging them the full ERC in line with the mortgage contract 
Mr and Mrs P agreed to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2021. 
Robert Woodhart
Ombudsman