DRN-4044552
The complaint
This complaint is about arrears fees and additional interest that have been charged on 
Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage with Pepper (UK) Limited trading as Engage Credit. Mr and Mrs F 
complain that the fees and extra interest were unfair  and have added to their difficulties 
dealing with arrears. 
What happened
Our investigator explained that our rules confined us to looking at the arrears, fees, and the 
additional interest they attract, from February 2016 onwards. When she assessed those 
items for fairness, she concluded that Pepper had already refunded any that might have 
been deemed unfairly charged. Mr and Mrs F didnt agree and want their complaint decided 
by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We consider jurisdiction at every stage of our case-handling process. Having looked at what 
the investigator said, taking into account the time limits in our rules, I agree that my remit is 
limited to considering the fairness or otherwise of the arrears charges and related interest 
debited since February 2016.
The starting position is that lenders generally are permitted under the mortgage terms to 
apply fees and charges to cover the additional cost of administering a mortgage account that 
is in arrears. Such charges are typically set out in a separate tariff of charges. 
But lenders also have a duty to treat customers fairly, and even where fees have been 
applied in accordance with the account terms and the tariff of charges, well still give 
separate consideration to whether theyve been applied fairly. 
One situation where we generally find that arrears fees or charges havent been applied 
fairly is if it has been applied in respect of a month where the customer has paid either the 
contractual payment or a different amount agreed as part of a payment arrangement. 
Another is if more than one fee has been applied in the same month.
Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Fs payment record during the period since February 2016. Using 
the fairness test referenced in the previous paragraphs, I find that all of the fees applied 
since then that might have been assessed as unfairly applied have already been refunded 
by Pepper. Theres nothing else it needs to do in that regard.
The provision for Pepper to levy interest on arrears, and on arrears fees, is contained in the 
terms and conditions of the mortgage contract. Its not inherently unfair of Pepper to 
implement the term. Pepper isnt, for example, singling Mr and Mrs F out for different 
treatment from other borrowers in similar situations to theirs. 
Nor is Pepper out of step in having a mortgage contract that allows for interest to be levied 
on arrears and arrears fees. Its standard practice for lenders across the whole sector to do 
so. Having such a term in a contract, and applying it consistently, doesnt of itself, amount to 
unfair treatment, which is the test I have to apply.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and below, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint, or make any order or award against Pepper (UK) Limited. My final decision 
concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in 
any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 May 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman