DRN-4017903
The complaint
Mr R complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund payments he says he didnt authorise.
What happened
In May 2022 transactions totalling over £6,000 were made from Mr Rs current account. Mr R 
says he did not authorise any of these transactions, he says he was overseas at the time.
Santander investigated and decided not to refund the disputed payments. It said that the 
payments had been authorised using the device registered to Mr Rs account, so it felt Mr R 
had made the payments himself or allowed them to be made.
As Mr R didnt agree with Santanders decision, he asked us to investigate.
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They felt it was fair for 
Santander to conclude that Mr R had authorised the payments or allowed them to be made.
Mr R disagreed, so he asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as
the Investigator previously set out.
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and broadly speaking 
Mr R is responsible for any payments that he has authorised (either by making them himself 
or allowing someone else to) and he isnt responsible for unauthorised payments.
Im satisfied that Mr Rs genuine account details were used to make the disputed 
transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to 
enable Santander to hold him liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that Mr R consented to the payments being made. And 
from what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable to conclude that Mr R more likely than not 
consented to the transactions.
Mr R had mobile banking set up for his account, the device registered to mobile banking 
belonged to his wife as she helped him with his banking.  Santander has provided evidence 
to show that the payments in dispute were made using the registered device, and were 
authorised using biometrics, meaning that a fingerprint or face scan was used to authorise 
the payments. Mr R has said his wifes phone was with them the whole time, and no 
plausible explanation has been put forward as to how an unauthorised third party could have 
used it to make payments.
I acknowledge that Mr R says he was overseas at the time, his comments about the 
legitimacy of the accounts the payments were made to, the location payments were made 
from, and the message and attempted calls he received from Santander. But nothing Ive 
seen outweighs the compelling evidence provided by Santander which shows that the 
payments were made and authorised from a trusted device that Mr R had used previously 
and which appears to have been in his and his wifes possession at the time of the 
payments. There is no evidence to support that an unauthorised third party was involved in 
these payments.
So, taking everything into account, including all that Mr R has said, the evidence does not 
suggest to me that a third party was responsible for these transactions. It follows that I 
consider it is more likely that Mr R either authorised the transactions himself or allowed them 
to be made. I realise that this is not the outcome Mr R was hoping for, and he will no doubt 
be disappointed by the decision Ive reached. But with all Ive seen I cannot fairly and 
reasonably require Santander to take any further action in relation to this matter.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman