DRN-2213423
The complaint
Mr S complains Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans irresponsibly lent to him. He says 
Buddy Loans did not complete reasonable and proportionate checks before approving him 
for a loan. Mr S says had Buddy Loans done this it wouldve realised the loan was 
unaffordable to him.   
What happened
Mr S was approved for the below loan by Buddy Loans:
Date Capital Amount Term Monthly Repayment
February 2019 £7,500 60 months £296.44
Mr S says at the time of applying for the loan he was suffering financial difficulties. He says 
he was self employed and was having to borrow from high cost credit providers to cope with 
his outgoings. He also says he had recent issues managing credit including receiving 
defaults and CCJs. Mr S complains Buddy Loans didnt complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks before approving him for the loan. And had it done so, it wouldve 
realised the loan was unaffordable to him.   
Buddy Loans disagreed with Mr S complaint. It says it completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks. Buddy Loans says it completed a detailed income and expenditure 
assessment, as well as searching Mr S credit file. It says Mr S was taking out the loan to 
consolidate down some of his existing debts, so was aware of his financial circumstances. It 
says its assessment showed that after consolidating the debts the loan was affordable to Mr 
S. It says its decision to lend was fair. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She argued Buddy Loans shouldve 
completed further checks based on the indicators of Mr S credit file. She argued had it done 
this Buddy Loans wouldve likely realised the loan was unaffordable. She also argued Buddy 
Loans was unfairly increasing Mr S overall level of indebtedness as it was increasing from 
approximately £11,000 to over £19,000.
Buddy Loans disagreed with this assessment and maintained it had completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks before lending. As no agreement could be reached the matter has 
been passed to me to issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr S complaint. Bearing in mind the 
dispute before me, I think that there are a number of overarching questions that I need to 
consider in order to fairly and reasonably determine Mr S complaint. These are:
1. Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr S to satisfy 
itself that he was in a position repay the loan in a sustainable way? 
o If so, did it make a fair decision? 
o If not, would those checks have shown that Mr S would have been able to do so? 
2. Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a point 
where Buddy Loans ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr S 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt 
have provided further loans?
Ill deal with each in turn.
Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr S to satisfy itself that 
he was in a position repay the loan in a sustainable way?
The regulations which applied at the time, required Buddy Loans to carry out an assessment 
on whether Mr S could repay any loan in sustainable way. These checks are referred to as 
an affordability assessment or an affordability check.
This means Buddy Loans needed to consider if any repayments Mr S may be required to 
make would cause him any financial difficulties or have any adverse consequences on his 
finances. The checks also needed to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the 
loan which was being approved.
The relevant rules dont set out which specific checks it has to complete for them to be 
reasonable and proportionate. But these checks needed to be proportionate to the amount of 
credit being provided including the total amount of credit, amount of repayments and total 
length of the term. 
It is also not sufficient for Buddy Loans to just complete proportionate checks. It also needs 
to consider the information it is provided with and make a fair lending decision.
Buddy Loans says it completed reasonable and proportionate checks. It says it completed a 
detailed income and expenditure assessment of Mr S, as well as using an online tool to 
verify his income. It says it also searched Mr S credit file which showed his financial 
circumstances such as the defaults and the CCJ. It says it asked Mr S about this during the 
assessment call, and he explained he was using this loan to consolidate his existing debt. It 
says it took this information into account when making its affordability assessment. It also 
says Mr S declared his income as being £2,000 per month. After deducting his regular 
outgoings, as well as using the information on his credit file, it says Mr S seemingly had 
sufficient disposable income to meet the repayments. It therefore says the checks were 
proportionate.
Ive carefully considered this argument, but I disagree with it in this instance. As Ive 
mentioned above it is not sufficient for Buddy Loans to complete checks, it also needs to 
carefully consider the information it is provided. It also needs to ensure the checks are 
proportionate to amount being borrowed considering the size and term of loan. Having 
considered the above argument, Im not satisfied the checks in this instance were 
proportionate.
I say this because Mr S credit file and overall financial circumstances at the time of applying for the loan suggest he having difficulties managing to meet his existing commitments. 
Whilst this in itself isnt necessarily surprising as Mr S was looking to consolidate his existing 
debt, Im satisfied the file has sufficient indicators of financial difficulties which shouldve 
prompted further detailed checks.
In particular I note the credit file shows Mr S had a number of defaults, a CCJ, as well as 
historic arrears on his accounts. The defaults included debts of £1,200 to a home credit 
provider, and approximately £950 to another home credit provider. There were also defaults 
for an unsecured loan of approximately £500 as well as a telecommunications company. Mr 
S also had a delinquent current account which had a small debt outstanding on it. All of 
these markers had occurred within a couple of years of Mr S application. There was also the 
CCJ. Mr S also had a number of active unsecured loans at the time of the application too. Mr 
S total level of debt at the time of application was approximately £11,000.
I appreciate Buddy Loans completed an income and expenditure assessment of Mr S over 
the telephone, and he offered answers to the questions around his current outgoings, but 
considering the information Buddy Loans had, Im persuaded it couldve gone further in its 
checks. And in particular done more to verify Mr S income and outgoings. This is because 
the credit file shows Mr S had recent issues managing credit. And whilst this may not be 
enough to decline the application outright, Im satisfied it shouldve promoted further checks. 
As such it follows that Im not persuaded Buddy Loans completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks in this instance. 
Would further checks have shown Mr S could afford to make any repayments sustainably?
Ive explained above why Im not satisfied proportionate checks were completed in this 
instance. As such I need to consider what further checks mayve shown, and if they wouldve 
shown if Mr S could make the repayments sustainably. Buddy Loans couldve completed 
these further checks in a number of ways such as asking for receipt of bills or seeking copies 
of Mr S bank statements. Our service has asked Mr S to provide further information based 
of his circumstances at the time, and he has provided our service with copies of documents 
which suggest he was in receipt of universal credit at the time of the application. He hasnt 
been able to provide our service with copies of bank statements.
Ive considered this information, along with what we already had on file from Buddy Loans 
checks, and Im unable to say on balance further checks wouldve shown Mr Ss couldnt 
have afforded the loan.
Whilst I dont doubt Mr S was in receipt of tax benefits for income, I dont think that is 
sufficient to say the loan wouldve always been unaffordable to him based on this alone.
Mr S credit file has significant negative markers on, as Ive explained above, which may 
suggest he had issues meeting his commitments. However, as Ive also explained above, 
this is in itself is not enough to decline lending to someone. So in the absence of any 
persuasive evidence, Im unable to make a definitive finding on this point.
Was there a point where Buddy Loans ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing 
Mr Ss indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt 
have provided further loans?
Moving onto the second question I set out at the beginning of my findings. Even though Im 
not persuaded what further checks wouldve shown, Ive considered whether Buddy Loans 
did have sufficient information to decide if its decision to lend was increasing Mr S overall 
level of indebtedness in an unsustainable or otherwise harmful way. And having done so, Im satisfied it shouldve.
I say this because the information on Mr S credit file suggest that he was struggling with his 
current level of debt commitments. As I mentioned above Mr S total level of debt was 
approximately £11,000 and Buddy Loans was going to increase this amount further. We 
know already that Mr S had had issues maintaining these commitments in the past. This can 
be demonstrated by the fact he had missed payments, arrears and defaults on his account. 
There was also a CCJ, and he had other active credit which he was looking to consolidate 
down. Bearing this in mind, I think that Buddy Loans ought fairly and reasonably to have 
realised that Mr S financial position was such that any further lending was simply 
unsustainable for him. 
Mr S recent history of demonstrated that hed had significant difficulty meeting the existing 
commitments to multiple creditors leading to either Mr S borrowing further from high cost 
credit providers or (as had happened multiple times) defaulting on his credit commitments. 
So, I think that Buddy Loans ought to have realised Mr S would more likely than not either 
borrow further to repay this loan, or worse still default on it in the same way hed done on 
previous occasions in the months leading up to this application.
And, in these circumstances, Im satisfied Buddy Loans shouldve been aware it was 
increasing Mr S indebtedness in a way that was always likely to be unsustainable otherwise 
harmful. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right I require Buddy Loans to: 
To add up the total amount of money Mr S received as a result of having being given 
this loan. The repayments Mr S has made should be deducted from this amount. 
oIf this results in Mr S having paid more than he received then any 
overpayment should be refunded along with 8% (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement)  
oIf any capital amount remains; then Buddy Loans should attempt to arrange 
an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr S. 
To remove any adverse information about this loan from Mr S credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Buddy Loans to take off tax from this interest. Buddy 
Loans must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
Mt final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman