DRN-3223839
The complaint
Mr V is unhappy with the settlement British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) offered for the 
replacement pipes and labour costs after he experienced blocked drains.
What happened
Mr V had Home Emergency cover with BG. This service upheld an earlier complaint about 
the way BG handled his claim after he suffered a drain blockage and he arranged the repairs 
himself. The decision was that BG should pay Mr V what it wouldve cost it to repair the 
drains plus £100 compensation, which Mr V accepted. BG confirmed it wouldve cost £733.
However, Mr V now complains that BG didnt make a fair offer. He heard from local 
professionals that the work wouldve cost significantly more. BG responded to his complaint 
to say it had calculated the settlement in line with its own costs and it hadnt seen any 
evidence that further work was needed. 
BG agreed to visit Mr Vs home to measure the replaced pipework. Having done so, BG 
agreed its measurements were too short and offered Mr V a further £70.86 plus VAT to 
account for the extra length of pipework. Mr V didnt think BG had offered enough. He said 
the access and re-routing work wouldve cost significantly more, running into thousands of 
pounds.
Our investigator upheld Mr Vs complaint. She thought BGs offer to pay for the additional 
pipework identified in its visit, but not the re-routing work, was fair. But she didnt think BG 
had treated Mr V fairly when he first raised the issue of the inaccurate measurements used 
to calculate the settlement offer. Our investigator recommended that BG pay Mr V the 
additional £70.86 plus interest, and a further £100 compensation by way of apology for the 
service shortfalls.
Mr V didnt agree. He understood that the re-routing work wasnt covered under the policy, 
but he felt the trace and access costs should be provided. Thats because BG proposed to 
tunnel through the kitchen floor taking the same and more direct route of the older drainage, 
which wouldve incurred greater costs.
The complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Vs complaint, but I wont be asking BG to do any more than our 
investigator proposed. Ill explain.
While I wont revisit the details of Mr Vs earlier complaint, I may reference it, where 
appropriate, to explain the reasons for my decision here.
The outcome of the first complaint I dealt with for Mr V required BG to pay what it wouldve 
cost it to complete the repair. BG provided the figure based on Mr Vs estimate of the 
drainage replaced, and I had no reason to doubt the accuracy of the figures.
The issue now is that Mr V doesnt think the measurements and, therefore, the costing was 
accurate. When he complained to BG, it said the settlement was what had been agreed. To 
be clear, my first decision was about BGs handling of Mr Vs claim; not the accuracy of the 
settlement figure.
I can see why BG wouldve thought the matter should be settled, but when Mr V complained 
that the measurements werent correct I think it shouldve done more than it did. After Mr V 
brought this complaint to our service, BG visited his home to take measurements. It 
calculated that the replaced pipework was 0.9 metres longer than that upon which it had 
based its original settlement figure. 
Because BG used Mr Vs estimate of around 3 metres to calculate its original offer, I dont 
think its settlement offer was unreasonable. And I see that it offered Mr V a further £70.86 
plus VAT to account for the additional 0.9 metres once it confirmed the work done was more 
than previously believed. I think thats fair. But, Mr V doesnt think the amount is fair or a 
realistic representation of the amount it wouldve cost to do the work. 
Looking at the plan of Mr Vs drainage, I can see that BG measured the section of pipework 
which was the subject of Mr Vs original claim. At that time, he asked for the pipework to be 
re-routed, which BG confirmed wasnt covered under his policy. When Mr V arranged the 
work himself, it seems he had other work done at the same time, including the re-routing 
work. So, Ive thought about the cost of the work Mr V is expecting BG to pay for. I know he 
understands that the re-routing work isnt covered, but the description of work done, such as 
the length of pipework purchased, seems to include the re-routing work. As BG cant be 
certain which parts of the drainage needed to be repaired or replaced, I cant say that it was 
unreasonable to pay for the cost only of the pipework it had previously been asked to 
unblock or replace. So, overall, Im satisfied that BGs offer to increase its settlement by the 
cost of the additional 0.9 metres is reasonable.
I understand Mr V doesnt think BG couldve done the work for the amount it offered and hes 
basing that opinion on local professionals telling him it wouldve cost more. However, as BG 
can only estimate based on the information it has, and its not clear how much of the work 
was needed rather than preferred by Mr V, I have no reason to doubt that BGs offer 
accurately reflects its own costs.
More recently, Mr V said BG hasnt considered the policy cover for trace and access. He 
points out that BG wouldve dug through his kitchen floor to repair or replace the pipework, 
and his policy provides £1,000 for the trace and access costs. The issue here is that BG 
didnt dig through Mr Vs floor. He employed someone to tunnel under his property to 
complete the repairs, so Id only expect BG to pay what it wouldve cost it do the same work. 
Therefore, I wont be asking BG to pay for the cost of trace and access work which wasnt 
done.
With all this said, I dont think BG responded reasonably when Mr V raised concerns about 
the length of pipework covered by its settlement offer. While it originally used Mr Vs 
estimates to calculate the cost, I think it couldve done more when he said he didnt think the 
measurement was correct. Although it did eventually send someone out to take 
measurements, it couldve done so sooner. Considering this avoidable delay, Im satisfied 
that compensation of £100 is warranted. I also think its fair that BG pays interest on the 
additional £70 plus VAT cost because Mr V wouldve received it sooner had BG acted 
promptly to his concerns.In summary, I think BG reasonably offered to cover the cost only of the additional short piece 
of pipework not factored into its original calculation. But it couldve better handled Mr Vs 
concerns about the actual measurements, and for that Im satisfied that compensation is 
warranted. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and British Gas 
Insurance Limited must:
pay the additional £70.86 plus VAT, if it hasnt already done so;
pay 8% simple interest* per annum on the additional payment, calculated from the 
date it paid the original settlement to the date it makes the additional payment, and
pay £100 compensation for the avoidable delays and inconvenience Mr V 
experienced of having to raise a complaint again to get the settlement figure 
corrected.
*If British Gas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr V how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr V a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman