DRN-3419957
The complaint
Mrs W complains about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited handled her claim on her 
car insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs W had a car insurance policy with Admiral. Her husband, Mr W, was a named driver on 
the policy. In mid-2021 she made a claim after the windscreen of her car was damaged and 
required replacement. 
Admiral instructed an agent to provide a replacement. However this took six weeks to be 
completed. Mrs W was unhappy with the service provided and made a complaint to Admiral. 
She said as the car wasnt safe to drive during this time, her and her husband had not had 
access to a vehicle and had had to hire a car so they could carry out their caring 
responsibilities to family members.
Admiral upheld their complaint as it agreed it could have provided better service. It offered 
£75 to make up for this. However it said it was the agent it appointed that delayed the repair 
and it said it wasnt responsible for its agents actions. 
Mrs W wasnt happy with this response. She said shed had to pay around £500 for a hire 
car during the time they were without a vehicle and thought Admiral should reimburse her for 
this. She brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said she thought Admiral was 
responsible for appointing agents to carry out the work and ensuring the claim was moved 
along in good time. She thought the six week delay was unreasonable and that Admiral 
could have done more to reduce this. She therefore thought it should reimburse Mrs W for 
the cost of the car hire, plus 8% interest since the amount was paid. And it should increase 
its compensation offer to £200 to make up for the distress it had caused.
Mrs W accepted our investigators recommendation, however Admiral didnt. It said the delay 
to obtaining a new windscreen was out of its control, so it shouldnt be held responsible for 
this. It asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators outcome for the following reasons:
Mrs Ws policy is with Admiral, so it is responsible for how claims are dealt with. This 
includes appointing suitable contractors to carry out work and ensuring this is done 
promptly and to a good standard. So I agree that Admiral is responsible for the actions of 
its appointed agents.
While I understand there were some factors out of its agents control (such as staff 
absence) I agree that six weeks is an unreasonably long time to wait for the repair to be 
carried out.
During this time Ive seen no evidence that Admiral took any action to move things 
forward. Nor did it offer assistance to Mrs W, even though it was aware she didnt have 
access to another vehicle in this time. 
This caused Mrs W distress as her husband was unable to carry out his caring 
responsibilities to family members and they had to hire a car in order to fulfil these.
While I accept the policy doesnt usually cover a replacement vehicle for a windscreen 
repair, this kind of repair is usually completed quickly with little disruption. Due to the 
amount of time Mrs W had to wait for this to be completed in this instance, I dont think it 
was fair or reasonable to leave Mrs W without a vehicle during this time. 
For these reasons I agree that Admiral should reimburse Mrs W for the cost of hiring a car 
during the time she was waiting for the repair. As she has been without the money during 
this time, it should also pay 8% simple interest on the amount from the date it was paid until 
it is reimbursed. It should also pay a total of £200 compensation to make up for the distress 
and inconvenience it caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to:
Reimburse Mrs W for the cost of the car hire during the time she was waiting for her car 
to be repaired.
Pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date it was paid for until it is reimbursed.
Pay Mrs W a total of £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman