DRN-2239557
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out alongside a 
personal reserve account. Ms K says Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Ms Ks 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Ms Ks representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Ks. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Ms Ks complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
Allianz has said that it no longer has a record of exactly when the policy was sold, but it 
was sometime between July 1996 and January 2000. Allianz has said that its more likely 
both the account and PPI were taken out at the same time via a postal application. Ms K 
has said that the policy was sold by post, so I think its more likely what the business has 
said is correct. Understandably, Allianz no longer has a copy of the application form, but 
it has provided a sample that was in use in 1996. And I think its more likely this 
represents what Ms K would have seen at the time of the sale. This had a separate 
section for PPI with a brief explanation of the cover and the option to tick a box to 
confirm you wanted the cover. It then asked for the insured partys details to be written 
down. Considering this, I think its more likely Ms K chose to take out the policy, knowing 
she didnt have to. 
Allianz didnt recommend the PPI to Ms K - so it didnt have to check that the PPI was 
right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Ms K enough clear and timely information 
so she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Allianz gave Ms K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Ms K  for example she 
wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. And it wasnt too 
dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the information she was 
given. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back 
problems. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Ms K would have declined 
the cover had Allianz done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Ms K would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Ms Ks representative raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These points include: a claim that the Financial 
Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling 
PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of significant 
exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost 
good faith meant Allianz shouldve disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of 
the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making a claim.
But Ms Ks representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Ms Ks individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
Ive thought about these and how they might apply in Ms Ks particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Ms Ks complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman