DRN-2219898
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out PPI in 2001 to protect their mortgage. They paid a monthly amount 
for the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Santander had to present the policy as optional to Mr and Mrs C and gain their consent 
before adding it to their mortgage. Mr and Mrs C took the policy out over the telephone and 
there is limited information available from the time. But this isnt surprising as the sale took 
place a long time ago and businesses arent required to keep this type of information 
indefinitely. From the information that is available I dont have enough to say Santander 
didnt present the policy as optional, or that Mr and Mrs C didnt agree to take it.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs C so it had to check the policy was right for 
them. Mr and Mrs C have told us they were entitled to generous sick pay, accident cover and 
redundancy pay. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to the benefits Mr and Mrs C 
would have received, and for longer than they would have received full pay if they were 
unable to work due to sickness. So, the policy seems to have been right for them. 
As well as making sure the policy was right for Mr and Mrs C, Santander had to give them
clear information about it  and its possible it didnt. But for the reasons Ive explained
above, I think Mr and Mrs C couldve found the policy useful. So, on balance, I dont think
better information wouldve stopped them buying it.
Ive taken all of the comments Mr and Mrs C have made into account, but these dont 
change my conclusion.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman