DRN-3176218
The complaint
Ms O complains that UK Credit Limited acted irresponsibly by granting her a loan that was 
unaffordable.
What happened
In mid-2016 Ms O took out a loan with UK Credit for £5,000. It was to be paid back over 60 
months, with repayments set at £209.23 a month, meaning that Ms O was required to pay 
back a total of £12,553.80.
Ms O later complained that the loan was unaffordable. She didnt think UK Credit had 
properly considered her circumstances when it was approved. UK Credit said it was satisfied 
it had carried out sufficient checks and these showed the loan was affordable. 
Ms O remained unhappy, so she asked our service to consider her complaint. Our 
investigator looked into her concerns but didnt think her complaint should be upheld. He 
thought UK Credit should have done more to confirm Ms Os financial situation. But he didnt 
think further checks would likely have resulted in UK Credit concluding that Ms O wouldnt 
have been able to sustainably repay the loan.
Ms O disagreed with our investigators view. She asked for her complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. So, its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Os complaint Ill explain why.
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance required UK Credit to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Ms O could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable manner. 
 
The checks needed to be borrower-focused. It wasnt enough for UK Credit to think only 
about the likelihood of getting its money back. It also had to ensure that making the 
repayments wouldnt cause Ms O undue difficulty or have adverse consequences for her.  
There isnt a set list of checks that lenders need to carry out, but they should be 
proportionate, taking a number of factors into consideration. These factors include the 
amount, type and cost of the credit as well as the personal circumstances of the consumer.
UK Credit gathered information from Ms O before it agreed the loan and also checked her 
credit file. Its provided a recording of a telephone conversation, where Ms O answered a 
number of questions about her income, expenditure and financial circumstances. 
Ms O said shed worked for her employer for around four years. She provided a payslip, 
bank statement and letter from her employer as confirmation of her income. UK Credit 
worked out that Ms O had a total net income of £2,140 (based on her salary and child tax 
credits). Ms O told UK Credit her rent was £925 but she only paid £550 as the remainder 
was covered by housing benefit. 
Ms O said she wanted to use the loan for consolidation and home improvements. She said 
she intended to pay off her payday loans which amounted to around £1,200 and the 
balances of her two credit cards, which added up to around £500. She said she was 
committed to paying £212 for car finance. She also had credit with mail order companies, 
with a total balance of around £130.
UK Credit says it used data from the Office of National Statistics (ONS) for her other 
outgoings (bills, food, transport, clothing, insurance etc). These were estimated at around 
£800 a month and included an allowance for her child. UK Credit concluded that the monthly 
repayments of £209.23 for the new loan were affordable.
 
UK Credit says it also checked Ms Os credit file. This showed that she was one month 
behind on her car loan repayments and the repayments were slightly higher than Ms O had 
said over the phone at £254. The credit file indicated that Ms O was up to date with all of her 
other credit commitments. There were two defaults showing for 2015 as well as a court 
judgment for an amount of £190.
UK Credit asked Ms O about the court judgment when it discussed her circumstances with 
her over the phone. Ms O said this was to do with a bill from when shed lived in a shared 
house. She and her former housemates were disputing it as the bill had been paid. 
Ms O was borrowing £5,000 and was committing to repaying it over five years. This was 
quite a high amount considering her level of income. There was also a missed payment and 
a recent default. With this in mind, Im not persuaded that UK Credits checks were sufficient 
and I think it should have taken further steps to satisfy itself that Ms O would have been able 
to sustainably repay the loan.
Ive had a look at Ms Os bank statements for the three months leading up to the approval of 
the loan. And Ive also considered what Ms O has told us about her income and expenditure 
at the time.
  
Ms Os income was slightly higher than the amount UK Credit used in its calculation, at 
around £2,320 (taking into account her salary, child tax credits, child benefits and 
maintenance). Her living costs are also appeared to have been higher than UK Credits 
estimate at around £1,060 (for food, childcare, travel and other bills).
I can see that Ms O also had payday loans and credit card repayments, but shed told UK 
Credit that she intended to use her new loan to consolidate these debts. 
Ms O says her rent was higher than shed told UK Credit over the phone because she was 
paying off previous arrears and her housing benefit was reduced. But there are no rent 
payments showing on her statements for April, May and June 2016 and Ms O says this was 
because she didnt pay rent for a few months due to her financial situation. I can see she 
was receiving payments from the council which are roughly what she told UK Credit she was 
receiving for housing benefit. So, I dont think UK Credit would have been aware that Ms O 
was required to pay more rent than shed said, if it had reviewed her bank statements. And I 
think it would have been reasonable for it to have used the figure of £550 for her rent.
Taking into account the repayments for her car loan (£254) and the UK Credit loan (£229) 
and payments towards her mail order accounts, Ms O would have been left with around 
£220 for unexpected expenses.Ms O says UK Credit stated that the amount she owed for her car loan was incorrect. Shes 
told us that it was more than ten times higher than what UK Credit has said. But the monthly 
repayment for the car loan appears to be correct, and this is whats relevant when 
determining what her monthly credit commitments were. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Ms O. But if UK Credit had carried out 
proportionate checks, I dont think it would have found reason to conclude it wasnt 
appropriate to lend to her. 
Although Im not upholding Ms Os complaint, Id like to remind UK Credit of its duty to treat 
her positively and sympathetically if she is still having difficulty repaying the loan. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman