DRN-2594914
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about the way in which British Gas insurance Limited (BG) handled a 
repair that she asked for when her expansion tank came off the wall where BG had originally 
fixed it.
What happened
 In May 2016, BG replaced Mrs Bs hot water cylinder and fitted a fixture above it to site the 
expansion vessel. Mrs B contacted BG on 30 March 2020 to report that the expansion 
vessel had now come off the wall and was resting on top of the cylinder. 
BG wasnt able to come to deal with this immediately as Covid-19 restrictions were then in 
place and it was only handling emergencies. 
Mrs B contacted BG again on 22 May after restrictions had been eased. On 29 May Mrs B 
was contacted by BGs agents who advised that a plumber was available that day to repair 
the hot water cylinder. When it was explained that the problem wasnt with the cylinder but 
with the expansion vessel that needed to be re-attached to the wall, Mrs B was told that she 
needed a joiner rather than a plumber. So nobody attended on that date.
On 1 June Mr B contacted BG and sent a text message with photos asking for assistance. 
He didnt receive any reply from BG. On 9 June, Mr B emailed BG customer services. He 
didnt receive any response.
On 22 June Mrs B wrote to BG with a complaint about the inappropriate initial response of 
the offer of a plumber when a joiner or heating engineer was more appropriate, and the lack 
of response to Mr Bs text and email messages.
On 7 July Mr and Mrs B received a phone call from BG to say that it was arranging for a 
heating engineer to visit on 14 July to re-install the expansion vessel and to undertake the 
boilers annual service. The engineer who attended failed in a first attempt to reposition the 
expansion vessel. He succeeded with a second attempt, but which left the vessel a few 
degrees from the horizontal.
On 17 July, BG wrote to Mr and Mrs B. It said it hadnt been able to find any correspondence 
from Mr and Mrs B since 22 May. It said that the fixture used to site the expansion vessel 
isnt something thats covered by their HomeCare policy, but that BG agreed to undertake 
the job in the interests of good customer relations. It confirmed the siting of the expansion 
vessel was not inherently dangerous and that because of the limited length of the pipework 
linking the vessel with the hot water cylinder, it couldnt travel far if it fell, and so would be 
unlikely to dislodge the pipework which might result in a leak.
It said it didnt agree with Mr Bs assessment that the fixture upon which the vessel rested 
was poorly fitted by BGs engineered in 2014. The four years that had elapsed were beyond 
any sort of workmanship guarantee that BG provided under its policy. It was at a loss to 
explain why it came away from the wall aside from the possibility that excess weight was 
applied to the fixture, which when combined with weight of the vessel later caused it and the 
fixture to fall, we are at a loss to explain why this incident occurred.
BG accepted its error in initially arranging for a plumbing repair instead of a central heating 
repair, as expansion vessels are covered under central heating cover rather than boiler 
cover. It apologised for this error and the delay this caused to the vessel being re-fitted to the 
wall.
Mr and Mrs B appear to be particularly upset by what they consider to be an insinuation by 
BG that they applied pressure to the expansion vessel which caused it to come away from 
the wall and have asked BG to withdraw this inference in writing. They also want BG to 
admit that the initial fixing of the vessel in 2016 was substandard, and they now want it re-
affixed to the wall using a wooden batten to prevent the plasterboard from cracking.
Mrs B wasnt satisfied with BGs response to her complaint so brought it to this service. Our 
investigators view was that he didnt consider that BGs response to her complaint was 
unfair or unreasonable.
BG has subsequently offered Mrs B £25 compensation as a goodwill gesture.
Mrs B isnt satisfied with our investigators view or the offer of £25 compensation and has 
asked that her complaint be considered by an ombudsman. Its therefore been passed to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint but in one respect only.
Mr and Mrs B are upset and offended by what they consider to be an insinuation by BG that 
they applied weight to the expansion vessel, thereby causing it to become detached from its 
fixing. They say they considered this to be deeply insulting and distressing.
I dont consider this to be a reasonable interpretation by Mr and Mrs B of what BG said in its 
letter of 17 July 2020. Theres no suggestion in my view that this was aimed directly at Mr 
and Mrs B. Theres no reason at all why they should do any such thing, so any such 
insinuation is in my view without foundation. It could equally have referred to any of the BG 
engineers who had worked on Mr and Mrs Bs boiler or hot water system in the four years 
since the new hot water tank was installed which might have weakened its fixing.
As our investigator correctly stated, we would rarely ask a business to make an apology or a 
retraction or require it to acknowledge that it was at fault. Nor can we impose a financial 
penalty on a business. But we can require a business to pay compensation if we consider 
that it has acted unfairly or unreasonably which has caused loss or upset to a customer.
Because I dont consider that Mrs Bs complaint about an insinuation by BG is reasonable, I 
dont consider that this aspect of Mrs Bs complaint merits compensation.
Nor do I consider Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about workmanship when the expansion vessel 
was installed in 2016 to be reasonable. If there had been poor workmanship when it was 
fitted, I dont consider it wouldve remained in place for four years before coming away from 
the wall. In any event, Mr and Mrs Bs policy states:We guarantee to repair or replace any faulty parts weve supplied, or fix any faulty 
work that weve done for twelve months from the date that we did the work. (my 
emphasis underlined)
There was therefore no obligation on BG to undertake this work under the policy but it did so 
without charge as a gesture of goodwill. The work that Mrs B is requesting it to now do is not 
work that is covered by her policy. Im therefore not finding that BG is at fault here.
But I do accept that after BGs engineer had succeeded in re-fixing the expansion vessel at a 
second attempt, Mr and Mrs B were left with a crack in the plasterboard, two metal rawlplug 
type fixings visible, and the vessel at a slight angle. As theres no suggestion that the 
expansion vessel isnt now firmly re-attached to the wall, I consider that Mrs Bs complaint is 
about cosmetic damage inside a cupboard.
BG has offered Mrs B £25 compensation. I dont consider that this is an unreasonable sum 
towards such a repair if Mrs B wishes to have it repaired by a third party.
Our investigator correctly advised Mrs B that were unable to look at complaints relating to 
how a complaint is handled as that isnt a regulated activity and is therefore beyond the 
powers of this service. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint, and I require BG to pay 
her the £25 compensation it has offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman