DRN-4121003
The complaint
Miss S complains that Squareup Europe Ltd (Squareup) wont refund money she lost, after 
she fell victim to an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here. 
But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
In November 2022 Miss S was approached, through a well-known social media platform, 
asking if she was interested in arranging a private conversation with a famous musician. But 
unknown to her at the time she was dealing with fraudsters, who persuaded her to make the 
following international payments, from her Squareup account, in the belief that the payments 
would help her to meet the musician;
1/12/2022 £500.00
7/12/2022 £500.00
13/12/2022 £400.00
20/12/2022 £500.00
Before making the first payment, on 24 November 2022, Miss S contacted Squareup, via its 
online chat service to ask if shed get her money back if it turned out to be a scam. Squareup 
responded to Miss S informing her that it wouldnt be able to reverse a completed payment. 
It went on to tell Miss S that the service it provided was intended for family and friends.
Miss S contacted Squareup again on 11 December 2022, saying that this was a scam and 
requesting a refund, of the payments shed made by that time. But she then went on to make 
two further payments from her Squareup account, totalling £900.00, after the fraudsters 
persuaded Miss S again that things were genuine.
Miss S raised the matter with Squareup, but it declined her fraud claim. In summary, this was 
because it said it was unable to cancel or refund completed payments. Squareup was able 
to recover £4.20 of the money Miss S lost, which I understand is in the process of being 
returned to her.
Unhappy with Squareups response, Miss S brought her complaint to our service and one of 
our Investigators looked into things, but he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In 
summary, this was because he didnt think Squareup did anything wrong when processing 
the first two payments.
Our Investigator did think Squareup ought to have blocked the third and fourth payments and 
spoken to Miss S before allowing them to be progressed, given that, by this point Miss S had 
told Squareup that she thought she was being scammed. So our Investigator didnt think 
Squareup had done enough. But he noted that Miss S had already received a refund, from 
another banking provider, for the loss she suffered for these final two payments, so he didnt 
consider it would be fair for her to receive another refund, given she hadnt suffered any 
financial loss (for these final two payments).
As Miss S didnt agree with our Investigators opinion, her complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Miss S was the victim of a scam. She has my considerable sympathy and I 
understand why she wants to do all she can to recover the money she lost. But I can only 
direct Squareup to refund Miss Ss losses if it can fairly and reasonably be held responsible 
for them.
While we now know the account Miss S sent her funds to was controlled by a fraudster, the 
funds were paid to the account details Miss S had entered and therefore the transactions 
were requested and authorised by her. Because of this, Squareup had an obligation to follow 
her instructions.
But, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and good industry standards, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for 
Squareup, as an electronic money institute (EMI), to take additional steps or make 
additional checks before processing a payment in order to help protect its customer from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. For example, if a customer made a payment request 
for an amount that was out of character given the normal use of an account, Id expect 
Squareup to intervene and ask questions about the intended transaction before processing it 
and provide a suitable warning.
Squareup has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual 
activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. There is a 
delicate balance to be struck. There are many millions of payments made each day and it 
would not be possible or reasonable to expect a payment service provider to check each 
one. And, in situations where Squareup do intervene, I would expect that intervention to be 
proportionate to the circumstances of the payment.
Ive thought carefully about Squareups obligations in this case, particularly given that Miss S 
was a new customer without previous activity to compare her actions against. I accept that 
Miss Ss use of Squareups services was broadly in line with what it would expect  a 
customer opening and funding an account specifically to make international payments. So, 
the fact Miss S deposited money into her account and then sent that money on 
internationally is unlikely to have stood out as being remarkable, suspicious or unusual 
activity to Squareup, and it had no account history to compare the transactions against.
In this case, I dont consider Squareup acted unfairly or unreasonably in allowing the 
payments to be made. Im mindful Miss S did make enquiries with Squareup before making 
the first payment, but all things considered I think Squareups response, in answering her 
questions in the way it did was proportionate, given the individual circumstances of this case, 
and Im not persuaded Squareup needed to do anything more, when processing the first two 
payments.
With regards to the third and fourth payments, I agree with the thoughts expressed by our 
Investigator within their view. I think Squareup ought to have done more and intervened 
before allowing these payments to be progressed, to satisfy itself that Miss S wasnt at risk 
of financial harm. However, given Miss S has received a full refund for these final two payments from another payment service provider, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to make 
any further award.
Its very unfortunate Miss S has lost this money in this way, and I understand the whole 
experience has been deeply upsetting and I have a great deal of sympathy for her. But in the 
circumstances, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say Squareup should refund her the 
money she sadly lost.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Squareup Europe Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman