DRN-1812874
complaint
Ms P complains that she and her late husband, Mr M, were mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS).
background
Mr M and Ms P took out a mortgage with RBS in 2000. At the same time they were sold a 
PPI policy which wouldve helped cover the repayments on their mortgage for up to a year at 
a time if either of them couldnt work due to an accident, sickness or redundancy. The 
benefit was split between them equally.
Ms P makes several complaints about the sale. Amongst other things she says they werent 
told the cost of it, they didnt need it and didnt know it was optional.
The adjudicator didnt think Ms Ps complaint should be upheld. Ms P disagrees, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ss 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
RBS has provided a copy of Mr M and Ms Ps mortgage application form. It doesnt make 
any mention of PPI.  If the policy had been mandatory as Ms P suggests I think it would have 
been mentioned there, or it would have been part of the standard condition in their mortgage 
offer.
As the product was separate to the mortgage Mr M and Ms P would have had to complete a 
separate application form. And as the premiums were taken separately to the mortgage they 
would have also completed a direct debit mandate. 
Ms P hasnt explained what was said to make her and Mr M think they didnt have a choice 
about the PPI. Ms P accepts she doesnt have a clear recollection of the meeting, so I dont 
think I can safely rely on her account to say that she and Mr M were misled in any way.  
Im satisfied in light of the evidence available that Mr M and Ms P most likely bought the PPI 
knowing they had a choice about it. 
RBS say it didnt recommend the policy to Mr M and Ms P, although Ms P says she thinks it 
did make a recommendation. If RBS made a recommendation it had to take reasonable 
steps to make sure it was right for Mr M and Ms P. As I think the policy (and therefore any 
recommendation) was suitable, I dont think it makes a difference to Ms Ps complaint if an 
agreement can be reached about whether a recommendation was made. Looking at Mr M and Ms Ps circumstances at the time of sale I think the recommendation 
was suitable for them. I say this because:
 
Mr M and Ms P were eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been affected by any 
terms which mightve made it more difficult for them to make a successful claim, such 
as those related to existing medical conditions or self-employment. 
Ms P tells us that they would both have received very generous sick pay from their 
employers. The amount that Ms P says they were entitled to has changed over the 
course of the complaints progress. Ms P worked for a very large employer whose 
sick pay arrangements at the time of sale are well-known. Ms P says hers exceeded 
this. I think she may be mistaken about this. Similarly, Ms P latterly said that Mr Ms 
sick pay was unusually generous. I havent seen any evidence of this sick pay and I 
think its likely to be less than Ms P remembers. The PPI wouldve paid out in 
addition to the sick pay and for up to 12 months at a time  which was longer than I 
think its likely their full sick pay would have lasted.
Mr M and Ms P were entitled to some redundancy pay. Again, the policy wouldve 
paid out in addition to this and for up to 12 months at a time, leaving any redundancy 
pay to cover other uninsured expenses.
The cost of the policy was comparable to other similar policies on the market at the 
same time. It was flexible as it could be cancelled or amended at any time without a 
financial penalty. I havent seen anything to suggest it was unaffordable for Mr M and 
Ms P.
 
Its possible RBS didnt give Mr M and Ms P all the information they needed about the policy. 
For example, I havent been able to establish that the cost was made clear at the point of 
application. But I dont think even if Mr M and Ms P had all the information they needed that 
theyd have made a different decision about buying the policy, because it was suitable for 
them in the way Ive already described and the cost was not unreasonable for the benefit 
provided.  
Ms P says that their mortgage was the only loan where they took PPI, which must show that 
they didnt need it or didnt have a choice about it. I think a mortgage  which is secured on a 
home  is different to a loan, which isnt secured. So I think its understandable that they 
would have wanted to protect their home by taking PPI. 
So, on balance, I dont think Mr M and Ms P lost out as a result of anything RBS might have 
done wrong in relation to the sale, which means RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Ms P.
But RBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms P because RBS got a high level of 
commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  so it should have told Mr 
M and Ms P about that. Because RBS didnt tell them, that was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that offer is fair in this case. 
 
what the business needs to doRBS has to pay back to Ms P any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. RBS should also pay back to Ms P any extra interest she and Mr 
M paid because of that. 
RBS should pay back to Ms P the extra Mr M and Ms P paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of the PPI. RBS should 
also pay 8%* simple interest on each payment. 
* Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms P can claim back the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms P.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland does have to pay back to Ms P any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P on behalf of 
herself and the estate of Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman