DRN-2623939
The complaint
Miss S in unhappy that Santander UK Plc didnt renew her debit card automatically when it 
expired. Shes also unhappy about the service Santander provided.
What happened
 Miss S held a current account with Santander, that came with a debit card for making 
payments.
Miss S attempted to use her debit card to make a payment at a petrol station, but this was 
declined as the card had expired. Miss S had to travel in to a Santander branch to withdraw 
cash and order a new card. She was told it would take five days to arrive.
Miss S complained to Santander about this, saying it left her without normal banking 
facilities. She was also unhappy with the service shed received from the bank. Santander 
looked into what happened and found that Miss S account had been set to not send out a 
card automatically, which was in line with the banks processes. They couldnt explain 
precisely why this was but said this can be common if a customer had a low credit score, an 
account is dormant or not used much, and to make sure cards are sent out to the correct 
address. Santander said that Miss S hadnt met the banks criteria for an automatic card 
renewal. 
Santander apologised for any inconvenience it had caused Miss S by not sending out a new 
card. And amended its records so that Miss S would receive card renewals in the future. 
Santander also paid Miss S £50 as a gesture of goodwill. Miss S complained to the bank 
about the payment, which she said had been unsolicited. Santander said the payment had 
been given as a gesture of goodwill due to the poor customer service. And apologised if the 
payment had upset Miss S. 
Miss S didnt think this resolved things for her. She was also unhappy Santander had paid 
the £50 into her account without her agreement. So, she referred the complaint to our 
service. Our investigator began to look in to the complaint, and Santander agreed to pay an 
additional £50 for the trouble and upset caused. Our investigator felt this was a fair way to 
resolve the complaint.
Miss S disagreed she said the withdrawal of banking facilities was an unfair banking 
practice. And that Santander should have let her know that her bank card wouldnt 
automatically be renewed. She wants Santander to provide a proper explanation for why it 
didnt send out a new card to her. She also said the distance she had to travel to a branch 
was about 15 miles from her home, which made it much more difficult to attend a branch. 
She also said that Santander had continually phoned her after shed asked them not to. She 
thinks the amount of compensation offered doesnt adequately reflect the amount of 
inconvenience shes suffered.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander is allowed to set and follow its own policies and processes as long as they are not 
unfair or unreasonable. Santanders policy of not automatically sending out new bank cards 
to its customers affects all its customers. And is subject to a set of criteria being met. So, I 
dont consider Santander has treated Miss S unfairly by not sending a new debit card directly 
to her when her card expired. But I appreciate it must have been very frustrating and 
embarrassing for Miss S to have her card declined. And I think it would have been fairer for 
Santander to let her know in advance that she would need to go into branch to order a new 
card and that her card wasnt going to be automatically renewed. She couldve then planned 
to receive a new card and I think more likely been able to avoid the inconvenience she was 
caused by having to travel into branch. So, Im satisfied Miss S was caused some trouble 
and upset.
I can also accept that not having a card made using her account more difficult, but I dont 
agree that Santander withdrew all her banking facilities. I can see from her statements that 
she was able to withdraw cash from the branch (albeit she had to go travel to a branch), and 
that scheduled payments were still being made from her account.
I also appreciate Miss S would like to know the reason Santander didnt send out a new 
card. But the bank has already advised that they dont have precise notes that explain why. 
They have offered a common explanation of why this might occur, which they set out to Miss 
S, and they removed this restriction for the future. I think this is a fair response.
I know Miss S is upset that Santander paid £50 into her account  which it did as a gesture 
of goodwill to apologise for its service. I dont see anything wrong with Santander paying £50 
directly to Miss S, even if she hadnt expected or accepted this money. The bank was trying 
to put things right, so I dont think this was an unreasonable course of action for the bank to 
take. 
Santander has accepted it should have provided better service to Miss S. And I agree. 
Miss S was without a bank card for 9 days despite the bank telling her shed have a new 
card within 5 days, so she had to travel to branches to access cash, and the bank continued 
to call her after she asked them not to. So, its right that Santander pay her some 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience these failings caused. 
Santander has offered Miss S an additional £50  and I think its a reasonable reflection of 
what went wrong and the impact on Miss S. Im satisfied this amount in addition to the £50 
already paid by the bank, is an appropriate amount to recognise the trouble and upset 
Miss S experienced. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay Miss S an additional £50 in order to 
resolve her complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman