DRN-3786333
The complaint
Mrs R says Blantyre Credit Union Limited (BCU) Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about three loans BCU provided to Mrs R between June 2016 and 
February 2017. Loans 2 and 3 were top up loans. A summary of Mrs Rs borrowing history 
follows.
Loan taken repaid value, £term 
in 
weeksweekly 
repayment, 
£total 
repayable, 
£
1 21/06/2016 06/12/2016 3,750 99 45 4,428.41
2 06/12/2016 01/02/20171200 
(4,196.43*)113 45 5,072.74
3 01/02/2017 -500 
(4,451.92*)122 45 5,455.95
*total loan value after top up
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mrs Rs complaint. Unhappy with this assessment Mrs R 
asked for an ombudsmans review: she said the benefits she received should not have been 
considered as part of her income. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to decide Mrs Rs complaint fairly and reasonably. These two 
questions are:
1. Did BCU complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs R 
would be able to repay her loans in a sustainable way?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs R wouldve been able to do so?
2.Did BCU act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required BCU to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Mrs Rs ability to make the repayments under these agreements. This 
assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so BCU had to think about whether repaying the 
loans would be sustainable for Mrs R. In practice this meant that business had to ensure that 
making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mrs R foreseeable undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for BCU to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs R. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Rs complaint.
BCU has provided evidence to show that before lending it asked for details of Mrs Rs 
income and expenditure, the purpose of the loans and details of her employment. Based on 
the results of those checks BCU thought it was fair to lend. 
It no longer has a copy of the affordability figures for loan 2 but I can see for loan 1 Mrs R 
would have had £458 monthly disposable income and for loan 3 £510. As Mrs R in was in 
the same employment as at the time of loan 1 when she applied for loan 3, I think it is fair to 
assume her income and expenditure position was similar at the time of loan 2. So I agree 
that the loans all seemed affordable.
Mrs R argues that BCU should not have taken into account her benefits or tax credits when 
looking at her income, but I disagree, and regulatory guidelines allow for lenders to do so. 
And being in receipt of such benefits wouldnt, by itself, be a fair reason to decline a credit 
application. 
Its possible that BCU should have carried out additional checks when Mrs R returned for 
loans 2 and 3. It says that as she had a savings account with BCU too and she continued to be able to save each week, with a balance of around £2,500 when she applied for loan 3, it 
had additional comfort that the repayments were affordable. 
That aside, I dont think better checks would have made BCU think the loans would be 
unaffordable. I say this as I have looked at Mrs Rs credit report - Ive done this as I think a 
credit check would have been a useful additional check for BCU to complete - but there are 
no entries from the time of her applications that I think ought to have led BCU to make 
different lending decisions. Mrs R had very little debt and no adverse data on her file at the 
time of her applications. And I dont think it would have been proportionate for it to carry out 
the level of financial review that may have been needed to see if Mrs R was having financial 
problems.  
It follows I dont think BCU was wrong to lend to Mrs R.
I havent seen any evidence that BCU acted unfairly in some other way. I am sorry to hear 
Mrs R went on to struggle financially, but based on the available evidence I cant fairly find 
any failing on the part of BCU.
It follows I am not asking it to do anything.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman