DRN-3308233
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained about the way a claim they made under their home and 
buildings insurance policy with the insurer Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited was 
handled.
All reference to Lloyds in my decision includes its agents. 
What happened
In August 2020 Mr and Mrs D made a claim under their policy for a leak which was coming 
from a washing machine and caused damage to the flooring underneath. Works were 
approved in November 2020. A contractor identified that the flooring and underneath the 
flooring would require replacing when lifting the ceramic tiles from the area of damage.  
In summary the contractor visited five times to carry out rectification repairs to the ceramic 
tiled flooring. But issues with the flooring remained  the tiles would become loose and Mr 
and Mrs D would need to contact the contractor and Lloyds again. 
In May 2021 Mr and Mrs D complained to Lloyds about the handling of the claim and the 
disruption involved in having to arrange further visits with the contractor. Mr and Mrs D said 
a table in their kitchen had to be moved and put back each time the contractor(s) came  
and as a result it had become damaged. 
In May 2021 Lloyds upheld their complaint. It paid Mr and Mrs D £500 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the poor service and workmanship issues they had 
faced. Lloyds agreed to pay the costs to repair their table. 
Mr and Mrs D brought their complaint to us. They raised new complaints about issues that 
had happened after Lloyds responded to this complaint in May 2021. This service is dealing 
with those complaints separately. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend their complaint should be upheld as she thought Lloyds 
had done enough to put things right up to May 2021.  
Mrs D didnt agree. She doesnt feel the compensation Lloyds paid is enough to reflect the 
inconvenience and upset caused. 
So as Mr and Mrs D didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Mr and Mrs D were put to disruption and inconvenience over and 
above what would be expected when having to deal with an escape of water claim. 
I can understand the frustration Mr and Mrs D felt at having to repeatedly ask the contractor 
to return to put things right. I understand this had an impact on their family enjoyment of the 
kitchen during this time and the ongoing disruption of repeated visits caused distress. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs D dont believe the compensation amount Lloyds paid is enough. 
But I think the £500 Lloyds paid for the poor service and workmanship issues is within the 
range of what we would award in similar circumstances. And I think its offer to pay the costs 
to repair the damage to their table was a reasonable approach to take. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs D. But based on the information about their claim up until 
Lloyds final response in May 2021, I think it did enough to put things right. And so this 
means Im not asking it to do anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman