DRN-3219105
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out the PPI in 1987. Although it was a joint mortgage the PPI was set up 
just to cover Mr M.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
This is not an easy complaint to decide as there is no documentary evidence from the time 
of the sale. Also, Mr and Mrs M have no recollection of taking out the policy, as is only to be 
expected given that the sale took place so long ago. So I must carefully weigh up the 
evidence available to me when reaching my decision.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage began in 1984 and they did not take out PPI at that time. It was in 
1987 that they were sold the policy, with neither party able to confirm the sales process.
Mr and Mrs M accept that they had a choice about taking out the PPI. Therefore, it seems 
that they had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it. However, they say that they 
were incorrectly advised.
The key question I need to consider is whether, in giving advice or recommendation, BoS 
took adequate steps to ensure that the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ms needs.
If there were shortcomings in the way the policy was sold, I will consider whether they 
affected Mr and Mrs Ms position and whether they would have acted differently if there had 
not been any shortcomings.
Because we dont know the sales channel, to be fair to Mr and Mrs M, we have treated it as 
an advised sale (as opposed to a non-advised information only sale). This means that BoS 
advised Mr and Mrs M to buy the PPI and, in recommending the policy to them, it needed to 
ensure that it met their needs. 
As already mentioned, BoS no longer has any paperwork from the sale. Mr and Mrs M say 
they are concerned that BoS hasnt been able to unequivocally evidence that it took all the 
necessary steps to ensure that the policy met their needs. To be clear, businesses arent 
required to keep records indefinitely and it is not surprising that it doesnt have paperwork 
from the sale in 1987, particularly as the mortgage itself ended a long time ago.
So its unclear what BoS discussed with Mr and Mrs M at the time. Mr M says he doesnt 
recall BoS asking him any questions, but its clear that he has no recollection of the sale at 
all, which is again not surprising given that it took place in 1987. 
As Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage was already held with BoS, it would have had some limited 
information about their financial circumstances, but there is no specific evidence to show the 
adviser took steps to establish whether the policy was more widely suitable for Mr M.
However, whilst its possible that BoS didnt do all it should have done, from the information 
Ive seen, I consider that the policy was suitable for him.
Mr Ms employer would have given him sick pay of six months full pay followed by six 
months half pay. However, the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and 
potentially for longer than Mr M would have received full pay for. When the policy started it 
would have covered claims for accident and sickness up to a maximum of 24 months. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr M has said, but overall, I am not persuaded that his 
level of sick pay made the policy unsuitable. The PPI could have provided a useful benefit at 
what would have been a difficult time.
Its possible that BoS could have provided more information about the policy, particularly 
about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr C wasnt affected by any of those things. For 
example, he didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions that might have been excluded 
under the policy.
Mr and Mrs M have said they werent told that they could purchase PPI from another 
provider. But BoS did not have any obligation to highlight any other products available on the 
open market. It just had to provide sufficient information about the product that it was selling.
As I consider that Mr and Mrs M had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont 
consider that further information would have caused them to change their minds. So they are 
no worse off as a result of anything BoS may have done wrong, so theres nothing BoS 
needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman