DRN-2319668
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about the handling of their buildings insurance claim by U K 
Insurance Limited (UKI).
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P made a claim under their buildings insurance policy after their home was 
affected by contaminated effluent. 
UKI accepted the claim and appointed a loss adjuster to handle this. Unfortunately, the loss 
adjuster didnt properly assess the amount of damage caused by the incident, or the level of 
contamination to the property. UKI appointed a different loss adjuster. 
Mr and Mrs P complained to UKI about its handling of the claim. UKI accepted that it had 
caused delays and had provided Mr and Mrs P with a poor service. It offered them £2,000 
compensation by way of an apology for this. Mr and Mrs P didnt accept this offer, and 
brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator agreed that UKI had provided Mr and Mrs P with a poor service, and had 
caused avoidable delays. However, she thought the compensation offered by UKI was 
reasonable in the circumstances, and explained our approach to compensation. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Matters have progressed since UKI issued its final response letter on this complaint. UKI 
therefore agreed to allow this service to consider what had happened up to April 2020, which 
was when it issued a settlement offer to Mr and Mrs P. The reason for that was because 
discussions about the settlement were ongoing between the parties when our investigator 
began looking into the complaint. 
Both parties are therefore aware that I wont be considering the settlement offer within this 
decision, only what happened up to that date. Mr and Mrs P have made a new complaint 
about UKIs proposed settlement and actions after April 2020, which were considering under 
a separate complaint reference. 
Ive therefore only considered events up to April 2020.
Having looked carefully at what happened, I see there were many issues. However, the main 
failure appears to be that of the initial loss adjuster. They failed to arrange appropriate 
investigations at the outset, and made assumptions about the level of damage without 
supporting evidence. 
Its accepted by UKI that the loss adjuster ought to have moved Mr and Mrs P into 
alternative accommodation so that soil investigations could take place, but this wasnt done. 
If this had been done, the claim couldve progressed far sooner, but its also the case that Mr 
and Mrs P wouldnt have had to live with the ammonia vapour around the property for so 
long. I note that soil samples werent taken until August 2019, which was over a year after 
the incident.
I think the initial loss adjusters poor handling of the matter caused Mr and Mrs P a great 
deal of worry. Also, they were caused inconvenience by spending time on matters which 
werent necessary at that stage (such as obtaining quotes from various suppliers), because 
the cause of damage hadnt been confirmed at that time, nor was it confirmed that the leak 
had stopped. Its also the case that not all the electrics were working properly whilst they 
were still living there.
UKI then recognised its initial loss adjuster had handled the claim badly, and arranged for a 
new loss adjuster to be appointed, which was appropriate. However, it seems the claim was 
delayed by around a year as a result of the initial loss adjusters errors. 
UKI also arranged for Mr and Mrs P to move into alternative accommodation. I note Mr and 
Mrs P say this happened at short notice, though I dont think it did. I see that the 
arrangements for them to move into alternative accommodation took a few months. The loss 
adjuster instructed a rental claims handler to find a similar property to theirs in April 2019, 
and Mr and Mrs P were included in those discussions throughout May, June and July 2019.
However, there were some other minor errors. For example, I see that in 2019, a specialist 
working for UKI provided a report which included details of a different incident. Whilst I agree 
this was unprofessional, Mr and Mrs P noticed the error and so it didnt appear to cause any 
particular issues.
In February 2020, UKI put forward two solutions that had been suggested by its experts to 
resolve the damage to the property. It set out at that point that it thought the limit of its 
liability was £500,065 (plus ongoing alternative accommodation costs, and the contents 
settlement). This was based on the lower cost solution. However, UKI recognised that its 
proposed solution may not be Mr and Mrs Ps desired option, and so it confirmed it would 
release £5,000 to them, so that they could spend this on professional fees to explore the 
options open to them if they accepted a cash settlement. I think that was reasonable. 
UKI then provided Mr and Mrs P with the schedule of works prepared for the two solutions. 
In response, Mr and Mrs P raised some concerns about the schedule of works, and 
therefore the cost of those solutions quoted by UKI. I understand UKI considered those 
points, and then later put forward its settlement in April 2020.
All parties recognise that this is a very complex claim. Whilst I can understand Mr and 
Mrs Ps frustration with the length of time taken for UKI to put forward a solution, its also the 
case that UKI was reliant on the opinion of its specialists and it needed to wait for 
appropriate investigations to take place before possible solutions were discussed. The 
situation was also complicated by the involvement of the third-party water company. Taking 
all of that into account, I dont think UKI caused any unavoidable delays after the second 
loss adjuster was appointed. 
Taking into consideration the impact that UKIs poor service had on Mr and Mrs P that Ive 
set out above, and the avoidable delay of around a year, I think the compensation figure of 
£2,000 is reasonable. My final decision
U K Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £2,000 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that UKI should pay £2,000 (if it hasnt already done so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman