DRN-3367116
The complaint
Mr K complains about an invoice he has received from Sanderson Drake Limited (SDL) for 
work theyve carried out on a claim against a lender. 
What happened
Mr K says he took out loans with Lender A and was then approached by SDL to pursue a 
claim against Lender A regarding the affordability of the loans. Lender A then upheld the 
claim and offered a reduction in the balance owed, so SDL sent Mr K an invoice for their fee.  
Mr K says he doesnt know how SDL obtained his details but believes they colluded with 
Lender A to get his details and then contacted him direct and gave him assurances they 
would wipe off the debt. So, Mr K complained to SDL. 
SDL responded and explained Mr K first made an enquiry with them through a claims 
website. SDL said they then sent Mr K some information followed by an agreement for Mr K 
to sign. SDL said this agreement set out their fees and charges and, given their involvement 
led to a successful outcome, they feel the invoice is fair.    
Our investigator looked into things for Mr K. She thought SDL hadnt acted unreasonably in 
pursuing Mr Ks claim and charging him a fee. Mr K disagreed so the matter has come to me 
for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr K will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Its clear theres a dispute here about how SDL first came to be involved. Mr K says SDL 
approached him and hes uncertain how they got his details. SDL say Mr K approached 
them by making an enquiry through a website. Given the different accounts, Ive looked at 
the evidence and what I think is more likely to have happened than not.  
SDL have provided a signed and dated instruction form and a Letter of Authority (LoA) 
authorising them to act in a claim against Lender A. Theyve also provided an email Mr K 
sent them with an identification document. SDL have also provided a signed and dated 
Conditional Fee Agreement (CFA). 
Under a section headed Our Fees, it says Where we deem your claim successful, we 
charge a fee of 36% inclusive of VAT calculated on the total redress offered. SDL say this 
includes claims which have led to a balance reduction. The CFA goes further to say, in the 
case of a balance reduction, a payment plan must be set up within seven days of the offer. I 
think its also important to note the CFA explains Mr K is able to complain directly to Lender 
A at no cost. It also contains a declaration, above where Mr K has signed, which says, I 
confirm that I have received and am aware that I am entering into this legally binding [CFA] 
and I am also aware that I may contact [SDL] should I not understand any points within this 
document    
Ive seen an email from Lender A to SDL confirming they had upheld the claim and setting 
out the terms of their offer. This says the total award is £6,583.82 and this had been set off 
against the outstanding balance of £7,828.17, leaving an outstanding balance of £1,244.35. I 
can see SDL notify Mr K of this offer and he calls them to discuss the offer. Ive listened to a 
recording of this call and Mr K confirms he has accepted the offer directly with Lender A and 
says going forward obviously Ive got to pay you guys. The call handler explains the 
invoice is £2,370.18. Mr K asks if he can pay in instalments and the call handler says he can 
arrange for their accounts team to speak with Mr K. Mr K then follows this up with an email 
which says Yes I accept the offer, please process and send me your invoice. Mr K sends 
another email asking SDL to send him a payment plan. SDL respond and ask Mr K what 
payment plan hed like to propose and he asks them to divide the amount by 12 months. 
SDL confirm their acceptance to this and explain the amount Mr K would need to pay. SDL 
say no payments have been made.    
Its clear from Mr Ks communication with SDL that hes engaging in the process and Ive 
seen no evidence that he, at any point in the early stages of SDLs involvement, queries how 
they got his details or how they came to be involved. SDL had Mr Ks details in order to send 
him the documents he was required to sign. In view of this, and the fact that Mr K didnt 
challenge SDL at this point, I believe its more likely than not that Mr K made the initial 
enquiry with SDL. From that point, I dont think its unreasonable for SDL to have pursued a 
claim on Mr Ks behalf as they have signed instructions authorising them to. 
 
It follows therefore that I dont think its unreasonable for SDL to charge a fee. The 
information shows they made the claim to Lender A on Mr Ks behalf and this led to a 
successful outcome. I think the CFA clearly sets out the position on fees and, in particular, 
that a fee is owed in the event of a successful claim. I think the information also shows Mr K 
was aware a fee is owed as he discusses this with SDL during a phone call and also asks for 
their invoice in an email. I cant see that Mr K at any point during this communication 
challenges SDL on why theyre charging him fees. 
I note Mr K feels SDL have colluded with Lender A and have an arrangement in place 
whereby Lender A share customer details with SDL who then target vulnerable customers by 
approaching them direct to represent them in a claim. Mr K says the debt is then passed 
from Lender A to SDL. I do acknowledge Mr Ks comments and its clear he has strong 
feelings about this. But, Im not persuaded thats the case. Firstly, I havent seen any 
information which suggests there is any collusion between SDL and Lender A, but I note    
Mr K says he has referred this to the regulator to look into. Secondly, I cant see the debt is 
passed over as the fee being charged by SDL isnt equivalent to the balance reduction 
offered by Lender A. The fee charged by SDL represents 36% of the balance reduction  
which is in line with the fees set out in the CFA.      
I can see Mr K has provided information which he says shows he didnt fully understand the 
CFA. I have carefully considered the information Mr K has provided and whether this affects 
what I think is fair and reasonable. Im sorry to learn about the impact on Mr K and Im sorry 
to disappoint Mr K but Im not persuaded this means SDL should waive their invoice. 
I cant see Mr K raised any queries with SDL about any terms within the CFA which he didnt 
understand. And, the CFA did have a declaration positioned immediately above where Mr K 
was required to sign which says Mr K can contact SDL if hes unsure about any part of the 
CFA. I cant see Mr K raised any queries about the fees or the work SDL would be carrying 
out while they were dealing with his claim. In addition to this, when SDL discuss the fee with 
Mr K verbally, I cant see he challenged this or raised any issues. Instead, Mr K accepts that a fee is owed. So, I cant say Mr K wasnt aware that a fee will need to be paid for SDLs 
service.        
Taking this all into account, I dont think its unreasonable for SDL to have acted in the claim 
against Lender A. And, given the claim led to a successful outcome, its not unfair for them to 
issue an invoice which is in line with their CFA.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman