DRN-3124582
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains about the increase in the foreign exchange 
rates it is being charged by Lloyds Bank PLC, and about the customer service it has 
received. 
Mr G, the director of S, brings the complaint on S's behalf.
What happened
In June 2021, Mr G complained to Lloyds. He said that Lloyds had unfairly increased its 
currency rate, which would have a detrimental effect on his business. He was also unhappy 
with Lloyds decision to close branches, including his local branch, the removal of his 
dedicated relationship manager and the time hed had to wait on the phone to speak with the 
right person. He felt strongly that the quality of service he had received from Lloyds was not 
good enough, particularly given he was a long-standing customer.
In August 2021, Lloyds responded. Lloyds agreed that Mr G had been required to wait on 
the phone too long to speak to someone about his account. Lloyds apologised and paid S 
£50 to compensate for this. However, Lloyds declined the other aspects of Ss complaint. It 
said:
Lloyds foreign exchange rates were affected by a number of factors and were in line 
with the rates offered by its competitors
Its decision to close a branch was not made lightly but reflected the changes in 
customer behaviour, with customers increasingly wanting to access services in 
different ways, including by telephone and online
Lloyds had made a business decision to only offer a dedicated relationship manager 
to customers with a higher turnover, but S would continue to have access to Lloyds 
business banking team.
Not content with this response, Mr G brought Ss complaint to our service. 
Our investigator considered Ss complaint. She said that the changes Mr G had experienced 
were the result of commercial decisions taken by the bank, which it was permitted to make. 
Although these decisions had caused the prices Lloyds charged S for its foreign currency 
transactions to increase, and had affected the quality of service S received, Lloyds had 
introduced these changes in line with the terms and conditions of Ss account, including by 
giving sufficient notice.
Mr G still did not think Lloyds actions were fair. He said that Lloyds may have acted within 
the terms and conditions of the account but the extent of the increase in its foreign currency 
rates was substantial. He described the £50 paid by Lloyds as paltry given the hours he had 
spent on the phone waiting to get through; and he acknowledged the online services offered 
by Lloyds but expressed his frustration at not being able to speak quickly with the right 
person to conduct his business.
As Mr G did not agree with our investigators view, the matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has described the many pressures on S and his concern about the services provided 
to small businesses by large banks. Some of these concerns go beyond the remit of our 
Service. In considering Ss complaint against Lloyds, I have focussed on whether Lloyds 
acted fairly and reasonably in how it increased the rates it charged S for foreign currency 
transactions and the broader customer service it provided S.
As has been explained by our investigator, it is for Lloyds to set the prices it charges for its 
services. Therefore, I cannot say that Lloyds acted unfairly in increasing its foreign currency 
rates, which applied to similar firms across the market (ie not just to S) and were introduced 
in accordance with the terms and conditions of Ss account. While I acknowledge the 
significant effect of this price rise on Ss business, particularly in the broader context of a 
difficult international trading environment and many other increases in costs, I cannot say 
that Lloyds acted unfairly or unreasonably in making this change.
I can also appreciate why Mr G feels S has suffered from changes in Lloyds customer 
service. However, it is not for our Service to intervene in where Lloyds decides to open or 
close branches, or in how it organises its relationship managers. Both these changes are 
commercial decisions for Lloyds. 
Lloyds has acknowledged that, in part due to the operational challenges of the pandemic, it 
was unable to answer calls as quickly as it would like. It has recognised this and paid S £50 
in compensation. Mr G does not believe this amount to be sufficient but, as our investigator 
has explained, in determining what we believe would be reasonable to put things right, we 
consider the inconvenience to S. In the circumstances of Ss complaint, this amount of 
compensation is broadly consistent with what I would expect.
I am aware that this will not be the answer Mr G would like. S is operating in difficult 
conditions and I acknowledge Mr G feels strongly that the banks are not serving small 
businesses well. However, with regard to the actions of Lloyds brought to us in this 
complaint, I cannot say that Lloyds has acted unfairly or unreasonably, or that it need take 
any further action. It is clearly for S to decide which bank to use for the banking services it 
requires. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman