DRN-2025515
The complaint
Miss B complains that Nationwide Building Society closed her account and registered a 
marker at CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
Nationwide wrote to Miss B in August 2019 to say that her account would be closed. She 
found out that it had registered a CIFAS marker. She says she wasnt able to open an 
account elsewhere and says that she hasnt been involved in any fraud.
Nationwide said that it had received a report of fraudulent funds paid into her account. All of 
that money was withdrawn and there was a small overdraft remaining. So, it wouldnt 
remove the CIFAS marker.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that:
- Miss B had said she had lost her card in the summer of 2019 and wasnt using her 
account. She hadnt given a consistent explanation of whether her PIN had been 
written down or not. And she had said at one time that when she had written it down 
it had been incorrect.
- Access to online banking was set up on her account on 21 July 2019. That had 
required a one-time passcode sent to the email account registered since 2017 to be 
entered correctly and the answers to memorable questions given. New payees had 
been set up which required her card and PIN.
- A credit of over £13,000 was paid in on 26 July 2019 and quickly moved out to the 
existing payees. There was a cash withdrawal and some payments were pre 
authorised and resulted in the overdraft when applied to her account.
- There was no explanation of how an unknown third party had obtained Miss Bs 
details, and which would have required access to her email account. Although she 
said she had been approached on social media about making money through the use 
of her account details she insisted she hadnt done so.
- Nationwide made a commercial decision to close her account and there were 
sufficient grounds for the marker at CIFAS to be registered.
Miss B, who is represented in this complaint, did not agree. She wanted a review of what 
happened and hadnt been told about the fraudulent credit by Nationwide. She is innocent 
and doesnt know anything about the fraud.  Her representative said that they were looking 
for any more information including the conversation on social media. Miss B needs an 
account elsewhere and believed that this marker is affecting her ability to obtain one.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Nationwide 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
I dont have any new evidence to consider. I wont be able to say exactly what happened but 
am considering what is most likely. Our investigator has set out the security information 
relating to Miss B that would be required to register for online banking access and set up the 
payees. I appreciate this happened in July 2019 after she had the account for some time. 
But it seems to me that this was done in preparation for the fraudulent money to be paid in. 
There is no evidence her email account had been hacked. Miss B says she had applied for a 
new bus pass that she lost at the time she lost her card. But there was no report made to 
Nationwide of the loss of her card. And she has been inconsistent about how her PIN was 
stored. 
Having balanced all the information I find that Miss B either used or allowed her account to 
be used to receive this money. I dont find any plausible explanation for how an unknown 
third party could have done so. So, she was a witting participant. This finding means that she 
didnt necessarily have to know about how the fraudulent credit was obtained but that she 
allowed her account to be used for purposes she couldnt reasonably think were legitimate.
Nationwide says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Miss B received fraudulent funds 
into her account. So, Ive looked at whether Nationwide was fair to apply the marker, based 
on the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the 
business must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set 
by CIFAS. This essentially means that Nationwide needs to have enough information to 
make a formal report to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are 
reasonable grounds to believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere 
suspicion. 
Having reviewed Miss Bs account of events and the evidence Nationwide has provided, Im 
satisfied that Nationwide had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In 
coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Miss B received fraudulent funds into her account and didnt report this to Nationwide 
at the time.
- She allowed the use of her account in this way and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- Nationwide had grounds to believe that Miss B had knowingly been involved in the 
dispersal of fraudulently obtained funds based on the evidence it had.
Im afraid I dont have a reasonable basis to require Nationwide to do anything further and I 
know that Miss B and her representative will be very disappointed by this.
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman