DRN-1764987
The complaint
Ms C complained that Santander UK Plc registered a fraud prevention marker against her 
without due cause. 
What happened
In 2014 after Ms C applied for an account with Santander, they declined her application and 
referred her details to Cifas as they thought she had provided false documents. Ms C didnt 
become aware of the Cifas loading until June 2019 when her husbands car insurance 
company wrote to them to say they were taking her off the policy due to discovering a Cifas 
marker in her name. 
Ms C complained to Santander, who maintained that they were correct in referring her 
details to Cifas. Ms C wasnt happy, so she brought her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator reviewed the evidence and felt there wasnt enough evidence to suggest Ms C 
had submitted fraudulent documents so asked Santander to remove the Cifas marker, which 
they accepted. She also recommended that Ms C be paid £350 in recognition of the distress 
and inconvenience the Cifas marker had caused her, which they agreed to do. But Ms C 
didnt agree as she felt this amount of money did not represent the distress and 
inconvenience she had suffered. So it has come to me to make a decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons. Ill explain why.
As Santander agreed to remove the Cifas loading, I do not need to make a decision as to the 
loading itself. What remains in dispute is what represents a fair and reasonable payment in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience Ms C suffered as a result of the Cifas loading. 
In order to determine this, I have thoroughly reviewed Ms Cs testimony across the duration 
of her case and carefully considered the impact the loading had on her. 
Whilst the Cifas marker was originally loaded in 2014, Ms C was not aware of it until her 
name was removed from her husbands car insurance policy in June 2019. So it appears 
that whilst the Cifas was loaded against Ms C for longer, the impact on her began in June 
2019. From reviewing the evidence and Ms Cs testimony it does appear to have caused her 
husbands insurers to remove her from the policy meaning that she could not drive their car 
for around seven months before we asked them to remove the Cifas loading. As a result she 
had to rely on her husband to drive her places or use public transport. I have noted Ms C 
found ways to travel and complete necessary tasks out of the house, but I can see how not 
being able to drive herself to do so would have caused her inconvenience. 
Ms C also explained the Cifas marker had caused her severe embarrassment and distress. 
She is a retired professional and was concerned that this could have ruined her reputation, 
and noted that had she been employed at the time she could have lost her employment. 
Fortunately as she didnt tell anyone outside of her immediate family, there is no risk that her 
professional reputation would have been damaged by this. Previous employers or 
colleagues would not have known of the Cifas marker, and the Cifas marker has now been 
removed so I cannot say that this has damaged her professional reputation in any way. But I 
understand that she felt distressed over this period, and I am sorry to read about this. 
Putting things right
I am sorry as I know she will be disappointed to read this, but having considered the 
available evidence I am satisfied that £350 is a suitable amount to pay in reflection of the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Ms C.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander should pay Ms C £350 for the distress and inconvenience 
they caused Ms C, minus any they may have already paid her from this amount.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman