DRN-3017614
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H have complained about British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) dealt 
with a claim under their home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr H and Mrs Hs electricity went off in their home. So, they contacted British Gas to send an 
electrician. When the electrician visited, he found a fault and restored the power. However, a 
couple of days later, the electricity went off again. After further investigation, a water leak 
was found under the floor. So, an electrician disconnected the power in that part of the 
house.
Mr H and Mrs H arranged for a plumber to fix the water leak and then arranged for British 
Gas to reconnect the electrics. However, when the British Gas engineer visited, he carried 
out some tests and said it wasnt safe to reconnect the electrics.
Mr H and Mrs H complained to British Gas, including about the conduct of the engineer. 
When British Gas replied it said it had been unable to carry out a repair when the engineer 
visited because there was still water damage present and it would have been unsafe to 
reconnect the electrics. It said the damage was caused by an escape of water and that its 
policy didnt cover damage covered by other types of insurance. However, it accepted Mr H 
and Mrs H had received a poor level of service and offered £180 as a gesture of goodwill.
When Mr H and Mrs H complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. He said British Gas had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
by not dealing with the damage and that £180 was appropriate to address the poor service.
As Mr H and Mrs H didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont require British Gas to do anything further. I will explain why.
Mr H and Mrs H contacted British Gas a few times because their electricity kept going off. 
British Gas identified there was an escape of water entering their home, which had damaged 
the electrics. The policy documents said:
Any damage thats covered by other kinds of insurance
Your product doesnt include repairing or replacing any damage caused by extreme weather, 
flooding, escape of water, structural issues, fire or explosions  or any other kind of damage 
thats normally covered by household insurance  unless your product specifically includes 
it.
So, from what Ive seen, the damage wasnt covered under the terms of the policy. I also 
note that Mr H and Mrs H made a claim under their household insurance, which their insurer 
seemed to deal with. Im aware that Mr H and Mrs H have also said British Gas should have 
dealt with its fair share, including because their British Gas policy covered accidental 
damage, which is often covered by home insurance. However, I havent seen anything to 
suggest it was unreasonable for British Gas to say the claim wasnt covered under the policy 
based on its engineers investigations to find the cause of the damage to the electrics.
Mr H and Mrs H have said British Gas should have specifically highlighted the relevant part 
of the policy. Ive read the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) and can see that 
this didnt say about cover under other insurance policies. But I wouldnt expect this 
document, which is meant to provide a short summary of the product, to include the full 
details as described in the policy booklet. The IPID also said full information on the product 
was in the terms and conditions. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr H and Mrs H have also said their premium should be refunded. However, Im not 
persuaded this should happen. British Gas did visit to look at the electrics and switched off 
the power. However, it then identified that the cause was something that wasnt covered by 
the policy. Ive also havent seen anything to suggest Mr H and Mrs H couldnt have 
benefitted from the policy if they had made a claim for something that was covered by it. 
Im aware that Mr H and Mrs H were concerned about some of the service they received 
from British Gas. Looking at what happened, I can see that there were issues with engineers 
visiting, that the engineers might not always have clearly explained their findings and that Mr 
H and Mrs H were concerned about the attitude of an engineer. British Gas accepted there 
had been issues and offered £180 as a gesture of goodwill. In the circumstances, I think that 
was reasonable and in line with what I would have said it should pay. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that I dont require British Gas Insurance 
Limited to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman