DRN-4080891
The complaint
Mr G complains about Financial Administration Services Limited, referred to as Fidelity or 
the business. 
In short, he complains about issues relating to the following topics: 
 Call handling. 
 Complaint handling. 
 Health issues not being considered. 
 Letters sent
What happened
On 15 March 2023, I issued my provisional decision, a copy of which is stated below and 
forms part of my final decision. In the decision, I said: 
 
Im going to uphold this complaint. On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite 
what Fidelity says, Im not persuaded it has adequately considered Mr Gs health challenges 
when dealing with him.
 
Although Fidelity has upheld and paid compensation in respect of the various complaint 
points, I think it should pay Mr G £250 compensation in addition to the compensation it has 
paid to date. This is to mark the material impact the businesss shortcomings have had on 
Mr Gs health, which I accept is difficult to quantify. 
Im aware that the business has already paid Mr G several hundred pounds in compensation 
as per its FRL dated 1 July 2021. I note the investigator says that in respect of errors made 
between 14 May 2020 and 3 December 2021 the business has already paid Mr G £725  
including the compensation offered in July 2021. But that notwithstanding, provisionally I 
think it should still pay Mr G another £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
But before I explain why I have decided to award a further amount to Mr G, I think its still 
important for me to say just how sorry I am about the health challenges faced by him and 
also to recognise the strength of feeling he has about this matter. Hes provided detailed 
submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I 
hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, 
and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading  Im aware that there are many re-occurring themes  its not what Im 
required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, 
but it doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent points. 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr G and the business, and reach what I 
think is an independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. Its not 
my role to punish the business for any regulatory breaches either, thats the role of the 
industry regulator the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA). My role is to decide if Fidelity 
has done anything wrong and where appropriate award redress for any financial losses for 
which its responsible and/or compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened. 
Im aware Mr G has questions about why the business acted in the way that it did, but my 
not seeking to answer these questions doesnt prevent me from reaching a decision in this 
case. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, I cant say that the investigators approach in this 
instance was unreasonable given the number of recorded calls between Mr G and the 
business. In other words, I dont think the investigator in listening to a selection of the calls  
rather than listen to each and every single call available  that broadly covered the same 
issues  has done anything wrong.
Ive also listened to a number of the calls, covering several dates, including the call that 
lasted over three and a half hours, the hour and a half calls, as well as previous transcripts, 
in order to get a better understanding of Mr Gs issues. Having done so, I appreciate where 
hes coming from with regards to his complaint about call handling and his feelings of 
complete desperation, helplessness, and distress. 
I note Mr G was extremely frustrated, Im not surprised given the number of calls made, 
complaints raised, and number of people spoken to. Whilst I note Fidelity says, Mr Gs 
conduct has caused a number of complaints making it challenging for our telephone team to 
deal with his requests, I dont think it shouldve ever got to the stage where Mr G felt he had 
no option but to keep calling, chasing because he wasnt getting the answers he wanted. I 
appreciate Mr G wasnt always easy to deal with on the phones but, as he made abundantly 
clear, he was elderly, living on his own, and had many health challenges and concerns, 
whilst spending vast amounts of time trying to sort out administrative shortcomings on the 
part of the business. In any case, Im not here to consider Mr Gs actions and decide 
whether, or not, hes done anything wrong.
Im aware a business cant provide a perfect service all of the time  its unlikely that every 
call handler will know everything about the system/business or that Mr G will speak to 
someone who instantly knows the history of his issues. I dont think Mr G expects this either, 
but unresolved issue after unresolved issue didnt help matters. 
I dont think having calls deliberately terminated is acceptable just because the call operative 
might not be able to deal with Mr G, especially if he was still speaking. I appreciate the 
business says that it doesnt terminate calls without politely informing the caller first  
presumably having exercised all avenues to try and help the caller first  and thats within its 
guidelines. Whilst I understand that, and Im not suggesting that all calls were deliberately 
terminated to cause Mr G distress and inconvenience, it unfortunately had that effect on him, 
thus compounding the issues.
I appreciate the business generally tried to help Mr G, but I think on balance it couldve done 
so with greater compassion and understanding. I note in one of the calls Mr G described 
feelings of self-harm, and even suicide given everything that was going on, which is far from 
ideal. Im aware that Mr G didnt want to be a nuisance but just wanted to sort his issues out. The above notwithstanding, I understand it wasnt always possible to connect him to the 
person that he wanted to speak to. On balance, Im persuaded that Fidelity took some 
reasonable steps to try and keep on top of the communication with him but obviously fell 
short on numerous occasions too. As before, I dont think any shortcomings were deliberate, 
and certainly not done so with the intention of causing him any distress and inconvenience, 
even though it had this effect on him. If they had, I wouldve certainly considered greater 
compensation. 
Im aware that the staff from the offices were working from home, so it wasnt always 
possible to connect Mr G to the right person when he wanted to speak to them. Even if a 
staff member was working, there were times when it wasnt possible to put Mr G through to 
because that staff member was dealing with other customers. In that situation I cant say that 
the business did anything wrong by not prioritising Mr Gs issue over that of another 
customer even though I appreciate the issue was very important to Mr G.
Whilst I appreciate that no guarantees were ever given, it wouldnt have helped matters if Mr 
G was told/led to believe that hed be called back/contacted but wasnt. Whilst there appears 
to be some issue about his contact details, and Im aware that owing to Mr Gs health issues 
he can only speak to the business when he was feeling well enough to do so, this still 
wouldve no doubt added to the distress and inconvenience caused.
Im aware the business also provides a service where Mr G can speak to a specific member 
of staff but via an appointment and he can arrange a call when its suitable for him. But I 
cant blame him for not having much faith in that happening and/or it not being best option 
for him given his health. 
Despite what Mr G says, I cant blame the business for some of its operatives not wishing to 
give him their surnames. Its not something Fidelity operatives were required to do because 
it involves disclosing personal information. So, in my opinion and on balance, the operatives 
who refused to provide their surnames have done nothing wrong. Im aware Mr G says he 
has to accept that even though he thinks its a poor management decision on behalf of the 
business.
I note its also not a common industry practice for operatives to give their full names  this 
isnt the same as meeting a random person providing a service, and theyre refusing to 
provide their details as suggested by Mr G. That said, I can see that it was important for him 
to have some confidence, consistency and/or reference point, especially given his health 
challenges, but Im also aware that Fidelitys system will have generally made a note of the 
last person to have any dealings with Mr G.
Im aware from the conversations that Mr G had with Fidelity, he told the business about his 
health issues. I also note the investigator says that he didnt ask the business to add this to 
his account. Be that as it may, Fidelity probably couldve made some kind of note on file so 
that call handlers would generally be aware of some of the challenges faced by Mr G rather 
than draw premature conclusions about him. I dont think this specifically required him to 
instruct Fidelity to do so, in order for it to provide a better service. 
I note that Fidelity has since added a note to their record  theres been a memo since 1 
May 2020  so that call handlers will be aware of Mr Gs situation from the outset  which I 
think is a positive step and will no doubt assist in dealing with Mr G, but probably couldve 
been done a lot sooner. I dont think its useful for Mr G, that operatives didnt generally know 
or appreciate why he was (understandably) so upset.
Based on the letter dated 9 December 2021, Im satisfied that Fidelity took action to support 
Mr G, including providing alternative actions where it cant provide an answer in relation to an inbound call. I appreciate that its not always possible to provide an answer immediately 
over the phone. On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that Fidelity have 
taken steps to address some health challenges faced by Mr G that might prevent him from 
effectively communicating with the business. 
I appreciate what Mr G says about complaint handling. However, complaint handling on its 
own isnt a regulated activity, and therefore isnt something Id ordinarily be able to consider. 
However, in this instance and on balance, I agree with the investigator that the complaint 
handling is associated to other regulated activities related to this complaint and therefore is 
something that I can consider. And thats partly why Ive decided to award a separate 
compensation for the way that this whole complaint was dealt with and its impact on Mr Gs 
health.
Despite Mr Gs concerns about the letters and page numbering, I cant say that the business 
has done anything wrong. Im satisfied that the envelopes as well as page numbering is a 
matter for the business to deal with and its not for us to tell the business how it should run 
its affairs. If Mr G has any concerns regarding whether or not hes received a whole 
document, he can always call the business and verify if necessary. I appreciate he may 
disagree given his experience, but this option is/was nevertheless open to him.
Despite Mr Gs other concerns, I cant say that his letters have been delivered to an incorrect 
address or that theyve been intercepted by an unauthorised third-party. I appreciate hes 
unhappy that the postman on a previous occasion had to partially open a letter to get sight of 
the address/details, but that hasnt resulted in any detriment to him. Im also aware Mr G 
accepts that envelopes have to be bigger than the document theyre carrying, so some 
movement of the letter can take place, thats not something I can blame the business for. 
I also note that Fidelity like most, if not all, financial institutions, has various steps in place to 
ensure that its talking to the right people. Therefore, I cant say that Mr Gs account was 
ever at risk from the postman or any unknown third party. Or that Mr G is entitled to any 
additional redress based on his concerns about this issue. Furthermore, notwithstanding 
what Mr G says, I cant see that any of his concerns in relation to the letters have caused 
him any financial loss or disadvantage. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think the latest offer by the business following 
its review of the issues in July 2021 in which it increased its offer of compensation is broadly 
fair and reasonable. Subject to my findings, Ive no issue with what the business has already 
offered and paid.
Im mindful that Mr G wants a sizeable sum by way of compensation and that hes prepared 
and willing to donate most if not all of his compensation to charity. Be that as it may, Mr Gs 
selflessness isnt a reason to ask the business to pay more compensation. 
I appreciate Mr G will be thoroughly disappointed that Ive upheld the complaint but still 
havent given him what he wants, and that my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate his frustration, Im not going to ask the business to do anything other than pay 
him an additional £250 compensation, separate to what hes been paid to date. 
The above notwithstanding, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im 
unable to give Mr G what he wants
I gave the parties an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision and provide any 
further submissions they wished me to consider before I considered my final decision. 
Fidelity responded and said that it accepted my provisional decision. In short, it said:We do not intend to dispute the findings of the ombudsman and we accept this decision.
Mr G also responded but didnt accept my provisional decision. In a phone call with the 
investigator, he made the following key points: 
Hes unhappy that our letter to him, containing the provisional decision, had similar 
problems as Fidelity in that the address was obscured from the address window.  
He should go back to the beginning of his notes to consider his response, but he 
doesnt have the time/ability to. Hes elderly, living on his own with many health 
issues so he cant do that. 
Theres mention that he never asked Fidelity to mark down the state of his health, but 
this isnt true, however when he spoke to the business there was no record. 
Hes got a batch of complaints that from memory generated around £725 
compensation. But despite my upholding the complaint, he doesnt think the redress 
is fair or reasonable. 
There are many comments made. He doesnt generally agree that its ok not to listen 
to all the calls in order to establish the impact on his health. 
Regarding the three-and-a-half-hour-long call, he was in complete desperation, there 
was no dialogue (with the business) that left him wondering what was going on. 
The decision doesnt mention that his complaint is regarding capital gains tax and 
that he needed to pay tax. But during that call, the agent/operative didnt seem to 
know what he was talking about. 
Hes unhappy that Fidelity is/was finding dealing with him challenging by virtue of his 
conduct. Hes not had an opportunity to respond to that complaint. 
Ive upheld the complaint but havent given him the generous compensation hes 
after. Most of his many complaints are upheld which suggests that something is 
wrong  the system is broken.
My decision is sensible, and hes very grateful for my putting thought into it to really 
try and understand the case from his point of view. But despite my efforts, and his 
gratitude, with all due respect Im a long away short of understanding the depth of 
despair he was/is in. He would ask me to reconsider the compensation amount. Hes 
been through hell and is still going through hell with social services. 
Hes not in a position to say what amount hed like. 
No disrespect to me, and he doesnt want to offend me as Ive put a lot of thought 
into how utterly devastated he was, but he doesnt think Ive come close to the 
amount he should be awarded.  
Hed very much like me to listen to the current call to get a proper understanding of 
his despair. As well as the previous call relating to his situation and the business 
failing to record information about his health. 
The self-seal envelopes could be opened by anyone, and his information taken. The 
envelope doesnt have to be damaged, so I cant say whether his personal data has 
been taken or not. 
On many occasions he was promised hed speak to one person, but this didnt 
happen. 
There were other issues the business said it would investigate but didnt. 
When Fidelity couldnt answer his questions, it decided to pull the plug. 
He cant express the depth of despair this whole saga has had on his health. Hes 
done his best to deal with this case and has put in so much effort. 
Hes sorry for not being coherent but is grateful for the efforts put into dealing with his 
complaint.  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, in light of the latest submissions from Mr G, Im not persuaded to change 
my mind. My decision to uphold this complaint remains the same, principally for the same 
reasons as set out in my provisional decision. 
In other words, and on balance, Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, and 
have been considered by me, in my provisional decision. On the face of the evidence, and 
on balance, I still think that although Fidelity has upheld and paid compensation in respect of 
the various complaint points, it should pay Mr G £250 compensation in addition to the 
compensation it has paid to date. This is to mark the material impact the businesss 
shortcomings have had on Mr Gs health, which I still accept is difficult to quantify. 
I still maintain that Mr G shouldnt have had to call the business as many times as he did to 
try and resolve his issues  initially relating to queries regarding tax. 
Im also aware that the business has already paid Mr G several hundred pounds in 
compensation as per its FRL dated 1 July 2021. I note the investigator says that in respect of 
errors made between 14 May 2020 and 3 December 2021 the business has already paid Mr 
G £725  including the compensation offered in July 2021. Despite what it might show about 
the level of service provided to Mr G, this isnt of itself a reason to increase the level of 
compensation in this case  evidently, hes been compensated for the previous errors. 
Im most grateful to Mr G for his kind comments and thoughtful observations regarding my 
provisional decision. But Im sorry that he doesnt agree with my conclusion and doesnt feel 
that Ive grasped the true extent of the errors on his health. 
Despite what Mr G says, I still think an additional £250 compensation in this instance is 
broadly fair and reasonable for the reasons Ive set out in my provisional decision and 
nothing he says persuades me to change my mind.  
Im mindful of Mr Gs latest observations, but as I mentioned in my provisional decision, I 
note he told the business about his health issues. I also note the investigator says that he 
didnt ask the business to add this to his account, although Mr G disagrees with this. In any 
case, Fidelity probably couldve made some kind of note on file so that call handlers would 
generally be aware of some of the challenges faced by Mr G rather than draw premature 
conclusions about him. I still dont think this specifically required him to instruct Fidelity to do 
so  even though Mr G says he made his intentions clear  in order for it to provide a better 
service. 
I note that Fidelity has since added a note to their record  theres been a memo since 1 
May 2020  so that call handlers will be aware of Mr Gs situation from the outset  which I 
think is a positive step and will no doubt assist in dealing with Mr G, but probably couldve 
been done a lot sooner. I still dont think its useful for Mr G, that operatives didnt generally 
know or appreciate why he was (understandably) so upset.
I note what Mr G says about having an opportunity to respond to the business regarding his 
conduct. But in this case, Im only considering the conduct of the business. Im not looking at 
whether or not Mr G has done anything wrong. 
Im mindful that Mr G still wants a sizeable sum by way of compensation and that hes 
prepared and willing to donate all of his compensation to charity. Be that as it may, I have to reiterate that Mr Gs selflessness isnt a reason to ask the business to pay more 
compensation. 
I appreciate Mr G will be thoroughly disappointed that despite his latest submissions Ive still 
not been persuaded to change my mind. In other words, Ive upheld the complaint but still 
havent given him what he wants, and that my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate his frustration, Im not going to ask the business to do anything other than pay 
him an additional £250 compensation, separate to what hes been paid to date. 
The above notwithstanding, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im still 
unable to give Mr G what he wants. 
Putting things right
Financial Administration Services Limited should pay Mr G £250 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused, separate to any amount it has already paid to date.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
Financial Administration Services Limited should pay Mr G redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman