DRN-3835651
The complaint
Mr D complains that he was mis sold his commercial vehicle insurance policy by Extracover 
Insurance Company Limited trading as Zego.
Reference to Zego includes its agents.
What happened
Mr D purchased a commercial vehicle insurance policy from Zego. The policy was designed 
to work as a top up, adding cover for hire and reward to Mr Ds social domestic and 
pleasure (SDP) cover provided by another insurer.
Mr D complains that this policy was mis-sold to him. He says Zego should have known his 
SDP policy wouldnt have been valid if he used his vehicle for hire and reward  even if 
insured by another provider like Zego. Hes said the cover wasnt fit for purpose as it didnt 
include cover for him driving home from a delivery. And hes said the policy was never set up 
for one food provider meaning he was never insured for those deliveries.
Zego didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint, so, he brought it to us.
One of our investigators didnt think Zego needed to do anything. He thought Zego made it 
clear Mr D needed to check his SDP insurer would allow this type of cover to be added. He 
thought the terms of the policy made it clear that journeys home after a delivery were 
included in cover. And he didnt think Zego was responsible for Mr D not being insured while 
carrying out deliveries for a certain food provider.
Mr D didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I understand this will not be the answer Mr D was 
hoping for.
It might be helpful here to set out the scope of my role. Im here to assess how Zego treated 
Mr D in the specific circumstances of his complaint. Were I to think Zego treated him unfairly, 
by either doing something it shouldnt, or, not doing something it should have, I could 
recommend it take specific action to put things right for Mr D. My role isnt to look at anything 
outside that scope, or recommend anything other than to put things right for Mr D.
But, in this case, Im not recommending Zego do anything more. Im satisfied it did what it 
needed to do.
This policy was sold on a non-advised basis. Therefore, it was Mr Ds responsibility 
to decide whether the policy met his needs, not Zegos. Zegos responsibility was to 
make sure Mr D was given enough information to make a clear and informed choice. 
And Im satisfied it did.
Key to this dispute is whether Zego should have known Mr Ds SDP provider wouldnt 
have accepted the top up cover, and whether Zego should have known that by using 
his vehicle for hire and reward, Mr Ds SDP policy provider may have cancelled the 
cover it provided. I dont find this is something Zego needed to know. But it is 
something it needed to tell Mr D about to make sure he checked with his SDP 
provider. And Im satisfied it did.
Ive seen the sales journey and Zego tell Mr D to Make sure you check that the 
Terms & Conditions of your existing Social, Domestic and pleasure cover allows top 
up insurance. Mr D responds with I understand. So, Im satisfied Zego made it 
clear Mr D needed to check and that this was ultimately his responsibility. Im also 
satisfied Mr D understood this. So, his points about it needing to be clearer on Zegos 
website fall away in the scope of this complaint. Mr D was provided enough 
information to alert him to the need to check with his SDP provider. Whether Mr D 
checked with his SDP provider, and the actions of that provider, arent Zegos 
responsibility.
Im satisfied the policy with Zego covered Mr D for his commute home. The policy 
document says Your Policy will cover You for the period of time from when You 
enter in to the Policy and have accepted a delivery order instruction until You stop 
using Your Motor Vehicle for Delivery Purposes and have completed Your Commute 
Home.
I understand Mr D is also concerned a large number of deliveries were completed 
without him being insured. But I dont hold Zego responsible for this. I understand 
Mr D said he submitted the required information to the delivery company to be 
insured for these journeys, but that delivery company had him down as being insured 
by another insurer other than Zego- so Zego was never notified of these journeys to 
insure them. And I understand Mr D wasnt charged for these journeys by Zego  so 
it wasnt not providing a service it was charging him for.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman