DRN-2273565
The complaint
E, a limited company, complains that Jelf Insurance Brokers Limited failed to tell it about a 
security requirement applied by the insurer for its commercial insurance policy.
What happened
In 2018, E took out the policy through Jelf. 
In December 2019, E made a claim under the policy following a break-in at its business 
premises. The insurer turned down the claim, because it said the roller shutters hadnt been 
in use when the theft occurred, as required under the policy.
E made a complaint. It said Jelf hadnt told it about the insurers requirement that it use the 
roller shutters. As the matter couldnt be resolved, E brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think Jelf had done 
anything wrong. 
E didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When the policy was taken out, E gave information to Jelf about the business premises, 
which included that there were metal roller shutters used as physical security for the doors. 
In July 2019, the metal shutters stopped working. 
The policy was due to renew in September 2019. After receiving the renewal paperwork, E 
noticed that the insurer had included a requirement for the premises to have an alarm. As 
there was no alarm at the premises (which E had made clear when the policy was taken), E 
raised this with Jelf. 
Jelf corresponded with the insurer about the matter. The insurer asked Jelf what security 
measures were in place, and Jelf confirmed the presence of the roller shutters. The insurer 
agreed to accept the existing security arrangements without including the alarm condition. 
New renewal paperwork was issued.  
Es owners say that Jelf didnt make them aware of the insurers requirement for them to use 
the roller shutters. But I dont think Jelf had any reason to do so. Ill explain why.
A few weeks before the policy was due to renew in 2019, Jelf emailed E and asked it to look 
over a pre-renewal questionnaire, and advise it of any updates or changes needed to sums 
insured, estimates or information held. 
Ive looked at this questionnaire, and it lists all the information that Jelf held about E. Under 
the heading Risk Management it stated various security arrangements, with space for any 
amendments to the information held. For physical security for doors it said electronic roller 
shutters. 
The bottom of the questionnaire reminded E of its duty to disclose to the insurers all 
information, facts and circumstances known to it which were material to the risk (and 
explained what that meant). And that failure to do so could prejudice its right to recover in 
the event of a claim. It also said that examples of matters that an underwriter may regard as 
material are the alteration of or disconnection of fire/security systems
The policy schedule issued by the insurer said:
While the insured premises is closed for business or left unattended you must ensure that 
the physical security measures at the insured premises comply with the following criteria and 
all security devices were in full and effective operation when the damage occurred
The schedule then set out the minimum security conditions.
There wasnt a separate condition added to the policy which required E to use the roller 
shutters. Instead, the policy had been offered by the insurer based on all the relevant 
information given to it by Jelf on Es behalf, which included that the premises had metal roller 
shutters. And the policy schedule made it clear that all security devices should be in full and 
effective operation when the premises were closed. 
As far as Jelf was aware, the shutters were in use. E didnt advise Jelf that this wasnt the 
case, even after it had received the questionnaire and was reminded of the information the 
insurer held about the physical security for the doors. If E had told Jelf that the metal 
shutters werent working, then it could have made the insurer aware of this. The insurer has 
said if it had known this, it would have required an alarm to be in use.  
I do have sympathy for Es owners. However, I dont think Jelf was responsible for the 
situation that arose, for the reasons that Ive explained. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman