DRN-2331412
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are being represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC). They 
complained about the sale of a savings policy by Laurentian Life (now Sun Life Assurance 
Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited). A number of points were made about why the policy 
was not suitable for Mr and Mrs B.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B met with an adviser in November 1992. It was identified they wanted to make 
some savings. This was to provide a lump sum before retirement for a holiday or to help 
children with buying properties. A note was also made that they might be looking to move 
home. The adviser recommended a Flexible Savings Plan for Mrs B.
The plan started in November 1992, at a monthly premium of £50.00. Included in the policy 
was life cover of £4,500. Four investment funds were selected and 25% of each monthly 
premium was to be invested in each of the funds. The funds were the Money Fund; the 
Managed Fund; Henderson International Fund and Perpetual International Fund.
The product particulars show a reduction in yield (RIY) for a 10-year plan of 3.3% a year. 
The plan matured in November 2002 with a value of £4,937.48.
Mr and Mrs B complained in September 2019. The CMC made a number of points. 
Essentially, they said the plan was unsuitable, the main reasons were:
Mr and Mrs B's attitude to risk (ATR) has not been recorded and there is no evidence 
of any questions that were asked to establish this. The fund "choices" do not match 
Mr and Mrs Bs personal and financial circumstances at the point of sale. They were 
simply looking to save some money for the future, there was no requirement to place 
this in any risk-based product. Mr and Mrs B's recollections are that they would have 
been low risk and that there was never any discussion about this.
The adviser failed to fully make Mr and Mrs B aware that the product carried risk and 
was also subject to high charges.
Mr and Mrs Bs recollections are that the adviser told them a straight savings account 
would not provide the return they wanted. The adviser "proved" this by drawing 
examples on a sheet of paper and pointed out that by saving £50 a month over 10 
years would pay back just £6,000 if it was just saved. 
They had life cover in place for their mortgage and the life cover attached to this plan 
was not required. 
They did not have the financial acumen to understand the complexity of a risk-based 
product. They were wholly reliant on the adviser to give them compliant advice using 
reasonable skill and care.
Given their short-term savings aspirations and lifestyle they would have expected the 
money to be placed in a high interest savings account or similar savings product. 
SLoC issued their final response on 23 September 2019. They did not uphold the complaint. 
They said the details of the policy should have been explained and the policy was suitable to 
meet Mrs Bs savings need. The adviser was not allowed to give advice about the 
investment funds. But the fact four funds were selected shows that some information was 
provided, and some discussion took place.
The complaint was referred to this Service where it has been considered by one of our 
investigators. He did not uphold the complaint as he thought the plan was suitable for Mrs B. 
However, he did ask for copies of any illustrations that were issued to see the impact of the 
charges.
The complaint was referred to me. I reviewed the file and asked for further information. I 
wanted information about the RIY and the cost of the life cover. I also wanted to know how 
the investment funds were selected. The rates of return to be shown on illustrations for life 
policies in 1992 were 7%, 8.75% & 10.5% a year. So, at the mid-rate, the returns would 
reduce to 5.45%. And the cost of life cover also needed to be deducted.
I was also concerned about the suitability of the funds. The advice had to be suitable under 
the rules at the time and this had to include the funds selected. I was concerned that 
choosing the Money fund for 25% of the premium meant that the chances of achieving the 
growth required for a reasonable return were impaired. I also wanted to know why the two 
international funds were chosen, as they appear to be higher risk.
In summary, I was concerned whether the policy could reasonably provide a better return 
than a savings account. I was not satisfied that the returns would have stood a reasonable 
chance of improving on a savings account allowing for charges and the cost of life cover. 
SLoC explained the premiums paid bought units in the selected funds. The costs of the 
policy, including the cost of the life cover, were then met by cancelling some units each 
month; the number of units being cancelled varying depending on the costs and the unit 
price.
A re-creation of the policy would be required to determine what the cost of the life cover 
would have been. However, based on the low level of life cover on the policy and the age of 
the client, the cost would only have been minimal and would have had a negligible effect. 
The adviser gave advice on the suitability of the plan but could not provide advice about 
which funds to select because it could not be known how well any fund would perform. The 
adviser was allowed to assess the clients attitude to risk and explain what funds were 
available and which category of risk they fell into. They do not have any record of any 
discussions that took place concerning the funds selected. However, having selected a 
cautious fund such as the money fund, it may well have been the case the client would have 
been willing to take some risk with her other funds. The performance of the money fund 
would just form part of the overall investment. They dd not think its performance in 1992 
should specifically be considered when the return on this plan would depend on how all of 
the selected funds had performed.
The projected growth and reduction in yield figures provided were just an indication of the 
growth that might be achieved and the effect on that growth of any charges. Whilst the client 
could just have put her money in a savings account, this plan gave her the opportunity of 
achieving better returns than a savings account, although with no guarantee that it would. 
But judging whether it did not now is with hindsight; the advice was given based on the 
potential for better returns and the clients willingness to try and achieve them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The regulator set rules about illustrations which included the rates of return to be used. I 
havent seen an illustration for Mrs Bs policy. But the rates of return to be used on the 
illustration in November 1992 were 7%; 8.75% and 10.5% a year. These were not the 
maximum or minimum rates that might have been achieved. However, they were intended to 
indicate the likely range of returns. 
The Flexible Savings Plan was sold to Mrs B as a way to save for a lump sum over a ten-
year period. The RIY was for the plan was 3.3%. This is the effect the charges would have 
on the return achieved. At the middle growth rate of 8.75% this would reduce the returns to 
5.45% a year. To put this in context the Bank of England base rate was 7.875% in October 
1992 and reduced to 6.875% in November 1992. 
In my view, the charges for this plan meant there was a limited prospect of Mrs B being able 
to receive a return that was better than the savings rates available at the time. Whilst it is 
true that she could have received a higher return there was a risk to her investments. The 
prospect of receiving higher returns was, in my view, very limited. 
The selection of the funds made the situation worse. By placing 25% of the premiums in the 
money fund the returns were limited to those returns Mrs B could reasonably have obtained 
in a savings account. But the RIY of 3.3% a year meant to returns were always going to be 
lower for this part of her savings.
The selection of the international equity funds increased the risk Mrs B was taking. Again, I 
accept there was some prospect of achieving higher returns, but this was at increased risk to 
Mrs Bs savings. I accept SLoC says their advisers could not advise on the selection of 
funds. However, the rules required the advice to be suitable. This must have included the 
funds Mrs B invested in. In my view, those funds were not suitable.
The CMC made the point that there was no evidence any questions were asked to establish 
Mrs Bs ATR. I havent seen any evidence of Mrs Bs ATR in the documentation. There were 
some existing policies, which SLoC say were to pay off the mortgage. There are two things 
that concern me about the level of risk Mrs B was prepared to accept. The first is that she 
invested 25% in the Money Fund. In my view, that is a higher proportion than I would expect 
to see from someone who was prepared to accept investment risk. However, the investment 
in the other three funds suggests Mrs B was prepared to accept some risk.
There was a note on the documentation indicating Mr and Mrs B were looking at buying a 
new house. This suggests a shorter-term savings need. Whilst Mrs B paid into the Flexible 
Savings Plan for ten years, it isnt clear how the shorter-term need was to be met.
On balance, I think the arguments about Mrs Bs ATR and her circumstances are persuasive 
and I think suitable advice should have been to invest in a savings account.
In summary, the plan did not stand a reasonable chance of providing a better return than a 
savings account because of the charges. This was made worse by the funds selected. The 
plan was not suitable for Mrs B. I think if she had received suitable advice, she would have 
saved £50 a month in a savings type account.
Putting things right
My aim is to put Mrs B in the position she would now be in, if she had received suitable 
advice. I think she should have been advised to save the £50 a month in a savings account. If she had done this, I think she could have achieved a return broadly in line with the Bank of 
England base rate. 
A. SLoC should calculate the return Mrs B would have received if she had invested £50 
a month and received interest on each payment in line with the Bank of England 
base rate until the maturity date of the plan.
B. The maturity value of the plan should be deducted from A.
C. Interest should then be added to the result of B in line with Band of England base 
rate from the maturity date until the date of my decision.
D. SLoC should then pay the result of B with the interest calculated in C.
If SLoC is required to deduct tax from the interest, they should provide Mrs B with a 
certificate of the tax deducted if she requests one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. SLoC should calculate and pay compensation as set out above. If my 
award is not paid within 28 days of SLoC being notified that Mrs B accepts my decision, 
SLoC should pay simple interest at a rate of 8% gross a year on my award from the date of 
my decision to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Roy Milne
Ombudsman