DRN-4276082
The complaint
Miss S complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds (RSA) decision to 
decline her claim under her home insurance policy.   
What happened
Miss S says, following an accidental fire at her home, she made a claim against her policy. 
RSA declined the claim, so Miss S complained about their decision. 
RSA responded and explained Miss S originally reported that the fire was started by an 
electrical fault however the fire report stated the cause of the fire was children playing with 
candles in the summer house. RSA said Miss S disputed the decision as she wasnt at home 
at the time, and it was her neighbours children who were playing with candles. RSA said, 
due to the discrepancies they decided to decline the claim as, whether it was Miss Ss 
children or her neighbours children, it was clear that all steps to prevent loss, damage or 
accident werent taken. RSA accepted theyd made errors in their handling of the claim and 
offered £150 compensation.  
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to     
Miss S and RSA on 3 July 2023. In my provisional decision I said as follows:   
   
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with 
minimal formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint 
and the main areas of dispute. Theres no dispute around the errors involving the 
claims handling  RSA accept they delayed in sending Miss S a form and also 
collecting a bike. Theres no dispute around the £150 being offered as compensation. 
I think the compensation offered for these errors is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
The dispute here relates to RSAs decision to decline the claim and their reasons for 
doing so. Miss S says her policy covers accidental damage so, given the fire was 
caused accidentally, RSA should settle the claim. 
RSA say the fire report confirms the fire was a result of children playing with candles, 
so they declined the claim based on a policy exclusion which says they wont pay for 
loss or damage caused deliberately by Miss S or any member of her household. So, 
Ive looked to see whether their reason for declining the claim is fair and reasonable.  
My starting point is Miss Ss contents insurance policy booklet. This sets out the 
terms and conditions and says Miss S is covered for loss or damage to her contents 
caused by fire. It defines Accidental Damage as, Sudden, unexpected and visible 
damage which has not been caused on purpose. Under a section headed 
Exclusions which apply to your whole policy and sub-heading Existing and 
deliberate damage it says RSA wont pay for loss or damage caused deliberately by 
you or any member of your household. I can see our investigator has asked RSA 
which specific term within the policy theyre relying on in support of their decision to 
decline the claim  and RSA have referred to this term. 
I understand Miss S initially informed RSA the fire was caused by an electrical fault. 
But, when RSA later queried this following receipt of the fire report, Miss S explained 
her children and her neighbours children were in the summer house. She says they 
all then went to the park and thats when her neighbour alerted her to the fire in her 
garden. Ive seen an email from the fire service to Miss S and this says, the 
Officer in charge deemed the fire to have been caused by a candle. The email refers 
to the fire report which says Shed fire 100% involved  spreading to two neighbours 
fences. Youths aged 13 playing with candles. A Safe and Well was completed and 
advice given. Youths fully understood.  
Taking this into account, Im persuaded, its more likely than not, the fire was started 
by children playing with candles. That being the case, I dont believe its fair, in the 
circumstances of this case, for RSA to rely on the deliberate damage term to decline 
the claim. RSA havent provided any evidence which shows either Miss S or her 
children deliberately caused the damage. Miss Ss account is that she and her 
children werent at home at the time of the fire, so this further persuades me that its 
unfair for the deliberate damage term to be used here. I acknowledge Miss S 
originally informed RSA she believed the damage was caused by an electrical fault 
but, given that Miss S wasnt at home at the time of the fire, I dont believe it was 
unreasonable for her to initially believe it was down to an electrical fault. I can see 
from information provided by RSA that Miss S maintained this was the case. While I 
find the fire report to be most persuasive when deciding what the cause of the fire 
was, even if it was down to an electrical fault, then I still believe its unfair for RSA to 
rely on the deliberate damage term. 
RSA also refer to another section of the terms and conditions. This says, under the 
heading Conditions which apply to your whole policy and sub-heading Taking Care, 
You and any member of your household must take all steps to prevent or minimise 
loss, damage or accident and maintain the insured property in a sound condition and 
good repair. In their complaint response, RSA say, whether it was Miss Ss children 
or her neighbours children, it was clear that all steps to prevent loss, damage or 
accident werent taken. RSA say they arent arguing the event is uninsured, but more 
so that Miss S has breached this term within the policy. 
RSA say, initially Miss S didnt inform them her children were playing with candles in 
the summer house  and this wasnt discovered until the fire report was received. 
RSA say the fire report doesnt explicitly state whos children caused the fire, but 
Miss S originally said it was her children but later changed her account and said it 
was the neighbours children. RSA say, regardless of whos children caused the fire, 
they dont believe Miss S has taken reasonable care by allowing children to play with 
candles in an environment where there were flammable materials. They say they 
would expect children of the ages of 13 to understand the dangers of playing with fire 
and they believe this again demonstrates reasonable care has not been taken. 
Ive carefully considered RSAs points here, but I dont believe the information 
supports their view that Miss S didnt take reasonable care. I say this for a number of 
reasons. Firstly,   Miss S maintains she and her children werent at home at the time. 
So, I dont think its fair for RSA to say Miss S hasnt taken reasonable care if she 
wasnt present at the time the fire started. I havent seen any information from RSA 
which shows that Miss S was present in the summer house at the time and she was 
aware her children and/or her neighbours children were playing with candles. I note 
RSA say Miss S hasnt taken reasonable care by allowing children to play with candles, but I havent seen any information which suggests Miss S was supervising 
the children or otherwise allowed them to play with candles. I dont think its fair for 
RSA to treat Miss S as not taking reasonable care when theres no evidence which 
suggests she was present at the time, was fully aware that the children were playing 
with candles and didnt take any steps to prevent the damage which occurred as a 
result. 
I think its also important to make the point that the fire report doesnt specifically 
describe how the candles caused the fire to start. If a candle was lit and this was 
accidentally knocked over or fell, then I dont believe this suggests reasonable care 
wasnt taken. I accept though that there might well be other situations which might 
suggest reasonable care wasnt taken. But in this case, Ive seen no persuasive 
evidence which suggests the actual action which led to the fire was a result of not 
taking reasonable care. I accept the fire report does use the term playing with 
candles  but this in itself doesnt completely rule out that the specific event which 
caused the fire to start mightve been accidental. 
Taking this all into account, I intend to ask RSA to reconsider Miss Ss claim. Given 
the incident circumstances RSA are relying on, I dont think its fair for them to 
decline Miss Ss claim on the basis the damage was deliberate or was caused by not 
taking reasonable care.
So, subject to any further comments from Miss S or RSA, my provisional decision was that I 
was minded to uphold this complaint and require RSA to reconsider the claim and pay 
compensation.   
Following my provisional decision, Miss S accepted the decision. RSA havent responded to 
the decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with both parties not providing any representations to dispute the 
decision, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. So, Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and copied above.
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that RSA declined Miss Ss claim on grounds which are unfair and 
unreasonable in the circumstances. So, RSA should reconsider Miss Ss claim for the fire 
damage, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. It is of course open to 
them to make any other further enquiries they feel are necessary, but I dont think its 
reasonable for them to use the arguments they have to decline the claim. In addition to this, 
RSA should also pay Miss S the £150 compensation theyve offered in their complaint 
response, if they havent done so already.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited must 
take the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman