DRN-3877417
The complaint
Mrs H complains that American Express Services Europe Limited changed the terms of her 
credit card account without giving reasonable notice and discriminated against her. 
What happened
In July 2022, American Express emailed a number of its customers to tell them it would only 
allow payments to a credit card account from an account with the same name. Mrs H had 
been paying her American Express card at the start of each month using an account in her 
maiden name, so she complained to American Express.
American Express didnt uphold the complaint and said it had always been the case that 
payments to a credit card account must be from an account in the same name. It said a new 
system recently installed had identified a number of customers that had been doing this. 
American Express told Mrs H that the decision to upgrade its system was made to enhance 
its commitment to security and fraud prevention and that it wasnt intended to discriminate 
against any one demographic. 
Mrs H brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought that American Express hadnt done 
anything wrong as it had taken a business decision to improve security and prevent fraud. 
And that because this applied to all customers of American Express, it hadnt treated Mrs H 
unfairly. Mrs H didnt agree and asked that an Ombudsman decides her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs H will be disappointed with my final decision, but I dont think American 
Express has acted unfairly. I will now explain why.
American Express identified that it had been receiving payments from an account in Mrs Hs 
maiden name. When the new system highlighted this, American Express emailed Mrs H to 
tell her it believed this was a security and fraud risk, and that it intended to stop such 
payments or delay them with further checks. Its for American Express to decide what steps 
it needs to take to help it prevent or reduce security and fraud risk, but I can consider 
whether it acted fairly and reasonably in this case.
The terms and conditions of the American Express account say that a customer must make 
payments using any method American Express permits them to use unless it tells a 
customer in advance about any changes. Regardless of what American Express had 
previously allowed, Mrs H was told in July 2022 that future payments made from an account 
in her maiden name may result in a delay in posting it to the account and that there may be 
possible disruptions when using her card. American Express said that future payments may 
be subject to additional checks, and it may contact Mrs H for further information. Mrs H was 
upset that this didnt give her much time to make a change, as her next payment was due 
within a few days, but Im satisfied American Express explained she could contact them to 
discuss the change. I think thinks supports that payments could still be made subject to 
further checks, at least for a short period.
Mrs H was disappointed that American Express couldnt give her a specific date when this 
policy would be coming into effect, but Im satisfied its actions in giving notice and providing 
a telephone number for Mrs H to call to discuss any implications before it changed its policy 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs H has said she feels the actions of American Express are discriminatory on two counts:
Race  Mrs H feels the policy disproportionately affects women from races who 
typically have more than one legal name.
Sex  Mrs H feels this issue will disproportionately discriminate against women, 
married women to be precise.
I should first explain that we are an informal dispute resolution service, meaning we dont 
have the power to decide whether or not American Express is in breach of the Equality Act 
2010, as only a court has the power to do this. What we can do is take relevant law and 
regulation into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of a 
complaint. While I understand Mrs Hs frustrations with the policy change, I dont think 
American Express has acted unreasonable or unfairly. I say this because Im satisfied the 
changes made by American Express were made to reduce security risk and provide further 
fraud prevention. I dont think the change was aimed at one particular demographic or that it 
prevented Mrs H using her card or indeed making further payments.
My final decision
Ive not upheld Mrs Hs complaint against American Express Services Europe Limited as Im 
satisfised it didnt treat Mrs H unreasonably or unfairly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman