DRN-4008602
The complaint
B, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed its account resulting in 
business disruption.
What happened
The director of B says that she found out in November 2022 that she could no longer use the 
account. And when she spoke to a member of branch staff was told that no notification or 
contact had been sent to B about this. B couldnt trade as the money in the account wasnt 
released for a month. This caused losses and the director spent time dealing with this for B.
Barclays said that it had contacted B for information as part of a know your customer (KYC) 
exercise. As B hadnt responded it had sent a notice that the account would be closed. The 
correspondence had been sent to the registered address for B that it had on its system. 
Those letters had been sent by a third party and wouldnt have been available to branch 
staff. It could see that although B had changed that registered address in public records it 
hadnt told Barclays about it. So, it could understand why B wouldnt have received the 
correspondence. Barclays said that it accepted that it had provided B with poor service. And 
it said that it had offered to reopen Bs account. It also said it would pay B £245 in 
compensation.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Barclays do anything further than this. Barclays had 
provided information to show that it first made B aware of the requirement digitally in March 
2022 and provided copies of the banners that would have been visible when B accessed 
online banking. It then sent reminders in April and May 2022. And a final reminder in June 
2022 stating that the account would be closed if no action was taken. The account was 
closed in November 2022. Although Barclays has sent account statements to the directors 
home address it sent the communications about the KYC requirements to the registered 
address for B it had. And it was up to B to keep this up to date when it had changed 
according to public records in September 2020. So, the compensation was reasonable. She 
clarified that B had earlier made a different complaint to the merchant services part of 
Barclays and been awarded £200 (when that relationship ended). So, she was satisfied that 
the amount of compensation here of £245 was related to this complaint.
B didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. The director said she thought wed 
forgotten the reason shed got in touch. And this was because the account for B was closed 
without notice. The money in the account wasnt available and so B wasnt able to trade. B 
had lost thousands and the director felt shed been accused of being in the wrong and 
wanted to pursue this so other businesses werent affected in the same way. The business 
at the address where the letters were sent had nothing to do with B. And she said it was 
illegal to send the information to another business. The director said shed always received 
statement information and was unhappy not to be provided with the audit trail from Barclays 
about these letters and that her lawyer would need this. When she went to a branch the 
manager had read out everything on the screen and confirmed that this was Barclays fault.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note from public records that the registered address that Barclays had for B was one that 
seemed to relate to Bs former accountants. It was for example the one referred to in its 
accounts for the period ending 31 December 2018 and which had changed for subsequent 
accounting periods. And as has been said was changed in public records in September 
2020.
Barclays needed to ensure it met regulatory and legal requirements and asked B for 
information about its business. That wasnt least to confirm for example that the information 
it had, including about Bs address, was correct. Its process was to use the registered 
address it had for B to send letters. That was unfortunately the old registered address and 
also not the one where the director of B received statements. Barclays has additionally 
shown that it arranged for a banner to be placed online about the requirement. And provided 
the statements showing that B was making online payments using online banking and so 
ought to have seen this banner.
The audit provided by Barclays only shows the type of letter, the date issued and the 
address it was sent to. And as this address was the prior address it isnt in dispute that B 
wouldnt have received them and there is no evidence letters were either returned 
undelivered or forwarded on. 
I note that Barclays offered to re-open Bs account. And B has explained to this service that 
it didnt want to do this because of the mistake and the further questions it was asked. The 
director also states that I went to [anonymised financial business names] app and opened a 
bank account one morning without hassle. The next day it was opened, and the card was 
sent to me that week. She further explains that she had to contact the then merchant 
services company with the details. The Barclays account was closed on 15 November 2022 
and B says it was able to pay in the closing balance cheque on receipt on 29 November 
2022 to its new bank account. The amount I can see from the statement was just under 
£3,700 and was a significant amount for B. I note from the past statements of B that it 
generally tends to receive around £4,000 into its account each month and has given its 
annual turnover at some £30,000 on its complaint form. The director says November is a 
particularly busy month.
My assessment
I appreciate that B has been asked a number of questions about what happened, and Ive 
found the information provided helpful. Im afraid I dont think Barclays made a mistake in 
communicating with B. It used an address it had on record, and which had clearly been 
provided for B in the past. It has also described how it highlighted the requirements online.
I dont doubt that the closure of the account caused disruption for B. As Ive set out it 
decided to make other arrangements. There was a period when it didnt have access to the 
money in the account, and I would reasonably have expected it to try to mitigate things 
where possible to deal with any essential stock requirement and creditors. In any event I dont consider I have a reasonable basis to hold Barclays responsible for any financial 
consequences of what happened. 
Barclays has said it has now paid compensation of £245 to B to reflect that there was poor 
customer service. I think that was a reasonable action in the circumstances and I wont be 
requiring it to do anything further. I can appreciate that the director of B will be disappointed 
by my assessment.
My final decision
Barclays has made an offer to settle this complaint which I think is reasonable in the 
circumstances. My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC pay B £245 as it says it has done.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman