DRN-1794936
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that AmTrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) couldnt find his home emergency 
policy on its system when he called to report a leak in his bathroom.  
What happened
Mr B contacted Amtrust to report a leak from his bathroom sink. Amtrust couldnt find an 
active policy using the details he provided and the broker, which mightve been able to help 
find it, wasnt available until 36 hours later. Mr B was unhappy with the suggestion to wait 
until the broker was available before Amtrust confirmed he had a policy covering him for this 
incident.
Amtrust offered to send someone out and put the charge on reserve. Then, once the broker 
confirmed he had a policy, the money would be released back to him. Mr B didnt think he 
should incur costs and rejected its offer. 
Mr B used the home emergency cover he had as part of a packaged bank account and the 
leak was fixed the following morning. He raised a complaint with Amtrust and asked it to 
compensate him for being without water; the cost of pursuing his complaint; time taken to 
identify an alternative emergency provider, and its failure to find his policy on its system. 
Amtrust upheld his complaint about its failure to find his policy and offered a payment of £25. 
It didnt think Mr B had experienced significant inconvenience so Amtrust didnt make any 
additional offers for the service shortfalls he complained about.
Amtrusts broker explained that, unusually, the policy number was duplicated in error, which 
meant that it hadnt appeared on the system as a policy for Mr B.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. He acknowledged Amtrusts mistake when it 
told Mr B he didnt have a policy with it. But he didnt think Mr B had experienced significant 
inconvenience because of it. This is because:
the leak was isolated quickly and no further damage was caused;
the event was late in the evening so the period without water was mostly overnight;
Mr B had home emergency cover with his bank, which fixed the problem the following 
morning, so there was no cost to him for using an alternative provider and the matter 
was resolved quickly;
Amtrust contacted Mr B as soon as it confirmed he had a policy with it, and
there is no evidence that Mr B incurred any financial costs because of Amtrusts 
inability to find his policy.
 
In light of the above, our investigator felt that the compensation of £25 offered by Amtrust 
was sufficient to address the service shortfall.Mr B didnt agree. He was satisfied that there was no dispute about Amtrusts mistake but he 
wanted the inconvenience caused to him to be recognised and compensated. Specifically, 
he felt that Amtrust couldve sent a plumber to his home without placing a reserve for the 
callout on his credit card. He had his policy to hand so he was sure he was covered. Mr B 
also thinks that he should be compensated for the time he spent searching for other 
plumbers before realising he had alternative cover and for the time he has spent making his 
complaint. He made reference to the minimum wage and the value of his own time.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this will disappoint Mr B, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain 
why.
As Mr B pointed out, theres no dispute now that he had home emergency cover with 
Amtrust. But when he first called, it wasnt able to find his policy on its system. Despite this, 
Amtrust offered to send someone out and place a reserve on Mr Bs credit card for the 
callout charge. It also said it would be released once the broker confirmed the policy was in 
place. I understand that Mr B didnt think he should have to incur any costs, and that it 
wasnt right for him to have any money held in reserve. By making the offer, Amtrust was 
giving Mr B the opportunity to isolate the leak and minimise damage to his property, 
therefore minimising potential costs for Mr B. Amtrust wouldve then looked into the policy 
issue separately. I think the offer was fair and it was reasonable for Amtrust to protect its 
costs in the event that Mr B didnt have a policy.
Amtrust offered £25 by way of an apology for not being able to see Mr B had cover in place. 
I can see that the broker explained it was because of a duplicate policy number which is an 
unusual occurrence. Regardless of the reason, Amtrust was unaware of the policy and it 
caused Mr B some inconvenience. As explained above, Amtrust didnt simply turn Mr B 
away. It offered a solution to the problem but he was unhappy with the offer. Instead, Mr B 
preferred to seek out an alternative company. I realise he will have done this because he 
had lost faith in Amtrust, but it doesnt change the fact that the option was available to him 
and wouldve addressed the immediate problem. As it happens, Mr B already had cover with 
his bank and the problem was fixed the next morning. Therefore, the majority of the wait time 
was overnight and likely to have had a lesser impact on Mr B and his family. Theres no 
guarantee that Amtrust wouldve achieved anything sooner than that so Im satisfied that the 
inconvenience was relatively minimal. I dont think Amtrust needs to increase its offer in 
respect of this point.
Finally, Mr B would like Amtrust to compensate him for his time and the upset caused. He 
has referenced the minimum wage and says he should be paid for the work he has carried 
out in respect of this complaint. Mr B has listed time spent on calls and emails, using the 
internet to search for alternative home emergency providers and the cost of electricity to 
power his searches. He also points out that everyone else in the process of resolving the 
complaint is being paid at least the minimum hourly rate. I understand that Mr B is upset by 
the situation but I cant identify any significant costs to Mr B. I would expect him to spend 
some time ensuring the right information is available to progress his complaint but its not fair 
to ask Amtrust to pay Mr B an hourly rate for that preparation. I dont think Amtrust needs to 
pay any more. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman