DRN-3792157
The complaint
Mr B complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank mis-managed his 
credit card account.
What happened
Mr B opened his credit card account with Tesco in September 2003. As there were arrears 
on the account, it was passed over to a debt collection agency in 2006. 
In October 2018 the account was passed back to Tesco, who sold the debt on to a third-
party debt company in November 2018. 
Mr B has explained that he had been seriously unwell and hospitalised in August 2018, so 
his wife had been dealing with his finances during this period. Mr B says his wife contacted 
Tesco about his credit card debt  along with all his other creditors, to let it know about Mr 
Bs circumstances. And as they didnt hear further from Tesco, he thought the debt had been 
written off. 
But later Mr B received a letter from the third-party debt company about repayment and he 
found out his debt with Tesco had been sold on. Mr B also highlighted that he had a monthly 
direct debit to Tesco from his account, so it was still involved in the management of his 
account. So, Mr B raised a complaint with Tesco.
Tesco investigated Mr Bs complaint. It said it had no record or Mr Bs wife contacting it 
regarding Mr Bs health situation in 2018. It explained that Mr Bs debt had been passed on 
to a debt collection agency several years before 2018 so it no longer managed Mr Bs 
account. It added that any contact wouldve had to have been made directly to the relevant 
third-party agency. It explained that as the debt had now been sold on it was not able to 
waive the outstanding amount. It directed Mr B to contact the third-party debt company 
should he have any issues with repayment. 
Mr B brought his complaint to this service as he remained unhappy. An investigator reviewed 
the complaint and didnt think Tesco had acted unfairly. 
Mr B remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I am sorry to hear of the serious health issues Mr B has experienced and the on-
going impact these have had on him. I understand the issues with his credit card debt with 
Tesco has been a source of worry and frustration, at what has already been a challenging 
time. However, Im satisfied Tesco hasnt acted unfairly. Ill explain why.
Mr B initially explained that when he was hospitalised his wife contacted Tesco about his 
repayments. Tesco has checked its records and says there is no record of any contact from 
Mr B or his wife in 2018. Mr B has later clarified that his wife contacted the debt collection 
agency who were collecting payments for the outstanding debt on the account.   Mr B says 
he doesnt have details of this agency, and due to the passage of time Tesco has also been 
unable to provide further details. 
Tesco passed Mr Bs account on to a debt collection agency in 2006. From this point 
onwards, Im satisfied that Mr Bs contact should have been with the debt collection agency 
managing the account. As above, Mr B has now confirmed it was the debt collection agency 
who his wife contacted.  So, I wouldnt have expected Tesco to do anything differently at this 
time.
Due to the passage of time, there is limited information available to me from before 2018. 
But from what Ive seen Tesco instructed a third-party debt collection agency to recover the 
debt Mr B owed to it from 2006 onwards. Mr B has provided evidence to show direct debits 
of £15 a month were being made to Tesco. The information provided from Tesco shows that 
in 2013 it was agreed £15 a month would be made towards Mr Bs outstanding debt. 
Although the information is limited it suggests that Mr B was dealing with the debt 
management company at this time and had reached an agreement to make these payments 
based on his financial situation at the time. While Mr Bs dealings during this time would 
have been with the third-party, Tesco remained the entity Mr B owed the money to. Im 
satisfied this explains why the payments Mr B was making were being made to Tesco.
Mr Bs account was passed back to Tesco in 2018 and was subsequently sold on. Mr B says 
he did not receive any information about his debt being sold in November 2018 and he had 
no contact from this third-party debt company, so he thought the outstanding debt had been 
written off. Its not clear if Mr B was informed about the changes taking place in November 
2018 or why this happened. Its possible that this might have been because Mr Bs wife let 
the debt agency know about his health situation, or because it was unable to recover the 
debt. I appreciate this was a challenging time for Mr B and his family, but I havent seen 
anything to suggest Tesco agreed to write off the debt. Tesco subsequently sold the debt 
onto a third-party company. The terms of Mr Bs account make provision for this, so Im 
satisfied that Tesco didnt do anything wrong here. In selling the debt, Mr B now owed the 
third-party company rather than Tesco. 
From November 2018 Tesco was no longer responsible for Mr Bs debt, and any issues Mr B 
has about the communication he received, or lack thereof should be directed to the third-
party debt company. In particular, Mr B should raise the concerns he has about his ability to 
make repayments with the third-party company directly so it can outline his options. 
I know this will not be the outcome Mr B was hoping for and he will be disappointed with the 
decision Ive reached. But I hope my decision provides some clarity around why I wont be 
asking Tesco to take any action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Chandni GreenOmbudsman