DRN-2392578
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited wrongly cancelled Mr Rs
motor insurance policy after Mrs R (a named driver) said she used the car for commuting.
What happened
Mrs R called Watford to enquire about cover for her stolen car keys. Watford noted that the
car had been used for commuting prior to the theft, and said commuting wasnt covered by
the policy. It said there had been a breach of a policy term, as the car had been used for a
purpose not permitted by the policy. Watford gave Mr R seven days to arrange alternative
insurance. Mr R thought the situation was covered by the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure
and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). But Watford said CIDRA didnt apply.
One of our investigators considered Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. She said she thought Mr R
had made a genuine error when taking the policy out and that had he realised commuting
wasnt covered, he would have added it to the policy. The investigator thought it was unfair
Mr R wasnt allowed to do that later. And she said she thought the breach of a policy term
would require a deliberate act by a consumer.
The investigator didnt think the claim for the cost of replacing the keys should be covered,
as when the incident happened, there was no cover in place. But she thought Watford
should refund the premium from the date of the cancellation and remove notice of the
cancellation from databases. She also thought it should pay the difference between the sum
Mr R paid for new insurance and what hed have paid had the policy not been cancelled.
Watford said Mr R bought the policy online, where the options were stated clearly, and that
the cover was set out in the policy documents. It said it was for Mr R to check that the right
cover was in place. It confirmed that it had already provided a pro-rata refund to Mr R. It said
it couldnt remove the record of the cancellation, as it was right to cancel the policy. The
investigator said Watford should still refund the increase in premium Mr M had paid as well
as removing the record of the cancellation.
Later on, the investigator asked Watford to confirm whether it would have charged Mr R any
additional premium had he asked for cover for commuting. It said it wouldnt have done, but
that the issue wasnt relevant, as it wasnt a case of misrepresentation, but of a policy term
breach. As there was no agreement, I reviewed the complaint and issued a provisional 
decision as follows:
Watford doesnt think CIDRA applies. But as Mr R was asked a clear question about the type
of cover he wanted (to which he gave the wrong response) I think he made a
misrepresentation. In my opinion, CIDRA does apply. Watford told us recently that it has
adopted Article 75 insurer status, but it didnt explain how it thinks that applies to this
situation. In the absence of that, I cant see how Article 75 status makes a difference here.
When Mr R bought the policy, he had a duty under CIDRA to take reasonable care not to
make a misrepresentation. The standard that applies under CIDRA is that of a reasonable
consumer. Mr R applied for the policy online. He was asked how he intended to use the car
and was invited to choose one of three options. I think that amounted to asking Mr R a clear
question. The option he selected was social only. But as Mrs R intended to use the car for
travelling to work, Mr R should have chosen the option social and commuting.
I dont think Mr R took reasonable care in answering the question. I think he misrepresented
the facts to Watford. Based on the details he provided, Watford only provided cover for the
car to be used for social, domestic and pleasure purposes. Using it to commute wasnt
permitted, as shown on Mr Rs Certificate of Motor Insurance.
Under CIDRA, for an insurer to be able to take any action as a result of a misrepresentation,
it must show that it was a qualifying misrepresentation. In order to do that, an insurer must
show that it would have made a difference to it had the consumer provided the correct
details. Watford hasnt shown that it wouldnt have offered Mr R cover - or would only have
provided it on different terms  had it known the facts. It confirmed to us recently that it
wouldnt have charged more had Mr R asked for cover for commuting.
As Watford would have provided commuting cover to Mr R for no extra charge, he didnt
make a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. In these circumstances, Watford cant
take any action at all, despite Mr R having given it the wrong information.
Mr and Mrs R have confirmed that Mrs R didnt make a claim on the policy, so theres no
issue there. But as Watford cancelled the policy, Mr R had to seek insurance elsewhere and
had to declare that hed had a policy cancelled.
To put matters right, I think Watford should remove any record of the cancellation from
databases and write to Mr R to say the policy was cancelled in error. It should also pay him
the difference between the sum he paid for new insurance and the sum he would have paid
had he not had to declare the cancellation, plus interest. Mr R has provided evidence from
his new insurer that the extra sum was £63.84.
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. Neither party did so. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party commented on my provisional findings, theres no reason to change them, 
so Im upholding the complaint for the reasons set out above. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Watford Insurance Company 
Europe Limited to do the following:
Remove any record of the cancellation from databases
Write to Mr R stating that the policy was cancelled in error
Pay Mr R £63.84 towards his new insurance premium, plus interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement, at the simple yearly rate of 8% 
If Watford thinks its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2020. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman