DRN-3092178
The complaint
Miss L complains that Lowell Financial Ltd is pursuing her for debts that arent hers. 
What happened
Between 2019 and 2020 Lowell Portfolio I Ltd (LPI) acquired three debts in Miss Ls name 
from different businesses. Lowell Financial Ltd (Lowell) was appointed to contact Miss L to 
discuss repayments. Before the debts were sold to LPI, the original lenders closed and 
defaulted them due to missed payments. 
Lowell contacted Miss L but she said the debts were taken out by a family member, who 
lived at the same address, without her knowledge. Miss L complained but Lowell didnt agree 
it had acted unfairly and referred her back to the original lenders to raise concerns that the 
debts were taken out fraudulently by a third party. 
Miss L referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They said 
that if the debts were opened fraudulently its the responsibility of the original lenders to 
investigate and put things right. Miss L asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss L has told us shes been the victim of fraud by a family member who opened credit 
shopping accounts in her name. I can understand why Miss L is distressed at being asked to 
repay these debts. But, in this decision, I can only consider Lowells actions  I cant look at 
the circumstances under which her accounts were opened with the original lenders. 
Lowell has provided copies of credit agreements and statements for the debts its seeking to 
collect. On the face of it, they show Miss L took out the debts in question. I can see 
payments were made towards all the accounts for an extended period after purchases were 
made. Whilst I understand Miss Ls told us the debts were taken out in her name by a family 
member, I think Lowells decision to contact her is reasonable based on the information it 
has available. 
I agree with the investigator that if the debts were taken out fraudulently Miss L has the 
option of contacting the original lenders so they can investigate the circumstances under 
which they were approved.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss L but I dont agree Lowell has acted unfairly by contacting her 
about the debts in question or referring her back to the original lenders. As Im satisfied 
Lowell dealt with Miss Ls complaint fairly, Im not telling it to do anything else. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman