DRN-3319182
The complaint
Mrs P and Mr P (Mr and Mrs P), through their representative, complain that Progressive 
Money Limited approved them for a loan which they could not afford. If Progressive Money 
Limited had carried out the checks it ought to have done then it would have realised that 
Mr and Mrs P could not afford this loan.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs P were approved for a joint loan for £5,000 in June 2017. It attracted a charge 
for credit of £5,450 and so the total to pay was £10,450.16 by 36 payments of just over £290 
each month. The term was three years. 
Mr and Mrs P complained in September 2020. Mr P has told us that I was having to borrow 
from other lenders to pay my monthly instalment and to survive 
In November 2020 Progressive Money sent its final response letter (FRL). It outlined the 
details of the loan and accepted that it ought to have done more. It said in its letter of 
resolution that 
although the relevant checks were completed on your account and your priority, 
committed and basic living costs were accounted for within the affordability 
assessment, we may have been more robust in questioning your financial 
circumstances at the time of the application.
And following on from this, as a resolution for the complaint, Progressive Money said that it 
was offering to write off your remaining account balance of £2,032.04, which means 
should you accept the offer you would no longer be liable to make payments towards the 
account and your account with you will be closed.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and issued two views, and in both he said 
he thought that the credit searches showed that Mr P had a high level of indebtedness and 
that the loan ought not to have been approved.
Progressive Money asked our adjudicator to review the complaint as it did obtain and check 
Mr and Mrs Ps credit file and the bank statements. 
Our adjudicator explained to Progressive Money on the telephone that the bank transaction 
lists it had sent to him were lists which had been fed through a system to analyse the 
transactions and hed not seen the actual customers bank statements. Progressive Money 
pointed out that there were some copy bank statements as well as the transaction lists which 
had been fed through a special accounting tool. 
Progressive Moneys view was that after repaying the loan for over a year the problem arose 
as Mr and Mrs P experienced an income reduction and were not able to pay the monthly 
repayments, but it was affordable at the time the loan was approved. 
Our adjudicator issued a second view in which he said 
I think that [Mr Ps] combined monthly consumer credit repayment alone, including 
the monthly repayment for this loan, represented a significant proportion of their 
combined income. In these circumstances, Im persuaded that there was a significant 
risk they wouldnt have been able to meet their existing commitments without having 
to borrow again.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. I think 
the overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
did Progressive Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that Mr and Mrs P would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
if not, would those checks have shown that Mr and Mrs P would have been able to 
do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Progressive Money to carry out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of Mr and Mrs Ps ability to make the repayments under this 
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Progressive Money had to think about 
whether repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had 
to ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr and Mrs P undue 
difficulty or significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to 
meet repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, 
without failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to 
make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial 
situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Progressive Money to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr and 
Mrs P. Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan 
application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
Considering this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
A £5,000 loan over 3 years was a significant commitment and so I do consider that thorough 
and comprehensive checks needed to be carried out before lending. And I think Progressive 
Money did that. I have listened to the recorded call between our adjudicator and Progressive 
Money in which our adjudicator explains this. 
The FRL states that Progressive Money had seen information to confirm Mr Ps net monthly 
salary as ranging from £3,394 to £4,126 and so it used the figure of just over £3,394 when 
assessing the loan for affordability. For Mrs P, who was employed at the same place as 
Mr P, her net monthly salary was just over £2,146. 
Other documents show that Progressive Money had recorded Mr P as having a Minimum 
Income customer of £4,500.00 Validated. And Minimum Income Partner £2,600 Validated. 
I am not sure that these were correct as there appears to be a contradiction in relation to 
Mr Ps income. 
I have reviewed the copy credit file search results Progressive Money has sent to us for Mr P 
which date from the time they were assessing the couple before lending. And Progressive 
Money has sent to us detailed copy bank transactions together with its own accounting tool 
analysis of those bank statements. I have reviewed them all. 
In the FRL Progressive Money has said that it had carried out a full credit search and it knew 
that Mr P had high cost short term loans. Progressive Money explained to us that it had 
checked this and said in its FRL However, during a call on 26 June 2017 when questioned 
regarding the active high cost short term loans you explained that you had settled the active 
high cost short term loans in full.  
The FRL refers to some recorded calls. Three copy recorded calls have been sent to us and 
I have listened to them. I note that all three post-date the agreement signatures for Mr and 
Mrs P (16 June 2017) and one of the calls is almost blank  the one dated 26 June 2017. 
The other calls contain no substantive conversations about the lending as they cover the 
administrative side of the loan. 
Having reviewed all of the information then I can see that between Mr and Mrs P they 
earned quite a significant amount each month and yet I can also see from Mr Ps credit file 
alone  plus both sets of the bank transaction lists  that they had a great deal of debt as 
well. 
And further than that, it appears from careful review of the credit search done for Mr P that 
he had taken a second residential mortgage for £20,000 in November 2016 which was 
costing £818 a month, he had hire purchase agreements and one was costing £497 a 
month, and it was in arrears. He had taken several unsecured loans and one commenced 
just before he had applied for the Progressive Money loan. It was for £6,000 and was costing 
£382 a month. 
Mr P had an active County Court Judgment (CCJ) which was relatively recent as the judgment date was 9 February 2012 and for £1,300. 
I have not listed all the debts here but the summary at the head of the credit search report 
says:
Indebtedness Indicators
Total Balances (All): £55108
Total value of all current defaults: £663
Total Balances (Loans/Instalment Credit): £31620
Total Balances (Mortgage Accounts): £20096
Total Balances (Revolving Credit/Budget): £2330
Total Limits (Revolving Credit/Budget): £3053
Balance to Limit Ratio (Revolving Credit/Budget): 76 % (Anchor 
Calculated)
SHARE - Financial Data
Number of Accounts: 73
Number of Active Accounts: 37
Number of Settled Accounts: 8
Number of Accounts Opened in Last 6 Months: 12
Number of Delinquent Accounts in Last 12 months: 4
Worst Payment Status in Last 6 Months: D
Number of Defaults in Last 12 Months: 1
Number of Defaults in Last 36 Months: 1
Total Number of Minimum Payments in Last 12 Months: 20
Total Number of Minimum Payments in Last 36 Months: 25
Total Value of Cash Advances in Last 12 Months: 30
Total Value of Cash Advances in Last 36 Months: 1700
It does not take an experienced eye to realise that these facts alone demonstrate that Mr P 
was overindebted before he took Progressive Moneys loan. Mr P had 37 active accounts, 
he had 12 which had been opened recently  in the previous 6 months  he had a default, a 
CCJ and was taking cash out from his credit accounts. And the accounts he did have he was 
making minimum payments on them. Mr and Mrs Ps bank statement transactions name and show many high cost short term 
lender repayments being paid through their respective bank accounts. And despite 
Progressive Moneys statement in its FRL that during a call on 26 June 2017 when 
questioned regarding the active high cost short term loans you explained that you had 
settled the active high cost short term loans in full., I have received no evidence of that. 
And even if that was what Mr P told it on 26 June 2017, his bank account transactions show 
a different story and so Progressive Money ought to have checked this. 
I cannot see that Progressive Money arranged to pay off any of the other credit commitment 
debts before advancing the money to Mr and Mrs P in early July 2017. I have no evidence 
that Mr P was planning to use this £5,000 loan to pay off other debts. 
The information I have seen combined with the statement from Mr P that he was borrowing 
to pay off debts and to survive seems to be highly likely. 
I do not consider that Progressive Money fully appreciated the debt situation the couple were  
in before lending and even though they carried out proportionate checks I do not think it 
applied that knowledge to assess the affordability.
And  added to all of this  is Progressive Moneys concession in its FRL where it says that 
we may have been more robust in questioning your financial circumstances at the time of 
the application. And because the following lines in that FRL were giving Mr and Mrs P an 
offer, and the general import of the FRL was to resolve the complaint, I think that what the 
complaint handler was saying is that it ought to have been more robust in questioning your 
financial circumstances at the time of the application. I agree. I uphold Mr and Mrs Ps 
complaint. 
Putting things right
In this case, I think its fair that Mr & Mrs P should only have to repay the money they 
borrowed and had the use of. So, I think Progressive Money should refund all the interest 
and charges they have paid on the loan.
While I think its fair that Mr & Mrs Ps credit file is an accurate reflection of their financial 
history, I dont think its fair that they should be disadvantaged by Progressive Moneys 
decision to lend to them irresponsibly. Therefore, under the circumstances it should remove 
any negative information recorded on their credit file.
If Progressive Money has sold the outstanding debt Progressive Money should buy this back 
if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If Progressive Money is not able to buy 
the debt back then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined 
below.
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr & Mrs P towards interest, fees and 
charges on the upheld loan without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
Progressive Money have already refunded.
B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr & Mrs P which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date they originally made the payments, to 
the date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the loan, and treat any 
repayments made by Mr & Mrs P as though they had been repayments of the principal on 
the outstanding loan. If this results in them having made overpayments then Progressive Money should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the 
complaint is settled. Progressive Money should then refund the amounts calculated in A 
and B.
If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should be 
used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loan. If this results in a surplus then 
the surplus should be paid to Mr & Mrs P. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Progressive Money should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with them. 
Progressive Money shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal it has 
already written-off.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr & Mrs Ps credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Progressive Money to deduct tax from this interest. It 
should give Mr and Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if they ask for 
one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and I direct that Progressive 
Money Limited does as I have set out in the putting things right part of my decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman