DRN-2816488
The complaint
Mr D complains that Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd (Lantern) gave him misleading 
information while discussing settlements for a debt it owns. 
What happened
In August 2019 Lantern bought a debt in Mr Ds name from the original lender. In January 
2021 Mr D contacted Lantern via an online chat facility and asked it for a full and final 
settlement figure. Mr D offered £200 and Lantern agreed to accept but said the debt would 
be shown as partially satisfied on his credit file. 
Mr D complained that the information he was given during the online chat was misleading 
but Lantern didnt agree. Lantern says it is obliged to report accurate information to the credit 
reference agencies (CRAs) including whether a debt has been partially settled. 
Mr D referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Lantern had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr D asked 
to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the online chat between Mr D and Lantern. In the chat, Mr D said he wanted to 
discuss a full and final settlement for the outstanding debt. During the chat, only Mr D 
referred to full and final and it wasnt something Lantern mentioned. Mr D asked the 
advisor to accept £200 and, after checking with their manager, they confirmed that was 
acceptable. But the advisor quickly explained the debt would show as partially settled on Mr 
Ds credit file. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr D but I didnt find the information provided by Lantern during the 
online chat was misleading. At no point did it offer to accept less than the total outstanding 
balance on the basis that it would amend his credit file to show the debt was fully settled. 
The advisor confirmed that any kind of discount applied to a settlement it accepts from Mr D 
would mean it was reported as partially satisfied to the CRAs.
Lantern has confirmed it has to report accurate information to the CRAs and that means it 
reports partial settlements where made. Im satisfied thats a fair approach. I havent found 
anything that shows Lanterns stance means Mr D has been treated unfairly. As a result, Im 
not upholding this complaint or telling Lantern to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman