DRN-3385165
The complaint
Mr B complains that he needs to have a mobile phone to use Santander UK Plcs online 
banking services. Hes told us that his lifestyle does not require a mobile phone. He thinks 
its unfair of Santander to deny him access to online banking services because of this.
What happened
In March 2019 Mr B was unable to make a large payment to an existing payee using 
Santanders online banking. This was because hed not signed up to receive one-time 
passcodes (OTPs) to a registered mobile phone to authenticate payments.
Mr B was able to complete the payment over the phone, but he complained that although he 
didnt mind the inconvenience of having to use telephone banking on rare occasions, he 
was concerned about Santanders plans to extend the OTP requirement to other online 
banking activity including login. He said he wanted to continue to access and use online 
banking without needing to have a mobile phone. He asked if Santander would send spoken 
OTPs to a landline phone number instead.
At that stage Santander were requiring OTPs for some payments to existing payees, and for 
all payments to new payees, and the complaints handler was unaware of any plans to 
extend OTPs to the login process. They didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. They explained they 
wouldnt use landlines to authenticate payments because thats less secure than mobile 
phones.
In July 2019 Santander let their customers know that theyd be making some changes, and 
that to access online banking theyd either need their mobile banking app or to receive an 
OTP to a mobile phone. They said the changes were driven by new banking regulation 
designed to further protect [customers] from fraud. Mr B complained again asking 
Santander to rethink this change as it would prevent him from accessing online banking at 
all.
Santander said customers without mobile phones could continue to bank using branch and 
telephone banking services. They added that customers with poor mobile phone reception 
but with a tablet device would be able to authenticate using the app. They confirmed other 
options would continue to be explored but they couldnt provide Mr B, a customer without a 
mobile phone and wanting to access online banking via a PC, with a solution at that time.
Mr B disagreed that receiving an OTP to a mobile phone is a secure way of authenticating 
and cited reports of OTP messages being intercepted by fraudsters. He also highlighted that 
other payment service providers (PSPs) offer customers without mobile phones the option of 
authenticating using their landline phone number or provide card readers, secure keys or 
authentication apps.
When Mr B brought his complaint to this service, he said Santander had used the 
regulations as a bogus excuse for downgrading the experience of customers without 
mobile phones. He described branch and telephone banking services as plainly inferior 
options to online banking and told us he wants Santander to offer authentication options for 
online banking that dont rely on mobile phones.
Santander told us theyd added two-factor or strong customer authentication (SCA) to the 
process for customers accessing their online banking in compliance with EU regulations. 
They added that the need for customers to have a mobile phone to access the full range of 
Santanders services is part of their terms and conditions and has been since 2014.
Our investigators view
Our investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint. Whilst she didnt think Santander had acted 
unfairly by introducing SCA  an important regulatory measure designed to protect both 
Santander and customers from fraud  she said Santander shouldve come up with 
authentication methods that dont rely on mobile phones. She said branch and telephone 
banking are alternatives to online banking, not alternatives to authenticating customers who 
want to use online banking or make online payments. So, she didnt think Santander had 
acted fairly.
Taking into account that at the time of her view (December 2020) Mr B was still able to login 
to his online banking without an OTP, our investigator sought to compensate Mr B for the 
distress and inconvenience hed been caused by; the prospect of losing access to his online 
account, and how Santander had communicated the SCA changes to him. She said 
Santander should pay Mr B £150 and offer him a viable alternative to authenticating that 
doesnt rely on a mobile phone.
Responses to the view
Santander agreed to pay Mr B £150. They also offered to send Mr B an OTP to an email 
address for him to use to login to online banking, and offered to add an exemption to prevent 
interruption when he uses his card for online shopping. They said this would be until they 
can offer an alternative authentication option that he has access to.
However, Santander said they wouldnt change the SCA process for online payments to new 
payees or for payments to existing payees which hit a fraud prevention rule. For those 
transactions, they said Mr B would still need to authenticate by receiving an OTP to mobile 
phone or make the payment using telephone (an OTP support line) or branch banking.
Santander pointed out that for these transactions there had been no change in their process; 
the ability to set up new payees without a mobile phone was not a service that had ever 
been available to Mr B. They said customers had been required to authenticate payments to 
new payees with an OTP to mobile phone since at least 2014.
Mr B accepted the £150 compensation, but he wasnt completely happy with Santanders 
offer. He said the solution of email OTPs was acceptable to him along with the suggested 
exemption for online shopping. He also acknowledged that when he needs to authenticate a 
large payment or set up a new payee, telephone banking provides a remedy and causes 
only minor inconvenience. But he was dissatisfied that Santanders offer maintained a two 
tier system and continued to discriminate against those without a mobile phone or 
adequate reception. Overall, he didnt think Santanders solution went far enough.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
A further response from Santander  February 2022While Ive been reviewing Mr Bs complaint our service has kept talking with Santander 
about their approach to SCA for customers who dont have or cant use mobile phones to 
authenticate. Following these discussions, which have focussed on complaints with similar 
features to Mr Bs rather than Mr Bs complaint specifically, Santanders approach to SCA 
has evolved further. Santander have let me know that they are in the process of developing 
an OTP via email (email OTP) solution for customers who are unable to use a mobile 
phone or who dont have one. This method of strong customer authentication will be 
available for Mr B to use when he wants to set up a new payee in online banking.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 3 March 2022. I began by setting out the considerations I 
thought relevant to my decision. I wrote:
Im required to determine this complaint by reference to what I consider to be fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. When considering what is fair 
and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant law and regulations; 
regulators' rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
So, Ill start by setting out what Ive identified as the relevant considerations to 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs account
From 2014 to 12 January 2018 the terms and conditions relevant to Mr Bs account 
explained:
11.1.1 The One Time Passcode is an added security function integral to Your 
use of the Services. For the One Time Passcode to operate You must have 
registered Your mobile phone number with Us in respect of Your Account(s). 
The registered mobile phone must be able to receive calls and text 
messages.
11.1.2 If You do not register a mobile phone number with Us, Your access to 
the Online Banking Service may be limited; for instance, You will not be able 
to set up new payees.
The terms and conditions changed on 13 January 2018. The change relevant to this 
complaint read as follows:
7.1 To login to your account, make payments and access many aspects of 
the services you will need to register your mobile phone number to receive 
one-time passcodes that we will send to your phone. You will need to input 
this code to verify and complete certain transactions.
The Payment Services Regulations 2017
The Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs) Reg. 100, which came into 
force on 14 September 2019, says that a payment service provider (PSP) must apply 
strong customer authentication where a payment service user accesses its 
payment account online, initiates an electronic payment transaction; or carries out 
any action through a remote channel which may imply a risk of payment fraud or 
other abuses.Strong customer authentication (SCA) is defined in the PSRs. It means:
authentication based on the use of two or more elements that are 
independent, in that the breach of one element does not compromise the 
reliability of any other element, and designed in such a way as to protect the 
confidentiality of the authentication data, with the elements falling into two or 
more of the following categories
(a) something known only by the payment service user (knowledge);
(b) something held only by the payment service user (possession);
(c) something inherent to the payment service user (inherence);
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and UK Finance have both issued guidance 
to PSPs on the implementation of SCA. The FCA in its guidance document Payment 
Services and Electronic Money  Our Approach says:
We encourage firms to consider the impact of strong customer authentication 
solutions on different groups of customers, in particular those with protected 
characteristics, as part of the design process. Additionally, it may be 
necessary for a PSP to provide different methods of authentication, to comply 
with their obligation to apply strong customer authentication in line with 
regulation 100 of the PSRs 2017. For example, not all payment service 
users will possess a mobile phone or smart phone and payments may 
be made in areas without mobile phone reception. PSPs must provide a 
viable means to strongly authenticate customers in these situations. 
(my emphasis)
Later in the document the FCA explains that whilst PSPs may choose not to apply 
SCA where a payer initiates a payment to a trusted beneficiary, Strong customer 
authentication is required when a payer requests its PSP to create or amend a list of 
trusted beneficiaries.
UK Finance has also issued guidance to businesses detailing a non-exhaustive list of 
authentication methods a PSP can employ to satisfy the possession element of 
SCA. These include:
Possession of a device evidenced by an OTP generated by, or received on a 
device (such as OTP by SMS text message)
Possession of a device evidenced by a signature generated by a device 
(hardware or software)
App or browser with possession evidenced by device binding
Card or device evidenced by QR code scanned from an external device
Possession of card evidenced by a card reader
Possession of card evidence by a dynamic card security code
OTP received by email account associated, bound or linked adequately to the 
cardholder
OTP received by landline number associated, bound or linked adequately to 
the cardholder
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Im minded to agree with the investigator and uphold Mr Bs 
complaint.
As Ive set out above, PSPs like Santander were required under the PSRs 2017 to 
implement SCA. The timeline for this has been subject to change because of the 
Covid-19 pandemic. But ultimately PSPs had until March 2020 to implement SCA for 
online banking, and the FCA has given the e-commerce industry until March 2022 to 
implement SCA for online payments.
In response to this regulatory requirement Santander reinforced some of their 
existing processes to which OTPs to mobile phone were already integral, such as 
the process for setting up new payees. They also extended the need to receive an 
OTP to mobile phone to the online banking log in process. It was these changes that 
prompted Mr Bs complaint because he doesnt own a mobile phone or another 
mobile device, and without these he was concerned that his experience of 
Santanders online banking and payment services would be downgraded. Mr B didnt 
think this prospect was fair to him, or to people without mobile phones more 
generally.
I think its important to note that Mr B doesnt disagree with SCA in principle. But he 
doesnt think he should have to have a mobile phone to complete SCA or, without 
one, be left with the less easy and less convenient options of telephone and branch 
banking. In short, his only complaint is about Santanders decision to send the OTPs 
he needs to strongly authenticate him to mobile phones only. I should point out that 
Santander do offer customers the ability to strongly authenticate using their mobile 
banking app, but as Mr B doesnt have any mobile device at all thats not a viable 
option for him either.
Its also important to say that I dont think Santander acted unfairly by implementing 
SCA. Im satisfied that the regulations and guidance Ive cited above mean that 
Santander were obliged to implement two-factor authentication or SCA to the online 
account login process, and also to electronic payments and some other remote 
banking actions. Fraud associated with online banking and electronic payments is a 
significant risk to both businesses and consumers, and the SCA measures are 
intended to enhance the security of payments, reducing that risk.
But when they implemented SCA I think Santander should have taken into account 
that there are, and will continue to be, customers who, for a variety of reasons, cant 
rely on possession of a mobile phone or device to authenticate themselves. And 
Santander shouldve taken steps to manage the potential negative impact of SCA on 
these customers. The FCAs guidance on this subject has been clear; PSPs such as 
Santander must provide viable methods for customers who dont possess a mobile 
phone or are in areas without reliable mobile phone reception to strongly 
authenticate. I dont think the FCA is saying this only applies to customers who cant 
rely on mobile devices for a specific reason (such as age, disability or vulnerability). I 
think the guidance is aimed at making sure online banking and electronic payment 
services are inclusive of non-mobile phone users, regardless of the reason why they 
dont have or use a mobile phone.
Thats not to say that sending OTPs to mobile phones is an unreasonable method of 
strongly authenticating customers. I recognise its a method that will be viable for 
many, and theres nothing wrong in my view with Santander choosing it as their 
primary method of strongly authenticating customers using their online banking and 
electronic payment services. However, when Mr B complained that this wasnt a viable method for strongly authenticating him, I think Santander should have offered 
him alternatives.
As Ive indicated above in my summary of whats happened, Santander are now 
offering Mr B viable alternatives. He can now receive email OTPs for accessing his 
online banking; Santander will soon be sending email OTPs for strongly 
authenticating online card payments and setting up new payees; and theyve adopted 
a permitted exemption from SCA for electronic payments to trusted beneficiaries.
In light of Santanders most recent offer (to send email OTPs for strongly 
authenticating new payees) I think there will now be very few, if any, instances where 
Mr B will find he cant receive an OTP and has to do something else (such as call 
Santander) to verify an activity hes trying to complete online. My understanding is 
that he still might have to do this if an activity has hit a fraud prevention rule. And I 
dont think Santanders offer of email OTPs currently extends to occasional and risky 
remote activities such as updating contact details (Id like to invite Santander to 
confirm or correct my understanding in response to this provisional decision). This 
means that there are still likely to be residual differences in experience for customers 
like Mr B who dont own a mobile phone/device. But there are two things I think I 
should say about that.
Firstly, if, following Santanders implementation of their email OTP solution, Mr B can 
do everything bar very occasional and specific activities such as updating his contact 
details without a mobile phone, I think hes likely to only experience infrequent and 
minor inconvenience.
Secondly, Santander have repeatedly told us that they wouldnt extend the use of 
email OTPs further or introduce another non-mobile phone-based authentication 
method for all online activities because its not within their risk appetite. I appreciate 
this and dont underestimate the risks which the growth of online payments presents, 
but I also note UK Finance have set out a range of methods a PSP can use to satisfy 
the possession element of SCA, so I dont think OTP to mobile phone is the only 
feasible way to mitigate the fraud risk. That said, I accept that businesses may use 
different systems and that Santander are telling me there are limitations to what they 
can offer. Theyll send email OTPs for logging on to online banking, making online 
card payments and, soon, setting up new payees, but not, it seems, for all actions a 
payment service user might carry out remotely. Some activities might still need an 
OTP to mobile phone and in the absence of being able to receive one, a phone call 
to Santanders OTP support line. I also accept that I cannot require Santander to 
offer Mr B an option that it currently doesnt offer, and I dont have evidence to 
support that itd be practical or possible for Santander to do so. Therefore, the only 
remedy I believe will adequately address this issue is compensation.
I think the SCA alternatives Santander are now offering do resolve the complaint 
Mr B brought to us. But I think its important to note that before their most recent offer 
to extend email OTPs to the process for setting up new payees, I was minded to 
agree with Mr B and our investigator that Santanders approach to SCA wasnt in line 
with whats expected by the regulator or industry bodies. I dont think leaving Mr B 
unable to use the full range of online banking and electronic payment services 
offered by Santander, and reliant on telephone banking (the OTP support line) was a 
fair and reasonable thing to do. In short, I think Santanders approach put Mr B at an 
unfair disadvantage because he doesnt have a mobile phone.
Until recently Santanders position was that they were offering a viable alternative for 
strongly authenticating the creation of new payees  their OTP support line or telephone banking. But I dont agree that a telephone line, dedicated or otherwise, is 
a satisfactory alternative for strongly authenticating.
In my view, if Mr B must call a telephone number and speak with a Santander agent 
whenever he needs to create a new payee or amend one, hes no longer strongly 
authenticating. Indeed, hes using a banking channel (telephone banking) for which 
SCA isnt normally required. So, I dont think the OTP support line can reasonably be 
interpreted as an alternative way of strongly authenticating. Put simply, I think it 
avoids the SCA requirements altogether and is an alternative way of banking; an 
alternative way of banking which is less convenient, more time consuming and more 
restrictive, than online banking.
If Mr B has to call a telephone number whenever he wants to create a new payee the 
process would be subject to the usual telephone banking communications which 
means he would need to wait for his call to be picked up. Hed then have to go 
through telephone banking security, explain the reason for his call and go through the 
process of creating the new payee before hed be able to make a payment to that 
payee. Its a process that would take time, in all likelihood longer than the time it 
would take if all Mr B had to do was enter the new payees details into an online 
banking screen and receive an OTP to authenticate the change. I think this is a very 
different level of service to that afforded to customers with mobile phones. Taking all 
of this into consideration, I dont think the OTP support line was a fair and reasonable 
solution to Mr Bs complaint.
Santander have indicated to this service that part of their rationale for not offering 
another alternative for strongly authenticating the creation of new payees before now, 
was that their customers have needed to receive an OTP to mobile phone to carry 
out this activity electronically for some years. Theyve pointed to their online banking 
terms and conditions from 2014 onwards as evidence of this. Ive thought carefully 
about this point, but Im not persuaded it makes a difference to my finding that 
Santander should be offering Mr B a viable alternative so that he can strongly 
authenticate when carrying out this activity too.
Under the PSRs 2017 PSPs are required to apply SCA, amongst other occasions, 
when a payment service user carries out any action through a remote channel which 
may imply a risk of payment fraud or other abuses. This means SCA is required 
when a payment service user requests its PSP to create or amend a list of trusted 
beneficiaries. As SCA is required by regulation to be applied to this activity, I think 
the FCA guidance which says PSPs should provide different methods of 
authentication, and must provide a viable means to strongly authenticate payment 
service users without mobile phones, also applies. I dont think this is guidance that 
Santander can disregard on the basis that they were only offering OTP to mobile for 
setting up new payees previously. The fact is theres been FCA guidance since the 
inception of SCA which says thats not enough. Offering only one mobile phone-
based method of strongly authenticating any activity to which SCA applies, excludes 
non-mobile phone users from that activity. I dont think thats right when there are 
other non-mobile phone-based options for SCA that PSPs can employ which are 
more inclusive.
I agree with and provisionally uphold Mr Bs complaint about Santanders approach 
to SCA. I provisionally find that its not fair or reasonable of Santander to exclude 
Mr B from some of their online banking and electronic payment services, just 
because he doesnt possess a mobile phone. Treating Mr B fairly in my opinion 
involves making it possible for him to strongly authenticate so that he can fully use Santanders online banking and electronic payment services and doesnt have to rely 
on telephone and branch banking services instead.
In short, I think he should be able to access his online banking from a computer, 
make online payments to trusted and new payees, verify electronic payments, shop 
using his debit card online, and perform similar actions online, with a level of ease 
and convenience equal to that of mobile device users.
Santander have now offered to send email OTPs for most online banking and 
payment activities requiring SCA. I think this offer will broadly level the online banking 
and payment experience of Mr B with Santanders mobile device using customers. 
As Ive noted already, I think Santanders offer does leave a residual difference in 
that there will be some remote and risky activities such as updating contact details for 
which I dont think Mr B will be able to receive an OTP and so will have to call up or 
visit a branch. But I think this is likely to cause Mr B only infrequent and minor 
inconvenience at most. And I cant direct Santander to extend the email OTP offering 
to more activities when Santander are telling me that its not something theyre 
prepared or able to do, and I have no evidence itd be practical or possible for them 
to do so.
Santanders offer to send Mr B an OTP to an email address for him to use to login to 
online banking; to add an exemption to prevent interruption when he uses his card for 
online shopping (until they can offer an alternative authentication option that he has 
access to); and to send him email OTPs for the purpose of setting up new payees is, 
I think, fair and reasonable. However, I think its important to recognise that its taken 
a significant length of time to reach this position, time during which Mr Bs access to 
online banking and payment services has been affected by the fact that he doesnt 
have a mobile device. And I think this needs to be reflected in the award I make for 
distress and inconvenience.
In deciding whether or not to award compensation, and if so, how much, Im satisfied 
that in this case I have to take into account the impact Santanders actions have had 
to date. As Ive said above, I think the current position (which Ive asked Santander to 
confirm) does leave some residual unfair differences between the online banking 
experience of mobile phone users and customers like Mr B who dont have a mobile 
phone. But I dont think it would be appropriate to award compensation for the impact 
these differences might have on Mr B in the future, even though they may do so. I 
say this because Santander might decide to change its approach, or the issue may 
not arise again. I want to be clear that this decision addresses matters from the date 
Mr B complained (mid-2019) to the date of this decision only. It may be that the issue 
arises again  when Mr B tries to undertake an online activity which he finds requires 
him to receive an OTP to a mobile phone  and if the matter cannot be resolved, it 
may result in a new complaint.
Our investigator said Santander should pay Mr B £150 compensation. This amount 
appeared fair due to the possibility of other options being put in place within a 
reasonable timeframe, and the expectation that the inconvenience would lessen with 
those other options. But as Santander have only just agreed to develop the email 
OTP solution for the setting up of new payees  more than a year since our 
investigator issued their view (December 2020)  and as there is currently no set 
date for when the solution will be implemented, Ive considered the award again. I 
consider a higher award would better address the issue and reflects the increased 
distress and inconvenience caused to date. In the circumstances, I think an award of 
£350 would be more appropriate.For the reasons Ive explained I intend to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Santander have 
already agreed to make some changes to how they strongly authenticate Mr B and I 
think their offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my provisional decision is that Santander UK Plc should:
Send Mr B OTPs to his email address for him to use to login to online 
banking;
Add an exemption allowing him to use his card for online shopping without a 
mobile phone, until they can offer an alternative authentication option that he 
has access to; and
Send Mr B OTPs to his email address for him to use when he wants to set up 
a new payee.
Additionally, Santander should:
Pay Mr B £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by: 
the way Santander communicated the SCA changes to Mr B; the disruption 
hes experienced to his online banking and payment services since Santander 
implemented SCA; and the length of time its taken Santander to offer a viable 
authentication solution.
Responses to the provisional decision
Santander confirmed theyd arrange for Mr B to receive email OTPs so that he can set up 
new payees (and amend existing payees) in online banking. They also let us know that they 
plan to deploy the enhanced email OTP solution in June 2022, subject to testing and 
development.
Mr B made the following comments:
He accepted the provisional decision Id reached, and was happy with my provisional 
direction for how Santander should put things right.
He wanted it noted that hed not raised a complaint about needing to register a 
mobile phone earlier, for example when Santanders Terms and Conditions changed 
in January 2018, because hed not been alerted to the issue until he read a press 
article in February 2019. He said:
Much of the distress and inconvenience caused to me these past three years has 
been due to what I consider to be Santanders abject failure to communicate 
effectively with me (and within the business, for that matter). Repeatedly, I have not 
been informed of planned or actual changes that would affect my customer 
experience.
He said his recent experience of telephone banking has been poor; underlining the 
fact that telephone banking is not a satisfactory alternative to online banking.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any further evidence or arguments to counter what I said in my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from the provisional conclusions I reached.
For all the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I find that Santander treated Mr B 
unfairly when they didnt offer him a viable alternative to strongly authenticating with a mobile 
phone. So, I uphold his complaint.
Putting things right
As I set out in my provisional decision, to put things right Santander UK Plc should, as 
theyve already offered to do:
Send Mr B OTPs to his email address for him to use to login to online banking;
Add an exemption allowing him to use his card for online shopping without a mobile 
phone, until they can offer an alternative authentication option that he has access to; 
and
Send Mr B OTPs to his email address for him to use when he wants to set up a new 
payee (or amend an existing one).
Santander should also:
Pay Mr B £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by: the way 
Santander communicated the SCA changes to Mr B; the disruption hes experienced 
to his online banking and payment services since Santander implemented SCA; and 
the length of time its taken Santander to offer a viable authentication solution.
If Mr B accepts this decision, my expectation is that Santander should pay him the £350 
within 28 days of his acceptance.
With regard to the changes theyve agreed to make so that Mr B can strongly authenticate 
without a mobile phone, I expect Santander to make those changes which they havent 
already, as soon as possible. If Santanders plan to implement email OTP for new payees is 
not completed by June 2022 as theyve indicated, Id expect Santander to keep Mr B 
informed and to consider the impact of any further delay on him.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Santander UK Plc should take the actions 
Ive set out in the Putting things right section of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman