DRN-2593197
The complaint
Mr F complains about the quality of a car supplied to him by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS).
  
What happened
In June 2019 Mr F entered into a hire purchase agreement with MBFS for a brand-new car. 
Shortly after the agreement began Mr F began to complain about the cars driver assistance 
function. Specifically, his position is that this feature of the car is operating in such a manner 
that it is dangerous, and this is a breach of contract. 
In particular, Mr F describes how he will be driving along in normal driving conditions when 
suddenly and without warning the driver assistance function will perceive a threat that is not 
there. The control of the car is taken from the driver and the car takes what Mr F has found 
to be alarming evasive action. 
Mr F explains that sometimes this has resulted in him narrowly missing other motorists. 
Moreover, on each occasion (he has told us about 17 separate incidents) Mr F suggests he 
has been left shaken as have his passengers. Further, he suggests that he found at least 
one of the incidents so frightening he simply could never drive the car again. He does not 
consider that the car is of satisfactory quality. On that basis, amongst other things he has 
asked to return the car and end the agreement.
MBFSs stance is that it contacted the retailer, the retailer told it there was no fault with the 
driver assistance function. That said, as a goodwill gesture, the retailer had replaced the two 
rear sensors. Moreover, the manufacturers technical team has also examined the car. The 
examinations included at least one test drive. The technical team also found no fault. Rather 
the technical team concluded that the car is performing as it ought to perform and in line with 
other cars of a similar make and model. 
Further, MBFS suggests, even though there is nothing wrong with the car (from its 
perspective), as a goodwill gesture the retailer would be willing to find out from the 
manufacturers technical team if it can alter the sensitivity of this application. MBFS also 
suggested Mr F might want to turn off this functionality as a way of resolving the issue. It 
also suggested that the road layout of some of the roads that Mr F was driving on might 
sometimes be causing the issue that Mr F objects to.
Dissatisfied with MBFSs response Mr F complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Fs complaint. Our investigator looked at the 17 
separate incidents that Mr F has told us about. The investigator took on board that the 
technical team who tested the car also experienced some of the same issues that Mr F has 
complained about. The investigator took on board that MBFS suggest that the car is 
performing as it should perform. The investigator noted that technical team suggested that 
the issue might be that the road layout of some roads in the UK is not what the driver 
assistance function is built to recognise.
However, in the circumstances the investigator thought that whilst the function might be 
operating as it is designed to function that does not preclude the car being not of satisfactory 
quality nonetheless. The investigator pointed out that the car does behave in the way that 
both Mr F and the technical team described, and this was not what a reasonable person 
would expect in the circumstances. Therefore, it followed that the car was not of satisfactory 
quality. On this basis the investigator recommended allowing Mr F to reject the car. The 
investigator also recommended a number of refunds, amendments to Mr Fs credit file and 
£400 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr F accepted our investigators recommendation, MBFS didnt. In short it repeated its 
previous stance. It also provided some detailed further reasons for rejecting our 
investigators recommendation which I summarise below.
MBFS suggested we had not looked at the bigger picture and therefore had overlooked key 
information. For example, Mr F described what happened when he had tried to overtake a 
slow moving vehicle on a wide single lane carriageway. MBFS thought in such a scenario, 
he might well have had to cross the central line, perhaps he might not have indicated, or 
there might have been hazardous oncoming traffic. In such a case the driver assistance 
function would have noted the change in lane. If the manoeuvre had been done without 
indication, the function would have assumed that Mr F had not intended to do this, perhaps 
because he had fallen asleep, and would therefore have taken the necessary action. Even if 
Mr F had indicated, if the function considered the manoeuvre to be objectively unsafe, again 
taking into account wider relevant circumstances, it would have taken the necessary action. 
In any event, MBFS considers that this shows that the function is working correctly.
Moreover, MBFS underlined that the driver assistance function is there to assist, but the 
driver always remains responsible. It did not agree that its stance is that the function is not 
compatible with some roads in the UK. Specifically, MBFS had this to say about the impact 
of road layouts on the function
It may be the case that under certain conditions, the road cannot be clearly understood or 
that some of the information being considered by the system makes the road layout unsafe.  
This could be a result of a number of factors, but I do not believe there is any evidence to 
support a fault.
MBFS concluded that Mr F may have expectations of how the function ought to work and 
those expectations are not being met. However, it does not follow that because of this his 
car is not of satisfactory quality,
Further, MBFS considered that our investigator had based his decision purely on Mr Fs 
feedback. It did not think this was a proper basis for coming to a view. It was mindful that this 
is a long-running complaint but asked for more time to commission an experts report.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement  so we can consider 
a complaint relating to it. MBFS is also the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
In particular Mr F has a hire purchase agreement with MBFS and there are various rules and 
protections about how they operate, including those set out in the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(the CCA). Therefore, the CCA is relevant law. In addition, the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
(the CRA). is relevant to this complaint. It says, amongst other things, that where a 
business supplies goods to a consumer then under the contract to supply the goods, there is 
an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
The crux of this complaint is whether the operation of the driver assistance function makes 
this particular car, a car where the quality is not satisfactory.
Ive quite a bit of information about how the car is operating when the driver assistance 
function comes on. This information comes from both Mr F and MBFS and I have considered 
it all, not just Mr Fs feedback. Mr F suggests the impact is generally wholly unexpected, 
upsetting and sometimes frightening. By contrast MBFS acknowledges that the car does 
behave as Mr F indicates it does, but it views this as being the car operating as it should.
I dont doubt MBFS when it says that the car is running as it intended to run when the driver 
assistance function comes into play. However, that does not necessarily mean that the car is 
of satisfactory quality as a result. 
Mr F suggests that sometimes in situations where there is no potential for collision (which is 
one of the scenarios that the function is meant to prevent), and he has not failed to indicate 
or fallen asleep so the function could not have interpreted his action as unintentional the 
driver assistance function will engage. Further, it appears that the upshot of this is, out of the 
blue, control of the car will be temporarily taken away from the driver as the driver assistance 
function takes over. I can understand how useful this may be in an actual potential collision 
scenario, but I think a reasonable person would consider this to be a defect that makes the 
car not of satisfactory quality in the situations that Mr F has told us about. 
What Mr F has said was his experience is supported by the technical reports I have seen. 
Which it seems tested the car in a location where Mr F had experienced at least one of the 
incidents.
The result is that the vehicle system does not recognise the road structure from the painted 
lines due to the complicated formation on the given junction that has a filter lane and then a 
second exit to the same carriageway as the filter lane.
When the vehicle enters the second exit the lane markings and the vehicles that can be 
recognised to be in the blind spot area to the left hand side of the vehicle are identified as a 
hazard and then active blind spot assistance system triggers to take evasive action to 
reduce the chance of what the system thinks could become a collision.Both of the vehicles have the same specifications and software levels which are the latest 
versions available so from the technical perspective there is not much more that can be 
offered to reduce this erroneous operation in this driving scene short of deactivating the 
system.
This all suggests that that on some occasions the driver assistance function is galvanised 
into action by road markings it has failed to recognise correctly and not as a result of a 
number of factors as MBFS said. Moreover, the fact that this function may be triggered by 
the road layout also appears to me to be a feature of the function that makes the car not of 
satisfactory quality.
I dont entirely discount that some of the 17 scenarios Mr F told us about might have 
involved what the driver assistance function considered to be hazards, and which could 
objectively been hazards, such as oncoming traffic. But in some of the scenarios all Mr F 
was trying to do was to take an exit with no other cars around him from what he tells us.  It 
could be that Mr F was unaware of hazards, so did not report them in his account of what 
happened. But for that to be so I would also have to accept that Mr F was so inattentive a 
driver, that he was on every occasion, oblivious to obvious dangers and that his passengers 
were too. I think it is significant that the test drivers, who presumably are more aware of 
hazards than the average driver also experienced the same reaction on the same stretch of 
road. For all these reasons Im not persuaded that the driver assistance function only ever 
engages in this car where there is an actual hazard.
Further, I dont think the technical team were saying that for the purposes of the CRA the car 
is of satisfactory quality. That is not what they were looking at. They were looking at whether 
the car performed in line with the manufacturers specification that is not the same thing at 
all.
Neither do I agree that this is just case of a mismatch between Mr Fs expectation and the 
actual reality of how the function operates. Mr F has, he tells us, experience of cars with 
driver assistance, and I have no reason to think what he says is inaccurate. Therefore, I 
dont think it is likely he has an unreasonable expectation of how such a function might 
behave. In any event it is not his expectations that are the relevant test. What Im looking at 
as I have said before is does the car reach the standard that a reasonable person would 
expect. And I dont think a reasonable person would expect the driver assistance function to 
behave in the manner Mr F describes where there is no hazard, or the function does not 
recognise the road layout.
Ive thought about whether repair is a feasible option here as the law talks about this. 
However, it is not clear if repair is possible, how could the manufacturer agree to change the 
operation of a system which it thinks is already fit for purpose. Plus, MBFS has only agreed 
to enquire about amending the system and that does not go far enough. Taking all this on 
board, repair is off the table, I think.
I acknowledge MBFS wanted to the chance to gather and then submit further technical 
evidence. But in the circumstances, I think MBFS has had a fair opportunity to send us any 
information of this nature that it wanted to send us. After all this complaint, regrettably, has 
been with this service for a long time.
For all of these reasons, in the very particular circumstances of this complaint therefore, I 
think it is fair and reasonable that the agreement should be ended and that MBFS must allow 
Mr F to reject the car.
As far as I am aware the car is with the dealership. It appears that Mr F has been unable to 
drive the car since November 2019, because his insurer would not insure him once he 
explained what was happening with the car. It appears he has not used the car since 
November 2019. However regardless of whether the car was of satisfactory quality or not he 
would always have had to keep the car insured under the terms of his agreement for fire and 
theft. That said, he has only had to keep the car for so long and insure it because MBFS would not accept rejection earlier and I think that was unreasonable of it. So, I am going to 
ask MBFS to compensate Mr F for the insurance premiums he has paid since the time he 
has not driven the car i.e. from November 2019.
For some of the time since November 2019, Mr F has been provided with courtesy cars. But 
he has sent in information to show that the cars are not like for like replacements. I have 
been persuaded by that information. On that basis I think for the period of time that Mr F had 
no car at all which appears to be from March 2021 to the date of settlement, he should get 
back all repayments he made. And for the period of time he had to drive the courtesy cars 
November 2019 to February 2021, in recognition that he was not getting exactly what he 
paid for he should get a refund of 40% of the repayments he made.
Mr F has had to put up with a lot of unnecessary to and fro with MBFS. I find this likely 
caused him distress and inconvenience. I find that £400 is a fair award for this.
Finally I apologise to both parties for how long it has taken this service to deal with Mr Fs 
complaint. I thank them both for their understanding and patience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited should.
1. End the agreement with nothing further owed by Mr F.
2. Collect its car at no cost to Mr F. It appears that the car is being stored at the car 
dealership. If it, the car dealership, is charging any storage costs which it is 
seeking to recover from Mr F MBFS must pay them so that Mr F is not exposed 
to this liability.
3. Refund any deposit that Mr F paid in relation to the agreement.
4. Refund 40% of the monthly repayments Mr F made between November 2019 and 
February 2021.
5. Refund all monthly repayments Mr F made from March 2021 to the date of 
settlement.
6. Compensate Mr F for the insurance premiums he paid for the car from November 
2019 to the date of settlement.
7. Pay interest on the payments set out in 3,4,5, and 6 above, at the rate of 8% 
simple per year, the interest to run from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement.
8. Pay £400 for distress and inconvenience.
9. Ask the credit reference agencies to remove any adverse information it has 
asked them to mark on Mr Fs credit file in relation to this agreement and mark 
the agreement as settled.
MBFS must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr F 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the £400 from 
the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If MBFS considers it is legally required to deduct income tax from any of the interest 
awarded, it must send a tax deduction certificate with the payment so that Mr F can reclaim 
the tax if he is able to.
Mr F should refer back to MBFS if he is unsure of the approach it has taken and both parties 
should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax treatment of 
this portion of the compensation.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman