DRN-2939723
The complaint
Mrs M says Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited lent to her irresponsibly. She says 
that she was in a debt spiral. She thinks Mutual should have made better checks and found 
out about this. If it had done it wouldnt have lent to her. 
  
What happened
This complaint is about seven home collected loans Mutual provided to Mrs M between 
May 2011 and May 2017. Some of the information I have been provided about the lending is 
in the table below. 
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(weeks)date ended
1 21/05/2011 £300 102 15/05/2013
2 26/09/2012 £500 102 16/07/2014
3 14/12/2013 £500 102 03/09/2014
4 16/08/2014 £500 102 16/09/2015
5 25/04/2015 £1,000 102 17/05/2017
6 21/11/2015 £500 102 17/05/2017
7 13/05/2017 £1,000 102 20/06/2018
Mrs T applied for nine loans but two were cancelled and no interest was paid. Ive not looked 
at these loans. 
Mutual didnt think this Service should look at loans 1 to 4 as they were brought outside of 
the timescales we work under in respect of when we can look at complaints. Our adjudicator 
asked Mrs M for more information about when she made her complaint, but she didnt 
receive a response to this request for information. So, she agreed with Mutual that we 
shouldnt look at loans 1 to 4. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. She thought that the lending pattern itself was 
harmful by loan 5 and so Mutual shouldnt have approved loans 5 to 7. 
Mutual disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. Ive read in total what Mutual has said, and 
its own summary of this is below:
Completely arbitrary criteria have been applied without any reasons. 
No reasons or explanations have been given by this Service to support its view and 
the assertions made. 
The mid-cost of Mutuals product, the length of the product and the product features 
have been assessed with a short-term lending approach which is not appropriate to 
this lending. 
The pattern of lending shows no signs of unsustainable borrowing. 
Mutual robustly assess affordability and creditworthiness in a manual review 
including considering the sustainability of the lending. 
The FCA have said repeat lending in home credit is common and does not cause 
harm. 
There is no evidence the customer was reliant on the loans. 
No evidence has been provided by the customer to show the loans caused them 
financial problems. 
There is no requirement for the customer to have a break in lending contained in 
any rule or guidance it is aware of. 
Concurrent lending in this market is encouraged by the FCA and it is not a sign of 
unsustainability. 
Taking 7 loans over 7 years is not the same as taking 7 loans in 1 year. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to issue a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs M could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mutual should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ms complaint in part Ive explained why below.
Mutuals response concerns how it defines the cost of the credit and the risk of it to Mrs M. It 
also concerns our approach to repeat lending. This Service has responded to Mutual on 
these issues in detail through other final decisions it has received, and the published 
decisions on our website. So, Im not going deal with these points at length here.
As Mutual are aware I consider it reasonable to describe this lending as high cost credit, as 
does the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which includes home collected credit within its 
identified high cost credit cohort. And while I note it has a longer term than, for example, a 
payday loan, that does not make it a low risk, or inexpensive, option for a consumer. And, as 
such, long-term use of these products can be harmful to a consumer. The FCA has not said 
anything to the contrary on this point. I have considered these issues alongside everything 
else in making my decision.
Mrs M didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion not to consider loans 1 to 4. Because of 
this I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. And, for the 
avoidance of doubt, given the evidence I have, I dont disagree with what the adjudicator 
said about this lending and I wont consider it. But it was part of the borrowing relationship 
Mrs M had with Mutual. So, it is something I will take into account when considering the 
other loans she took.
I havnt looked in detail at the checks Mutual did as I dont need to. Im not looking at the 
earlier loans and I think the later loans should be upheld due to the pattern of lending alone. 
But I will say that much of the information provided by Mutual about the checks it made 
concerns the process its agents would have followed. But there is very little evidence to 
show these processes were followed here. There is application data for some of the 
lending,  but there isnt a great deal of detail in it. The information Mutual provided from the 
time of sale seems to be very brief and it doesnt really get to the bottom of Mrs Ms 
financial circumstances or why she was taking these loans. So, Im not clear how outlining 
the policies its agent is supposed to have followed, but didnt, are helpful here. Im not able 
to place any weight on descriptions of what ought to have happened.
Notwithstanding my concerns about the sales process itself, Ive looked at the overall 
pattern of Mutuals lending history with Mrs M, with a view to seeing if there was a point at 
which Mutual should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. And so Mutual should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any 
further loans.
Given the particular circumstances of Mrs Ms case, I think that this point was reached 
by loan 5. I say this because:
Mrs M had been indebted to Mutual for around four years. The loans were intended 
to run for around two years, so Mutual could have perhaps expected a longer-term 
relationship. But this is still a long time to make weekly repayments to a high cost 
credit product. 
Because some of these loans overlapped at time, rather than a picture of decreasing 
indebtedness which would happen when a loan is taken and repaid, there was a 
pattern of repeated and at times increasing indebtedness. I think taking out five 
longer term high cost loans, over this period, is a strong indicator that Mrs M was 
starting to struggle financially.
Loan 1 was for £300, but loan 5 increased to £1,000. It was the latest in a line of 
borrowing of relatively high yearly amounts. At this point Mutual ought to have known that Mrs M was not likely borrowing to meet a shorter-term shortfall in her income but 
to meet an ongoing need.
So, because of the above factors, Mutual ought to have realised it was more likely 
than not that Mrs Ms indebtedness was now unsustainable. 
And this is reflected in the information Mutual recorded about why Mrs M started 
these loans. Mutual has said that they were started to fund yearly expenditures such 
as holidays, Christmas and household expenditures. And it isnt necessarily, or 
automatically, unreasonable to use this type of credit to do this. But using a high cost 
form of borrowing over a prolonged period is still likely to have caused financial 
problems, and in this case the evidence suggests it left Mrs M with little alternative 
but to borrow again in the future, when these yearly expenditures were likely to be 
incurred again, as she did.
Right from the start Mrs M was provided with a new loan within a short time of 
settling an earlier one, or when she hadnt repaid an existing loan. So, there wasnt 
an appreciable time when Mrs M wasnt in debt to Mutual. 
Mrs M didnt make any real inroads to the amount she owed Mutual. Loan 9 was 
taken around seven years after Mrs Ms first. So, the harmful pattern I think was 
established from loan 5 continued. Mrs M had paid large amounts of interest to, in 
effect, service a debt to Mutual over a very long time.
I think that Mrs M lost out because Mutual continued to provide borrowing from loan 5 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ms indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Mrs M borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market 
for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 5 to 7 and Mutual should put things 
right.
Mutual has referred to the 2020 High Court judgement in the case of Kerrigan vs Elevate 
Credit International Limited. It has essentially said that the judge in this case said that the 
relationship could be fair if there are a lower number of loans per year. For example, under 
four loans a year. It said, as it lent a lower amount than this, then this would indicate, on the 
same basis as the court case, that it hadnt lent unsustainably.
Firstly, looking at the courts findings at this point in the judgement, the judge was talking 
about whether an unfair relationship had developed. This is a different question, with some 
different considerations, than whether a loan or series of loans, has been lent irresponsibly.
I accept that there can be some overlap between whether a pattern of lending itself shows 
that the lending is unsustainable, and a relationship is unfair. But the court in this judgement 
was considering issues related to short term high cost credit rather than home collected 
credit. I can see Mutual has acknowledged they are different products with different 
considerations. And indeed has repeatedly been keen to distance its products from those of 
short term high cost credit providers. So this means that the judges conclusions about a 
differently structured product shouldnt and cant be directly applied here.
And in any event the number of loans is just one aspect of decided whether a lending pattern 
is harmful. The loan size, duration of loans, the repayments and other factors need to be 
also looked at, as Ive done above.So, whilst I have noted Mutuals submissions on this point, it hasnt introduced any 
arguments which persuade me to change my opinion about this complaint.  
  
Putting things right
Mutual shouldnt have given Mrs M loans 5 to 7.
A) Mutual should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs M towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Mutual should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs M 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs M originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mutual should pay Mrs M the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Mrs Ms borrowing for loans 5 to 7 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Mrs Ms credit file. If 
Mutual has sold any of the loans Mutual should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mutual to deduct tax from this interest. Mutual should 
give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax Mutual has deducted, if she asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said 
above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman