DRN-1880969
The complaint
Mr G has complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to reject a claim he made for 
a lost item under his buildings and contents cover policy.
What happened
Mr G told Aviva that hed lost his watch and he wanted to claim under the contents section of 
his policy. Mr G reported that he possibly left his watch in his hotel room while he went to the 
gym there. 
Aviva rejected Mr Gs claim as it said Mr G hadnt met the conditions of insuring the watch as 
set out in the policy. The policy said while Mr G wasnt wearing the watch, he was to keep it 
in a room where he is present, or in a locked safe. 
Mr G later said that he couldnt be sure when he lost his watch. He said it could have fell out 
of his bag, at the gym or in transit between the two. So in his view, he would have been 
present during these times. He said Aviva didnt make him aware of the condition it applied 
to reject his claim when he bought the policy. 
Our investigator explained that Mr G first said that he possibly left the watch in the hotel 
room and checked out, so he wasnt present with the watch. There were several possibilities 
as to what happened to the watch. But based on the evidence she couldnt say that Mr G 
met the conditions of the policy and recommend that Aviva should meet the claim.
Aviva provided a recording of the sales call and the investigator was satisfied that it 
explained the condition to Mr G before he bought the policy. And it was set out in his policy 
documents for Mr G to read and check he was happy with.
Mr G didnt agree. In summary he said the watch is lost because he isnt 100% sure when he 
last saw it. If he did, it wouldnt have been lost. He believes Aviva should meet his claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The condition Aviva has relied on in making its decision says:
Valuables Protection Condition  Personal Item Cover
It is a condition of this policy that this item of the Personal Items Cover is either:
a. Worn or carried by you, or
b. Whilst in your home or temporary residence, kept in a locked
safe or in a room in which you are present.
I think the policy condition is clear  and was also highlighted by Aviva to Mr G in a call 
before he bought the policy. 
When Mr G reported the loss, Mr G said he left the hotel room to go to the gym in the 
morning. He said he thought hed packed his watch and headphones with him when he went 
to the gym. He had his watch the night before. Hed put it on the bedside table. He didnt 
normally wear it to the gym. He didnt remember putting it in the bag to go to the gym. 
Avivas agent asked Mr G what he thought had happened to the watch. Mr G said:
I think the mistake I made is possibly to leave it there when I checked out, forgetting 
to put it into my bag along with my headphones, I left it in a room potentially and its 
either fallen somewhere or someone found it or hasnt found it. I dont know what 
happened since I left that room, my mistake was I wasnt diligent enough when I 
packed my bag.
Mr G later took this statement back. And Mr G has provided a copy of emails to show he 
reported the loss to the hotel. But I think it was reasonable for Aviva to place more weight on 
the first account Mr G gave, as it was given most recently after the event. And so I think 
Avivas decision to reject his claim was a reasonable one. I think Mr G didnt meet the 
conditions of the policy at the time of loss. 
I understand Mr G will be very disappointed with my decision. But based on what Ive seen, I 
think Avivas decision to reject his claim was made in a fair way and in line with the policy. 
This means Im not asking it to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman