DRN-2709041
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about the service provided by Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) under 
their home emergency policy.
 
Aviva uses agents to administer and provide services under the policy, as well as to deal 
with claims and complaints. Any reference to Aviva in this decision includes those agents. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S held a policy that provided insurance cover relating to emergencies and other 
domestic incidents involving plumbing and drainage.
In July 2020 Mr and Mrs S had an issue with a leak in their bathroom. An engineer attended 
Mr and Mrs Ss property to repair the fault, using heavy tools to do so. Following the visit Mr 
and Mrs S complained to Aviva that floor tiles in the bathroom had become loose, which they 
paid themselves to be repaired. Mr and Mrs S complained that the tiles had become loose 
due to the engineer sitting on the tiles and placing heavy tools on them.
Mr and Mrs S were also unhappy that the engineer replaced the bath taps, once the 
engineer had concluded that they were the source of the leak. Aviva ordered the tap and 
then fitted it. Mr and Mrs S were also unhappy that the taps did not match the other taps in 
the bathroom. Mr and Mrs S also said that they didnt think that the bath taps needed to be 
replaced, and that after their removal the original taps should have been left with them. 
Unhappy at the replacement tap being different, Mr and Mrs S purchased new taps that did 
match the other taps.
 
Mr and Mrs S complained to Aviva in August 2020, unhappy at the loose floor tiles 
that they believed had been caused by the engineer and the use of heavy tools, as 
well as having a replacement tap fitted that did not match the other taps in the 
bathroom. 
Aviva did not uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Aviva considered that the tiles had 
become loose due to how they were installed, and that there was no evidence that 
the engineer was responsible for them becoming loose. Regarding the replacement 
taps, Aviva said that the tap replaced was a standard type, and that under the terms 
and conditions of the policy they would not fit specialist or like for like taps. 
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy at the outcome of their complaint and complained to this 
service in December 2020. The main points of their complaint were about replacing 
the bath tap with one that didnt match the sink taps, and that the floor tiles had 
become loose due to damage by the engineer. Mr and Mrs S requested that they be 
paid the cost of repairing the loose tiles and swapping the bath tap for one that 
matched the sink taps.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. He concluded overall that they didnt 
think Aviva had acted fairly. The investigator concluded that on the balance of 
probabilities the engineer hadnt caused the tiles to become loose. But regarding the 
replacement tap, the investigator noted that it had to be ordered, and therefore it 
would have been reasonable for Aviva to have engaged with Mr and Mrs S about the 
replacement taps that could be offered, and that an arrangement could have been 
made at the time of replacement to have got something that Mr and Mrs S would 
have been happy with. The investigator concluded that Aviva should pay for the cost 
of the taps that Mr and Mrs S purchased.
Aviva disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint.
 
In my findings I disagreed with the investigators view that Aviva should pay for the taps that 
Mr and Mrs S purchased, on the basis that while their policy provided for alternative parts 
(such as taps) to be fitted that are supplied by the customer, the liability for those parts (their 
cost) is not Avivas  it is the customers. Because I disagreed with the investigators view, I 
issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. 
This is set out below.
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
My role here is to decide whether Aviva has acted fairly towards Mr and Mrs S.
Regarding the loose tiles, Mr and Mrs S provided a photograph of the loose tile to RSA but 
noted that as it was loose a photograph would not show the movement.  Aviva considered 
Mr and Mrs Ss concern and the photograph but considered that the engineer that attended 
was small and that any loosening would not be due to the engineer carrying out the repair 
and would have been pre-existing.
Ive considered the views of both Mr and Mrs S and Aviva, and the evidence available. I 
cant see that the tile itself is damaged either by being cracked or there being surface 
damage. and as floor tiles are designed to bear weight, such as that from people standing 
and walking on them. On the balance of probabilities, I agree with Aviva that the engineer 
didnt cause the damage described. Similarly, I dont think that heavy tools would have 
caused the damage described - any more than the engineer themselves -and a floor in good 
condition should have been able to bear the weight. Ive also noted that the repair work 
carried out by the engineer didnt involve having to lift the tiles and then refit them again.
So I dont think that Aviva can be held responsible for the moving tile, and therefore 
shouldnt have to pay the cost of its repair.
Regarding the replacement bath tap, I note from the claims record that there was an initial 
visit to fix the leak, but this wasnt successful and it was then that the leak was concluded to 
be coming from the tap and it needed to be replaced.
 
In disagreeing with the conclusion of the investigator that they should pay for the cost of the 
replacement tap, Aviva stated that they do not replace parts on a like for like basis and 
referred to the terms and conditions of the HomeServe policy which state, under the heading 
of General Exclusions, that:
The following are also excluded from cover and therefore the Underwriter will not be 
liable for any of the following:
j) any parts not supplied or chosen by us. Subject to any applicable regulations, our 
engineer can fit an alternative part (that complies with British Standards) supplied by 
you at the time of the visit (e.g. a switch or tap) however this part will not be 
guaranteed.   While this excludes liability for parts not supplied or chosen by Aviva, Ive noted that the 
policy wording does provide for alternative parts to be fitted that are supplied by the 
customer. However, while there is the option to fit parts supplied by the customer (at the time 
of the visit) the wording is clear that the liability for those parts - that is, the cost of those 
parts  is not the liability of Aviva. Its the liability of the customer. For that reason, even had 
Mr and Mrs S provided their own tap to be fitted at the time of the visit, they would still have 
had to bear the cost of the tap themselves.
For this reason, I disagree with the conclusion of the investigator, my conclusion is that 
Aviva have not acted unfairly towards Mr and Mrs S and should not have to pay for the 
replacement tap which Mr and Mrs S had fitted themselves.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ss 
complaint.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision.  Aviva responded to say that they had no further comments. Mr and Mrs S 
responded to say that they had no comments on the provisional decision itself but felt that 
this service wasnt helping consumers. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Aviva and Mr and Mrs S had no comments on the provisional decision itself, I 
havent changed my view and my final decision and reasoning remains the same as in my 
provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman