DRN-3619275
The complaint
Miss L complains that she is dissatisfied with the diagnosis provided by Legal Insurance 
Management Ltd (LIM) when she made a claim on her home emergency insurance policy. 
And the service received during her claim.
There are several parties and representatives of LIM involved throughout the complaint but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to LIM.
What happened
Miss L contacted LIM in July 2021 to make a claim on her home emergency policy after a 
power cut caused an electrical issue at her home. She lost power to some of the plug 
sockets in the living room and hall.
LIM accepted the claim and organised for its approved electrician to attend the same day.
LIMs electrician reported the circuit was faulty and the wiring was very old. It reported a 
rewire of the four affected sockets was required. And it recommended a rewire of the whole 
home at the same time. 
LIMs electrician was unable to provide a rewire quote for the four affected sockets and said 
for safety a full rewire was required.
LIM said Miss Ls policy did not cover a full rewire and advised her the works would need to 
be completed privately and at her own cost. It said the reason for the decline of further works 
was due to the exclusion in the policy for gradual deterioration and/or wear and tear. LIM 
closed Miss Ls claim.
Miss L said LIMs electrician said he could rewire just the four sockets. LIM reviewed the 
claim and authorised the work for the four sockets.
The work was scheduled and when LIMs electrician attended to complete this work it was 
found that the consumer unit was not up to standard and he said there was no earth coming 
into the home. The electrician said the main electricity supplier would need to attend to 
complete an upgrade. This was organised by Miss L. The main supplier attended and found 
the earth wire coming into the home.
Miss L contacted LIMs electrician to update that an earth had been found by the main 
electricity supplier. The electrician then said she would need a new consumer unit. The 
electrician also said she needed an isolator switch fitting and that she would need to 
organise this with her electricity supplier. Miss L had this completed.
When LIMs electrician attended again they still could not complete the job on the four 
sockets as the work from Miss Ls electricity supplier had not been completed in a way that 
enabled him to do so. He left without completing the work.
As there had already been a number of visits by its electricians, to ensure it was clear of the 
current situation in Miss Ls claim, LIM obtained a full schedule of works, both completed and 
required. Within this report it stated a new consumer unit was required as it was not within 
the current standards. Based on this LIM declined any further work as it was not covered 
under the home emergency policy.
Miss L made a complaint to LIM and disputed the report and diagnosis from the appointed 
electrician. She said the main electricity supplier had said the consumer unit was not illegal 
and there was an earth wire. 
LIM organised for a different approved electrician to give a second opinion. This report said 
that one circuit needed rewiring and the bathroom extractor fan needed replacing. It also 
said the consumer unit was out of date and needed upgrading. It further said the rest of the 
wiring to the property could be a hazard.
In October 2021 LIM confirmed to Miss L that no further assistance could be offered under 
the terms of her home emergency insurance policy. It advised she may be able to make a 
claim under her buildings and contents insurance.
As Miss L was not happy with LIM, she brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He looked into the case and said he couldnt 
say that LIM acted unfairly as Miss Ls issue was excluded under the policys terms and 
conditions.
As Miss L is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
In my provisional decision I said
Its important to note that our service cant determine how the damage to Miss Ls electric 
occurred or what work is needed to put it right. What we have to consider is the information 
or opinions LIM have relied on to make their decision. In this case LIM obtained reports from 
two separately appointed electricians.
I reviewed the reports from both of LIMs approved electricians. Both of these reports refer to 
the condition of the wiring in Miss Ls home as being old, faulty and potentially a safety 
issue. And both say the consumer unit is out of date and needed upgrading.
I am satisfied that LIM used two electricians professional opinions to make its decision on 
the condition of the electrics in Miss Ls home. In addition it referred this case to the National 
inspection Council for Electrical Installation Contracting (NICEIC). This organisation 
regulates the training and work of electrical enterprises in the UK. They strongly suggested a 
full rewire was recommended for safety.
I also looked at the report submitted by Miss L from an electrician appointed by herself. In 
this report it says; No main earth from cable head to consumer unit and consumer unit 
fuses showing signs of distress. It concludes the condition is Reasonable for its age, 
although improvement recommended. This electrician also stated You have a very old 
arrangement of separate main switches. Considerations should be made to update with a 
modern consumer unit incorporating RCDs to provide increased protection against electric 
shock and fire.
LIM declined the claim to repair the four sockets because to complete the job a new 
consumer unit was required to be fitted and it said this was not covered under the terms and 
conditions of Miss Ls home emergency policy. It could not rewire the four sockets without a 
new consumer unit as per the required industry standards.LIM said the policy does not cover for general wear and tear or general maintenance. LIM 
said under the general exclusions section it says;
We shall not be liable for costs arising from or in connection with:
3. Any claim arising from gradual deterioration and/or wear and tear.
13. Any costs that would be more appropriately recovered under any other insurance.
22. General maintenance work or any system that has not been regularly maintained. The 
engineer when dealing with your system may complete a repair but diagnose that additional 
maintenance work is required to your boiler and/or other system in order to prevent a future 
breakdown. As this maintenance work is not covered under this policy it is your responsibility 
to have it completed.
I looked at the general exclusions and can confirm the three exclusions quoted by LIM are 
clearly defined. 
I understand that Miss L feels she has paid for a policy for home emergencies which does 
not seem to cover her home emergency. But I think that LIM have fairly declined her claim 
on her home emergency insurance policy.
Service received
LIM agreed that its first electrician did not identify the consumer unit needed replacing on the 
first visit to Miss Ls home. Miss L was led to believe her claim was covered due to the error. 
This meant Miss L had to make phone calls to and have visits from LIMs electricians to 
progress the claim to repair the four sockets. 
Miss L said during this time she was told more than once by LIMs electricians that the 
consumer unit had been authorised and so she thought the work on the four sockets was 
going to be completed.
LIM has apologised for its error and acknowledged the frustration caused to Miss L during 
this time and when its claim team clarified that the claim was not accepted. LIM said 
feedback has been provided to the contractor. 
Considering this, I think in addition to an apology, LIM should have also compensated Miss L 
for the distress it acknowledged it caused her by making this error. I think £250 is fair in this 
case.
LIM said Miss L could try make a claim on her home insurance.
Therefore, I intend to partially uphold Miss Ls complaint and require LIM to pay her £250 for 
the distress caused by its error at the start of her claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss L sent in a very detailed response in which she commented on each paragraph of my 
provisional decision. Much of her comments were those provided previously. 
However, Miss L made new comments as follows:
she did not organise an upgrade of the electricity supply to her home, as this was not 
required.
She disputed findings of the appointed electricians. Including that the electrics were not 
in a state which didnt allow the second electrician to work on fitting four new sockets, 
that the electrician could have easily bought parts required to complete the job locally, 
that the reports completed includes the wiring could be dangerous these were subjective and open to interpretation.
She repeated a number of times that LIM and its appointed electricians had told her the 
replacement of the consumer unit was approved.
LIM did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to Miss L:
I  agree Miss L did not organise an upgrade of the electricity supply to her home and my 
provisional decision was not meant to infer this. To clarify Miss L organised for the main 
electricity supplier to attend to look at her supply after being requested to get an isolator 
switch fit by LIMs appointed electrician. 
Miss L confirms herself she has no electrical qualifications. Where there is a difference of 
opinion it is usual to accept that the evidence of the qualified professional is more likely 
to be more accurate. 
It is not in dispute that Miss L was incorrectly told the consumer unit was covered by her 
policy. 
Based on the evidence Ive reviewed I maintain my provisional decision for the same 
reasons I have given and I partially uphold Miss Ls complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I partially uphold this complaint.
I require Legal Insurance Management Ltd to pay Miss L £250 in compensation. It must pay 
the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Miss L accepts my final 
decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman