DRN-2764251
The complaint
Mr C complains about the value Admiral Insurance Company Limited offered in settlement of 
his claim on his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Cs car was stolen in December 2020 and so he made a claim on his car insurance policy 
with Admiral.
Admiral valued Mr Cs car at £4,862 but made a deduction for the outstanding policy 
premium and offered him a total of £4,673.13 to settle the claim. Mr C doesnt think this 
valuation is fair because he says its not possible to buy a car of the same specification for 
the amount Admiral offered. Mr C feels his car was worth between £7,000 and £8,000. 
Admiral said they valued the car by reviewing the main industry valuation guides and the 
valuation settlement figure they offered was based on the highest value of the two guides 
they checked.
After looking at the trade guides our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and felt the offer 
Admiral made was fair. Mr C didnt agree and so Ive been asked to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 15 March 2021 where I said:
In his response to our investigators views, Mr C complains that his policy was changed
without his say so. I note this isnt something that was raised previously, and Admiral hasnt
been given the opportunity to investigate this issue. So, I wont comment on it in this
decision. If Mr C would like this point investigated, he will need to raise it directly with
Admiral.
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual vehicle is. We look
at whether the insurer has applied the terms of a policy correctly and valued the vehicle
fairly. Under the terms of Mr Cs policy, Admiral has to pay him the market value of the car,
less his excess. Admiral waived the excess in Mr Cs case in recognition of the type of work
he does.
The terms of the policy define market value as:
The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and
condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of the term
market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based on research from
industry recognised motor trade guides.
I understand Mr C says his car was valued at £7,500 when he took out the policy, but I dont
think that means Admiral need to pay what he paid for the car when he purchased it or the
value it was insured for when he took out the policy. This is because, the policy limits
Admirals liability to the cars market value at the time of the loss. The issue for me to decide
is whether Admiral has treated Mr C fairly when valuing his car. I dont think it has.
Its standard practice for the industry to use valuation guides to work out the estimated
market value of a car. And its not unreasonable that it does so. The valuation the guides
give are based on national research on the advertised prices of similar cars with a similar 
age, condition and mileage for sale at the time of loss.
Admirals valuation of Mr Cs car has been based on private sale values stated in the
valuation guides at the time of the loss. While the terms mentioned above indicate the
valuation would be based on the market in which the car had been purchased, it also
requires Admiral to pay Mr C the cost of replacing his vehicle, and I dont think their offer
represents a fair valuation of his car.
When we consider what a fair market value of a car is, we assess the market value as the
retail price which the consumer would have had to pay to replace the car with a comparable
vehicle.
In Mr Cs case, he bought his car privately as a project. He spent less than the market value
in the purchase of the car, and then paid the additional cost of repairing it. I cant fairly say
Mr C would be able or willing to do the same again to replace his car that was stolen. So, I
think it would be unfair to offer the cost of buying the car privately.
When looking at the retail value for Mr Cs car, the valuation guides Ive looked at, give a
higher market value than that offered by Admiral. The guides value the car at £6,125 and
£6,159. I think a fair approach would be to take an average of the two guides, so I think
Admiral should increase their valuation to £6,142. They should also pay 8% simple interest
per year from the date they made their offer to settle the claim to the date they pay Mr C.
While this isnt the amount Mr C would like, I think this value is fair.
Mr C responded and accepted my provisional decision, but Admiral didnt accept it. They 
said: 
It would be unfair to provide all customers the same value when their purchase 
history is different. The guides confirm the value differs based on the different 
markets. 
If they were to provide a valuation from a manufacturer approved market, they would 
be over indemnifying Mr C as he bought his vehicle in the private sector. 
The terms of their policy aim to put the consumer back in the same financial position 
as before the incident. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about Admirals response, and Im not persuaded to change my mind. As well as 
considering whether Admiral acted in line with the terms and conditions, the role of this 
service is to also consider whether they treated Mr C fairly. In the circumstances of this 
complaint, Im not satisfied Admirals valuation was fair. 
Admiral says Mr Cs buying history is important, and they would be over indemnifying him by 
offering the retail value of the car. But I dont agree it would result in Admiral over 
indemnifying Mr C. I say this because, he bought his car privately, and bought it as a scrap 
to use as a restoration project. By the time of the incident, Mr C had restored the car to a 
good condition, and in doing so, incurred the additional costs that were involved in the 
process.
 
I understand the terms of the policy indicate that the valuation would be based on the market 
in which the vehicle was purchased. But ultimately Mr C should receive the cost of replacing his stolen car with one of similar age, condition and mileage. Mr C bought his car as a 
project and restored it. As I mentioned in my provisional decision, I cant fairly say he would 
be able or willing to do the same again to replace it, nor do I think it would be fair to expect 
him to. Mr C is more likely to buy a replacement car in the retail market, which is commonly 
how replacement vehicles are bought. So I think Admiral should base its valuation on this 
market. 
Putting things right
Admiral valued Mr Cs car at £4,673.13, but as I mentioned I think Admiral should increase 
their offer to £6,142. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned, I uphold this complaint and require Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to increase the settlement value to £6,142. And they should pay this to Mr C directly. 
They should also pay Mr C 8% simple interest per year on any additional money paid to him 
from the date they first made a settlement offer, until payment is made.
If Admiral Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. 
It should also give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman