DRN-2527270
The complaint
Mrs S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc blocked her account without notifying her. She 
wants to know why her account was blocked and compensation for the inconvenience and 
distress it caused. Mrs S is represented by Mr J.
What happened
Mrs S held an advance account with HSBC.
In September 2018 HSBC put a block on her account which she didnt know about. Once 
she found out Mrs S told us shed visited different branches several times and spoken to 
HSBC on the phone to try to find out why her account was blocked. But she was unable to 
find out. 
Mrs S complained to HSBC. They said they were continuing to review the account and 
couldnt give Mrs S access to her account because of their regulatory obligations.
However, the bank offered £500 in compensation as a gesture of goodwill because they 
accepted they could have completed the review of Mrs Ss account quicker. Mrs S didnt 
accept the offer and said she was looking for compensation in the region of £4,000. She said 
she hadnt had access to her funds for over a year. She needed the money to sponsor her 
husbands visa application. She incurred solicitors costs for the immigration application and 
solicitors costs for the lifting of the block on the account.
She requested compensation in the following amounts:
Legal advice- bank closure £677.92
Legal advice-immigration £150.00
Added cost to visa application £860.00
Travel to Iran and back £5,000.00
Distress, not being able to 
access her money £2,400.00
On 10 December 2019 the account was closed, and funds paid to Mrs S.
Mrs S complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. He said HSBCs offer of £500 was fair. He 
said HSBC were entitled to carry out a review of the account as part of their regulatory 
obligations.
Mrs S didnt agree with the compensation offer. She said that the legal fees shed incurred 
were as a result of HSBCs delay in reviewing her account. She had to pay for an expedited 
visa application for her husband because of the delays and she had to go overseas to stay 
with family in order to cover her living costs. Mrs S also said she should be paid interest 
because she hadnt had access to her money. She still wanted compensation for the distress 
the situation had caused her and estimated this at £2,500.
Our investigator reconsidered the file and issued a second opinion. He said HSBC should 
pay the extra £860 cost of the visa. He thought £750 distress and inconvenience better 
reflected what Mrs S had suffered. He thought interest should be paid on the balance in her 
account over the amount needed to sponsor her husbands application. So, the investigator 
suggested that interest should be paid on £15,442.61 from 24 November 2018 to 
10 December 2019. 
HSBC agreed but Mrs S was unhappy with the investigators second view. She reiterated 
her position.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am minded to reach a different conclusion to our investigator. And Ill 
explain why below. Both parties agree that HSBC delayed their review of Mrs Ss account, so it was blocked for 
longer than necessary. The account was blocked from September 2018 until 10 December 
2019 when the account was closed. HSBC have agreed with the investigator that the review 
could have been completed by 24 November 2018 as they have agreed that interest should 
be payable for 13 months from 24 November 2018 to 10 December 2019. HSBC hasnt 
provided exact evidence of when the account was blocked. But two months seems a 
reasonable timeframe for them to review the account. So subject to any further information I 
receive I will assume the delay was for the period stated above and that HSBC could have 
completed their review of Mrs Ss account by the 24 November 2018. 
In my provisional decision I will limit myself to consider compensation that should be payable 
to Mrs S because of HSBCs delay. Below I have considered whether the compensation is 
appropriate considering the timeline mentioned above.
Both parties agree that Mrs S should be refunded the extra cost of her husbands visa 
application which would not have been necessary but for HSBCs error.
I will deal with each compensation item in turn.
Travel costs
Mrs S has said that her family needed to leave the UK and live in Iran in order to cut their 
cost of living because she had no access to her money. I appreciate that this was an 
extremely difficult time for Mrs S and her family. I appreciate that she has said she found it 
embarrassing to borrow money from her family. However, I dont see the connection 
between having funds blocked and having to travel to and stay in Iran, especially since I 
understand Mrs S was living with her parents at the time. Mrs S has said that £5,780 was 
spent just on flights to Iran during this period. And I understand that this is a significant sum. 
However, I realise this will be disappointing to Mrs S but for the reasons Ive outlined above I 
wont be asking HSBC to compensate her for the cost of her travel to and from Iran. 
Solicitors costs regarding the account block.
Mrs S has provided evidence of solicitors fees she incurred when she attempted to get the 
block on the account removed. She has said she had no option as the bank continued to 
block her account. As Ive mentioned above it seems reasonable that the funds could have 
been released by the end of November 2018. Mrs S brought her complaint to this service on 
28 March 2019. The block on Mrs Ss account went on for a long time and Mrs S needed to 
have access to the funds in the account in order to support her husbands visa application. 
Ive seen evidence that Mrs S sought to have her account unblocked and engaged a firm of 
solicitors to act on her behalf. She did this in October 2019. Had HSBC completed the 
review of her account in a timely manner on balance I think its unlikely she would have 
engaged a firm of solicitors to pursue her complaint and provide her with legal advice. 
Because of the situation she was in and HSBCs delay Mrs S was forced to look for other 
solutions to resolve her issue. Because of this I am minded to ask HSBC to cover the costs 
of these legal fees.
Solicitors cost regarding Immigration situation.
Ive seen evidence from Mrs S that she obtained specialist legal advice immigration advice 
because her funds were blocked, and these funds were going to be used to support her 
husbands visa application. As the banks review took longer than it should have, and Mrs 
Ss husband application was imminent I appreciate that she was concerned to understand 
how she could mitigate the impact of her funds being blocked on her husbands application. I think its understandable that Mrs S sought specialist legal advice in respect of her 
husbands situation. I am satisfied she went to a solicitor because of the delay in being able 
to access her funds as Ive seen in the visa application that her husband was not employing 
a solicitor to make the original visa application. 
I think she wouldnt have had to get legal advice if HSBC had completed their review in a 
timely manner, so I am minded to ask them to cover these costs.
Interest
Mrs S says that she should receive interest payments for the total balance in her account 
£77,942.61 because this is the amount that was blocked.
Our investigator has said that Mrs S wouldnt have been able to use £62,500 of that money 
as it needed to be available for Mrs Ss husbands visa application. Therefore, interest 
should be payable on the balance of £15,442.61 from 24 November 2018 to 
10 December 2019.  HSBC agreed with the investigator that interest should be payable for 
that period.
I have considered what Mrs S has said and I think that there was missed opportunity. Its 
difficult to know what she may have used the money for during the period of time. I have 
looked at the immigration advice from the foreign office and I am aware that the supporting 
funds can be a mixture of income and capital. So, in view of this I think that she may have 
used some of the money for her business and invested it. Because of this I am minded to 
ask HSBC to pay 8% simple interest on the total balance in her account for the period 
between 24 November 2018 and 10 December 2019.
Trouble and upset
HSBC originally offered £500 for trouble and upset. Mrs S rejected this amount. I have noted 
that our investigator said that £750 was a fair amount. Mrs S wanted compensation of 
£2,500.
I have considered that Mrs S was without access to her money for nearly a year. I also 
appreciate that this was a stressful time for Mrs S and her family Not only was she without 
access to her funds and having to borrow money from friends and family but this was 
impacting her husbands immigration application. These applications are complex and time 
consuming and a mistake can have devastating consequences for a family wishing to live 
together. She has also said she wasnt able to work and develop her business. I think taking 
everything into consideration and especially the immigration circumstances her family found 
themselves in, I am currently minded to ask HSBC to pay Mrs S £1,500 in compensation for 
the delay in reviewing her account and keeping it blocked for longer than necessary. 
So my provisional decision was that HSBC UK Bank Plc should:
Pay £677.92 for solicitors costs.
Pay £150.00 Immigration advice costs.
Pay £860.00 for the additional visa costs.
Pay interest at 8% simple on £77,942.61 from 24 November 2018 to 
10 December 2019.
Pay £1,500 for her material distress.
So subject to any further representations by Mrs S and HSBC I was minded to uphold the 
complaintResponses to my provisional decision 
Both Mrs S and HSBC have accepted my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Although Mrs S and HSBC have not provided any further comments, I have nevertheless re-
considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. I have seen nothing to change my mind and so my 
provisional findings stand.
My final decision
For the reasons I have outlined above my final decision is that I uphold this complaint 
against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to do the following to resolve the complaint:
Pay £677.92 for solicitors costs.
Pay £150.00 Immigration advice costs.
Pay £860.00 for the additional visa costs.
Pay interest at 8% simple on £77,942.61 from 24 November 2018 to 
10 December 2019. *
Pay £1,500 for her material distress.
*If HSBC UK Bank Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to 
withhold income tax from those parts of the award constituting the 8% interest, it should tell 
Ms S how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks 
for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman