DRN-2732067
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums they 
paid for a travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 23 January 2020, Mr and Mrs Es annual multi-trip travel insurance policy renewed. 
Theyd taken out the policy through a broker, but the policy was underwritten by Great 
Lakes. Mr and Mrs Es policy covered them between 24 January 2020 and 23 January 2021. 
The policy cost Mr and Mrs E £463.05, which included a discount of £60.47. The price also 
included optional add-on excess waiver cover which Mr and Mrs E paid £42.97 for. The 
premium included cover for several medical conditions for both Mr and Mrs E.
As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mrs E tried to get in touch with the broker. Initially, she 
wanted to take out optional Trip Disruption Extension cover, but she says she wasnt able to 
get through to the broker. And on 23 March 2020, she asked if she could either put the policy 
on hold or cancel it and get a cash refund.
Great Lakes didnt offer Mr and Mrs E a cash refund. Ultimately, it offered them the following 
options:
A pro-rata credit towards buying a new 15-month annual policy for the price of 12 
months, at current market rates;
A pro-rata credit towards buying a deferred annual policy. This would be a 12-month 
policy at current market rates. A policyholder can choose to start the policy at any 
time within 12 months of buying it; or
A pro-rata credit towards a UK-only annual multi-trip policy, with a potential to 
upgrade the destination at a later date.
Great Lakes calculated that the pro-rata credit voucher Mr and Mrs E were due was 
£338.68. It didnt offer a pro-rata refund of the £42.97 Mr and Mrs E had paid for the excess 
waiver cover.
Mr and Mrs E werent happy with Great Lakes offer and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. 
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Es complaint should be partly upheld. She set out the 
details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this 
case. She also explained that it is a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer 
had started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. That 
means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it 
covered during that time. And she explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the 
contract of insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 24 January 
2020 and the policy covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
She thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to offer Mrs Mr and Mrs E a credit voucher, which took into account the 
unused cover remaining on the policy. She didnt think the terms of the voucher were overly 
restrictive. So she didnt think Great Lakes needed to pay Mr and Mrs E a cash refund of 
their premium.
However, she didnt think it was fair and reasonable for Great Lakes not to include a pro-rata 
refund of the premium Mr and Mrs E paid for the excess waiver cover. She didnt think there 
was any suggestion that Mr and Mrs E had made a claim on this cover while the policy was 
in force. And she didnt think that Mr and Mrs E had chosen to cancel this cover because 
they hadnt needed to claim  theyd chosen to cancel the policy due to Covid-19. She 
wasnt satisfied there were any reasonable grounds to treat this add-on cover any differently 
to the main annual policy. So she recommended that Great Lakes should also include a pro-
rata refund for this cover in its overall refund offer.
Great Lakes accepted the investigators assessment and agreed to include a pro-rata refund 
of the excess waiver premium in its overall refund offer. This increased its overall credit 
voucher offer to £374.37.
Mr and Mrs E didnt accept the investigators view. They said they didnt know if theyd be 
able to travel for the next couple of years due to ongoing restrictions and also whether Mrs E 
would be medically fit to do so. They felt that a voucher would be worthless to them. They 
said that travel insurance policies are very costly for them and they dont feel that Great 
Lakes offer is fair.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs E, I think Great Lakes offer is fair. 
Ill explain why.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium
will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. I think Great Lakes offer of settlement is fair because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that Great Lakes doesnt have 
to pay any refund of a policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended. 
In this case, Mr and Mrs Es cooling-off period ended on 6 February 2020. But the 
policy wasnt cancelled until 26 March 2020. So the cancellation was outside of the 
14-day cooling-off period. I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to use its 
discretion and treat the Covid-19 pandemic as exceptional circumstances. I think this 
policy term most likely relates to circumstances which are individual to the 
policyholder  such as bereavement or a change in their own health. This means I 
dont think the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Es contract with Great Lakes 
entitle them to any refund of premiums.  
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. In the circumstances of this case I think Great Lakes offer to offer a credit 
voucher to put towards a 15-month annual policy; a 12-month deferred annual policy 
or an UK-only annual policy is fair. In the circumstances of this case, I think its fair 
and reasonable to use 26 March 2020 as the relevant date for the pro-rata refund. 
While I appreciate Mrs Es told us she tried to get in touch with Great Lakes to cancel 
the policy prior to this date, she hasnt been able to provide any phone or email 
records which show when she attempted to contact Great Lakes. In the absence of 
this evidence, I think it was reasonable for Great Lakes to use the actual cancellation 
date to calculate the refund. 
Great Lakes wouldve been on-risk for a 366-day period if the policy hadnt been 
cancelled. The voucher represents the remaining, unused 304 days of cover, after 
the policy was cancelled, as Great Lakes was no longer carrying any risk of Mr and 
Mrs E making a claim after that point. I agree that given Great Lakes also no longer 
bore any risk of Mr and Mrs E making an excess waiver claim once the policy had 
been cancelled and theres nothing to suggest they made a claim, there were no 
reasonable grounds for it to treat the add-on cover any differently to the rest of the 
policy. So Im persuaded that the fair outcome is for Great Lakes to include a pro-rata 
refund for the excess cover in the overall voucher calculation. Im pleased Great 
Lakes agreed to the investigators recommendation on this point and increased the 
refund offer to £374.37. And having checked Great Lakes calculation, Im satisfied it 
is correct.
In my view, a voucher is fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of 
this case. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs E feel that the voucher is worthless, as 
current restrictions and Mrs Es health mean they might not be able to travel soon. 
However, while I accept that travel plans are still uncertain, Mr and Mrs E didnt 
suggest to us when they brought their complaint that they wouldnt be able to travel 
again  they indicated they didnt know when (or if) theyd be able to travel. And they 
also suggested to Great Lakes that it put their policy on hold, in case they were able 
to travel in the future. On this basis, I think its likely Mr and Mrs E will be able to put 
the voucher towards another policy going forwards. So I dont think that the terms of 
the voucher are overly restrictive.Having considered everything, while I know Mr and Mrs E will be disappointed in my 
decision, Im not telling Great Lakes to pay them a cash refund of their premiums or do 
anything more. Ive noted what theyve told us about their difficulties in contacting the broker 
to buy the Travel Disruption Extension. However, this wasnt Great Lakes responsibility. So 
if they want to make a complaint about this particular issue, theyll need to complain directly 
to the broker about it.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Great Lakes offer of settlement is 
fair and reasonable. 
I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to offer Mr and Mrs E a credit voucher for one of the three 
options its offered above, for a total of £374.37, which includes a pro-rata amount for the 
excess waiver premium.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman