DRN-2883594
The complaint
Mr S complains that Vauxhall Finance plc rejected a claim he brought under Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 relating to a vehicle he acquired through a conditional sale 
agreement. He further complains that Vauxhall had the vehicle repossessed whilst his 
complaint was still being investigated. And that its seeking the outstanding balance on the 
agreement.  
What happened
Mr S tells us that he acquired a vehicle from a dealer Ill refer to as B in February 2017. He 
says the vehicle experienced several issues with the battery and he told B he was rejecting 
the vehicle in December 2017. When it didnt reply, Mr S states that he left the vehicle at Bs 
premises and told Vauxhall that he was stopping the future direct debit payments.
Mr S explains that he subsequently made a complaint to the Motor Ombudsman against B. 
He says that whilst the Motor Ombudsman was considering his complaint, Vauxhall 
repossessed and sold the vehicle. And he states that its been chasing him for repayments 
and has defaulted his account.
Vauxhall told us that Section 75 didnt apply as the finance agreement was a Conditional 
Sale agreement. It further explained that it had repossessed the vehicle as it had been 
abandoned at Bs premises and that payments had ceased. It said that the vehicle had been 
subsequently sold at auction. And that this had resulted in a shortfall of £7,092.89 on the 
agreement.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 20 May 2021. I said that I intended to 
uphold the complaint. I found that if his rejection of the vehicle had been accepted  Mr S 
wouldve only been liable to pay for fair use. And that I didnt think it was fair that he should 
be deprived of a remedy simply by the timeline of events.  I didnt find it was fair and 
reasonable that Mr S should be required to pay the shortfall on the agreement.
Since then Mr S has replied but Ive not seen any response from Vauxhall.
Mr S said that he agreed in principle with the provisional decision. But he didnt accept some 
of the financial calculations. He said that hed only had the vehicle 10 months and not 11 
months. So he didnt think he owed anything. And he felt he should also be refunded his 
deposit along with an additional sum based on mileage as indicated by the Motor 
Ombudsman.
Ive considered what Mr S has said and I accept that B referred to him having the vehicle for 
10 months in its submissions to the Motor Ombudsman. I agree that he shouldnt be required 
to pay anything further. And to that extent Ill amend my provisional view and reflect this in 
my final decision.
But I dont agree he should be refunded the additional amounts he claims. Ill give my full 
reasons below in my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts of this complaint are complex and unusual. But perhaps surprisingly, there doesnt 
appear to be much dispute about some of the more relevant issues.
Mr S acquired the vehicle on a conditional sale agreement in February 2017. He complained 
about issues with the vehicle and the battery was replaced in August 2017. Mr S 
subsequently sought to reject the vehicle on 20 December 2017. He abandoned the vehicle 
towards the end of 2017 or the start of 2018, at Bs premises. And he failed thereafter to 
make payments under the agreement.
Mr S contacted Vauxhall on 3 January 2018  apparently having not got any satisfaction 
from B following his attempt to reject the vehicle on 20 December 2017.
Vauxhall sent a letter in reply dated 5 January 2018 in which it stated:
Unfortunately we do not regulate the dealerships and would be unable to overturn any 
decision made in respect of accepting or declining a request to reject a vehicle.
And it suggested that Mr S escalate his concerns to the Motor Ombudsman service.
Mr S took this advice. And theres now the finding  albeit against B - that the vehicle which 
was supplied to Mr S wasnt fit for purpose.
Whilst the Motor Ombudsman was considering Mr S complaint, Vauxhall started to chase 
Mr S for arrears of payments. And a complaint was made to this service. But that complaint 
was limited to determining if Vauxhall had been fair and reasonable in chasing him for 
payments due under the agreement. It didnt look at the quality aspects of the vehicle. Mr S 
complaint to this service wasnt upheld.
The vehicle was repossessed and then sold at auction at the end of May 2019. And this 
resulted in a shortfall on the agreement which Vauxhall is now claiming from Mr S.
In a provisional decision in May 2019, the Motor Ombudsman initially recommended that Mr 
S should be permitted to reject the vehicle. But having discovered it had already been 
repossessed, in his final decision he changed that view. And found instead that a price 
reduction of £1,000 should be applied.
The situation which now arises is that Mr S is faced with a shortfall of over £7,000 on an 
agreement for a vehicle  which if it hadnt already been repossessed  hed have been 
entitled to reject. And if hed successfully rejected the vehicle  as he tried to do - its likely 
that the only payments for which hed be liable would relate to the use of the vehicle for the 
period hed had it in his possession.
I accept that Vauxhall was entitled to reject Mr S complaint brought under Section 75. That 
legislation doesnt apply to conditional sale agreements. But that doesnt mean to say it 
shouldnt have considered whether it had a liability under different legislation. That would 
include the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
As the finance agreement here was a conditional sale agreement, Vauxhall is the supplier of 
the vehicle to Mr S. As such its liable for the vehicle being of satisfactory quality and fit for 
purpose. I cant see that Vauxhall ever considered this aspect.Ive seen no other evidence which causes me to doubt that the vehicle wasnt fit for purpose 
in the way determined by the Motor Ombudsman. Had Vauxhall looked at this issue it might 
still have decided to repossess the vehicle. But hopefully it mightve delayed pursuing any 
action against Mr S in relation to the debt until after the Motor Ombudsman had determined 
Mr S complaint.
I accept that the manner in which Mr S tried to reject the vehicle wasnt as prudent as it 
couldve been. By abandoning the vehicle at the dealers and cancelling payments he was  
probably inadvertently  contributing to the situation which has now arisen.
I dont think its fair and reasonable that simply due to the manner in which he sought to put 
into practical effect his rejection of the vehicle - and the timeline of subsequent events  that 
he should be deprived of the remedy that he would otherwise have been entitled to.
Mr S is claiming he shouldnt have to make any payment under the agreement from the time 
he rejected the vehicle. Vauxhall meanwhile, is seeking to claim the whole of the outstanding 
balance it says is due.
Whilst I dont apply the law  directly  I do take it into account. It can be argued that both 
parties here have breached the contractual terms of the agreement. Vauxhall the implied 
term that the vehicle was fit for purpose. And Mr S by failing to keep up the contractual 
payments. 
Its not for me to decide if theres been any breach of contract, but I can say that any breach 
of the implied term in relation to fitness for purpose wouldve preceded any breach in relation 
to contractual payments by Mr S.
In summary, my view is that before declining to uphold Mr S complaint, Vauxhall shouldve 
considered its obligations under the CRA. And not just Section 75. Had this occurred, its 
likely that it wouldve resulted in the acceptance of Mr S rejection of the vehicle. Accordingly, 
Im upholding his complaint.
Turning now to the issue of how things should be put right. In my opinion, its fair and 
reasonable to try to put Mr S back to as near as possible the position he wouldve been in 
had his original request to reject the vehicle been accepted. Its not possible to precisely 
replicate that situation.
But I wish to make clear Im not seeking to implement the terms of the decision of the Motor 
Ombudsman. Any reference to the award made in that decision is designed only to clarify 
the context of this complaint. And to address issues raised by Mr S.
That decision was against the retailer, B, not Vauxhall. Its also not clear if Mr S ever 
accepted that decision. 
Ill deal separately with each of the points raised by Mr S in his reply to my provisional 
decision.
The statement of account that Ive seen shows that Mr S made 10 payments of £299.97 from 
March 2017. That equates to the period he was in possession of the vehicle from around 8 
February to 20 December 2017 when he sought to reject it. Information from B submitted to 
the Motor Ombudsman also confirms that he had the vehicle 10 months.The approach this service would usually apply to the issue of fair use is, broadly speaking, to 
treat the monthly payments as the equivalent of this charge. And to apply it for the period the 
vehicle was available to the customer. So I agree that the payments Mr S made covers the 
sum required for fair use.
Mr S referred to the provisional decision of the Motor Ombudsman in which it was 
recommended that Mr S should be refunded the money hed paid for the vehicle less a 45p 
charge for each mile. Mr S thought this meant he should be refunded £1,365.30.
Ive already said that Im not seeking to implement the Motor Ombudsmans award. But for 
completeness it may help Mr S if I explain further.
The decision to which he first referred was only a provisional award and was later changed 
in the Motor Ombudsmans final decision. And the final decision of the Motor Ombudsman 
was that B should pay him £1,000 as a price reduction. Ive already said that theres no 
information to show that Mr S accepted this decision. Which is why I presume that hes not 
been paid by B.
But the more relevant point is that under Section 24 (5) of the CRA, the options of rejection 
of the goods or a price reduction are alternative remedies. A consumer cannot exercise both 
options. In other words, if Mr S chose to reject the vehicle, he couldnt also have a price 
reduction.
The deposit of £100 to which Mr S refers does not appear on the copy of the financial 
agreement which he signed. Although its mentioned on the sales invoice as having been 
paid to B. In view of this doubt, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to require 
Vauxhall to refund this amount when it doesnt appear in the finance agreement.
In summary, its not possible to return Mr S to the precise position that hed have been in 
had his rejection of the vehicle been accepted. I think that requiring Vauxhall to accept the 
payments made as fair use and to treat the agreement as fully settled is a fair and 
reasonable resolution of this complaint. If he accepts my decision Mr S will not have to pay 
the £7,000 plus shortfall.
Putting things right
I require Vauxhall Finance plc to take the following action:
1. Treat the conditional sale agreement as being settled, with nothing further for Mr S 
to pay. 
2. Arrange for the removal of any adverse information in relation to this agreement from     
Mr S credit file. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
I require Vauxhall Finance plc to take the action that I stipulated in the preceding section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Stephen RossOmbudsman