DRN-4072559
The complaint
Mr S complains about the valuation Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited placed on his van 
following a claim made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ss van was damaged in a storm, and he made a claim on his policy. Admiral declared 
the van to be a total loss and it offered him £7,900, less the policy excess, in settlement of 
his claim. Mr S thought Admiral hadnt properly valued the van and hadnt taken into account 
its recently refurbished engine. But Admiral said this didnt change its decision. It said it had 
made a 20% deduction due to the van twice being a previous write-off. Mr S said he thought 
his van was worth nearer £16,000. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She found a 
valuation for Mr Ss van in one of the motor trade guides we use. This was higher than 
Admirals offer. But when she had deducted 20% for the previous write-offs, this made it 
lower. She didnt think the refurbished engine increased value as the van would be valued as 
a whole. Mr S provided adverts, but she wasnt persuaded that these matched the condition 
or specification of his van. So she thought Admirals offer was fair and reasonable. 
Mr S disagreed and so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. Mr S said he 
would provide further information for me to consider, but I cant see that hes done this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr S wants a fair settlement for the loss of his van. I can see that his 
policy provides for the vans market value in the case of its total loss. The Investigator has 
explained this services approach to vehicle valuations. We dont provide valuations for vans 
but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Admiral said it couldnt locate valuations for Mr Ss van in the motor trade guides we use due 
to its age. So it relied on an independent engineers valuation instead. This took into account 
the vans specification, that it had twice been written off previously, and market research. 
I can see that our Investigator also checked the guides for vans of the same make, model, 
age, mileage and condition as Mr Ss van at the date of its loss. She was able to find only 
one valuation, but this was with lower mileage. The valuation was £9,041. 
She then deducted 20% from this due to the previous write-offs to reach £7,232.80. I think 
that was fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our approach and a van with this history is 
less desirable to buyers. 
Mr S provided evidence that the vans engine had recently been refurbished. But we dont 
consider that this would increase the valuation as this is based on the vehicle as a whole.
Mr S provide adverts for similar vans offered at higher prices. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices. And I can see that vans in the adverts dont match the specification 
of Mr Ss van. So I dont think they should reasonably be considered to justify an increase in 
its valuation. 
The Investigators valuation found in one trade guide was lower than Admirals offer based 
on an independent engineers estimate. So I cant say that it was unfair or unreasonable. 
And I dont require Admiral to increase this. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman