DRN-2135021
The complaint
Mr B  on behalf of W Ltd  complains that Crosby Insurance Services Limited (Crosby) 
have unfairly retained a commission fee from a cancelled public liability insurance policy.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons.
Crosbys terms of business state:
Our Fees, Commission and Charges
We usually receive a commission from the insurance provider with whom we place 
your business, and in such a case, the commission will be paid to us either when we 
are in receipt of cleared funds from youor, when the insurer has received cleared 
funds from us in respect of the premium due under your policy.

Cancellation (we refund NET of our commission)

Policies voided or cancelled from inception by insurers will be treated as a 
cancellation and we will retain any commission and fees before returning the net 
premium to you. By accepting these terms of business you agree that we may retain 
the portion of the premium that relates to commission that would have been due to 
us. [My emphasis added].
I appreciate that the terms of business provide for the retention of commission. But the 
wording specifically states that commission will be retained when a policy is voided or 
cancelled from inception by insurers. In this instance, the policy was not voided or cancelled 
by the insurer, it was cancelled by W Ltd as the customer. The terms of business make no 
provision for the retention of commission for policies cancelled by customers, so I do not 
consider it is fair and reasonable for Crosby to extend the above term to allow them to keep 
their commission in these circumstances. 
I understand it may have been Crosbys original intention to allow them to retain commission 
in such circumstances. But terms and conditions relating to fees and charges need to be 
clear and specific. Where a contractual term is ambiguous as to whether it applies (as it is 
here) the well-established legal principle of contra proferentem provides that the ambiguity 
must be construed against the party that drafted it, and the interpretation most favourable to 
the customer is to prevail  irrespective of whether the customer is a commercial client or a 
regular consumer. In these circumstances, I consider this to mean that the relevant term 
allows Crosby to retain their commission only when an insurer cancels or voids the policy  
not the customer. 
I therefore consider Crosby should refund the commission payment it has retained from 
W Ltd.s refund. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Crosby Insurance Services 
Limited to refund W Ltd the sum of the commission it has retained, and pay 8% interest from 
29 November 2019 (when the commission ought to have been returned) to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B  on behalf of 
W Ltd  to accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman