DRN-4071278
The complaint
Mr B complains about the drop in value of his whole of life (WOL) policy with Liverpool 
Victoria Financial Services Limited (LVFS) resulting from it changing its methodology for 
calculating the value of the policy without informing him.
What happened
Mr B took out his WOL policy in 1979 for a sum assured of £396 with a premium of £0.43 
payable each month. There have been regular bonuses added to the policy since it started 
which, based on figures provided by LVFS, amounted to £499 as at March 2023. 
Mr B complained to LVFS about a drop in the overall value of his policy as of February 2023. 
It provided a final response to the complaint explaining that as of 1 August 2022 it had 
changed the methodology for calculating the death benefits and cash-in values of its WOL 
policies so that the values are fairer  in that these more accurately reflected the premiums 
paid and the insurance cover received. 
LVFS further explained that the purpose of WOL policies such as Mr Bs was to provide a 
payment on death with the only guaranteed amount being the sum assured and any regular 
bonuses already added to the policy and that there is no guarantee of payment of future 
regular bonuses or a final bonus.
Mr B referred the complaint to us and one of our investigators considered it but didnt think it 
should be upheld. She explained that LVFS had made a commercial decision to change its 
methodology for calculating the final bonus for its WOL policies and this wasnt something 
we would interfere with and that LVFS hadnt treated Mr B unfairly as a result of the change 
in methodology.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator. He said that he understood that values could go up or 
down but the significant decrease in value of his policy was solely the result of LVFSs 
decision and it must have known this would be the implication of it changing its methodology. 
He also said that LVFS must have known that had it advised its customers of what it was 
doing it would have faced an influx of customers wanting to close out their policies and it was 
a deceitful and tactical decision not to do so.
As Mr B didnt agree with the investigator the matter has been referred to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator that LVFS hasnt done anything wrong and I 
am not going to uphold the complaint.
I note that in February 2023 Mr B was provided with valuations for his policy over the 
preceding five years. The valuations are made up of the sum assured, any regular bonuses 
already added to the policy and an amount for a discretionary final bonus. The valuations 
show the same figure for the death value and surrender value of well above £3,000 - with the 
figure for February 2022 being £3,920. 
In contrast the death value provided for February 2023 is shown as only £1,660 and the 
surrender value is £975. In the circumstances it isnt surprising that Mr B questioned the 
drop in value. However, whilst I appreciate this will have been very disappointing for Mr B, it 
results from LVFS changing its methodology for calculating the amounts payable for its WOL 
policies. This was a decision that it was entitled to take and not one that I can interfere with  
it isnt part of my remit to overturn reasonable commercial decisions made by a firm. 
There is nothing unreasonable in LVFS changing its methodology for calculating what would 
be payable under its WOL policies to move away from providing the same value on 
surrender as it does on death and focusing instead on providing life cover  the purpose 
such policies were taken out in the first place. LVFS has explained that the aggregate 
amount it expects to pay out to its policyholders hasnt changed, rather there is a fairer 
allocation amongst them. 
Mr B rights under his WOL policy when it comes to the amount payable to him is an 
entitlement to receive the sum assured, amounting to only £396, and any regular premiums 
already added to his policy, amounting to £499 as at March 2023. In short he was only 
guaranteed around £895. The balance of the valuations he was provided with in February 
2023 is made up of the discretionary final bonus and it is a reduction in this figure that has 
led to the reduction in the overall value of Mr Bs policy.
In short, LVFSs decision to change its method of calculation for its WOL policies hasnt 
affected Mr Bs rights under his policy - he is still entitled to payment of £895 and any further 
regular bonuses that are added to the policy in the future. The change of methodology has 
only affected the calculation of the final bonus, the entitlement to which has always been at 
the discretion of LVFS.
It might have been advisable for LVFS to warn policyholders of what it was doing to try and 
avoid the sort of complaint that Mr B has made. However, I am not satisfied that LVFS was 
required to provide such warning, given its change of methodology wasnt something that 
affected Mr Bs rights under his WOL policy. I therefore dont think it did anything wrong in 
not informing Mr B that it had changed the method of calculation. 
I think it is also worth pointing out that even if LVFS had told Mr B it had changed its method 
of calculation this wouldnt necessarily have told him whether this would lead to a much 
lower overall valuation figure than in previous years due to a lower discretionary final bonus 
figure anyway - as from what it has said some policyholders will have seen an increase in 
valuation of their policies. LVFS wouldnt have known the impact on his policy until it applied 
the new methodology and revalued his policy, at which point he wouldnt have been entitled 
to surrender based on the old valuation in any event. 
My final decision
I dont uphold  this complaint for the reasons I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman