DRN-3659572
The complaint
Mr M complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with his account.
What happened
Mr M says his HSBC account was frozen due to inactivity. He says he didnt receive a 
replacement debit card and spoke to HSBC on a number of occasions about account 
access. Mr M says he followed HSBCs instructions and didnt receive correspondence to 
enable him to use his account. He also says he attended a HSBC branch when he returned 
to the United Kingdom, but it wouldnt accept the identity documents he provided. Mr M 
would like his account access restored and says he couldnt stop the account becoming 
dormant a second time as he couldnt carry out a transaction.
HSBC says it wrote to Mr M in December 2020 telling him the account would be frozen due 
to inactivity. It says it followed its policy and later told Mr M it needed identity documents, but 
he didnt provide them when he attended its branch. HSBC says it gave Mr M the option of 
closing his account and sending him the balance which was about £440.
Mr M brought his complaint to us, but our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought HSBC wrote to Mr M in December 2020 and he could have contacted it before he 
did. The investigator didnt think Mr M had the appropriate documents when he attended a 
branch and thought HSBC had previously explained what was needed.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and says he brought his passport with him when he attended 
a HSBC branch as well as letters from HSBC and his Green Card. He disputes receiving the 
December 2020 letter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr M will be disappointed by my decision.
I am sure Mr M appreciates that banks and building societies have regulatory duties in 
respect of accounts not being used. And so, I dont think HSBC made a mistake or acted 
unfairly by writing to Mr M in December 2020 telling him that his account hadnt been used in 
some time and that it would be frozen if not used by March 2021. Im satisfied that this was 
Mr Ms account and his responsibility to manage it and that it ought to have been reasonably 
obvious to him that if an account hadnt been used, then its likely to become subject to 
dormancy procedures. I appreciate Mr M questions if he received the letter, but I am 
satisfied that it was sent, having seen a copy on HSBCs records.
There is no dispute that Mr Ms account was unblocked at the end of 2021. I appreciate Mr 
M says he didnt receive the letters from HSBC to be able to use the account and HSBC 
says as the account wasnt again used, that it froze it. I am sure Mr M appreciates that 
HSBC isnt responsible for the safe delivery of the mail and so I cant fairly hold it 
responsible for Mr M not receiving some of the sent items. I would have expected Mr M to 
have reasonably considered contacting HSBC far sooner than he did if he didnt receive the 
account access in the light of the previous account restrictions that were applied.
Im satisfied having looked at HSBCs records that it told Mr M the documents that it required 
to remove the account blocks. I appreciate Mr M brought with him letters from HSBC as well 
as his passport and Green Card when he attended the HSBC branch. But Im satisfied they 
were not the required documents and so HSBC was reasonably entitled to keep the account 
restrictions in place in those circumstances. 
Im satisfied that HSBC during one telephone call between the parties fairly agreed to close 
the account and send Mr M a cheque for the account balance. I dont think it clear why Mr M 
didnt agree to what I think was a fair resolution. Im also satisfied that HSBC has fairly 
explained the documents it required to remove the restrictions, but I cant see that Mr M has 
done so.
Overall, Im satisfied that HSBC has dealt fairly with this complaint and I dont require it to do 
anything further in the circumstances of it. I find this now brings an end to what we in trying 
to resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman