DRN-2958141
The complaint
Mr R complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has turned down a cancellation claim 
he made on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R has travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged bank account. He was due to fly 
abroad to a country Ill call T on 14 March 2020. However, while Mr R was on-route to the 
airport, he learned that another country, S, of which T is a semi-autonomous region, had 
been placed into lockdown as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. So Mr R decided against 
taking his trip. He was ultimately able to settle his airport parking costs and rearranged his 
flights for a later date. But as Mr Rs accommodation booking provider told him that his hotel 
costs were non-refundable, he made a claim to IPA for the costs associated with cancelling 
his trip.
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel to both 
S and T on 15 March 2020, the day after Mr R decided to cancel his trip.
IPA turned down Mr Rs claim. It said the policy didnt cover the circumstances of his claim. It 
also told Mr R that his accommodation provider should be liable for refunding his costs.
Mr R was unhappy with IPAs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. She considered the terms of 
Mr Rs policy and she noted that the cancellation section didnt include cover for the 
implementation of national lockdown by a national government. So she didnt think it was 
unfair for IPA to turn down the claim.
Mr R disagreed. He stated that he hadnt cancelled the holiday at any point  he hadnt 
travelled due to travel warnings from the media. He felt hed acted with foresight and had 
protected others.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr R, I think it was fair for IPA to turn down his 
claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr Rs policy and the circumstances of his claim, in deciding whether IPA treated 
him fairly.
Ive first turned to consider the terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy, as these form the basis 
of his contract with IPA. While I appreciate Mr R didnt specifically cancel his holiday, it 
remains the case that he didnt travel as planned on 14 March 2020; he didnt use the hotel 
hed booked and his hotel booking was therefore effectively cancelled. So I think it was 
appropriate for IPA to consider the claim under the cancellation section of the policy. This 
says:
What IS Covered
We will pay you, up to the amount shown in the Benefit Schedule, for any
irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs and other prepaid charges which
you have paid or are contracted to pay together with any reasonable additional travel
expenses incurred if:
a) cancellation of your trip is necessary and unavoidable
as a result of any of the following changes in circumstances, which is beyond your
control, and of which you were unaware at the time you booked your trip:
1. Unforeseen illness, injury or death of you, a close relative, a close business 
associate or any person with whom you are travelling or staying during your trip.
2. Compulsory quarantine, jury service attendance or being called as a witness at a 
Court of Law (other than in an advisory capacity) of you or any person with whom 
you are travelling or have arranged to travel with.
3. Redundancy (which qualifies for payment under the current redundancy payment 
legislation in the United Kingdom and at the time of booking your trip there was no 
reason to believe anyone would be made redundant of you or any person with whom 
you are travelling or have arranged to travel with.
4.  The withdrawal of leave for members of the Armed Forces, Police, Fire, Nursing or
Ambulance Services or employees of a Government Department, provided that such
cancellation or curtailment could not reasonably have been expected at the time of 
receiving these benefits or booking your trip (whichever is the later).
5. The police requesting you to remain at or subsequently return to your home due
to serious damage to your home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, flood,
subsidence, malicious persons or theft.
6. You having your passport or visa stolen in a burglary within seven days of your
scheduled departure date and you cannot obtain a replacement in time.
7.  Your pet dog or cat requiring life-saving treatment within seven days of your 
scheduled departure date.
In this case, Mr R has told us that he chose not to travel as planned, because hed seen 
warnings on S media that the country was being placed in lockdown. While I can understand 
his decision not to travel as hed planned, its clear that this simply isnt one of the listed 
events IPA has chosen to cover. Neither is the imposition of national lockdown or restrictions 
by a government. And I note that the FCO didnt advise against travel to either S or T until 
the following day, meaning there was no official advice to UK nationals not to travel to T at 
the point Mr R decided against taking his trip. On this basis then, I dont think it was unfair for 
IPA to conclude that Mr Rs claim wasnt covered by the cancellation section of his policy.
Taking the above into account, on the specific facts of this complaint, I dont think IPA has 
treated Mr R unfairly. I sympathise with Mr Rs position, because I appreciate hes out of 
pocket, but in these circumstances, I think it was fair for IPA to turn down his claim.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman