DRN-3818003
The complaint
Mr G complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited has altered the way in which his 
pension savings are invested without sufficient regard to his circumstances.
What happened
Mr G holds pension savings with Standard Life. Those pension savings commenced in 
July 2018 when he joined a pension scheme provided by his employer. He agreed at that 
time for his pension savings to be invested using a default lifestyle profile.
In February 2022, Standard Life wrote to Mr G, and other affected customers, to advise him 
that it was intending to change the structure and investments in the lifestyle profile that he 
was using. It told him that the change would take place three months later in May 2022. 
Standard Life says that it was entitled to make those changes under the terms and 
conditions of Mr Gs pension plan.
Mr G was unhappy with the changes that Standard Life said it would be making. He said that 
he had carefully chosen the way in which his pension savings were invested, and that it was 
inappropriate for Standard Life to make changes without a detailed understanding of his 
financial circumstances. Standard Life didnt agree with Mr Gs complaint so he brought the 
matter to us.
Mr Gs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that 
Standard Life had acted in line with the relevant terms and conditions of the pension plan, 
that Mr G had been provided with sufficient notice of the change, and hed been given 
information about what he could do if he were unhappy with the proposals. So the 
investigator didnt think Standard Life had done anything wrong.
Mr G didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr G and by Standard Life. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
In complaints such as these I think a reasonable starting point is to consider the terms and 
conditions that apply to the pension plan. As I said earlier, Mr Gs pension savings were 
invested using a default lifestyle profile that had been used since his plan was opened in 
July 2018. The relevant terms in relation to lifestyle profiles, that were sent to Mr G when he 
joined the scheme, say the following;
5.35 We may agree to maintain a number of lifestyle profiles for use under your 
plan. Lifestyle profiles can use any fund available under your plan and by 
selecting a lifestyle profile, you are providing both an instruction relating to the 
investment of new premiums and requesting us to use an automated 
switching process. As a lifestyle profile involves switching funds, as explained 
in Section 5.25, there can be some circumstances where transactions can be 
delayed.
5.36 The lifestyle profiles available under your plan can be profiles that are 
designed and reviewed by us (a Standard Life profile) or, if we agree, profiles 
that are designed and reviewed by your employer, in conjunction with its 
adviser (an employer profile) or that are designed and reviewed by your 
employers adviser (an adviser profile).
Your employer or its adviser may not allow you to remain in their employer 
profile or adviser profile if you leave the group set up by your employer. You 
may not be able to remain in an employer profile or adviser profile if you 
change to an individual product under the scheme. If either applies, we will 
offer you the same options as would apply to a lifestyle profile that is being 
wound up under section 5.41.
5.37 We review each Standard Life profile on a regular basis and can amend the 
name or objective of the profile, alter the funds used within the profile, alter 
the proportions in which the funds are used or change the starting points for 
each stage after the point that the profile moves away from growth (the glide 
path). If the profile is an employer profile or adviser profile, your employer (or 
their adviser) will review their profile and can make the same type of changes 
to their profile.
We will only make (or, for an employer profile or adviser profile, agree to) a 
material alteration to a lifestyle profile (including the use of a fund or funds 
with a higher management charge) if:
a) the alteration is to comply with our obligations under the Financial 
Conduct Authority Handbook or any other relevant legislation or 
regulatory guidance (including our obligations in relation to default 
investment options);
b) where the profile is a Standard Life profile, we review the profile and 
decide that it is more likely that the profile can achieve its objective if we 
make changes to the profile;
c) after a review of the lifestyle profile, we decide that its characteristics 
and net performance are no longer aligned with the interests of its 
unitholders;
d) where the profile is a Standard Life profile, we review the lifestyle profile 
and decide that its objective needs amended so it continues to be aligned to the benefit options that members using that profile are likely 
to select (for example, if there is a change to the level of tax-free lump 
sum that members can access); or
e) we are required, as a consequence of provisions in the Financial 
Conduct Authority Handbook or any other relevant legislation or 
regulatory guidance, to limit (or to further limit) charges under your plan 
and, for the profile to remain commercially viable for us, we need to alter 
the profile to comply with this limit, for example, by using less expensive 
funds.
If an alteration to a lifestyle profile means selling and buying assets in the 
funds used in this profile, it will continue to be the case that the price of those 
funds may take account of those costs in doing so and this may reduce the 
value of your plan.
In reaching decisions under this Section, we will follow our regulatory 
obligation to take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of our discretionary 
decisions for customers who are entitled to rely on our judgment.
5.38 When a material alteration is proposed to a lifestyle profile that you are 
invested in, we will, in normal circumstances, give you at least 3 months 
notice before the alteration is made. You may receive less than 3 months 
notice if we need to act quicker to protect the interests of unitholders using 
that fund or we have to implement a legal or regulatory change before a full 
notice period would end. For example, one of the reasons for a shorter period 
of notice and acting more quickly is if there are significant changes in financial 
markets or the economy. When we notify you of an alteration, we will state the 
reasons for the alteration, its impact and the date on which the alteration will 
become effective.
When youre told that a lifestyle profile is being altered, youll be able to notify 
us of any alternative profile or funds available from us that you would like us 
to use for you. No switch charge will apply but it will continue to be the case 
that the prices used in the switch may reflect the costs in selling and buying 
assets in the funds so this may reduce the value of your plan.
The notice will also say that you have the option to transfer your plan to 
another scheme under Section 9 but, as occurs with any other transfer 
payment, if you do so then we will deduct any transfer charges (arising from 
commission that we have already paid out on your behalf) and the prices used 
in cancelling the units may include the costs in selling the assets in the fund(s) 
in which you are invested.
5.39 We can close a lifestyle profile and stop accepting instructions to use that 
profile for new members (or stop accepting instructions to switch into that 
profile from existing members) or wind up a lifestyle profile if: 
a) it is an employer profile or adviser profile and there are changes to the 
Financial Conduct Authority Handbook or any other relevant legislation 
or regulatory guidance that imposes additional obligations on us;
b) it is an employer profile or adviser profile and your employer (or the 
adviser) decides that it no longer wishes to fulfil its roles and 
responsibilities or the employer (or the adviser) is dissolved;
c) after a review of the lifestyle profile, we decide that its characteristics 
and net performance are no longer aligned with the interests of its 
unitholders;d) where the profile is a Standard Life profile, we decide that its objective is 
no longer appropriate given the benefit options that members using that 
profile are likely to select (for example, if there is a change to the level 
of tax- free lump sum that members can access) and, for technical or 
other reasons, we decide to use a new profile rather than alter an 
existing one;
e) where it is an employer profile or adviser profile, it is no longer 
commercially viable for us to maintain the lifestyle profile without 
charging for doing so; or
f) we are required, as a consequence of provisions in the Financial 
Conduct Authority Handbook or any other relevant legislation or 
regulatory guidance, to limit (or to further limit) charges under your plan 
and the profile is no longer commercially viable for us.
In reaching decisions under this Section, we will follow our regulatory 
obligation to take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of our discretionary 
decisions for customers who are entitled to rely on our judgment.
5.40 If a lifestyle profile that youre invested in is being wound up, youll normally 
get 3 months notice but you may receive less than 3 months notice if we are 
acting to protect the interests of unitholders using that profile or we have to 
implement a legal or regulatory change before a full notice period would end. 
When we notify you of the wind up, we will state the reasons for it, its impact 
and the date on which it will become effective.
5.41 When youre told that a lifestyle profile is being wound up, youll be able to 
notify us of any alternative profile or funds available from us that you would 
like to direct us to use for you. If we have not heard from you or your financial 
adviser by the end of the notice period, the insurer will switch any units 
invested using the existing lifestyle profile into the funds used by an 
alternative profile for an individual with the same period to their expected 
pension date as you have. The alternative profile will be one of the lifestyle 
profiles that the insurer is responsible for designing and reviewing or, where 
an employer profile or adviser profile is being wound up, it may be an 
alternative employer profile or adviser profile. In choosing the alternative 
profile we will follow our regulatory obligation to take reasonable care to 
ensure the suitability of our discretionary decisions for customers who are 
entitled to rely on our judgment.
No switch charge will apply but it will continue to be the case that the prices 
used in the switch into another profile or funds may reflect the costs in selling 
and buying assets in the funds (including those used in the profiles) so this 
may reduce the value of your plan.
The notice will also say that you have the option to transfer your plan to 
another scheme under Section 9 but, as occurs with any other transfer 
payment, if you do so then we will deduct any transfer charges (arising from 
commission that we have already paid out on your behalf) and the prices used 
in cancelling the units may include the costs in selling assets in the fund(s) in 
which you are invested.
There is no doubt that those terms are lengthy. And it is for that reason that I have 
reproduced them above in full. However, as I will go on to explain, I think they support the 
decision that Standard Life took to alter the way in which Mr Gs pension savings were 
invested.I think it is important to clarify the relationship that existed between Mr G and Standard Life. 
Standard Life was the administrator of the plan in which Mr Gs pension savings were 
invested. But, most importantly, it wasnt Mr Gs financial advisor. So that meant, in the 
circumstances of this complaint, it didnt need to ensure that the new lifestyle profile it was 
introducing would be suitable for Mr Gs specific circumstances  that was essentially a 
decision he needed to make for himself. But Standard Life did need to provide Mr G with 
information on which he could base that decision.
In February 2022 Standard Life wrote to Mr G to tell him about the changes. And in the letter 
it sent, it also included a link to its website where more detailed information about the 
changes would be provided. In essence, Standard Life was changing the constituent parts of 
the lifestyle portfolio. It told consumers such as Mr G that this would have a number of 
benefits, including improving the income that might be received in retirement, reducing the 
charges that would be payable, and enabling greater investment in more responsible 
companies.
I think that the changes Standard Life told Mr G about were in line with its responsibilities 
under the relevant terms and conditions. It was entitled to make changes to the structure, or 
constituent parts, of the fund in order to better meet the funds objectives. And it provided 
Mr G with three months notice of those changes. It offered him the opportunity to instead 
choose alternative investments for his pension savings. Or, as a last resort, Mr G could have 
moved his pension savings to another firm.
As I have said earlier, Standard Life was not providing Mr G with any recommendation, or 
advice, about the change. It explained that it thought the changes it was making would better 
enable the lifestyle fund to provide benefits for investors when they retired. But it fell to Mr G 
to make his own assessment, with the assistance of a financial advisor if that was his choice, 
about how his pension savings should be invested.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr G. After a number of years 
Standard Life decided to alter the composition of the lifestyle fund that he had been using. 
But that was something that Standard Life was entitled to do, and it was under no obligation 
to check whether the new fund would be suitable for the individual circumstances of any of 
its customers. So I dont think Standard Life has done anything wrong, and so I dont think 
the complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Standard Life Assurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman