DRN-3175391
The complaint
Mr R complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) declined a claim he brought 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 29 December 2021. Both parties to the 
complaint have accepted my provisional decision, so this final decision is something of a 
formality. Nevertheless, its important that I explain why I am making this decision, and I 
think the best way of doing that is to reproduce the relevant sections of my provisional 
decision below:
Mr R had a timeshare, or similar product, with a company Ill call C.
Mr R met a company I will call SL in June 2017. He signed a contract with SL on 14 
June 2017 which was headed Contract Cancellation Service Agreement. The contract 
said that SL would cancel the timeshare and associated maintenance fee contract with 
C, after 1 October 2017. A payment schedule was included, under which Mr R was 
expected to pay
£600 on the day and then £5,565.60 two weeks later. Mr R paid the initial deposit of 
£600 to SL on his NatWest credit card, and the remaining balance by bank transfer.
On the same day he signed the contract with SL, Mr R signed a contract with what 
appeared to be a different company, C4O, under which C4O agreed to pursue a 
compensation claim in respect of the C timeshare, on a no win, no fee basis.
A number of different allegations have been made either by Mr R or by his CMC, about 
SL. I could summarise these as follows:
Mr R didnt have a timeshare with C at the time he signed the contracts, as he 
had already got out of it some time ago. SL lied to him and persuaded him that he 
was still liable for the timeshare, inducing him to sign up for a service he didnt 
need.
Mr R did have a timeshare C but SL didnt get him out of this. All it did was send 
Mr R a form he could have downloaded himself from Cs website, which he then 
had to fill out and send to C to cancel his timeshare. Mr R had done this and 
heard nothing further from C.
SL, or C4O, failed to pursue a compensation claim for Mr R.
Mr R brought a claim against NatWest under section 75 of the CCA, in respect of the 
above. This was rejected by the bank as it didnt think Mr R had shown that SL had 
either misrepresented something to him, or breached its contract with him. Mr R 
complained about this decision, but the bank maintained it had reached the right 
outcome.
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr R brought his complaint to this service for an 
independent assessment. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She came 
to more or less the same conclusions as the bank, but went into more detail. The 
contract appeared to have been fulfilled by SL, in that it had assisted with the 
cancellation of the timeshare. The compensation contract was separate, had not been 
paid for by Mr R, and came with no guarantees of success.
Mr R asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint, so the matter has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide provisionally whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the CCA allows consumers a degree of protection when they pay for goods 
or services on a credit card, so long as certain technical conditions are met. If these 
conditions are met then the consumer can claim against their credit card provider for any 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of the goods or services.
Whether or not Mr Rs claim met the relevant technical conditions hasnt been disputed 
in this case. So on this issue I will say only that, having considered the evidence, I think 
his claim meets those conditions.
The dispute has centred on whether or not there was a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by SL. Our investigator was recently able to speak to Mr R directly to 
obtain his first-hand account of what happened. Ive read her notes of that conversation, 
alongside the rest of the evidence on file and evidence available in the public domain 
and, having done so, I think its more likely than not that Mr R entered into a contract with 
SL and made the payments in question due to a misrepresentation about the prospective 
compensation claim. Ill explain further.
Mr R described what had happened to our investigator. He said SL had told him that 
because of a ruling in a Spanish court, they could pursue a claim for compensation for 
the mis-selling of the C timeshare. SL had also said they could arrange an exit from the 
timeshare so he didnt have to pay further maintenance fees, but Mr R said he already 
knew he could do this himself. So the important thing to him was the compensation 
claim. His understanding had been that the money he was paying was for both elements 
of the overall deal, and that SL and C4O were linked. He said that he had checked with 
SL whether exiting the timeshare would impact the compensation claim and had been 
told that it would not.
Some of the evidence provided by Mr Rs CMC has been inconsistent, which our 
investigator was concerned about and which meant she felt she could attach little weight 
to the testimony provided on Mr Rs behalf. I share these concerns, but I think her 
conversation with Mr R resolves the inconsistency in the testimony. I think its likely SL 
represented that it would obtain Mr Rs release from his timeshare with C, and it (or 
C4O) would pursue a compensation claim for him.
Ive carefully researched the companies involved by using publicly available information. 
I was unable to find C4O on Companies House, but I found the director of SL, a Mr M, 
was listed as the owner of a number of other websites, including the website of C4O. I 
located an archived copy of C4Os website from around the time Mr R signed the 
contracts and, while parts of this were illegible, I was able to find the following information in the websites source code:
C4O is a trading style of SL
This confirms SL and C4O were in fact the same company. The contract Mr R signed 
with SL, trading as C4O, therefore makes it clear that SL would be providing a claims 
management service. It said that SL would Pre-assess your agreements and pursue on 
your behalf redress from lenders or supplier[s] where it has been deemed mis-sold.
Curiously, an archived copy of SLs website said the following:
SL is not, nor does it claim to be either a Claims Management Company either 
regulated or non-regulated. A pension provider or IFA both individually or as an 
organisation. A legal body or practice of law or justice.
The website also said that SL did not carry out any claims management services, but 
assisted other companies that did so, although the website is vaguely worded around 
how this was to be achieved, through support logistics.
This all appears to be somewhat at odds with the contract it signed with Mr R, where it 
clearly represented that it would be offering a claims management service for the alleged 
mis-sale of his timeshare. It doesnt appear that this was in fact a service SL offered, or 
had the credentials to offer, and I think this is something it would have known at the time 
it made the representations to Mr R. I find that by doing so, SL misrepresented to Mr R 
that it could, or would, pursue a compensation claim for him in respect of his timeshare. 
Mr R thought he was dealing with a genuine claims management company, when in fact 
he was dealing with a company which did not provide claims management services.
The compensation claim was clearly an important aspect of the overall deal for Mr R, 
and while it was not, according to the paperwork, a part of the deal he had paid for, I 
dont think hed have agreed to pay for the timeshare release service if hed been 
correctly told that SL wouldnt be pursuing, or couldnt pursue, a compensation claim for 
him.
Due to the operation of section 75 of the CCA, Mr R can hold NatWest liable for SLs 
misrepresentation, and the fairest thing for it to do here would be for it to arrange for Mr 
R to be returned, as far as is practicable, to the position he would have been in had he 
not agreed to enter the contract with SL.
This means the starting point is that NatWest would need to reimburse Mr R the amounts 
he paid towards the contract, both on the credit card and by bank transfer.
Mr R did receive a service from SL, who it seems provided him with a form to sign and 
return to C so he could be released from his timeshare. Ive considered whether it would 
be fair for a deduction to made from any refund he receives on account of this, and Ive 
concluded that it wouldnt be. Mr R has pointed out, and we have confirmed with C, that 
this is something Mr R could simply have asked C for, and would have come at no cost. 
And while SL may have had to spend a modest amount of time preparing the document 
to be sent to Mr R, I dont think it would be reasonable to reduce the refund to reflect the 
value of the service he received.
I went on to say I was minded to uphold the complaint and direct NatWest to pay amounts 
of £600 and £5,565.60, plus compensatory interest backdated to when he made his 
section 75 claim to the bank.Both Mr R and NatWest said they accepted the provisional decision, and the case has now 
been returned to me to finalise matters.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties to the complaint have accepted the provisional decision, and no new 
evidence has been put forward, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings.
It follows that I find Mr R entered into contracts and made payments that he wouldnt have, 
had SL not made misrepresentations to him about key aspects of a compensation claim. As 
NatWest, due to the operation of section 75 of the CCA, can be found jointly liable for SLs 
misrepresentations, it should have upheld Mr Rs section 75 claim and refund the amounts 
Mr R paid as a result of those misrepresentations.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Rs complaint and direct National Westminster 
Bank Plc to take the following actions:
Pay Mr R £600, representing the amount he paid SL on his credit card.
Pay Mr R £5,565.60, representing the amount he paid SL by bank transfer.
Pay 8% simple interest per year* on the above amounts, calculated from the 
date Mr R made his section 75 claim to the bank, to the date he is refunded.
*If National Westminster Bank Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr R a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman