DRN-4058735
The complaint
Mr D complains that Monzo Bank Ltd failed to refund transactions he didnt recognise.
What happened
Mr D noticed that a number of transactions had been made from his Monzo account earlier 
that morning that he didnt recognise. The payments were made using bank transfers, credit 
payments from a linked flex account and card payments using Mr Ds payment card. 
Further, an overdraft was applied for and granted which was used to fund some of those 
disputed payments.
Mr D said he had trouble accessing his phone and using the Monzo app, so had to change 
his phone which could then be used to communicate with Monzo about the issue. He told 
Monzo about the unrecognised payments and sought a refund, explaining to them that he 
was the sole earner in his family and the loss of his funds, and the overdraft applied for in his 
name were affecting his financial situation. 
Monzo looked into what had happened, although this took some time (Monzo later offered 
£50 to Mr D for this delay), but eventually declined to refund him. Monzo also advised that 
some of the original disputed transactions using the card hadnt been collected by the firm 
they were originally sent to, so theyd been credited back to the account.
Mr D maintained that he wasnt responsible for the disputed transactions and complained to 
Monzo and the Financial Ombudsman Service about the situation. Once Monzo completed 
their investigation  they maintained their position and declined to make any refund to Mr D. 
An investigator from our service was appointed to independently look into the complaint and 
asked for evidence from both parties. Mr D repeated his position that he wasnt responsible 
for the transactions and:
he hadnt given his phone to anyone else.
No one else knew the Personal Identification Number (PIN) for his card or account.
No one else knew the login credentials for his Monzo account.
Mr D found software on his phone that he believed could be responsible for the 
takeover of his account.
Mr D provided information about his phone and the payment for a technician to 
clean it.
Monzo provided details about the transactions and how they were made, including 
information about the IP addresses used by Mr Ds authorised devices that accessed the 
Monzo account. Statements were also provided of the various accounts held by Mr D with 
them. Monzo had also thought that Mr D may have been scammed, but Mr D denied this 
during their investigation, which was why they conducted their enquiries based on Mr D 
denying hed authorised the payments.
After considering the evidence, the investigator didnt think there was sufficient evidence to 
uphold Mr Ds complaint and recommended that Monzo can hold Mr D liable for the debt 
from his overdraft and the payments made from his account.
Mr D disagreed with the investigators outcome and continued to argue that his phone had 
been hacked and this was the reason for the disputed transactions. 
The investigator acknowledged there were some factors that pointed to unusual activity on 
Mr Ds phone, but there was no explanation for how the PIN (which wasnt stored anywhere 
or written down) could have been obtained by an unauthorised third party to confirm one of 
the large payments made using Mr Ds payment card.
Mr D asked for a further review of his complaint which has now been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 and 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The basic position is that Monzo can hold Mr D liable for the 
disputed payments if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made them 
or authorised them. 
Monzo can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mr D authorised the 
transactions, but Monzo cannot say that the use of the card and PIN or the use of online  
payment details or internet banking conclusively proves that the payments were authorised. 
Unless Monzo can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Mr Ds account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Mr D. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to 
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Mr D responsible for the disputed 
transactions or not.
It's Mr Ds case that his phone was somehow hacked which led to the disputed 
transactions. Monzo believe that Mr D himself was responsible for the payments made from 
his account.
Mr Ds evidence shows he took his phone to an independent IT expert who carried out a full 
data removal under suspicion of the device being hacked. Its not possible to determine 
what was on the device because it was removed on the day of the disputed transaction.
Mr Ds evidence is that software was found on it that is often associated with fraud. That 
software allowed another user to remotely access the phone if given permission by the user 
of the phone. Mr D was asked whether hed ever given permission through this software, 
and he confirmed he didnt know it was on his phone and hadnt authorised anyone to gain 
access to it.
Whilst theres evidence of Mr Ds phone being data cleaned, there isnt anything to say what 
was on it or whether the software he was told about had anything to do with the disputed 
transactions he later claimed from Monzo.Monzo provided details about the phone that was used to make all the disputed transactions. 
This was the one registered by Mr D and had been used without incident for some time. That 
phone accessed the Monzo account from an IP address that was in use both before during 
and after the disputed transactions. IP addresses give information about the device and the 
network it uses to access the services  such as Monzos app. Here the evidence shows that 
Mr Ds phone was used to access the Monzo app from a consistent IP address, including all 
the transactions Mr D later disputed.
One of the disputed transactions was for a relatively large amount (over £1000) and this 
required an extra security step in order to authorise the payment called 3DS. This required 
the person who was making the payment to enter the PIN known only to Mr D (which he 
confirmed wasnt written down). So, it seems unlikely that a third party could have been 
responsible for this payment because no one else knew the PIN and its unlikely it could 
have been guessed correctly.
Ive also examined the payments into and out of the account. Whilst its fair to say the series 
of disputed payments were unusual, they only started after the account received a large 
payment into it. Prior to this, the account had a balance of less than £50. This incoming 
payment effectively funder a number of the disputed payments (apart from those that used 
savings, the overdraft and the flex credit payments). I think the timing of these payments 
indicates that whoever made them was aware that those funds had been recently paid into 
the account.
If Mr Ds phone was hacked, I would expect to see conflicting data in the audit information 
about the phone and its IP address, that wasnt the case here. What the evidence does 
show is that Mr Ds genuine phone, using its normal IP address made various transactions 
using different types of payments, which required the login details to the Monzo app and 
additional security known only to Mr D. 
Based on an objective review of the evidence, I think its more likely than not that Mr D was 
responsible for making these payments and obtaining the overdraft. It was then reasonable 
for Monzo to hold him liable for the payments and the overdraft.
Monzo accepted that theyd not met their standards of service when Mr D complained. They 
made a small payment to him to recognise this. I think this was a fair response in the 
circumstances and I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman