DRN-3879728
The complaint
Mr K complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has acted unfairly by declining a claim 
under his landlord insurance policy and voiding it for misrepresentation.
Any reference to UKI or Mr K includes respective representatives or agents.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties. So, Ive summarised events.
Mr K owns a property that is let to tenants.
Following an incident with a collapsed kitchen floor, Mr K sought to make a claim 
under his landlord policy.
UKI asked Mr K to hire a contractor to establish the cause of damage, mitigate any 
losses and provide an itemised estimate on letter headed paper for the repairs. 
Mr K says builders in this particular area dont provide estimates or receipts for work, 
saying they would prefer cash in hand and not to deal with insurers, which UKI 
should be aware of. So, a request from UKI for this paperwork was unreasonable. 
Instead he says it shouldve sent its own contractor to inspect the damage. He says 
UKI should pay him £2,000  the sum he says he paid for the works to be carried out.
During its validation of the claim, UKI requested information to show Mr K had met 
his legal obligations as a landlord  specifically that a right to rent check had been 
completed for his tenants. Mr K says he has this information but refuses to share it 
with UKI as he says this isnt relevant. 
UKI has taken the absence of the right to rent check being provided to mean Mr K 
hadnt obtained these. And in turn it said he had recklessly misrepresented the risk it 
was covering, as UKI would not have provided the policy if it had known this fact, as 
it does not insure landlords which didnt meet their legal obligations.
The complaint came to this Service. Our Investigator didnt uphold it. She said UKIs 
initial request for information was reasonable, and there wasnt persuasive evidence 
to support contractors would not provide estimates or quotes as Mr K alleged. 
The Investigator said UKI had evidenced it wouldnt have insured Mr K if it knew a 
right to rent check hadnt been completed. And the absence of Mr K providing this 
evidence was sufficient for UKI to say he hadnt met his obligations as a landlord. So, 
she was satisfied it had fairly concluded Mr K had made a reckless misrepresentation 
and was entitled to void the policy and retain premiums.
Mr K disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
In this case there are two main complaint points brought by Mr K. UKIs handling of the 
claim, and the subsequent voidance of the policy. 
The misrepresentation
Under the Insurance Act 2015 a policyholder has a duty to make a fair presentation of risk to 
an insurer when taking out the policy. This means they have to disclose:
everything they know, or ought to know, that would influence an insurers decision to 
insure a risk and on what terms; or
enough information to put an insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries 
about potential material circumstances.
In this case, UKI says Mr K failed to present a fair presentation of risk as he cannot, or at 
least has not, shown he did not meet his legal obligations as a landlord. A landlord does 
have an obligation to check that a tenant can legally rent a residential property (with some 
exceptions that do not apply to Mr Ks situation). So, its clear to me that Mr K wouldve 
needed to carry out a right to rent check.
Mr K says he has done so, so its clear from what he says he understands this is a 
requirement of him as a landlord. He refuses to provide it however for reasons of his own 
despite the consequences involved. I think UKIs conclusion that Mr K did not obtain these 
checks is a reasonable one and the most likely explanation in the circumstances as to why 
he hasnt been forthcoming with the checks. This persuades me a misrepresentation has 
taken place.
UKI has provided this Service with evidence that supports this wouldve impacted its 
decision to insure the property. So, Im satisfied the misrepresentation in question is a 
qualifying one that wouldve impacted UKIs decision to insure him. 
In line with the relevant law I then have to consider whether the qualifying breach was 
deliberate, reckless, or careless. This is relevant as it will determine what remedies are 
available to UKI. 
A qualifying misrepresentation will be deliberate or reckless if the policyholder:
knew the information they provided was untrue or misleading or did not care whether 
it was untrue or misleading; and
knew that the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the 
insurer, or did not care whether or not it was relevant to the insurer
In this case, Im satisfied Mr K knew it was a legal requirement to check if his tenants had a 
right to rent. I say this as he has said he had completed such checks. Yet, he has not 
presented the absence of such a check to UKI when taking out the policy, so Im satisfied 
UKIs determination of the misrepresentation to be reckless, was a reasonable conclusion.
This means UKI has fairly voided the policy and has no obligation to return any premiums or 
deal with any claims.
The claim
Mr K has focused on this issue when bringing this complaint. But this has now fallen away given the policy has been fairly voided by UKI. However, I feel it prudent to comment that 
UKIs request for an estimate and for some evidence of the cause and extent of damage are 
not at all out of line with what Id expect to see. And Mr Ks comments about contractors in 
his area seem unfounded, and I think it unlikely no contractor in the area is prepared to 
provide as estimate as he has suggested.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman