DRN-2858935
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy with how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) dealt with a claim that was made 
on his van insurance policy. 
What happened
When Mr E received his van insurance renewal in late 2019, he noticed the premium had 
risen substantially. He contacted his broker who advised him that a claim had been paid out 
against his policy, so his renewal premium had increased. But Mr E hadnt been involved in 
any accidents in that year, so he queried this further. 
It transpired that whilst his van was getting a routine service in a garage in January 2019, the 
garage had used his van to tow another vehicle and it was subsequently involved in a 
collision. The third party involved had submitted a claim, and under the Road Traffic Act, 
Aviva as the insurer of the van paid out on this claim.
Mr E complained to Aviva. Aviva initially said it had called him and written to him several 
times but hadnt received a response. Mr E said this wasnt true, so Aviva investigated 
further. Aviva then realised what had happened, so it got the claim removed from the claims 
underwriting exchange (CUE) and reinstated Mr Es no claims discount (NCD). It also 
offered Mr E £150 for the distress and inconvenience suffered.
However, Mr E remained unhappy and he complained to our service. He said that £150 
wasnt enough to compensate for the amount of stress, worry, time and effort he had to put 
in to resolving this matter. An investigator reviewed this complaint and recommended a 
higher amount of £250 in total for the distress and inconvenience caused. However, Aviva 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review this complaint.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint.
In almost all motor insurance policies, theres a term which allows the insurer to takeover, 
defend or settle any claim against its policyholder as it thinks fit. And when anyone buys a 
policy, they are agreeing to this term. 
My role here is to see if Aviva treated Mr E fairly whilst it was applying this term. And even 
though I think Aviva has gone some way to addressing the issues that arose, I just dont 
think it has gone far enough. I dont think Aviva did treat Mr E fairly.
When the claim was reported Aviva attempted to call Mr E. There was no answer, so it sent 
him a letter. The contact notes on file show that the next day there was a threat to issue 
received from the third party, and that later that month the claim was paid by Aviva. Theres 
no evidence of any further attempts to contact Mr E.
Looking back across the contact notes on this file I can see Aviva didnt conduct any in-
depth investigation when it was notified of this claim. When Mr E complained some seven 
months later its clear the name of the alleged driver didnt match either name on the policy 
and theres no details of where or how this accident happened. Its only at this stage the 
possibility of the car been driven by someone else comes to light and its at this point Aviva 
contact the garage who then explain what happened. 
From this point it takes a further three months to get things right. There are numerous calls 
between Mr E and Aviva, as Aviva try to rectify the situation and get things back on track. I 
can see that on 16 January 2020, the correct insurer accepts liability for the accident. But by 
13 February 2020 Aviva are no further on. Aviva keep telling Mr E that the drivers insurer is 
holding things up and he will have to wait. Six weeks later, and after numerous further 
contacts from Mr E Aviva decides to contact CUE to make the amendment, even though it 
still hadnt received its outlay from the other insurer (the amendment on CUE can then take 
up to 10 weeks to process).
Aviva admit it did cause Mr E distress and inconvenience, but it thinks £150 is enough to 
compensate for this. But if you look at everything that happened and the amount of times Mr 
E had to follow up and chase Aviva, I dont think £150 is enough to compensate for this.
Aviva didnt investigate this claim correctly. It attempted to contact Mr E via telephone and 
letter. Aviva admits it only attempted one telephone call. But it argues that by sending the 
letter it met its obligations. It says it was up to Mr E to contact them on receipt of this letter.
But I can see why Mr E didnt contact Aviva. Its noted that Mr E thought the letter was a 
scam. In the current climate consumers are bombarded with potential scams every day. And 
having seen the letter and its contents and taking into account the fact that Mr E was 
completely unaware of what happened, I can see why he didnt respond. But Aviva didnt 
take any further action. It doesnt seem to have asked anyone for the name of the parties 
involved, the accident location or accident details. It just paid the claim. And this in turn led to 
an incorrect increase in premium for Mr E at renewal. Further to this, in January 2020, when 
the garage involved admitted liability, Aviva insisted on waiting in excess of two months 
before it then submitted a request to CUE to reflect the correct circumstances. Now I 
understand Aviva didnt want to lose out on receiving its outlay. But that doesnt mean that 
Mr E shouldve suffered. Of all the parties involved in all of this Mr E was the one that had 
absolutely no involvement in what happened. Yet he was the one who ended up having to 
do all of the chasing, and he was the one who ended up with a higher premium. Further to 
this he was unwittingly placed in a situation where hed potentially misrepresented on his 
other policies, through no fault of his own.
I know Aviva has argued that it had Road Traffic Act (RTA) exposure and had no choice but 
to settle the claim. And Aviva does admit its service was poor. But this claim wasnt handled 
correctly, so compensation is due. When we look at compensation, we look at the impact on 
the consumer. And as I set out previously to Aviva, our moderate band of <£500 is for basic 
clerical errors or where a customer had to contact a business repeatedly to get something 
quite basic sorted out. The poor service provided by Aviva here has led to inconvenience for 
Mr E. And on top of this even after it was aware there had been an error, Aviva insisted on 
Mr E waiting for a further two months before making the decision to amend the records, thus 
dragging out the time Mr Es records were incorrect which frustrated the situation even more.
So, whereas Im glad Aviva has recognised the issues it caused and then rectified them I 
have to agree with our investigator. I dont think Aviva has offered enough compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience along with the poor service it provided overall. So, Im going to recommend that Aviva pays Mr E £250 in total for the distress and inconvenience its 
caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is to uphold this complaint.
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr E £250 (in total) in compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience hes suffered throughout the lifetime of this claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman