DRN-1752355
 
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that his insurers declined his claim for the theft of his bike under his home 
contents policy.
What happened
Mr B secured his bike to the rear of his car on a bike rack with webbing. He parked his car in 
a public car park. On his return, the bike and rack had been stolen. He reported the theft to 
UKI and was told by the claims handler that the claim was valid and was given a reference 
number. On UKIs advice, Mr B began to look for a new bike. But the next day he received a 
call and was told that the claim would be declined, as the terms of his policy excluded cover.  
 Mr B complained to UKI on the basis of the incorrect information he was previously given. 
UKI accepted that they had given him incorrect information and as a gesture of goodwill, 
offered and paid him £50 compensation for their error. Mr B wasnt happy with this and 
brought his complaint here.  
 One of our investigators looked into his complaint.  Our investigator upheld the complaint 
and said that UKI had acted unfairly. She concluded that the car was an immovable object 
and also said that Mr B had done everything reasonable to ensure the safety of his bike.  
Our investigator said that UKI ought to settle Mr Bs claim. 
UKI didnt agree with our investigator and  asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint and I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision which said:
 Like our investigator I have to assess what evidence UKI considered before declining the 
claim.  I have also considered the evidence from Mr B. 
 UKI relied upon the policy exclusion in relation to the theft of bikes in declining Mr Bs claim.  
It states: 
 We will pay for accidental loss of or damage to: 
 Loss and damage to bicycle tyres and accessories, but only if the bicycle is lost or damaged 
at the same time.  The theft of an unattended bicycle but only if it is in a locked building or 
secured with a bike lock to an immovable object.
 There are two main points that require a finding. The first relates to whether the bike was 
secured to an immovable object. The second was the bike secured to the car. Our investigator considered the definition of an immovable object and concluded that a 
finding wasnt required on this point as Mr B car was not moved.  But UKI doesnt provide a 
definition in their policy for immovable.  When a policy excludes a definition, the dictionary 
definition of the word should be used.  Immovable means an object that is fixed cant be 
moved.  A car by its very definition is a movable object.  Mr B states that at the time of the 
theft, his car was parked and locked, but the car would have to have been driven and parked 
in the location and therefore is an object that is capable of being moved.  Also in the policy 
exclusion UKI stipulated that the theft of an unattended bike, like this one, any claim will be 
declined if it wasnt in a locked building or secured with a bike lock to an immovable object.  
The bike rack that the bike was attached to is a movable object, as it is capable of being 
moved from one place to another. I think that UKI have been reasonable in applying the 
interpretation of what is immovable and have been fair in declining the claim on this point. 
 Was the bike secured to the car with a bike lock? UKI states that it wasnt, as there was no 
bike lock fitted. Mr B stated in his report of this matter to our investigator that the bike was 
secured to the rack with webbing and both the rack and the bike were stolen. He doesnt 
state that there was any lock being used in order to secure the bike to the rack and 
ultimately to the car. The policy clearly states that a bike lock should be used to secure the 
bike to an immovable object. This wasnt the case here as webbing can not be described as 
a bike lock. This is why UKI declined the claim.  I can understand why Mr B would feel that 
the UKI have acted unreasonably but they have applied the policy as they are entitled to do 
and I dont think they have acted unfairly. 
Finally, did Mr B take all reasonable steps to ensure that his bike was safe?  Mr Bs account 
is that he parked his car in a public car park.  He ensured that his bike was securely 
attached to his car with a rack.  He states the rack was popular with other bike users as he 
found a number of other cars with similar bike racks. UKIs position is that Mr B didnt take all 
reasonable steps given that the bike was attached to the car with the use of webbing. Given 
that the bike was of a high value, I can see why UKI would require the bike to be attached 
with a bike lock.  So overall, I dont think UKI have acted unreasonably and unfairly in 
declining Mr Bs claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
 I have received no response from UKI, but Mr Bs main responses were: 
1. He had received no money from UKI
2. The bike was locked to the rack with an approved cycle lock
3. No other way of locking the rack to the car other than the straps it comes with
Insurance need to make it clear that bikes locked to cars will be uninsured,
I have reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I conclude that UKI 
acted reasonably and fairly when it declined the claim. My reasons for this will be explained 
below:
I have received additional testimony from Mr B in which he said that the bike was secured on 
the rack with an approved lock.  I dont think Mr B had previously said anything about the 
bike lock or the rack being locked to the car. UKI had previously also asked this specific 
question and it ascertained that there was no bike lock used, which was one of the reasons 
the claim was declined. 
Mr B also said that insurers should make it clear that persons who lock their bikes to the car 
will be uninsured. I have again looked at the policy and it is says:We will pay for accidental loss or damage to.The theft of an unattended bicycle but only 
if it is in a locked building or secured with a bike lock to an immovable object.
I think its clear in this complaint, that Mr Bs bike was not in a locked building or secured to 
an immovable object. Consequently, UKI declined his claim. I think it was reasonable for UKI 
to rely on the policy terms, when they declined the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman