DRN-4361008
The complaint
Mr G complains that Pension Works Limited caused unreasonable delays in advising him on 
the transfer of three of his pensions. Hes also unhappy with the customer service it provided 
him during this time.
What happened
Mr G had two Defined Benefit (DB) schemes from separate employers that he was 
interested in transferring to a personal pension. Mr G also had a defined contribution plan 
(DC) with one of the employers.
His IFA didnt hold the necessary qualifications to advise on pension transfers and so, in 
February 2022, Mr G was referred to Pension Works Limited to obtain advice. 
Letters of Authority were signed in respect of all three schemes on 18 February 2022 
following which Pension Works Limited requested the information that it would need to 
advise on all three schemes. At this stage it wasnt clear that there were Additional Voluntary 
Contributions (AVCs) held as part of the DC scheme and they included a 7% growth 
guarantee. There was a letter to Mr G dated 9 February 2022 about the DB benefits in which 
it was confirmed that the DC pot included AVCs.
However, the letter sent to Pension Works on 16 February responding to their information 
request stated that the AVCs were held within the DB section of the scheme so this wasnt 
entirely clear.
Mr G had an initial call with Pension Works to ask some basic questions on 21 February 
2022 to work out what service Mr G was seeking and the details of the pensions involved. Mr 
G asked within this call whether the DC scheme would need to form part of the advice or 
whether he could do that himself but he didnt receive a clear answer.
On 14th of April Mr G was contacted to arrange a fact-finding call on 26 April.
Mr G said that following the call he asked a question for which he did not receive a response 
and then had to chase a week after. And he never got an answer to that question.
The guaranteed transfer values (CETVs) for the two schemes expired on 31 May and 28 
June 2022. 
The issue regarding the DC scheme having guarantees wasnt picked up by Pension Works 
until 17 May and it wasnt until 29 June that they were provided with the correct information. 
It was also confirmed at this point that if the DB scheme benefits were transferred, then the 
DC benefits and AVCs would also need to be transferred at the same time.
The abridged advice call occurred on 19 May. Within this call Mr G asked if the CETV for the 
DB scheme that expired on 28 June 2022 could be met. He explained that he was aware of 
the current volatility with these values and expected it to go down if it could not be met. The 
adviser said it should be met but caveated that he could never say yes with 100% guarantee 
as things can crop up. But he said it was as yes an answer as he could give.
There was also some confusion caused with the fee Mr G would pay, Mr G was told the fee 
would reduce to £3,712.50 as one of the schemes was no longer to be advised upon but it 
was then discovered that had been calculated in error. And the fee should be £4709.94. The 
new fee amount was communicated to Mr G but I understand without adequate explanation 
of the change. 
Following that call Pension works made a number of enquiries and chasers to the schemes 
involved to clarify outstanding matters. 
Due to another change in the pensions needed to be included in the advice, Pension Works 
says it communicated to Mr G that the advise fee would increase close to its maximum and it 
agreed upon a fee of £9,530.63. 
On 4 August the advice call took place with Mr G and within that call the adviser said to Mr G 
that it still needed to be signed off, but they were likely to discount the fee for advice due to 
the process Mr G had been through.
It was later confirmed the advice fee would be £5,872.00.
The transfer process completed in December 2022 and following this Mr G subsequently 
complained to Pension Works Limited:
Mr G felt that the questionable advice had led to a loss of £82,000 the transfer value had 
decreased by this amount due CETV deadlines expiring.
The lack of updates throughout by the adviser.
The mismanagement of the case by not including the three cases at outset as instructed
No explanation as to why the review took so long.
Missing all the CETV deadlines.
Pension Works responded to the complaint. Within this it explained: 
That the fact-find call could only be booked once it had received the scheme information 
from the plans. 
In relation to an email it didnt respond to it said it was framed in such way that it didnt 
require a response.
The fee initially was going to be based on a value of £658,920.93 just based on the two 
DB schemes and not the DC scheme. Then at the abridged advice stage one of the DB 
schemes wasnt going to form part of the full advice process and the fee was therefore 
set at £3,712.50. It was then discovered this was a mistake and increased to £4,709.94 
but this wasnt adequately explained. Later in the process it was communicated to Mr G 
that the aforementioned DB scheme could be included as advice needed to be given on 
the linked DC scheme and so it made sense to include all the schemes in the advice, but 
this would increase the fee towards its maximum. It understood that Mr G felt this was at 
odds with what it had said in the abridged advice call, but it felt the reasoning behind this 
was sound.
It said it did not cause the loss of £82,000 as it had not received the information from the 
scheme in time to meet the CETV deadlines. 
The adviser did not update Mr G because this is the role of the back office team.
It accepted that its communication couldve been better and given Mr Gs knowledge and 
experience of financial matters more shouldve been done to ensure he understood why 
there were delays.It said it was unable to uphold Mr Gs complaint but that it offered £500 in recognition of 
the trouble and upset caused to Mr G for the delays encountered. This was in addition to 
the previously agreed reduction to its advice fee. 
Mr G disagreed with the response and felt that the £500 offered wasnt sufficient  so 
referred the complaint here.
Pension Works then told us that it had withdrawn its offer of £500 as it had offered that to 
resolve the complaint. It now didnt feel it was warranted and that it had already offered a 
substantial reduction in fee that should more than compensate Mr G for any misgivings he 
had about the service given.
Our investigator looked into matters and said:
Mr G had confirmed he was happy with the overall result of the advice and so he 
wouldnt be looking into the merits of the advice itself.
The process of abridged and full advice was fair and the clarifications of why there were 
changes in which schemes would be involved in the process were reasonable.
Pension Works couldve made the process of abridged advice to full advice clearer to Mr 
G.
The adviser didnt do anything wrong in including all three plans in the full advice but 
ought to have done more to explain the apparent contradictions in advice from the 
abridged advice to the full advice.
Pension Works werent responsible for the CETVs being missed. It chased for 
information sufficiently from the administrators of the schemes involved.
Pension Works ought to have kept Mr G much better informed throughout the process 
and made it clear if and when deadlines wouldnt be met.
There were a number of occasions when Pension Works didnt respond to Mr G and his 
IFAs emails and calls.
The investigator didnt agree that Pension Works were at fault for the CETV being 
missed but felt they couldve communicated much better with Mr G. And that the poor 
communication through the process wouldve caused Mr G unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. He felt the £500 offer that had now been withdrawn was higher than what 
wed award in these circumstances and recommended an award of £300.
Mr G accepted the investigators recommendation but Pension Works said it didnt agree to 
the £300. It felt the reduction in fee was already sufficient and that it shouldnt also have to 
make a payment for the distress and inconvenience caused as the fee reduction more than 
covered this. 
Our investigator didnt agree and said that the distress and inconvenience had been offered 
in addition to the reduction in the fee. Pension Works in response said that it had been made 
as a gesture of goodwill, but it had explained it would be withdrawn if not accepted at the 
time. It strongly felt the fee reduction was already sufficient. It explained its generic charging 
structure meant it ought to have charged Mr G £14,950 but it had agreed to reduce its fee in 
recognition of the process hed been through at that point to just over £5,872.00.
As no agreement could be reached the case requires an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the recommendation made by our investigator and broadly 
for the same reasons.
Mr G accepted the investigators recommendations regarding the core elements of this 
complaint. And having looked at the evidence, I agree with the investigators view on these 
matters. Whilst the advice and transfer process didnt run smoothly, I dont think Pension 
Works is responsible for the CETV deadline being missed and Mr Gs transfer value 
reducing by £82,000. It was required to make sure it had all the relevant information about 
the schemes before it could give full advice and arrange the transfer. Unfortunately, this 
proved difficult but Pension Works did chase the administrators and in the circumstances I 
dont think realistically it would be fair to say it ought to have completed the process before 
the CETVs expired.
The only matter left in dispute is the award the investigator made for the trouble and upset 
caused to Mr G. Mr G wasnt happy with the original offer made by Pension Works of £500 
which is one of the reasons he brought the complaint to our service. However, after a 
discussion with our investigator he was happy to accept the £300 recommended. Pension 
Works disagrees that any award is due. As it states it has already compensated Mr G for any 
issues with the process by significantly reducing the fee that Mr G had to pay for the advice.
Pension Works argues that the reduction in the advice fee was essentially in lieu of any 
award for distress and inconvenience. After Mr G had complained the final response says:
However, in an effort to draw the matter to a conclusion and in recognition of the trouble and 
upset caused to you by the delays encountered, I would like to offer an amount of £500. This 
is in addition to the previously agreed reduction to our advice fee. This offer is made without 
prejudice, and in full and final settlement of the concerns you have raised. 
I appreciate Pension Works said the offer was made without prejudice but it also said that 
the offer was made in recognition of the trouble and upset caused in addition to the reduction 
in the advice fee.
In emails after the final response, Pension Works said:
As I confirmed in my earlier email and during our conversation the other week, Im satisfied 
that £500 is generous and likely more than would be awarded by the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, but Im willing to discuss this with you in order to hopefully reach an amicable 
conclusion.
Pension Works has said it only made the offer in an attempt to resolve the complaint and to 
avoid the extra work and cost of a complaint continuing to this service. And it then withdrew 
the offer on this basis. It also said it explained this to Mr G at the time that this is what it 
would do, although the evidence above doesnt support that this was the case. 
Pension Works have informed us that the reasons for the fee reduction were discussed 
internally and not recorded. And Ive listened to the call with Mr G when this was 
communicated to him. The reason was not made completely clear but Im satisfied that it 
was likely due to the rather bumpy ride Mr G had experienced in its process so far. 
Prior to this Mr G had been informed the fee was around £3,712.50 and then this was 
discovered to be an error and it was changed without prior explanation to £4,709.94. Mr G 
was then informed the fee could increase substantially as all the schemes would now need 
to be included  which represented an increase of almost three times the fee agreed before. And Mr G had initially tried to get clarification on whether all three schemes needed to be 
included with a clear answer. So, I think this may have also played a big part in a fee 
different to the standard terms of business being applied. I think it was already clear at this 
point that Mr G was unhappy with the process and hed received inconsistent information 
about the fee he would pay. And his CETV deadlines had already been missed, meaning a 
loss of £82,000. As I noted in the background to this complaint, Pension Works whilst not 
guaranteeing the deadline of that CETV would be met, indicated that it likely would be. It 
then failed to sufficiently keep Mr G updated when it became clear it wouldnt be met despite 
this clearly being important to Mr G. 
Pension Works terms of business allow it to calculate a fee on an individual basis. And I 
think its quite possible Pension Works may have agreed to this regardless of the poor 
communication and lack of updates Mr G had received. As explained above, there were a 
number of changes to the expected fee previously, due to its typical way of calculating a fee 
being based on the transfer value involved. However, the transfer value (and therefore fee 
for the advice) changed markedly on more than one occasion due to the changing picture of 
what schemes would be included in the advice. There was also the mistake in quoting the 
fee at a lower price than it shouldve done so  and then not adequately explaining this to Mr 
G before he received notification of the higher fee. As I said above, Pension Works terms of 
business allow it to calculate fees differently from its standard method and this seems like 
the sort of occasion where this might be decided appropriate. And I dont think Mr G 
understood that the fee reduction was made on the basis of him not making a complaint at a 
later date or in full recognition of all the poor service hed received. 
Ultimately, I think the recommendation the investigator has made of an award of £300 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. There are 
numerous instances throughout the process where Pension Works couldve communicated 
much better with Mr G. There are instances where it didnt respond to his emails and calls. It 
was clear that Mr G was very keen to get the process completed before the latter CETV 
expired, whilst Pension Works didnt guarantee it would meet this, it didnt keep him updated 
with its progress. The original welcome call was in February yet the fact find call wasnt 
booked in until 26 April. Whilst I understand Pension Works was in the mean-time requesting 
information and I dont think this caused a delay to the overall process, Mr G was in his mind 
in a race against time and I dont think Pension Works did enough to keep him informed or 
manage his expectations.
I accept that Pension Works reduced their fee and likely in part due to some of the service 
issues Mr G suffered. However, I doubt this was in recognition of customer services issues 
such as not responding to calls and not keeping Mr G updated throughout the process. 
Which Mr G clearly found very frustrating. I think this ought to be recognised separately from 
the lower fee agreed  as it seems Pension Works also thought initially. So I dont think it is 
unfair or unreasonable to make an award recognising this despite the fact that Pension 
Works agreed a reduced fee with Mr G.
Putting things right
To settle this complaint Pension Works Limited needs to pay Mr G £300 in recognition of the 
customer services issues that will have caused him undue distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require Pension Works Limited to put things right as 
stated above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman