DRN-3783371
The complaint
Mr P complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL) caused a delay in making a 
tax-free cash payment from his self-invested personal pension (SIPP) from November 2020 
to January 2021, and this prevented him from investing the tax-free cash outside his SIPP.
What happened
Mr Ps IISL SIPP received a same day transfer from Scottish Widows on 22 September 
2020. The letter from Scottish Widows of that date gave IISL its HMRC registration details 
and confirmed all benefits were uncrystallised.
Mr P reinvested the proceeds of the transfer into the markets in a series of tranches 
spanning 23 September to 21 October, but left £140,000 of the transferred funds in cash 
within his SIPP so that they could be drawn down as a tax-free lump sum. On 13 November 
2020 he requested that sum from IISL, and further clarified his instructions at its request on 
14 November (he had not previously specified how much of the fund he wanted to 
crystallise).
The lump sum wasnt paid out until 8 January 2021, after Mr P had been informed on 24 
December 2020 that the payment would be made within five working days. He has variously 
said that it had been his intention to leave £40,000 (advised to IISL on 11 December 2020) 
or £20,000 (advised to IISL on 7 January 2021) in cash for living expenses - and to reinvest 
the remainder back onto the non-pension part of the IISL platform, split between himself and 
his wife in ISAs and general investment accounts.
Mr P later said that he and his wife had, in fact, reinvested £131,072 back on to the platform 
- but about £46,353 of this came from cash ISA transfers (in other words, Mr and Mrs P 
swapped this amount that they would otherwise have retained in cash ISAs with the money 
Mr P received from the tax-free lump sum). He wanted IISL to give him the missed growth on 
the £131,072 he reinvested, on account of its delay.
In its final response to the complaint, IISL explained that whilst Mr P had requested the 
payment on 13 November 2020, the transfer from his former provider hadnt actually been 
completed at that point - and was not finalised until 26 November 2020 when it was able to 
confirm that no benefits had been previously crystallised. It said it had warned him The 
drawdown process is a 4-step process which we advise can take up to a month or 10 
working days per stage, to conclude. (I should of course note here that up to 40 working 
days in total would actually be up to eight weeks.)
IISL admitted to a delay between 26 November and 11 December 2020 but was unwilling to 
base compensation on hypothetical trading, noting also that it had been Mr Ps decision to 
leave those funds in cash at the point of the request. It also said that Mr Ps payment was 
instructed and collected within [five working days of 24 December 2020], with payment being 
made shortly after. So, it only agreed to pay Mr P £100 compensation.
Mr P considered this was insufficient - particularly considering that IISL had told him that it 
wrote back to Scottish Widows saying its transfer confirmation was incomplete, Scottish 
Widows told Mr P that it had not heard from IISL and then in any event it magically agreed 
to move forward with the transfer in the absence of Scottish Widows reply. He also said:
I was left in a very precarious position having been made redundant earlier in the year 
but with no access to pension cash that I had relied on to live on. You cannot imagine the 
stress caused by having no transparency around the fate of such a large part of my life 
savings.
He adds that the process was disjointed and he spent at least three hours on the phone to 
IISL trying to hurry things along. To his surprise since making this transfer he has done the 
same thing for his wife which only took five to ten days.
Mr P considered IISL bore some responsibility for not ensuring the transfer confirmation from 
Scottish Widows was complete. IISL confirmed to our investigator that it did receive a 
transfer confirmation letter from Scottish Widows (the letter which said all funds were 
uncrystallised), but this did not confirm if any tax-free cash was available. So it asked its 
administrator to chase up Scottish Widows to obtain this information (and also informed Mr P 
of this on 13 November) but after getting no reply, it made a discretionary decision to 
proceed on 26 November after [Mr P] provided IISL with the required tax-free information. It 
added:
Unless there are any issues, we expect secure messages to be responded to and any 
documents to be uploaded to our pension administrator, Barnett Waddingham (BW), 
within 5 working days upon receipt, and up to 7 working days for BW to complete all 
necessary checks and respond to us.
IISL confirmed it only provided the initial form Mr P completed to BW on 10 December 2020 
despite agreeing with Mr P it could go ahead on 26 November. Following that the following 
events occurred:
IISL sent Mr P a Pre-retirement Pack to complete on 11 December 2020
He returned this the same day by secure message
IISL passed this to BW on 16 December 2020
IISL sent Mr P the Retirement Pack on 22 December 2020
He returned this on 23 December 2020 by secure message along with the final forms 
(Benefit Confirmation and Lifetime Allowance Declaration)
IISL provided these to BW on 24 December 2020
The drawdown payment then left Mr Ps SIPP on 8 January 2021
IISL said that it only had evidence of two of the trades Mr P had made, so it was willing to do 
a loss calculation in respect of those two stocks only. When Mr P provided evidence of the 
rest of the trades (some of which were in his wifes name for tax purposes), IISL then 
objected that Mr P hadnt demonstrated that the funds were specifically drawn from the tax-
free cash released. In any event, it said the trades were made sporadically suggesting Mr P 
made time-sensitive decisions to go into particular stocks. And it questioned why Mr P was 
investing in his wifes name.
My previous provisional decision: 29 September 2022
What delays did IISL cause?
I dont agree with the investigator that the only delays caused were after 26 October 2020. 
Theres a copy of Scottish Widows transfer confirmation letter dated 22 September 2020 on 
file which clearly states that the transfer comes from an HMRC registered personal pension 
and Mr Ps funds were uncrystallised. However, IISL says this was insufficient because:The letter did not confirm if any tax-free cash was available.
A transfer confirmation letter should give details of crystallised/uncrystallised funds, 
any previous tax free cash payments and how much of the lifetime allowance had 
been used up.
It was Mr P providing this information on 26 November 2020 that allowed IISL to 
proceed.
This explanation simply doesnt stand up to scrutiny. IISL must realise that there cant be any 
crystallised funds in a transfer that is described as uncrystallised. And that, by definition, 
means Mr P hadnt used up any of his lifetime allowance or any tax-free cash entitlement on 
these funds.
I appreciate that some legacy arrangements allowed different amounts of tax-free cash to 
the standard 25%, but that would not apply to a personal pension. So I cant envisage any 
situation where on receiving this letter, IISL  or its administrator  wouldnt reasonably be 
able to proceed on the basis that Mr P would be entitled to 25% of the transferred sum as 
tax-free cash. And I cant see that Mr P told IISL anything on 26 November 2020 that it didnt 
already know when it then replied to him as follows:
Following on from your phone call I have updated our administrator regarding your funds 
being uncrystallised and they will now proceed with that information.
In my view, that means when Mr P requested drawdown on 13 November 2020 (and then 
clarified what he was seeking in terms of tax free cash and uncrystallised funds on 14 
November), IISL should have processed the request straight away.
Next, I should comment on why there are so many stages in IISLs process  as I know Mr P 
is unhappy with this. Following the introduction of pension freedoms in 2015, the Financial 
Conduct Authority introduced guidance called retirement risk warnings  to make sure 
businesses made customers aware of the pitfalls in accessing their pension pot. Under those 
regulations businesses are not allowed to proceed through the process until they have 
understood what the client is seeking to do and then provided tailored risk warnings to their 
objectives. Where this is done by an exchange of correspondence this means one form 
needs to be completed, further documentation then generated based on the responses on 
the first form, and so on. So I make no criticism of the number of steps involved in IISLs 
process, however I consider it took IISL (and/or its administrator) too long to complete them 
in this case.
In my view a five working day turnaround time on receipt of paperwork is a fairly consistent 
standard in the industry and I take this into account as representing good industry practice. 
Particularly here, where under current FCA regulations accessing a pension pot now 
requires a number of separate steps - and inordinate delays can significantly string out the 
process. The Association of British Insurers Code of Conduct on retirement choices going
back as far as April 2012, for example, says that payments should be made promptly  and 
I think a longer timescale than this for individual steps in the process would call the 
achievement of that aim into question.
That being the starting point, it is then primarily a matter for IISL and not Mr P to contend 
with if ISLs administration is carried out by a third party. Mr P has no ability to set the terms 
between IISL and BW for processing times but is entitled to expect these to be reasonable. 
IISL is still accountable to Mr P for the end result, and presumably the intention of using the 
third party is that the administration will be performed efficiently.
In my view it would be reasonable to expect the processing of Mr Ps paperwork at each stage in the process, once it was in the right place, to be performed within five working days. 
I accept that as IISL uses a secure portal and allows documents to be uploaded 
electronically, this saves on postal times  and as a SIPP is a more complex arrangement 
than a personal pension this is more likely to involve the transfer of paperwork between 
departments. Im prepared to allow a further two working days for IISL to route the 
correspondence to BW  but I think five is excessive and would not be treating Mr P fairly, 
particularly as part of a multi-stage process.
Allowing a total of seven working days at each point in the process from when IISL clarified 
Mr Ps drawdown instruction on 14 November 2021, gives the following timescale:
25 November 2020: IISL sends Mr P his Pre-retirement Pack to complete
26 November 2020: Mr returns this by secure message (I have allowed one day for Mr P to 
return it, as he managed to do it on the same day on 11 December and we know he had 
enough time to contact IISL to chase for the missing form on 26 November)
7 December 2020: IISL sends Mr P his Retirement Pack
8 December 2020: Again by the next day, Mr P returns this by secure message along with 
the final forms (Benefit Confirmation and Lifetime Allowance Declaration).
17 December 2020: The tax-free cash payment has been processed and leaves Mr Ps SIPP
A longer delay has therefore in my view been caused between 17 December 2020 and 8 
January 2021, when Im told the tax-free cash of £140,000 actually left Mr Ps SIPP.
How should IISL compensate for these delays?
Much has been said about whether it is appropriate to use actual named funds to model how 
Mr P would have invested if hed received the proceeds sooner. In my view it wouldnt be 
appropriate to use the same funds Mr P actually invested in later on (on behalf of himself 
and his wife). Ive seen enough evidence in the submissions made to know that Mr P was 
monitoring markets closely (indeed he began complaining during the period of delay 
because he could see markets were going up). And so I think hes likely to have made 
decisions on specific funds based on the state of the market at the time.
There is sufficient doubt in my view as to whether those decisions would have been exactly 
the same on (or soon after) 17 December 2020, to mean that using an index to model the 
loss caused by IISLs delay is more appropriate. But there are two further things I need to 
consider: whether the index should be used for all the £140,000, and what index is 
appropriate.
Should an index be used for all the £140,000?
At the time Mr P started his complaint he told IISL that he intended to retain £40,000 of the 
awaited tax-free cash for living expenses. That doesnt give me the impression he was going
to spend it all straight away, but it would be used gradually, over a period of many months. 
Its consistent with Mr P having lost his job, as he explained to this service.
In the event Mr P actually left only £8,928 uninvested. But this was part of an overall pattern 
of reinvestment which saw £46,353 of cash ISAs being transferred onto the IISL platform 
and moved into equities, allowing more of the pension tax-free cash to be retained in their 
place. Mr P makes clear he was doing this in order to swap cash for cash. In other words, I 
think its fair to say that the £46,353 became part of his short to medium term living 
expenses.
At the point Mr P put IISL on notice that it was causing him a delay, he didnt specifically say 
that its delays were preventing him from transferring the ISAs  in fact I cant see how IISLs delays would have prevented those transfers from happening. And I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to hold IISL responsible for Mr P having £130,000 left out of the market when he 
told it on 11 December 2020 that only £100,000 was going back into the market. I cant fairly 
say that any further losses were foreseeable given what Mr P told IISL at the time.
But on the wider points IISL is making, I dont agree that it was all down to Mr Ps decision to 
leave funds in cash awaiting the tax-free cash withdrawal. His decision not to invest
£140,000 of the transfer within his SIPP, when he did invest the remainder, was clearly 
made in the expectation that the tax-free cash would be paid quicker than it was. And I think 
that was a reasonable expectation.
I also dont agree that sums Mr P invested on behalf of his wife, or the precise timing of 
those sums, makes a difference to the overall outcome here. Mr P had recently lost his job. 
Im sufficiently satisfied from what hes has told this service that he was viewing his and Mrs 
Ps finances jointly, and was making arrangements to achieve the overall outcome of leaving 
some surplus cash to meet living expenses whilst reinvesting the remainder. There are 
obviously advantages to making some investments in a spouses name if they pay less tax 
and this shouldnt come as a surprise to IISL.
Broadly, then, I think it is fair to take Mr Ps intentions as articulated to IISL on 11 December 
2020 of reinvesting £100,000  not £140,000  as indicative of how his loss should be 
calculated. There is no need for any calculation on the other £40,000 in my view  as it 
would likely have sat on deposit for that short period of time; Mr P was not deprived of the 
use of it as Im not persuaded he would have spent it straight away; and interest rates are 
very low and would have provided negligible interest.
I also note that the investigator has already proposed £300 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused to Mr P which I consider is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
What index should be used for the £100,000?
Ive looked at the funds Mr P bought in his and Mrs Ps ISAs and general investment 
accounts as indicative of the risk level he would likely have taken with any reinvestment after 
17 December 2020. As Mr and Mrs P have actually made these investments I dont regard 
the overall risk level they pose, in general terms, as hypothetical. Those funds were:
Fund % split Current composition
Baillie Gifford Positive Change 31% Global growth stocks
Rathbone Multi Asset Enh Growth 31% Global equities, very small fixed interest
Liontrust Sustainable Fut Managed 15% Global equities, very small fixed interest
Rathbone Ethical Bond 15% Fixed interest (corporate bonds)
Baillie Gifford Managed 8% Global equities, around 20% fixed int
Overall, I think this would produce about an 80% equity vs 20% bond ratio, so I dont agree 
with Mr P that the FTSE Private Investors Growth Total Return index isnt broadly 
representative of this. I think that index is the most suited to the types of investment he 
would likely have made on receiving £100,000 of the tax-free cash sooner.
Responses to my provisional decision
In summary, Mr P said:
- He has always made some investments in his wifes name.
- The reason they moved to IISL was so that they could manage the drawing down of sums themselves, which they expected it to be possible to do.
- They had planned for a long time to reinvest £120,000 of the £140,000 withdrawal: 
£40,000 into current year ISAs, £40,000 shortly thereafter into the next years ISAs, 
and another £40,000 into equities for later switching into ISAs the following year.
- It is something they intend to repeat with further withdrawals in future.
- In the event, they reinvested a little more than they intended. He doesnt understand 
why he mentioned £100,000 in his message of 11 December 2020, and believes he 
rushed into commenting under stress without checking his spreadsheets.
- It was wrong to take this isolated comment out of the context of their original plan.
- They had maintained sufficient cash reserves, so the cash withdrawal from the SIPP 
was more about planning ahead.
- He agrees with the use of the FTSE Private Investors Growth Total Return index and 
the period for loss assessment.
IISL made no further comments other than asking for the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As IISL hasnt commented further, Ive first considered Mr Ps comments.  Ive already 
accepted that making the investments in is wifes name is something he was entitled to do, 
and it doesnt appear IISL is disputing that further either.
The rest of Mr Ps comments are to show that it had always been his long term plan to 
reinvest £120,000  not £100,000 of the proceeds of the drawdown. I dont see there is a 
need to doubt that Mr and Mrs P intended to do this, but Ive explained in my provisional 
decision that what he told IISL at the time is relevant - insofar as he was giving them 
advance notice that he would hold them liable for keeping a certain amount of of those funds 
out of the market. Thats beause the potential losses could be significant if, for instance, the 
market rose during the period of the delay. And he was giving IISL an opportunity to mitigate 
this problem (albeit that I cant see that IISL took that opportunity.)
Mr P thought he might have mistakenly mentioned £100,000 to IISL in one of the phone 
calls, so Ive listened to all the calls IISL has provided again. In fact it wasnt in a phone call 
that Mr P mentioned this: he doesnt distinguish between amounts he was going to spend 
and save in any of the recordings IISL has provided between him and its call handlers. It was 
actually in a secure message which Mr P sent IISL on 11 December 2020, where he said:
Further info - I have kept 140K in cash ready for the drawdown as explained. Only 40K of 
this was to place in cash - the balance accounts. I have reviewed the performance of my 
current investment in funds in the SIPP over the past month and calculated an (so far) in 
not being invested and was/is languishing in cash in the SIPP still...
As such, Im satisfied it remains fair and reasonable to hold IISL responsible for the 
consequences of being unable able to reinvest £100,000 and to use £40,000 for general 
expenditure. As I explained in my provisional decision (and Mr P has confirmed in response), 
he did maintain other funds in cash during the period of delay. I appreciate the sheer 
frustration of this episode, which is why Ive made an award for his distress and 
inconvenience. But in terms of the cost of delay on the £40,000, I think the lost interest in 
say his current account would have been negligible.Putting things right
Ive already set out proposals to put things right in my provisional decision. IISL hasnt 
commented, but Mr P has agreed with the index used and dates. Im not persuaded by 
Mr Ps arguments to increase the amount (£100,000) on which the calculation in line with 
this index applies, for the reasons Ive given above. Ive reviewed the rest of my findings and 
remain of the view that the method I set out below will provide fair and reasonable 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.
I consider fair compensation should be calculated by increasing the amount of £100,000 in 
line with the FTSE Private Investors Growth Total Return index from 17 December 2020 to 
8 January 2021. The amount by which the £100,000 has been increased in this calculation 
represents Mr Ps loss.
This loss should then be brought up to date by applying the change in value of the same 
benchmark from 8 January 2021 to the date of this Final Decision. £300 should then be 
added to the updated loss to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr P overall 
by the delayed payment (including the remaining £40,000 which was delayed).
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
- Based on the information Mr P has provided about his circumstances at the time he 
was looking for investments that provided him mainly with growth and
was willing to accept a higher degree of investment risk.
- The FTSE UK Private Investors Growth total return index is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK and global equities with a 
relatively small component in bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who 
was prepared to take greater risk to get a higher return.
- The mix and diversification provided within the index is close enough to allow me to 
use it as a reasonable measure of comparison, given what Ive explained above 
about how Mr P tended to invest his funds.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ps complaint and require Interactive Investor Services Limited to calculate and 
pay him compensation as set out in the 'fair compensation section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman