DRN-3452423
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about the service they received from Evolution FS (EFS) Ltd when 
dealing with their investments which they say caused a financial loss.
What happened
In early 2021 Mr and Mrs J complained to EFS about the service theyd received since 
taking them over as clients from a previous adviser. They didnt think that EFS had been 
proactive in contacting them about their investments. Also they had lost money in the now 
suspended Woodford Equity Income Fund (WEIF) where some of their money had been 
invested. 
EFS didnt uphold the complaint saying they tried to contact Mr and Mrs J but didnt get a 
response and that they werent responsible for any advice to invest in WEIF. They also said 
that a risk questionnaire had been completed in mid-2018 and a recommendation was made 
to move the investments into a lower risk portfolio. EFS didnt hear back about this 
recommendation so assumed they didnt want to take it any further and therefore some 
funds remained in WEIF.
Mr and Mrs J remained unhappy and brought their complaint to this service where one of our 
Investigators looked into what happened. They thought that while the initial customer service 
from EFS left much to be desired they werent persuaded Mr and Mrs J lost out as a result.
Mr and Mrs J said they didnt receive the recommendation from EFS which had been sent by 
email. Our Investigator thought, on balance, that the email had been sent and EFS werent 
responsible for any losses as they hadnt heard back from Mr and Mrs J and werent able to 
make any investment changes without their permission.
In response Mr and Mrs J reiterated that they didnt receive the recommendation email and 
didnt feel our Investigator had considered the matter in a fair and impartial way. Because an 
agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs J have provided a lot of information about their complaint and its clear how 
strongly they feel about what happened. I want to assure them that Ive read and considered 
everything provided even if I dont mention it all in detail. Ive summarised some of what 
happened which reflects the informal nature of our service, and no discourtesy is intended 
here. Also EFS and our Investigator both went into quite some detail about what happened. 
And since those facts arent really in dispute theres no need to repeat them all again here. 
It seems there are two parts of this complaint; the overall level of service received from EFS, 
and the loss of money in WEIF.
EFS took over Mr and Mrs J as clients towards the end of 2016 when they were sent an 
email explaining what was happening and giving them contact details. EFS also wrote in 
May 2017 introducing themselves and say they gave further details as well as letting  
Mr and Mrs J know they should make contact if they wanted or needed to speak.  
Mr and Mrs J feel their previous adviser gave better service than EFS and that a financial 
review only took place in mid-2018 because they asked for it. I dont know what level of 
service was previously received so I cant make any comparison. 
Looking at what happened since EFS took over towards the end of 2016 I think they couldve 
been more proactive in contacting Mr and Mrs J. It seems that a 2017 review was missed 
but EFS say Mr and Mrs J were on a list to be contacted in 2018 however they made contact 
before this review could take place. I havent seen any evidence that Mr and Mrs J contacted 
EFS with any concerns about their investments. I also note that Mr and Mrs J hadnt signed 
the client agreement form and were therefore free to go to a different adviser if they were 
unhappy with EFS. 
Although I dont think EFS contacted Mr and Mrs J as much as they should have, Ive not 
seen any persuasive evidence this caused a financial loss. Mr and Mrs J might feel that the 
level of service wasnt the same as before, and perhaps it wasnt, however I dont think what 
happened had a negative financial impact or was of such a poor level that compensation is 
due. 
Moving on to the issue of WEIF I think it's clear Mr and Mrs J suffered a financial loss by 
what happened when the fund was suspended. However I dont think this loss is the fault of 
EFS.
EFS didnt give the original advice to invest in WEIF so arent responsible for the investment 
being made. 
Mr and Mrs J say EFS shouldve warned them about potential problems with WEIF. However 
Ive not seen anything persuasive to show that EFS shouldve had concerns or that there 
was any imminent danger. The suspension of the fund was a surprise to investors, advisers 
and to the business itself. I havent seen any evidence there were problems out of the 
ordinary. WEIF had been a popular and successful income producing fund prior to the 
problems in late 2018 and 2019. 
In these circumstances theres the added issue of the risk review in mid-2018 which did flag 
concerns about the mix of investments in the portfolio. But because EFS didnt hear back 
from Mr and Mrs J no action was taken. 
Mr and Mrs J say they didnt receive the email on 30 July 2018 containing the results of the 
risk review. Looking at the evidence Im persuaded the email was sent and cant say why 
Mr and Mrs J say it wasnt received. Ive also taken into consideration this email was sent in 
response to a follow up from Mr J who had emailed a few days before as he hadnt heard 
anything since the contact in mid May. If a reply email hadnt been received this wasnt 
chased up with EFS who werent to know that it wasnt received. And I dont think EFS had 
any other reason to think the email hadnt been received as previous emails to the same 
address had been received and responded to. 
Also Mr and Mrs J were sent some documents around the same time which included the risk 
questionnaire they had previously completed. Mr and Mrs J say they had no knowledge of 
the third party who conducted the review and were mentioned on the paperwork they 
received. Again, I cant see any contact with EFS about these documents. EFS have said that had Mr and Mrs J replied to the email there would have been a 
discussion about the mix of investments. This wouldve included considering moving funds 
out of WEIF to rebalance the portfolio. This wasnt because of any concerns about the 
performance of WEIF itself at the time: rather because of the large exposure to the UK 
equity market. However EFS wasnt able to move any funds without the consent of 
Mr and Mrs J. 
Overall I dont think EFS had any cause to be concerned about WEIF in particular at that 
time. And because they had no reason to think Mr and Mrs J hadnt received the risk review 
email, they had no cause to make more proactive contact. EFS assumed Mr and Mrs J didnt 
want to take the advice in the email any further; and l think this was a reasonable 
assumption in the circumstances.
After carefully considering everything that happened, Im satisfied EFS acted fairly and 
reasonably when dealing with Mr and Mrs J so I wont be asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman