DRN-4095593
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about UK Insurance Limited (UKI) poor service, following a claim 
under their home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H contacted UKI to make a claim as their boiler had broken down. In their home 
were two boilers and what they describe as the main boiler developed a fault. UKI sent an 
engineer who was unable to fix the main boiler, but the other boiler was able to provide 
heating and hot water. 
Mr H contacted UKI following the engineers visit to get an update on his claim. UKI informed 
Mr H that as he was left with heating and hot water, there was no longer an emergency, and 
they would be unable to send an engineer for any follow up appointment. Mr H disputed this 
as he said that the main boiler remained faulty and the temperature control was on the main 
boiler and not the second boiler, so he was unable to control the second boiler. 
Mr H also said that he required the engineer to return in order to install a thermostat to the 
second boiler so that he was able to control it. Mr H did state that he had heating and hot 
water albeit he had to manually operate the boiler, due to the controls being on the other 
broken-down boiler. 
During the claims process UKI offered and found alternative accommodation, this was 
because Mr and Mrs H said that they had been left without heating and hot water. But Mr 
and Mrs H declined the offer as they felt the accommodation wasnt suitable due to being far 
away from their home, than they wouldve liked. 
Mr H raised a complaint to UKI given the level of service and that he believed that the 
engineer hadnt properly fixed the boiler. A manager called Mr H back and told him that 
controls were covered and a return visit would be made. But, when Mr H contacted UKI 
again, he was told that no return visit would be made as controls were not covered under the 
policy, in addition, the boiler was over 10 years of age and had been deemed beyond 
economic repair (BER). So for these reasons there was no cover available. 
Ultimately, Mr and Mrs H contacted an independent engineer who attended and condemned 
the boiler. The report from that engineer stated that the boiler was in an unsafe and 
immediately dangerous condition. They said that they had to get an emergency engineer to 
attend in order to connect an immersion heater, at a cost of £228. And they felt that had the 
original engineer carried out the work or found a resolution sooner, they wouldnt have had 
to take time off of work, which meant that they lost earnings. 
Mr and Mrs H felt that the original engineer had carried out poor work and failed to repair 
their boiler. So, they complained to UKI and asked it to reimburse the cost of the engineer 
who connected the immersion heater at £228, the loss of earnings of at £2,870. As well as 
replacing the two boilers in their home at a cost of £8,100. 
In its final response, UKI said that the boiler that was faulty had extensive damage and was 
found to be over 10 years old. And because the boiler was deemed BER, there was no cover 
under the policy. And no cover due to its age.
UKI accepted that Mr and Mrs H had been given incorrect information during the claims 
process. And because of this error it offered to pay compensation of £40. Mr and Mrs H 
werent happy with this resolution. And as they were given their referral rights, referred a 
complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought that UKI should increase the 
level of compensation by a further £60 (to make a total of £100). She said that given the 
impact on Mr and Mrs H and their young family, due to having no hot water or heating. And 
that UKI hadnt pointed out to Mr and Mrs H that they were eligible for alternative 
accommodation, it was fair that UKI increase its offer. 
UKI accepted the view, Mr and Mrs H did not. They said that they were without heating and 
hot water for three days and not offered alternatives. They felt that the £100 wasnt an 
appropriate reflection of the fact that the UKI engineer had left their boiler in an impossible 
condition to diagnose. So, they asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will uphold this complaint, but for much the same reasons as our 
investigator, which I understand is likely to be a disappointment for Mr and Mrs H, but I hope 
my findings explain why I think this is fair. 
I have considered the policy terms and conditions and the comments made by both parties. 
Mr and Mrs H said that had UKIs original engineer carried out the work correctly, they 
wouldnt have had to take time off of work, pay for an immersion heater to be connected, and 
ultimately replace the boilers. They believed that the compensation that UKI has now agreed 
to pay, namely £100 for the trouble and upset caused, was not sufficient in the 
circumstances. So, I think the level of compensation is the main issue of this complaint. And 
Ive concentrated my findings on this.
Mr and Mrs H contacted UKI when they experienced issues with one of their two boilers. UKI 
sent an engineer and I understand that Mr and Mrs H were less than impressed by the 
condition that the engineer left their boiler in. So much so, that they instructed an 
independent engineer, who effectively condemned the boiler. Mr and Mrs H said that they 
were without heating and hot water for a total of three days, which wasnt pleasant given that 
they had a young family, and this event happened during the winter months. In addition, they 
said that they had to move out of their home, while the new boilers were installed. 
UKI, said that its engineer capped off the faulty boiler and disconnected the temperature 
control, to allow the other boiler to work. It also said that the engineer left Mr and Mrs Hs 
home with heating and hot water. So, no temporary heating was left with them. 
Mr H contacted UKI after the engineer had left for an update on the claim. He was informed 
that there wouldnt be a return visit as he had been left with heating and hot water. Mr H 
raised a complaint and was later provided with the copy of the engineers report. He said that the report disclosed that he was left with heating and hot water, when that hadnt been the 
case. 
It was during this contact with UKI, that he was erroneously informed that the policy covered 
the controls, which gave him the expectation that a return visit would be made. Mr H later 
contacted UKI to inform them that there was now a complete loss of heating and hot water. 
And as a result, UKI offered alternative accommodation, which was declined by them. 
UKI then sent a further engineer who reported that there were two boilers at the property. 
One had been capped off and the other was functioning to provide heating and hot water, 
albeit much slower than before. UKI also found that the capped off boiler had extensive 
damage and deemed it BER, as well as confirming that the boiler was over 10 years old. 
UKI informed Mr and Mrs H that due to these issues, the policy wouldnt provide cover. 
I have reviewed the terms and conditions of the policy and it does state that boilers that are 
deemed BER and are over 10 years old are not covered. I cant see that Mr and Mrs H 
provided any evidence to refute the age of the boiler. In any event, they agreed that the 
boiler had been deemed BER (not least by the independent engineer as well). UKIs 
engineer made the other boiler useable, albeit on a much slower operation. Consequently, 
under the policy, it wasnt obliged to carry out any further repairs, as the emergency was 
completed. And as there was some form of heat, no temporary heating was required.
Mr and Mrs H accepted that they were offered alternative accommodation but said that the 
offer came too late and was too far away from their home. Under the policy, if the home is 
deemed to be uninhabitable (as UKI deemed it, due to the lack of utilities), then alternative 
accommodation is offered. 
Based on what Ive read and listened to, Im satisfied that UKI offered and booked alternative 
accommodation, including finding accommodation that was suitable for pets. I understand 
that the accommodation found wasnt suitable for Mr and Mrs H, but I think UKI complied 
with its obligations under the policy. 
Nevertheless, I think that UKI did make errors during the claim. It accepted that Mr and Mrs 
H were given incorrect information regarding cover for the boiler controls. But, in addition, 
call records all of which I have listened to, Mr and Mrs H had on several occasions called 
UKI for updates on when they would have a return visit  primarily due to the incorrect 
information they had been given. 
Im satisfied that this would have caused some distress and inconvenience. The impact of 
which lasted a few days and I think there was a loss of expectation. For those reasons and 
in line with our guidance, I think that the £100 (that UKI has accepted to pay) is a fair level of 
compensation. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs H are seeking a far greater sum, as well as loss of earnings, 
reimbursement of costs for the immersion connection, and reimbursement for the new 
boilers installed. But I havent been provided with any proof of earnings, and I must point out 
that the policy that Mr and Mrs H hold does not compensate for loss of earnings. That is, its 
not something they are entitled to claim for under their contract of insurance. And I must also 
say any home emergency is going to involve a homeowner in some inconvenience including, 
almost inevitably, taking time off work for an engineer to come in and put things right. 
Accordingly, I dont think its fair or reasonable to ask UKI to reimburse their loss of earnings. 
Turning to the reimbursement for the connection of the immersion heater and for the new 
boilers installed. My understanding is that UKI had ultimately left Mr and Mrs H with heating 
and hot water (albeit I accept that the system wasnt running as quickly as it previously had and had to be manually operated as Mr H said). But as the boiler was over 10 years old, it 
wasnt obliged to carry out any further repairs (like connecting it to the immersion). And 
wouldnt have reimbursed for new boilers as this too wasnt permitted under the policy. So, I 
cant agree that UKI should reimburse those costs. 
Taking all the circumstances into consideration, whilst I understand how disappointed Mr 
and Mrs H will be, I think that UKI was fair to agree to increase the level of compensation to 
£100, for the trouble and upset caused. I dont think its reasonable for UKI to reimburse for 
either the loss of earnings, the installation of the new boilers or the immersion heater 
connection work.  
Putting things right
Consequently, to put matters right, I direct UKI as below. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
UK Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs H £100 compensation (if it hasnt done so already) 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.
UK Insurance Limited must pay the above amount within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr and Mrs H accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest 
at 8% a year simple on the above amount, from the date Mr and Mrs H accept my final 
decision, until it is paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman