DRN-2159961
The complaint
Mr W complains about how Nationwide Building Society dealt with his account switching 
application.  
What happened
In early October 2019 Mr W used Nationwides current account switching service to switch 
his current account to it from a bank that Ill refer to as F in this decision. He said he was 
suffering from financial difficulties at that time. So, he wanted to benefit from the larger 
interest free overdraft Nationwide was offering new customers.
Initially Mr Ws switching application was delayed because some of the information hed 
provided Nationwide didnt match the information F held about his account. So, Mr W 
updated his details with F. And, on 10 October 2019, he contacted Nationwide to confirm 
hed made the necessary changes. However, as he couldnt provide his card details, 
Nationwide wasnt able to process his account switch. Therefore, later that day, Mr W 
contacted Nationwide again. This time he provided his card details. But because Nationwide 
didnt confirm Mr Ws address had been corrected the switch didnt take place.
On 6 December 2019 Mr W contacted Nationwide again to request an update on the 
progress of his account switch. He was informed that an address discrepancy was 
preventing the switch from taking place. Mr W explained that hed updated his address with 
F already. And he asked Nationwide to switch his account without further delay. 
Mr Ws request to switch his account wasnt processed until 23 December 2019, which was 
when he contacted Nationwide again to request an update on the switching process. On that 
day a complaint was raised on Mr Ws behalf about how Nationwide had dealt with his 
account switch request and the delay hed encountered. 
On 6 January 2020, Mr Ws switch was completed. Following the switch Mr W said he was 
contacted by F who informed him that his account remained open and three direct debits 
were still debiting his account. F said this had caused his account to become overdrawn by 
almost £600.
F told Mr W that hed need to repay the amount owed. But Mr W said he had believed his 
account with F had been closed and that all direct debits had come across to Nationwide as 
part of the switching process. He said, as he hadnt been advised by Nationwide that his 
account with F remained open with active direct debits, he wasnt aware that direct debits 
were continuing to debit his account with F or that it had become overdrawn. And he felt hed 
been financially disadvantaged by what had happened because, if his account had been 
switched to Nationwide correctly, he wouldnt have owed money to F. 
When Nationwide responded to Mr Ws complaint, it accepted hed encountered delays in 
his account being switched  some of which had been caused by incorrect information being 
provided to it. However, it accepted that some of the delay had been caused by Nationwide. 
And to recognise the delays it had caused it offered Mr W £50 to resolve this complaint, 
which he accepted.  
But Mr W was dissatisfied with Nationwides response to his complaint and referred it to our 
service. Our investigator assessed the information provided by Mr W and Nationwide. They 
thought Nationwide had dealt with Mr Ws complaint fairly. They also thought the 
compensation it had already paid Mr W adequately reflected the trouble and upset hed have 
experienced during the switching process. So, they didnt recommend upholding Mr Ws 
complaint. But he disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr W has gone to some trouble to provide our service with some detailed 
submissions. I want to assure him that Ive read everything he has sent us. I hope he will 
understand if I dont address every comment hes made in this decision. I intend to 
concentrate on what I consider to be key to this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr W experienced. Im not seeking to downplay the 
difficulties or frustrations he had here  far from it.  I understand he feels very strongly about 
the issues raised in this complaint. But Im not going to be able to help him in the way he 
would like. Ill explain why. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that the initial difficulties with the account 
switch instruction were caused by Mr W providing information to Nationwide which didnt 
match the details F held about his account. This isnt something for which I can fairly hold 
Nationwide responsible. It was reliant on the information Mr W provided in order to process 
and progress the account switch request.
As I set out in the background to this complaint, by 10 October 2019 Mr W had made the 
necessary changes to enable his switching request to proceed. This meant Nationwide could 
have progressed Mr Ws account switching instruction from this date onwards.
Nationwide has provided guidance that outlines that its current account switching service 
aims to switch an account within seven working days. So, Mr Ws account should have been 
switched by around 21 October 2019 at the latest. But I can see that Nationwide didnt 
process Mr Ws switch until 23 December 2019 and the switch didnt complete until 6 
January 2020. Its unclear why there was a delay of over two months here. 
The switching service should have been a simple procedure. But it appears it was Mr W, 
rather than Nationwide, that was driving the account switching process forward here. I think 
Nationwide could have been more responsive. And I think it made an error in not actioning 
Mr Ws switch request at earlier opportunities.
Ive carefully considered the impact the switching delay had on Mr W. As Ive already 
mentioned he chased Nationwide for updates regarding the status of his account switch 
during October and December 2019. Ive listened to all the call recordings Nationwide has 
provided our service from calls during that period. These calls last an overall total of 24 
minutes  I think this shows Mr W didnt have to spend an excessive time on the telephone 
in chasing Nationwide about the status of his account.
Mr W has told our service that delays in the switching process left him in financial difficulties 
because almost £600 debited his account with F. This was due to direct debits that didnt 
transfer over to Nationwide when they should have done. But I think its important to 
recognise that if these funds hadnt debited Mr Ws account with F theyd have been claimed from his Nationwide account. The money was owed by Mr W to the companies collecting the 
direct debit payments. And Mr W has had the benefit of services provided by those 
companies. So, I dont think it would be fair for me to direct Nationwide to reimburse Mr W 
the sum that debited his account with F.
Ive considered Mr Ws statements from F and I can see he didnt incur any interest or 
charges with F, as a result of the direct debits leaving his account, until 6 January 2020. On 
that date he incurred interest in the sum of £2.01. But this was because he exceeded his 
arranged overdraft as a result of the payments debiting his account.
Ive thought carefully about whether I should tell Nationwide to reimburse Mr W for the 
interest he was charged but Ill explain why I think that would be unfair.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that, by January 2020, Mr W ought to have 
been aware that hed have needed to fund his account with F to ensure his direct debit 
payments could be covered without him incurring interest charges. Mr W told our investigator 
that he didnt check his account with F because hed deleted his banking app. But theres no 
evidence to suggest that he wasnt continuing to receive postal monthly statements from F, 
which would have shown him his direct debits were still active and leaving his account. 
I can also see that Mr W was regularly using his Nationwide account. He received monthly 
account statements electronically from Nationwide, which would have showed his outgoing 
payments. And I think these statements should have made it clear to Mr W that his direct 
debit payments werent being claimed from that account. 
In addition to the above points, Nationwide has shown our service evidence that satisfies me 
that when Mr W instructed it to switch his account he selected a zero funding amount. This 
told Nationwide whether Mr W gave it permission to pay off any negative balance he might 
have had with F at the point his switch completed. As this was set by Mr W to zero, I cant 
fairly say Nationwide should have paid off Mr Ws negative account balance on his account 
with F when his switch completed. And I think this ought to have made Mr W aware hed 
need to ensure his account with F wasnt left with a negative balance at the point of the 
switch completing.
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, Nationwide has already offered to 
compensate Mr W £50, which it believes addresses the delays he encountered for which it 
was responsible. But he feels Nationwides offer to resolve his complaint doesnt go far 
enough. So, the issue here is whether its acted fairly and reasonably in offering to put things 
right. In thinking about this, Ive considered things from both sides. 
Our service isnt here to punish businesses and, when deciding what potential compensation 
to award, we must take two things into account: financial loss as a result of any business 
error and non-financial loss, including trouble and upset. 
Its clear to me that Mr Ws experience here went beyond mere irritation. I can see he was 
caused trouble and upset by what happened. But I think Nationwide has taken appropriate 
steps in putting things right here. 
Ive already explained why Im not persuaded that Nationwides error caused Mr W to incur a 
financial loss that I should direct it to compensate him for. And, as Ive explained, Mr W 
spent around 24 minutes on the telephone chasing Nationwide about the status of his 
account switch. Im satisfied that the compensation Nationwide has already paid adequately 
recognises the time Mr W would have spent and the telephone expenses he might have 
incurred in trying to put matters right.  I know Mr W will disagree with me. But Im satisfied that the compensation Nationwide has 
already paid is a fair amount thats proportionate to the inconvenience and worry that he 
would have been caused here. Its in line with our approach in similar scenarios and its what 
I would have told Nationwide to pay. I havent seen enough to persuade me that a higher 
award is warranted here. So, I wont be asking Nationwide to increase the compensation it 
offered to resolve this complaint.
This now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Mr Ws dispute with Nationwide 
informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr W any further with this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman