DRN-3927629
The complaint
Mr B complains about a delays to an account closure with Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Mr B also complains about the service he received when trying to close the account and 
transfer the funds.
What happened
In July 2022 Mr B received a letter from Barclays advising him of the requirement to close 
his account. Barclays said this was due to the implications of Brexit and as he was living 
abroad.
Mr B says he attempted to call Barclays eight times over the space of two months to arrange 
the closure, but the Barclays advisors he spoke to failed to help him do this. Mr B also says 
he sent a closure request by letter, but this wasnt actioned. So, Mr B logged a complaint 
with Barclays. 
Barclays upheld the complaint and started to make transfers out of Mr Bs account to his 
account abroad. Barclays also offered Mr B £200 compensation, but Mr B remained 
unhappy. Mr B said the compensation was lower than hed accept, and the transfers were 
being made at the bottom exchange rate for the day it was sent. 
Mr B went on to say that it took around three months to make the final payment, after Mr B 
and Barclays attempted to send it and it failed. So, Mr B bought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought the compensation should be 
increased. Our investigator found the currency conversion rate used needed to be 
recalculated to make sure it was correct, and she also suggested increasing the 
compensation amount from £200 to £300 for the trouble and upset the delay had caused. 
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators view. He said the compensation wasnt high enough 
and asked for the complaint to be escalated. 
So, the complaints been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Having considered the submissions in full and from both Mr B and Barclays, I agree with the 
outcome the investigator reached for largely the same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Theres no doubt that a delay was caused in closing Mr Bs account by Barclay - Barclays 
have admitted that and offered compensation. So, I dont need to make a finding on whether 
there was a delay and who caused it. But I do need to make a finding on whether the 
compensation was fair in the circumstances of the complaint.
Mr B has supplied a lot of information, and I thank him for that. Ive read through it in its 
entirety, but most seems to be establishing how many calls were made to Barclays and 
when. For the completeness of the investigation, Im satisfied that eight calls were likely 
made. So, when thinking about compensation amounts, this was my starting point, as well 
as the other issues he said he faced. 
Its also clear that there was a delay of around two months from the point the account 
shouldve been closed, and the money sent to Mr Bs account abroad, and around three 
months for the final payment (the recalculation of exchange rate) to be finalised and sent. 
Having considered the delays, and the phone calls Mr B had to make, Im satisfied that the 
£300 total compensation the investigator suggested fairly compensates Mr B for the trouble 
and upset it caused.  
Mr B hasnt suggested the money was to be used for anything thats created a loss. Mr B 
has explained that the upset the delay caused was mainly due to the loss in exchange rate 
he could see materialising at the time and the worry of not receiving his money. Barclays 
have recalculated the transfers based on the exchange rate at the point it deems the earliest 
the transfer wouldve been made. Ive checked this information and Im satisfied the date and 
rate theyve used is fair. Mr B has also agreed he is happy with this amount. Barclays also 
paid the difference in pounds rather than sterling, so Mr B got slightly more than planned. 
So, Im satisfied Mr B is back in the same position he wouldve been had the delay and error 
not occurred. And Im satisfied the compensation amount takes into account he trouble and 
upset the delays caused and fairly compensates Mr B for this. 
Ive also noted Mr Bs complaint that hes unhappy with the tone of the letter sent on 11 July 
2022. Having seen the letter, Im satisfied that its factual and apologises for the fact Mr B 
needs to close his account. So, I havent found any issue with the way its been worded. 
Putting things right
Barclays Bank PLC should pay Mr B an additional £100 taking the total compensation 
amount to £300. 
This is in addition to the £30 also already paid for the telephone call costs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint against Barclays Bank PLC and instruct it 
to pay an additional £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Tom WagstaffOmbudsman