DRN-4128712
The complaint
Mr R complains about the advice given by NTM Financial Services Ltd (NTM) to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme with British Steel 
(BSPS) to a personal pension arrangement. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and 
believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Rs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension 
schemes, paying compensation to members of eligible schemes for their lifetime. The 
compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original schemes benefits 
for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from the original scheme. 
Alternatively, members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer their benefits to a 
private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Rs employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
Mr Rs scheme benefits had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of around £339,390.
Like many of his colleagues, Mr R was concerned about what the recent announcements by 
his employer meant for the security of his pension, so he sought advice. He was introduced 
to NTM by another adviser.
NTM recorded some information about Mr Rs circumstances in a fact-find. It noted that he 
was 52, married with two non-dependent children. He was employed earning approximately 
£32,800. His wife was also employed and she earned around £21,200. They owned their 
home outright. They had around £1,000 in cash / savings but no other investments. 
Mr and Mrs Rs household expenditure was around £1,900 a month, which included a car 
loan for around £478, leaving a monthly disposable income of around £1,700. NTM also 
carried out an assessment of Mr Rs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be average or 
balanced. 
In a file note dated 2 January 2018, NTM recorded that Mr R had chosen not to opt-in the 
BSPS2.
On 3 January 2018, NTM issued a suitability letter setting out its recommendation. NTM 
summarised Mr Rs objectives of wanting to retire at 57 and that he was unhappy about the 
prospect of moving to the PPF, which would result in reduced benefits and a loss of choice 
and flexibility. It said Mr R felt let down and so he wanted to take control of his pension.
In summary, NTM recommended that Mr R transfer his pension to provide him with the 
control he desired, to provide flexibility in retirement so he could vary his income during the 
early years of his retirement, which his DB scheme couldnt provide, to provide a higher level 
of tax-free cash and to provide better lump sum death benefits.
Mr R complained to NTM in 2022 about the suitability of the transfer advice. Mr R said hed 
received a letter from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) which said that some of the 
advice BSPS members had received from certain firms to transfer out of the scheme wasnt 
suitable, so he wanted to understand whether hed received bad advice and if hed lost out 
as a result.
NTM didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. In addition to setting out a timeline of the events 
leading up to the time to choose exercise, Mr Rs interactions with NTM and his objectives 
at the time, in summary it said, Mr R was correctly advised, he was informed about the 
advantaged and disadvantages of transferring as well as the risks involved. It said all of this 
was also confirmed in writing. It said it had nevertheless engaged the services of an 
independent actuary to calculate if the advice given had created a shortfall in Mr Rs pension 
benefits, which showed that his pension value was in excess of what was required to replace 
the benefits given up. It said this demonstrated the quality and value of the advice he 
received.
Dissatisfied with its response, Mr R asked us to consider the matter. One of our Investigators 
looked into the complaint and they upheld it. They thought the advice was unsuitable. They 
said Mr R couldve taken early retirement from the scheme at 55; there was nothing to 
indicate he needed flexibility; he didnt have a need to access a cash lump sum for a specific 
purpose; his concerns about entering the PPF shouldve been appropriately managed by 
NTM; death benefits werent of overriding importance; and he wasnt going to improve on the 
benefits available under the DB scheme by transferring. They said Mr R didnt need to take 
any risk with his pension benefits and a secure inflation-proofed income wouldve been more 
appropriate for him. They said if suitable advice had been given to remain with the scheme 
and move with it to the PPF, given his circumstances Mr R wouldve likely accepted that 
advice.
NTM didnt reply to the Investigators assessment despite being sent reminders. Because its 
assumed that it disagrees, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. 
This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of NTM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, NTM should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Rs 
best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) report, that NTM was required to carry out by 
the regulator, said that the critical yield - how much Mr Rs pension fund would need 
to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme  was 
29.23% to match the full pension hed have been entitled to under the scheme at age 
55. Or to match the maximum tax-free cash and reduced pension the scheme would 
provide at that age, was 20.41%. To match the full pension the PPF wouldve paid 
from 55 the critical yield was 14.66% and to match the tax-free cash and reduced 
pension the PPF wouldve offered, it was 13.23%.
Because of the timing of the advice and the fact it was after the 22 December 2017 
time to choose deadline, it wasnt an option for Mr R to continue in the BSPS in its 
existing form. So given NTM recorded that Mr R hadnt chosen to opt-into the 
BSPS2, the only relevant critical yields were based on the benefits available to Mr R 
through the PPF.
Because NTM recorded that Mr R wanted to retire at 57, I think it wouldve been 
helpful to him to have produced critical yields based on the benefits available to him 
through the PPF at this age. Afterall, this was the basis of the advice he was seeking 
from NTM.
In any event, given Mr Rs recorded medium or average attitude to risk, the 
discount rate of 2.7% for two years to retirement (age 55) and the regulators middle 
projection rate, I think Mr R was always likely to receive pension benefits, from age 
55, of a lower value than those hed have been entitled to under the PPF by 
transferring and investing in line with that attitude to risk. And while the critical yields 
based on a retirement age of 57 wouldve likely been slightly lower, I dont think they 
wouldve been materially lower such that the position wouldve been any different. I think he was still likely to receive lower benefits than the PPF offered, if he retired at 
this age.
While I have some concerns about how NTM arrived at Mr Rs attitude to risk as 
being average or medium based on him ticking a box in the fact-find to say he 
considered himself a low-risk investor, given what Ive said above, even if he was 
prepared to take a medium risk approach, I think he was always going to worse off 
in retirement as a result of transferring. And for this reason alone, I dont think it was 
in Mr Rs best interests to transfer to a personal pension arrangement.
NTM recorded that Mr R wanted to retire early at 57 and it recommended the transfer 
because a personal pension would provide flexibility in retirement so he could tailor 
his income to meet his needs. I think at 52 Mr R had likely given some thought to his 
retirement. But nothing NTM recorded suggests he had anything that could 
reasonable be described as a firm retirement plan. 
Mr R didnt have to transfer his pension to retire early - he already had this option 
available to him. While he couldnt take his DB scheme benefits flexibly, nothing 
indicates he had a strong need to vary his income throughout retirement. And while 
NTM recorded that Mr R wanted to avoid any restrictions on him taking a lump sum 
at 55 and delay taking an income, its not apparent why this was the case. NTM didnt 
record why Mr R wanted or needed to do this  in fact it said Mr R ...wasnt specific 
on its use. So it doesnt appear to have been a clearly defined objective or a strong 
need.
Equally NTM recorded that Mr R wanted, and a transfer would allow him, to take a 
greater tax-free cash lump sum. But its not clear why Mr R needed a sum greater 
than his DB scheme could provide. He didnt for example have an outstanding 
mortgage balance that needed repaying or have a specific significant capital 
expenditure need.
Mr R might have been attracted to the flexibility a personal pension provided  but 
given he had no apparent need for it, I think NTMs reference to this was simply a 
feature or a consequence of transferring to a personal pension rather than a genuine 
objective of Mr Rs.
Mr R said that he wanted an income at age 57 of £2,000 a month. In a file note 
recording the meeting of 5 January 2018 where the suitability report was discussed 
with Mr R, NTM noted this wasnt possible moving to the PPF or sustainable through 
a transfer. It also recorded that a transfer would allow Mr R to take this amount and 
then reduce it  but that Mr R was happy with an overall income figure of just over 
£18,200 as it was higher than the PPF forecast. 
NTM doesnt appear to have carried out a detailed income and expenditure in 
retirement analysis to arrive at this figure or to interrogate it in anyway. 
But given Mr Rs current monthly expenditure of £1,900 included a loan payment of 
around £400, which it seems possible he couldve cleared before retiring (its 
recorded that his disposable income was used to repay debt) this figure doesnt 
appear unreasonable. And based on this, I think Mr R couldve reasonably achieved 
things by retaining his DB scheme benefits. At 55 Mr R could either take a full 
pension of around £12,650 or a reduced income of around £10,580 and a lump sum 
of around £70,000. And at age 57 these figures wouldve been slightly higher. While 
this wouldnt have met Mr Rs needs in full, Mr Rs wife who was two years younger, was due to continue working. So I think her income of £21,200 a year needs to be 
taken into account here. Mr Rs income need in my view was a joint or household 
need  not a sole need. It seems NTM overlooked this. 
If Mr R chose to take a cash lump sum, he couldve used this to top up his income if 
required. And when Mr Rs wife retired - recorded as being at age 60  it was 
recorded that she too had a DB pension. While NTM didnt document the specific 
details of this, given the nature of her employer and the likely time in employment, 
I think this was a generous scheme. So, I see no reason why this wouldnt have 
provided sufficient income along with Mr Rs DB scheme pension to meet their 
overall income need. State pensions for both of them would then further supplement 
things later on.
Given this, I dont think Mr R needed to risk his guaranteed and escalating benefits, 
which were payable for life, to try and achieve things. Mr R wasnt going to improve 
on them by transferring. Indeed, NTM commented that drawing down this larger 
income of £18,200 and taking a lump sum wasnt sustainable. And it said taking this 
level of income with no lump sum was only achievable if the annual investment return 
was consistently at 5% a year. That said, Ive not seen evidence of this as the cash 
modelling in the suitability report was only based on Mr R taking the same level of 
benefits as the PPF.
Overall, in the circumstances, I think retaining his guaranteed benefits was a more 
appropriate way for Mr R to meet his retirement needs.
NTM recommended the transfer for better lump sum death benefits. But the priority 
here was to advise Mr R about what was best for his retirement. And the existing 
scheme offered death benefits, by way of a spouses pension, that couldve been 
valuable to his family in the event of his death.
While the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it wouldve also 
been reduced by any income Mr R drew in his lifetime. And so may not have 
provided the legacy that Mr R may have thought it would. 
If Mr R had wanted to leave a legacy for his family, NTM couldve explored life 
insurance as an alternative. Reference was made to a whole of life policy for a sum 
assured for the amount of the transfer value, which NTM itself discounted on cost. 
But I dont think this was a fair and balanced way to present this option to Mr R  it 
shouldve been based on what amount he wanted to leave to his family instead. 
Afterall, he wanted to leave whatever remained of his pension upon his death. NTM 
recorded that he had significant disposable income through which he couldve met 
the associated premiums. And this couldve been considered on a whole of life or 
term assurance basis  which was likely to be cheaper. But there's little evidence it 
did so.  
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr R. I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative. And ultimately NTM should not have encouraged 
Mr R to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement. Mr R may have legitimately held concerns about how his employer had handled his 
pension and the prospect of entering the PPF. But it was NTMs role to objectively 
address those concerns. The PPF still provided Mr R with guaranteed income and 
the option of accessing tax-free cash. And for very early retirement, the more 
favourable terms outweighed the reduction in benefits hed incur. Mr R was unlikely 
to improve on these benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as 
concerning as he mightve thought, and I dont think any concerns he held about this 
meant that transferring was in his best interest.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Rs best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension at this time. And I also havent seen 
anything to persuade me that Mr R wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to 
remain in the DB scheme. Given the broader circumstances at the time, Mr R was no doubt 
motivated to transfer when he met NTM. But he had no real investment experience and he 
ticked NTMs questionnaire to say that he had no investment knowledge. So, nothing 
suggests to me he had the requisite knowledge, skill or confidence to go against the advice 
he received  advice he'd sought out and was paying for. So, Im upholding the complaint as 
I think the advice Mr R received from NTM was unsuitable for him.
I can see the Investigator also recommended an award of £300 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr R. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish 
NTM  which is the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and 
practical impact this had on Mr R. Taking everything into account, including that I consider 
Mr R is of the age when his retirement provision is of even greater importance to him and 
hes worried that hell lose out in retirement, I think the unsuitable advice has caused him 
distress. So I think an award of £300 is fair in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for NTM to put Mr R, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr R would most likely 
have remained in the occupational pension scheme and moved with it to the PPF if suitable 
advice had been given. 
NTM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
NTM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr R and the Financial Ombudsman Service 
upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what NTM based the 
inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr R retired and started taking benefits in March 2021 age 55. 
So, because I think Mr R wouldve likely retired at the same time had suitable advice been 
given (the advice paperwork recorded that Mr R wanted to retire as close to 55 as possible) 
and because this is what actually happened, I think its fair that compensation should be 
based on Mr R taking his scheme benefits at this age.This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Rs 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, NTM should:
calculate and offer Mr R redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr R before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr R receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr R accepts NTMs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr R for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Rs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr R as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, NTM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Rs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require NTM Financial 
Services Ltd to pay Mr R the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.
NTM Financial Services Ltd should also pay Mr R £300 for the distress and inconvenience 
this matter has caused.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
NTM Financial Services Ltd pays Mr R the balance.
If Mr R accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on NTM Financial Services 
Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr R can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman