DRN-1596890
Complaint
Mr G says Nationwide Building Society (then Cheshire Building Society) mis-sold him a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
This complaint is about the sale of a PPI policy. The policy was taken out in November 1993 
to protect Mr Gs mortgage. The policy provided cover for accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Gs complaint. Nationwide Building Society disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
In January 2020, I issued my provisional decision. In my provisional decision, I explained 
why I didnt think the PPI was mis-sold. Below is an extract of what I said:
"Mr G has told us he wasnt given an option about the PPI and thinks it was added to his 
mortgage without his knowledge. He also says he knew he was being charged for the PPI, 
but assumed it was something he had to have. Nationwide Building Society says Mr G would 
have been given a choice about the PPI and in support of this, has provided us with a copy 
of Mr Gs mortgage application form.
Having reviewed Mr Gs completed mortgage application form, I can see theres a separate 
section for the PPI. In this section, Mr G was given the option of ticking a box, if he didnt 
want the PPI added to his mortgage account. This box is blank and next to it theres a 
handwritten note which says Benefit £100-00. Ive also noted that on the same page and 
directly below the section for PPI, Mr G was asked whether he wanted to take out some 
additional insurance products, including buildings and contents insurance. I can see Mr G 
selected contents insurance and also answered some questions which were relevant to this 
cover.
As Mr G would have had to tick a box in order to opt out of having the PPI on his mortgage, 
Ive thought about whether he might have missed the section for the PPI and accidentally 
agreed to it by not ticking the box. I accept that this can happen in situations where the 
option to opt out of the PPI is not clear or where the section for the PPI could be easily 
missed.
 
 
 
But, having reviewed the section for the PPI, and taking into account the fact that Mr G was 
required to make a number of product selections on the page of the application form in 
question, I think its more likely than not that in this case, Mr G would have understood that 
he had an option of having the mortgage without the PPI. The handwritten note in the 
section for the PPI also suggests that there may have been a discussion about the PPI and the level of benefit Mr G wanted. The benefit selected appears to be less than Mr Gs 
monthly mortgage repayments, which I think supports what Ive said about a discussion 
having taken place about the PPI.
I appreciate what Mr G has said about not being given an option about the PPI. And I accept 
that (over 20 years on) this is how Mr G might remember the sale. But, taking everything into 
account, I think Mr G would have understood that the PPI was optional.
Nationwide Building Society says it didnt recommend that Mr G take out the PPI. Mr G on 
the other hand says he cant remember whether any advice was given or not. So Ive 
thought about what both parties have said, taking into account the available information from 
the time of sale. Having considered this, I havent seen anything to suggest that Nationwide 
Building Society assessed Mr Gs circumstances at the time such as Mr Gs employee 
benefits and from this made a formal recommendation to Mr G to take out the PPI. This 
means Nationwide Building Society didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it did have 
to make sure Mr G got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Nationwide Building Society gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have been  particularly about the things it didnt cover. But, based on 
what Ive seen of Mr Gs circumstances at the time of sale it doesnt look like he was affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, such as pre-existing medical 
conditions - so it would have been useful for Mr G if something went wrong. It also looks like 
the PPI was affordable.
Mr G has told us he would have been entitled to generous sick pay from his employer if he 
was too unwell to work. Mr Gs also told us he could have relied on family and friends to help 
with his mortgage repayments.
Having thought about what Mr G has said about his sick pay, I dont think this means he
wouldn't have found the policy useful. I say this because the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to the sick pay Mr G would have been entitled to and would have paid a benefit if Mr 
G was ever made redundant.
Ive also thought about what Mr G has said about the fact that he could have relied on his 
family and friends to help with his mortgage repayments. Again, I dont think this meant that 
the PPI wasnt useful for him. While Mr Gs family and friends may have wanted to help, their 
financial situation could change which means their help couldnt always be relied on.
A mortgage is a large long-term financial commitment. If repayments arent met, borrowers 
stand to lose their home. So overall, I think Mr G could have found the policy useful if he 
ever fell on hard times and I dont think that any better information would have put him off 
from taking out the policy.
It follows that I dont think the PPI was mis-sold".
I asked everyone to send me any further comments and information before I reached a final 
decision.
Neither Mr G nor Nationwide Building Society responded with anything further for me to 
consider.
My findings
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As Ive not received any new evidence,Ive reached the same conclusions I reached above 
and in my provisional decision, for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and within my provisional decision, I dont uphold 
Mr G's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2020.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman