DRN-4119938
The complaint
IW, a limited company, complains that TIDE PLATFORM LTD did not refund £6,947.59 that 
it lost as part of a scam. 
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them again in 
detail here. In summary, IW was a victim of a safe account scam in which it transferred 
£6,947.59 to an account in the control of a scammer. When IW realised shortly afterwards, it 
made TIDE aware, however they were only able to recover £19.28 and they didnt agree to 
refund IW with the remaining. 
IW referred the complaint to our service and our Investigator did not feel the transaction was 
so unusual that TIDE should have flagged it prior to processing it. IW disagreed so the 
complaint was passed to me for a decision. I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Broadly speaking, the starting position in law is that an account provider is expected to 
process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the account. And a customer will then be responsible for the 
transactions that they have authorised.
Both parties agree that IW authorised the payment of £6,947.59. Because of this, while I 
recognise that IW didnt intend for the money to go to scammers, the starting position in law 
is that TIDE was obliged to follow IWs instruction and process the payment. So, IW is not 
automatically entitled to a refund.
The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for 
account providers to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes 
monitoring accounts to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of 
financial harm, intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent 
customers falling victims to scams. So, Ive also thought about whether TIDE did enough to 
try to keep IWs account safe.
Ive looked over IWs statements and considered the payment in comparison to its normal 
account activity. The payment itself was for just under £7,000, which is not an insignificant 
amount of money, and I can see that the payment was higher than the typical activity on the 
account. Although I dont think this on its own would be enough to say TIDE should have 
intervened, and I appreciate TIDE has said IW made a payment of around £4,000 but that 
was nine months prior (which was itself a relative anomaly on the account). In addition, Ive 
noted that the balance of the account was brought to nil as the payment was for the precise 
amount in the account, and it went to a new payee. I do not think that this activity, taken as a 
whole, was usual for IWs account. I think the activity was unusual enough that Tide ought to 
have been alerted to the possibility of financial harm and intervened.
I acknowledge that this is a business account, which are usually operated differently to 
personal accounts in that they deal with higher payments and new payees more often. 
However, while keeping this in mind, I have to assess each case on its individual merits and 
in doing so, assess the account activity on each individual case subjectively. And with this 
particular business account, I dont think the payment in question was the norm. 
Considering the nature of the scam, I think a conversation about what the payment was for 
would have quickly revealed the scam and prevented the payment from being made. With 
this in mind, I think it would be reasonable for TIDE to refund the £6,947.59, minus any funds 
that have been recovered and returned to IW and add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the loss to the date of settlement.
Ive thought about whether IW should bear some responsibility for this loss by way of 
contributory negligence (which might justify a reduction in compensation). However, in this 
case, I dont think this would be fair. On balance, I dont think IW was careless in this case, 
but simply tricked by resourceful and clever scammers who had managed to spoof TIDEs 
genuine telephone number. 
I appreciate TIDEs comments that it provided a warning within the text containing the one-
time passcode for the transfer. This said they would never ask IW to move funds. However, 
IW does not recall reading that section of the text which is understandable considering it was 
reasonably convinced he it had been dealing with TIDE and was expecting to receive a text 
about the payment. So, once it saw the one-time passcode it is understandable that it 
stopped reading, especially because it felt the issue was time-sensitive as its account was at 
risk. So, whilst there may be cases where a reduction in compensation for contributory 
negligence is appropriate, Im satisfied this isnt one of them.
IW responded accepting the findings in my provisional decision. 
TIDE responded and did not agree. In summary they said the following:
IW had been a customer of TIDE for some time so should have been aware that any 
communication normally occurs in-app and not via text.
It should be common knowledge that a banking provider will never instruct its 
customers on how to make payments in any capacity.
The account details IW was provided with did not match a TIDE account.
IW would have been provided with a warning that the account name did not match 
the one he input.
IW would have been provided with a warning when the One Time Passcode text was 
sent to it about sending money to other accounts. 
As a result, they felt a 50% reduction in the refund should be applied to take into account 
IWs contributory negligence.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank TIDE for taking the time to respond in detail to my provisional decision. Ive 
considered their additional comments put forward, some of which had already been 
considered in my provisional decision. 
Having done so, I still think that TIDE should provide a full refund to IW, with no deduction 
for contributory negligence in this case. As set out in my provisional decision, I dont think IW 
was careless in this case and instead it was tricked by a sophisticated scammer who had managed to spoof TIDEs genuine phone number. And I think this would be particularly 
convincing, even after taking into account IWs prior knowledge of TIDEs systems and how 
they work. 
As I think it was reasonable that IW believed it was genuinely dealing with TIDE when 
making the transfer, I think it was also reasonable that it continued to make the transfer 
following the confirmation of payee warning. In addition, scammer had convinced IW that its 
account was genuinely at risk and that it needed to act quickly to transfer the funds. So I 
think it was understandable that it continued with the transfer despite the confirmation of 
payee warning. 
I appreciate TIDEs comment that it should be common knowledge that a banking provider 
would not instruct its customers to make payments, however I dont agree this is the case. 
On balance, I think the scammer convinced IW that they were TIDE by spoofing the genuine 
phone number, which was particularly convincing. And with no reason to doubt this, I think it 
was reasonable that IW followed their instruction as it genuinely believed its account was at 
risk. With this in mind, I think TIDE should refund IW the £6,947.59, minus any funds 
recovered, plus 8% simple interest from the date of the loss to the date of payment.  
My final decision
I now direct TIDE PLATFORM LTD to refund IW the £6,947.59, minus any funds recovered, 
plus 8% simple interest from the date of the loss to the date of payment.
If TIDE PLATFORM LTD considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell IW how much its taken off. It should also give IW 
a tax deduction certificate if it asks for one, so it can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask IW to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman