DRN-1689109
 
The complaint
Mr B runs a limited company, who Ill call S. S applied to open a business account with 
Barclays Bank PLC (Barclays Bank). Mr B says that a delay in opening Ss account meant 
a work contract his company had been awarded was terminated.
What happened
Mr B was a current account customer of Barclays Bank, and the sole director of S. Mr B 
applied to open a business account in Ss name, having set up his company a few days 
earlier. Mr B says these actions were necessary because of a work contract that meant 
payments had to be paid to S. Payments couldnt be paid into a personal bank account.
Mr B says that when S applied for the business account, Barclays Bank told him it would 
take about 5 days to open the account, but it took over 20 working days. Mr B says that this 
meant S lost the contract it had been awarded because he had no business account to 
receive payment. Mr B says S lost the contract, and with it two months of income, which he 
said was about £20,000. 
Barclays Bank says it accepts there was a delay in opening the account. Barclays Bank says 
that during a review of the application further information was requested, but this request 
was delayed due to known delays in opening new business accounts. In its final response 
to the complaint, Barclays Bank says it paid £150 to Mr Bs current account to reflect the 
delay and the inconvenience of him having to spend time on the telephone chasing the 
opening of the account. Barclays Bank said it was not liable for the losses Mr B was claiming 
on Ss behalf.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence provided and formed the view that Barclays Bank 
was responsible for a delay in opening the business account, but the remedy it had already 
paid for the delay and inconvenience was reasonable. Our investigator explained he did not 
consider Barclays Bank was liable for the loss of the contract, and subsequent loss of 
income, for S. 
Mr B doesnt agree with the investigator and has provided an email in which Barclays Bank 
explains the delay was due to it having national issues in opening business accounts, and 
not because it requested further information from him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that the process of opening a business account with Barclays Bank started 24 April 
2019. Mr B called Barclays Bank and it asked him to go to a branch to open the account. As 
Mr B was working Monday to Friday, he wasnt able to do this. An advisor at Barclays Bank 
sent Mr B a link for him to apply online. Mr B was told it would take 7-10 days, subject to 
process and checks, before the account would be opened. Mr B submitted the online 
account opening application on 29 April 2019.
Mr B called Barclays Bank on 13 May 2019 to check progress and this led to an exchange of 
emails between Mr B and a Small Business Manager at Barclays Bank the same day. The 
first email the Small Business Manager sent said that because of the nature of Ss business 
the application had been forwarded to a team for further assessment, which can delay the 
account opening time. Mr B responded to say he couldnt be paid for his work as S didnt 
have a business account, and that he was incurring costs for flights and other expenses. The 
Small Business Manager then emailed Mr B and said that a Risk Team had now sent the 
application back to the Account Opening Team, and that it should be open in two to three 
days.
Mr B sent a further email to the Small Business Manager on Friday 17 May 2019 asking for 
an update. The Small Business Manager replied the next working day to tell him that the 
bank had experienced some delays nationally, and that the matter had been resolved on 17 
May 2019.
The account was opened on 24 May 2019.
I agree with Mr B that the delay in opening his account was unreasonable. The evidence 
shows that Barclays Bank led Mr B to expect the account would be open in seven to ten 
days. I can see that the account opening process was delayed as Barclays Bank carried out 
additional checks. I cant tell a bank what checks it should carry out as this is an internal risk-
based decision. But the chronology of events shows Barclays Bank did nothing to progress 
the opening of the account between 30 April and 13 May 2019. It was not until 16 May 2019 
that Barclays Bank began to resolve account opening queries with the Small Business 
Manager and the account opening progressed.
The final matter outstanding was resolved by the Small Business Manager on 20 May 2019. 
However, I can see that this most likely didnt resolve the issue, as the Small Business 
Manager dealt with the same matter again on 23 May 2019. This adds some weight to 
Barclays Bank having had some issues nationally with its systems during this time. 
Having found that the delay in opening the account was unreasonable, Ill now consider 
whether this caused S any financial loss, including the loss of its contract.
I can see that our investigator asked Mr B to provide evidence that Ss contract was 
terminated because it didnt have a business account to receive payments. I havent seen 
any evidence from Mr B in this respect. I asked the investigator to check with Mr B again 
before considering the complaint, but Mr B confirms he has no further evidence to provide. 
Mr B has previously provided an email from the employment agency acting for the business 
that S had the contract with. This email explained Ss contract end date was 24 May 2019. In 
his response to the email, Mr B implies that there were other factors that led to the 
termination of the contract.  
I understand that Mr B doesnt agree with the investigators view that Barclays Bank can rely 
on its general disclaimer, found on page 30 of the Barclays Business Customer Agreement. 
This says that S cant claim for any loss of business, goodwill or profit in any circumstances, 
except if Barclays Bank acted fraudulently, with gross negligence or that the law does not 
allow it to exclude or limit its liability. However, for me to consider the actions of Barclays 
Bank caused S a financial loss, I would have to be satisfied the contract was terminated 
because S didnt have a suitable account to receive payment. I havent seen any evidence to 
persuade me the contract was terminated for this reason.
I can see from the emails of 24 May 2019 that there were more likely than not, other issues 
involved in the cancellation of the contract. So, I dont think it is fair and reasonable for me to 
require Barclays Bank to make good the financial loss Mr B claims. But it did take it longer than it should have to open Ss business account, regardless of whether the delay was 
caused by national issues, or by poor communication between departments. 
Ive seen that Mr B had to chase Barclays Bank several times to see when Ss account 
would be open. This caused some inconvenience. And then, when the Small Business 
Manager told Mr B on 13 May 2019 that Ss account would be open in two to three days, 
further inconvenience was caused by having to chase again when this didnt happen.
Im satisfied Barclays Bank caused S some inconvenience because it took a month to open 
its business account, but Ive seen Mr B received £150 from the bank to reflect the 
inconvenience the delay caused. Im not persuaded Barclays Bank needs to do any more 
than this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I think the £150 Barclays Bank PLC paid to put things right is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. So, Im not asking it to do 
anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020. 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman