DRN-2895403
The complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) recorded a default on his account.
What happened
Mr H held a credit card with HSBC and there was a balance owing on the account. Mr H 
stopped making payments to his credit card. After six months of no payments HSBC closed 
Mr Hs credit card and recorded a default on his credit file.
Mr H says he wasnt aware a balance was owed and would have paid it if hed known. Mr H 
was unhappy that the default will affect his ability to get credit for some considerable time 
and he complained to HSBC.
HSBC responded to say it sent Mr H monthly statements showing the balance, several 
letters to advise him that hed missed payments and letters to say a default would be 
recorded. HSBC didnt think it did anything wrong so it wouldnt remove the default.
Unhappy with this response Mr H brought his complaint to this service. An investigator 
looked into things and they didnt think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld.
The investigator felt HSBC had done enough to let Mr H know that he owed money and that 
it was going to apply a default to his credit file.
Mr H, in response, said he didnt receive any of the letters HSBC said it sent. Mr H also said 
he had an excellent credit rating before the default so he would have paid had he known 
there was a balance on his credit card.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H says he thought hed paid the credit card off. But I can see a transaction debited his 
credit card and Im satisfied that Mr H was aware, or should have been aware, that a 
transaction had been made on his credit card.
It remains Mr Hs responsibility to manage his credit card and make payments when due. 
And theres no dispute Mr H didnt pay anything to his credit card for several months.
The Information Commissioners Offices (ICO) guidance says a default should be applied 
once three months payments have been missed and before six months. Im satisfied HSBC 
followed this guidance.
The issue is whether HSBC made Mr H aware hed missed payments and it was intending to 
apply a default. Ive seen copies of the statements HSBC sent Mr H, they show theres a 
balance on the credit card and payments need to be made.
Ive also seen copies of six other letters HSBC sent Mr H. Three letters told Mr H he was in 
arrears on his credit card. One letter said HSBC was reducing the credit card limit because 
of missed payments. The other two letters were warnings a default may be applied.
All the statements and letters are addressed correctly, and Im satisfied they were sent by 
HSBC. I think HSBC did enough to ensure Mr H was warned hed missed payments and, if 
he didnt take action, a default would be recorded.
I realise Mr H cant prove he didnt receive the letters. I have to be satisfied HSBC sent the 
letters and I am.
Mr H has said HSBC should have contacted him another way, especially since it called him 
after the account had been defaulted. HSBC must send default notices in a durable medium, 
it cant be done by phone.
Had HSBC called Mr H sooner he may have been able to avoid the default, but theres no 
obligation on HSBC to call, so I dont think its done anything wrong by not calling.
I cant explain why Mr H didnt receive any of the letters or statements HSBC sent, but Im 
satisfied they were sent. HSBC followed the correct process in advising Mr H of the pending 
default and I think its applied the default fairly. 
I understand the effect this default will have on Mr H, and whilst Im sympathetic to this I 
dont think HSBC has done anything wrong. And because I dont think HSBC has done 
anything wrong, I dont think it needs to remove the default.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021. 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman