DRN-2722777
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the credit limit increases given to him by Vanquis Bank Limited on his 
credit card account. He said these increases were irresponsible. Mr H wants Vanquis to 
refund the interest and charges added to his account since the first of the credit limit 
increases.
What happened
 
Mr H took out a credit card account with Vanquis some years ago. The original account limit 
was £500. But between September 2013 and May 2016, this limit was increased five times. 
By May 2016, his limit was £4,000. 
In June 2019, Mr H complained to Vanquis about the credit limit increases. He told the bank 
the lending was irresponsible as his external debt and his gambling addiction hadnt been 
taken into account when his credit limit had been raised.
 
Vanquis didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. Briefly, the bank said it had looked at his individual 
circumstances when making the decision to offer the credit limit increases. Vanquis said, 
based on these checks, it didnt believe the increases were irresponsible. It also said that 
Mr H hadnt told the bank about his gambling addiction until he complained in June 2019.
 
Mr H didnt accept this. He brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into it. The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In 
summary, he said: Vanquis had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself Mr H could repay his account; and, the value and frequency of his gambling 
transactions shouldnt have meant Vanquis was aware of his addiction.
 
Mr H didnt accept this. He asked for his case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So it was 
passed to me. After considering all the available evidence and arguments, I was satisfied 
that Vanquis had acted fairly and reasonably when offering Mr H four of the five credit limit 
increases  for broadly the same reasons as our investigator.
 
But I wasnt satisfied that the first of the limit increases should have been offered to Mr H 
when it was. This was because I thought Vanquis should have been aware that in the three 
months before this increase, Mr H had a number of short-term loans. I told Vanquis I was 
minded to direct it to remove all interest charged on balances over £500 from when the limit 
was increased around September 2013 to when the limit was next increased around July 
2014. Vanquis agreed to this.
 
In an effort to resolve this matter informally, I set out my thinking to Mr H. He replied asking 
for a formal decision. He felt that if the first limit increase shouldnt have been made, then the 
further increases up to £4,000 wouldnt have happened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to partly uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why. First, Im 
very aware that Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in far less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here: was it fair and reasonable for Vanquis to offer 
Mr H the increases to his credit limit?
 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I 
think is a fair outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature 
of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
When deciding if Vanquis acted fairly and reasonably here, I think there are two overarching 
points I need to consider. These are: 
1.Did Vanquis complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr H 
would be able to repay his credit account in a sustainable way?
 
If so, did it make a fair lending decision? 
If not, would sustainable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr H could 
sustainably repay the borrowing? 
2. Did Vanquis act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
 
Did Vanquis complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr H would 
be able to repay his credit card account in a sustainable way?
 
I would point out that Mr H hasnt complained here about Vanquiss decision to give him a 
credit card account. Hes complained about the increases to his credit limit. The account was 
opened in 2012. This is more than six years before Mr H complained to Vanquis. Any 
complaint about the opening of the account is now likely to have been made too late, outside 
the time limits set out in the rules I must follow. 
Ill now turn to credit limit increases. These were as follows: 
September 2013 - £500 to £1,500
July 2014- £1,500 to £2,250
February 2015 - £2,250 to £3,000
September 2015 - £3,000 to £3,500
May 2016 - £3,500 to £4,000
When lenders  Vanquis in this case - are deciding whether to offer credit, they need to 
make sure there are proportionate checks in place. These checks should ensure that any 
credit thats approved is affordable and sustainable for the borrower. Theres no set list of 
checks that lenders must complete. Its up to each business to decide how it wants to 
approach assessing lending decisions.
 
Here, Vanquis already had information from when Mr H opened the account. The bank was 
also able to look at the history of this account  how Mr H was using it for example and how 
he was repaying it. Vanquis also carried out checks to see what other credit commitments 
Mr H had and how these were being conducted. Ive looked at Vanquiss records for Mr H. I 
can see the bank looked at numerous indicators before offering him the increases to his 
credit limit. These included, but werent limited to, such things as the number of credit accounts he had, 
the total amount he owed on those accounts, how these had been conducted, whether hed 
had any short-term loans in the previous three months and if there were any county court 
judgements. Taking all this into account, Im satisfied that in Mr Hs individual circumstances, 
the checks carried out by Vanquis were reasonable and proportionate.
 
With this in mind, Ive gone on to think about if Vanquis made a fair lending decision. With 
the exception of the first increase in September 2013, which Ill deal with shortly, Im satisfied 
Vanquiss decisions to offer the four later limit increases  between July 2014 and May 2016 
were fair. Ill explain why.
 
When each of these lending decisions were made, I can see the outstanding balances on 
Mr Hs other credit commitments were going down and these had been conducted in a 
satisfactory way. Since Mr H opened the account with Vanquis, none of these accounts had 
gone into default and no country court judgements had been registered. Nor were there any 
short-term loans showing in the three months preceding these limit increases. 
Ive also looked at the monthly account statements for the Vanquis account. In the three 
months leading up to each limit increase, I can see Mr H was maintaining the account within 
the limits applicable at the time. He was also making payments above the minimum required. 
Ill give one example: in June 2014 the minimum monthly payment was just under £67 and 
Mr H actually paid £300. From the available evidence, Im satisfied the four decisions 
Vanquis made to offer him limit increases between July 2014 and May 2016 were fair.
 
But I dont think the decision to offer Mr H a limit increase in September 2013 was fair. The 
key difference with this decision is that at that time, the checks carried out by Vanquis 
showed Mr H had a number of short-term loans. These should have been an indicator that 
repayments on an increased credit limit might not be sustainable for him at that point in time. 
So, while Im satisfied the checks the bank carried out were reasonable and proportionate, I 
dont think the decision to offer a limit increase from £500 to £1,500 was fair without Vanquis 
making further enquiries into Mr Hs situation at that time. The available evidence doesnt 
show it did this.
 
To put things right, Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for Vanquis to remove all 
interest and charges that were added to Mr Hs account on any balance over £500 from 
when the limit was increased to £1,500 around September 2013 to when the limit was next 
increased to £2,250 around July 2014. Im pleased that Vanquis has already offered to do 
this. 
I know Mr H feels that if the initial increase hadnt been applied, then the further increases 
wouldnt have happened. I dont agree. Just because I dont think Mr H should have been 
given a credit limit increase in September 2013, it doesnt mean he should never have been 
offered a limit increase. Each lending decision should be made on the relevant information at 
the time of the proposed increase. Indeed I can see Vanquis looked at whether it could offer 
Mr H a limit increase in June 2013 but made the decision not to do so.
 
As Ive outlined above, theres nothing in the available evidence to make me think Vanquis 
shouldnt have offered the subsequent limit increases when it did, based on Mr Hs individual 
circumstances at that time. The checks the bank did indicated his financial position was 
continuing to improve. So I dont agree that the four subsequent increases wouldnt have 
happened if Vanquis hadnt offered Mr H the first. My proposed redress reflects this. 
Did Vanquis act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? When Mr H complained to Vanquis in 2019, he told the bank about his gambling addiction. 
He said Vanquis should have been aware of this from the transactions he made using his 
credit card, and this should have prevented the limit increases. Again, I dont agree.
 
At the time of the limit increases, there were no rules or regulations that meant Mr H 
shouldnt have used his Vanquis account to make gambling transactions. Ive looked at his 
statements from before and after each increase. While its clear to me that Mr H was using 
his credit card for gambling transactions, he was also using it for other everyday spending 
and to make cash withdrawals. From this, Im not satisfied Vanquis should reasonably have 
been aware Mr H had a gambling addiction until he told the bank this in 2019.
 
Also, I can see that when Mr H was offered each limit increase, he was given the chance to 
refuse it. The letters Vanquis sent made it clear that Mr H could call the bank and tell it he 
didnt want the limit increase. Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable. So, Im satisfied the 
available evidence doesnt indicate Vanquis acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other 
way.
 
In summary, Im satisfied Vanquis completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that Mr H would be able to repay his credit card account in a sustainable way. Im also 
satisfied its lending decisions for the last four limit increases were fair. Nor did it treat him 
unfairly in some other way.
But, for the reasons outlined above, Im not satisfied it should have offered him the first limit 
increase. 
Putting things right
To put things right Vanquis should remove all interest and charges that were added to Mr 
Hs account on any balance over £500 from when the limit was increased from £500 to 
£1,500 around September 2013 to when the limit was next increased to £2,250 around July 
2014.
My final decision
 My final decision is Vanquis Bank Limited should remove the interest and charges added to 
Mr Hs account for the period set out above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
John Miles
Ombudsman