DRN-2151780
The complaint
Mr H complains that NewDay Ltd (Aqua) acted irresponsibly when it granted him a 
credit card account with a credit limit of £600.
What happened
In April 2017, Mr H applied online for a credit card account with Aqua. In his application, 
Mr H said he was employed with an income of £29,854. Aqua completed a credit search 
and assessed the information this returned. It approved Mr Hs application with a credit 
limit of £600.
In November 2017 Mr H started to incur charges on his account for going over his credit 
limit of £600 and for failing to make the required minimum monthly payment (at least in 
full).
In September 2018 Aqua informed Mr H that his account had been suspended.
In December 2018 Aqua ceased debiting interest and charges to Mr Hs account.
In March 2019 Aqua sold Mr Hs account debt on to a third party, as it was entitled to 
do, and Mr H was advised of the same.
In August 2019 Mr H complained to Aqua that it had acted irresponsibly in granting him 
the account. He said that it didnt do enough to check his financial situation before doing 
so.
Aqua didnt agree it had acted irresponsibly. It said it used the information he had 
provided and completed the necessary checks to ensure the credit was affordable.
Unhappy with the response from Aqua, Mr H brought his complaint to our service. An 
investigator looked into the matter. She found that Aqua had acted responsibly and didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed and so his complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can confirm that Ive come to the same overall outcome as the 
investigator, for broadly the same reasons. There is also very little I can usefully add to 
what has already been said.
Its clear Mr H has very strong feelings about this complaint. He has provided detailed 
submissions in support of his view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mr H will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, 
as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The 
purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
When lenders look at any application to borrow money, they need to make sure there are 
proportionate checks in place. The checks should ensure that any credit thats approved is 
affordable and sustainable for the borrower. Theres no set list of checks a lender must 
complete and its up to each business to decide how it wants to approach assessing 
applications. But I think its fair to expect them to consider the information provided to them 
in the application by the borrower, a review of their credit history and any other information 
it may already know about that person. So, what I need to consider is whether I think the 
checks completed by Aqua were reasonable based on the credit it provided.
Mr H says Aqua should have asked for and checked salary slips in support of his declared 
income and sought proof of his employment from his employer. But the fact that it didnt 
doesnt mean it has been irresponsible  in some circumstances it wont be unreasonable 
for a lender to rely on information it has been given on an application when deciding if 
credit should be provided. This is especially in circumstances  such as in this case  
where the consumer is lent a relatively small amount and it needs to be repaid within a 
reasonable period of time rather than all in one go. It should also be noted that Mr H isnt 
saying that he wasnt, at the material time, earning the £29,854 he declared he was. So Im 
not persuaded that Aqua has done anything wrong here.
Aqua completed a credit search on Mr H and it has provided our service with the results 
of this search for me to review. These search results, in summary, show that although 
Mr H had a number of active commitments none of these were in arrears, there were no 
public records noted (for example county court judgements) and although a number of 
defaults were recorded, the last one was 17 months prior to Mr Hs application for the 
account and it was for a relatively small sum.
Now having reviewed these search results, and given the income Mr H says he was 
earning in April 2017, Im satisfied that the granting of the account (with a relatively low 
credit limit) wasnt irresponsible as the information indicates that it wasnt unreasonable to 
expect Mr H to be able to make payments to clear the balance within a reasonable period 
of time.
The decision on whether to provide credit to an individual is ultimately down to the 
lender and the fact that Mr H may have had some historical payment issues doesnt 
necessarily mean he shouldnt have been considered for the account, where the 
information to hand suggested hed be able to make the necessary payments.
Aqua has shown that it followed a process to see if Mr H met its lending criteria for the 
credit and Im satisfied that these checks were proportionate, based on the amount of credit 
being granted.
I consider the lending was done responsibly. And given that I cant see that Aqua charged 
Mr H  anything other than it was entitled to under the account terms, and given Mr Hs 
management of the account, if I find that Aqua has done nothing wrong in registering the 
information it has with credit reference agencies (including  recording the account as being 
in default) and selling the account on to a third party.
Finally, and for the sake of completeness, I would add that as Aqua no longer owns Mr Hs 
debt any concerns Mr H might have about his ability to repay this debt needs to be taken up 
with the third party who purchased it and not Aqua.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman