DRN-3183826
The complaint
Ms T is unhappy AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has declined a number of claims she made, 
as it says they relate to a pre-existing condition.
What happened
Ms T took out a private healthcare policy with AXA on 9 May 2019. On 11 May 2019 she 
visited her GP and received a referral to see a more specialist doctor. This led to further 
referrals and tests, as recommended by the different consultants and specialists she saw. 
AXA didnt agree to cover any of these appointments.
Ms T complained to AXA about it declining her claims. She maintained that her symptoms 
had started after she took out the policy, so should be covered by it. AXA referred to letters 
by the specialists that discussed symptoms Ms T had experienced in the months prior to 
taking out the cover. It considered these showed she was unwell before she took out the 
policy and as she took our cover on a moratorium basis, this meant her claims were rightly 
declined.
Ms T brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Ts complaint. 
She was satisfied AXA had fairly declined the claims. Ms T referred back to what her GP had 
said on 11 May  that she hadnt experienced those symptoms before that day. And she said 
AXA had covered treatment for the same illness in 2020, showing it shouldve been covered 
in 2019. Our investigator didnt change her outcome, so the case has been passed to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms T saw her GP two days after taking out this policy. She accepts that the symptoms she 
experienced that led to this visit are linked to her ultimate diagnosis, but she argues that they 
started on that day and she hadnt experienced them before.
Ive reviewed the medical letters we hold. The GP referral Ms R obtained on 11 May 2019 
supports this statement. But I note both the clinicians Ms T saw for her condition following 
this refer to symptoms going back earlier, for example to a fall in March 2019 and note 
longer-term fatigue. If these symptoms do relate to her illness now, this would mean Ms T 
was unwell a number of months before this cover started. And weighing up the evidence, 
these doctors have more specialist knowledge into the type of illness Ms Ts was eventually 
diagnosed with than her GP.
As Ms T was diagnosed with another illness very shortly before taking out this cover, I 
accept that its difficult for her to know which condition necessarily caused which symptoms. 
Our service also cant do this, but that is why we look at the specialists and consultants 
letters and place most weight on their professional opinion. It seems from these letters, for 
example, fatigue is a symptom of both conditions and the specialists were interested in 
symptoms prior to May 2019. And while Ms Ts GP has been accurate on the form, in that 
specifically what she reported to them started that day, that doesnt mean other symptoms 
she had in the months prior to the policy werent also related to this later diagnosed 
condition.
The terms of Ms Ts policy state:
Health insurance is usually designed to cover treatment of new medical conditions 
that begin after you join. The cover for treatment of conditions you were aware of or 
had already had when you joined depends on what you told us about your medical 
history when you joined.
Am I covered for treatment of any conditions I was aware of when I joined?
We call conditions you were aware of when you joined pre-existing conditions.
The definition of a pre-existing condition:
A pre-existing condition is any disease, illness or injury that:
you have received medication, advice or treatment for in the last five years before 
the start of your cover, or
you have experienced symptoms of in the last five years before the start of your 
cover:
whether or not the condition was diagnosed.
Ms T took her cover out on a moratorium basis, so this means she has no cover for 
pre-existing illnesses. So what I have to determine is if AXA acted fairly in categorising the 
claims Ms T went on to make as for a pre-existing illness.
I consider more weight should be placed on the specialist letters than Ms Ts GPs form, its 
clear more information about her symptoms and problems she faced before the policy were 
obtained during the specialist consultations. I accept Ms T may not have been aware prior to 
taking out this cover that she had two conditions, but this isnt the test the policy applies. The 
terms state that any condition with symptoms pre-dating the policy is excluded, regardless of 
whether it was diagnosed, or Ms T had received any advice or treatment on it. 
While not the deciding factor, I do also have to consider the timing of what happened. Ms T 
is saying that she had no symptoms of what turned out to be serious illness in the run up to 
the policy, but within two days of purchasing cover, she was then unwell enough to see a 
private GP and need a number of tests and referrals to specialist doctors.
I am in no way suggesting Ms T has been dishonest, but it seems more likely that, following 
what the specialist letters indicate, she was experiencing symptoms of her later diagnosed 
condition before the policy started. I can also see that Ms Ts GP letter from the end of April 
states that she felt there was something going on. And this appointment was only two 
weeks before she took out cover. While I accept she received another diagnosis around this 
time, I consider AXA has acted fairly in declining her claims, as it seems more likely that 
Ms T's claims do relate to a pre-existing condition.Ms T has raised that AXA later agreed to cover her for follow-up appointments for the same 
condition as it has said isnt covered above. But AXA has confirmed this was an error and 
approval shouldnt have been given. So this doesnt change my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman