The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc unfairly rejected his chargeback claim. 
What happened
In December 2019 Mr B had a dispute with an airline hed been flying with over luggage 
fees. Hed purchased space in the hold for two bags but says check-in staff added an 
additional charge for his hand luggage. He was told if he didnt pay £91.69, hed need to 
leave the bags or miss the flight. Mr B says he felt he had no choice.
Shortly after, Mr B made a chargeback claim through Bank of Ireland for the sum of £91.69. 
This was refunded while Bank of Ireland contacted the airline to let it know of the dispute. 
The airline appealed the chargeback, saying that Mr B hadnt paid for extra luggage when 
the fights were booked, so the fee charged by check-in staff was correct. So Bank of Ireland 
re-debited the amount, as it felt there wasnt enough evidence to continue disputing the 
chargeback.
Mr B complained and said he hadnt been made aware of, or agreed to, any excess luggage 
fees. He said the payment was made under duress and the airline had acted fraudulently. 
And he said he felt Bank of Ireland should've done more to help him.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. She found no evidence of any 
mistake made by the airline or Bank of Ireland. So, she said it had acted fairly and 
reasonably in its handling of the chargeback. 
Mr B didnt agree and said the terms and conditions provided by the airline to defend the 
dispute werent given to him before the flight  as hed booked via a travel agent. As no 
agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator and Im not upholding this complaint.
Chargeback is the process where a consumer can ask their card issuer to help them with a 
payment dispute under the relevant card scheme rules - which in this case is Mastercard. 
This process isnt a guarantee that a cardholder will get their money back and will depend on 
the circumstances.
The Mastercard rules set out which specific types of disputes are covered under a 
chargeback. These are called chargeback reasons and are limited to specific circumstances, 
such as goods not as described or cardholder not present.
DRN-1841269Bank of Ireland recorded this chargeback as services not provided as this was most 
relevant chargeback reason available. Having looked at the rules myself, I agree this was 
the most relevant reason it couldve used.
Bank of Ireland then refunded the amount while it let the airline know about the dispute. This 
is a common, and if the dispute is successful it means the cardholder isnt without the funds 
in question. The airline then provided its own evidence in defence of the chargeback. Bank 
of Ireland said this showed the transaction was genuine and a service was provided. 
The airline provided screenshots from its system, showing that Mr B had gone over the 
allotted baggage allowance. It explained that its terms and conditions set out applicable fees 
when the baggage allowance is exceeded. And it said Mr B would have agreed to these 
terms when purchasing the tickets. 
The airline also said, ultimately as the services were provided (Mr B took the flight hed paid 
for, with his additional baggage), the chargeback was invalid. 
Having reviewed this, Im persuaded the airline has been able to show that it provided Mr B 
with the service that he paid for. And this is enough to show that it wasnt likely to succeed 
under Mastercards rules. So Im satisfied Bank of Ireland acted fairly and reasonably in 
declining the chargeback and re-debiting the money.
Mr B has said Bank of Ireland shouldve approached him after receiving evidence from the 
airline, and taken the case forward for arbitration by Mastercard. But I disagree. This was 
ultimately Bank of Irelands decision to make, and I would only expect it to pursue this action 
if it believed the chargeback would be successful. And I think in this case it has reasonably 
shown this wasnt the case.  
Mr B has mentioned he hadnt seen the airlines terms and conditions ahead of the flight. I 
dont think this makes any difference to his complaint about Bank of Ireland or the 
chargeback itself. So this doesnt change my mind.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman