DRN-4087164
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain about how long it took Clydesdale Bank Plc to process and approve 
their application for a new fixed interest rate mortgage on their buy to let (BTL) property. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs K said they knew that the fixed interest rate period on their mortgage for a BTL 
property was coming to an end in June 2022, so they applied in good time, in May, to 
remortgage with Clydesdale. They expected the process to be done within a month, but they 
said Clydesdale caused considerable delays, which meant they ended up paying the much 
higher Standard Variable Rate (SVR) for two months. 
Mr and Mrs K said theyd complained to Clydesdale but it hadnt replied, so they wanted our 
service to look into things. They thought Clydesdale should pay back the product fee of a 
little under £2,000 that it had charged for their new mortgage deal. 
Some time after this case came to us, Clydesdale did write to Mr and Mrs K to respond to 
their complaint. It said it was sorry about the delay. It would backdate the change to their 
mortgage to 1 July. That meant they would be owed a refund, which Clydesdale said it would 
pay, with 8% simple interest on top. And it also offered £250 in compensation, to apologise 
for what had gone wrong. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Clydesdale had now 
accepted it was responsible for the delays, and had made an offer which our investigator 
thought was fair. That offer would put Mr and Mrs K back in the position that they would have 
been in, if the delays hadnt occurred. 
Our investigator said that he understood Mr K felt Clydesdale should refund the product fee, 
but that was the cost of securing a new rate, which wouldve always been required. He 
explained that we werent here to punish Clydesdale, but rather wed expect it to correct its 
mistake and put Mr and Mrs K back where they were before the mistake was made. Our 
investigator thought Clydesdale had done that, and that the offer of compensation was both 
fair and in line with our guidelines. So he didnt think Clydesdale needed to do any more.
Mr K didnt accept this. He wanted us to ask Clydesdale for £500, but it said it wouldnt pay 
that. Because no agreement was reached, this case then came to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
I can see Clydesdale has accepted responsibility for the delay in processing and approving 
Mr and Mrs Ks remortgage application. And, having looked at the evidence it has sent us, I 
think it was right to do so. I note in particular that Mr K replied very promptly to Clydesdales 
requests for additional information, and chased repeatedly to see if progress had been 
made, so the delay does seem to have been on Clydesdales side. 
As our investigator explained, when something like this happens, our service seeks to put 
the customer back in the position they would have been in, if things hadnt gone wrong. And 
I can se that what Clydesdale has done here is to apply the interest rate Mr and Mrs K finally 
secured in August, to their account from 1 July. So they will get back the extra money they 
paid at the start of July and August. Clydesdale has also offered 8% simple interest on this 
amount, and £250 in compensation. 
I know Mr K thought Clydesdale should refund the product fee he and Mrs K paid, but, like 
our investigator, I dont think the payment of a product fee is linked to what has gone wrong 
here. So I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask Clydesdale to pay that now. 
I do think the offer Clydesdale has made is fair. I dont know if it has since made that 
payment, so my decision below only requires it to do so if it hasnt already. I understand that 
Mr and Mrs K will be disappointed, but I dont think Clydesdale has to do more than this.
My final decision
My final decision is that, if it has not already done so, then Clydesdale Bank Plc must now do 
each of the following  
recalculate Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage payments for July and August 2022 to apply the 
interest rate they obtained on remortgaging in mid-August 2022 instead of the Standard 
Variable Rate, and refund to Mr and Mrs K any excess which they have paid. 
pay interest at 8% simple on this refund to Mr and Mrs K, from the date of payment to 
the date the refund is paid. (HM Revenue and Customs requires Clydesdale Bank Plc to 
take off tax from this interest. Clydesdale Bank Plc must give Mr and Mrs K a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.)
pay Mr and Mrs K £250 in compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 June 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman