DRN-3494035
The complaint
Mr T complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) allowed a payment of £200 
to debit his account which put him over his agreed overdraft limit. He says this meant he 
didnt have access to his benefits and resulted with a default recorded on his mobile phone 
contract.
What happened
Mr T had an overdraft with Nationwide with an agreed limit of £150. In January a payment for 
£200 debited his account placing his account £348 overdrawn. Mr T contacted Nationwide 
about this to set up a payment plan to bring the account back within its limit and agreed to do 
so by 25 February. Mr T failed to pay the balance by the due date and the account was 
frozen. 
Nationwide and Mr T agreed a further plan on 2 March where it agreed a temporary 
overdraft limit of £360 for three months reducing by £30 a month and authorised a payment 
of £50 for food. This temporary overdraft would be interest free while Mr T was repaying the 
balance. 
Mr T complained to Nationwide that it shouldnt have authorised the £200 payment and that 
he was without food because it wouldnt allow him access to his benefits. Nationwide said it 
was unable to stop payment as they had already been authorised by the third party 
processor and that it was up to Mr T to ensure he had sufficient funds in his account to cover 
the direct debits.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ts concerns and reached the conclusion that 
Nationwide hadnt done anything wrong in allowing the payment to go out and as it had 
agreed a payment plan resulting in Mr Ts benefits being restored there was nothing further 
that needed to be done. 
Mr T disagreed so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Mr T has experienced and see if Nationwide has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr T back in the position he 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation 
that I think is fair and reasonable.
Mr Ts main complaint point is that Nationwide allowed a £200 payment to exit his account 
putting him above his overdraft limit. I dont think I can add anything of further use here than 
what our adjudicator and Nationwide have already said. The transaction in question had 
already been authorised and Nationwide wasnt able to automatically refuse the payment. 
Ultimately it is the responsibility of Mr T to ensure that he has enough funds in his account to 
meet the payments coming out. So I cant say Nationwide has done anything wrong here.  
In regards to access to his account and benefits, Ive looked carefully at Mr Ts bank 
statements for the period in question (January to March) and Nationwides internal records of 
the conversations had between it and Mr T - and again I cant say that Nationwide has done 
anything wrong.
I can see that Mr T had agreed to pay back the outstanding balance by 25 February but 
failed to do so. A further agreement was made at the start of March to provide a temporary 
overdraft interest free to allow Mr T to get his account back into a manageable position. And 
that Nationwide authorised the release of £50 for food. This is in-line with what Id expect, so 
I cant say Nationwide shouldve done more to support Mr T.
And I can also see on Mr Ts bank statements in February that Mr T was able to access his 
benefits by making cash withdrawals or transferring to another account. Indeed, the 
statements show that the exact amount of benefits received into the account were 
withdrawn.
I accept that Mr T had a number of direct debits returned in February which meant his bills 
werent paid. But simply put he didnt have the funds in his account to pay the bills and that 
is through no wrong doing of Nationwides. 
So overall and having considered everything I dont think Nationwide treated Mr T unfairly or 
unreasonably which means that Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman