DRN-2271440
The complaint
Miss B complains about Monzo Bank Ltd and the lack of security she feels they have in 
place to protect her account. She also complains about the service shes received when she 
reported security breaches and fraudulent transactions.
What happened
Miss B opened an account with Monzo in mid-2019. Later that year, Miss B noticed 
transactions she didnt recognise on her account. So, she disputed these with Monzo. On a 
number of occasions, Monzo blocked Miss Bs card and issued a new one. They also raised 
charge backs on some of the disputed transactions. One of which was successful, and one 
that wasnt. But Miss B was unhappy with a number of aspects of Monzos service, so she 
raised a number of complaints.
Miss B complained that Monzo had failed to secure her account effectively. And this had left 
her account open to fraudulent transactions on several occasions. She was unhappy with 
delays shed experienced when waiting for new cards after her original cards had been lost 
or blocked. She was also unhappy with the way Monzo communicated with her when she 
raised these issues. She felt she was provided with conflicting information, found it difficult to 
speak to a manager and that Monzo acted unprofessionally when using emojis during an 
online chat. So, she wanted Monzo to compensate her for the trouble and upset shed been 
caused.
Monzo upheld Miss Bs complaint in part. They agreed that the information theyd provided 
hadnt always been clear with Miss B. And they agreed theyd used emojis and recognised 
Miss Bs impression of this. They also recognised Miss B had experienced delays when 
waiting for her new cards and how this wouldve been convenient. Although they didnt think 
they were responsible for the delays, they made payments to Miss Bs account to recognise 
the upset she felt. In total, Monzo paid Miss B a total of £100 to recognise the upset and 
inconvenience shed experienced resulting from these issues.
But they didnt think they had failed to secure Miss Bs account. Monzo noted that Miss B 
admitted giving her pin to other people and they felt this compromised the security of the 
account. And they thought the measures they put in place to ensure only Miss B could use 
her account were reasonable. They also thought theyd acted quickly and effectively each 
time a transaction as disputed and raised chargebacks where appropriate. For the failed 
chargeback, they explained the sellers bank disputed the transaction was fraudulent and 
they decided not to progress the claim further and they were under no obligation to do so. 
So, they didnt think they needed to offer anything more. Miss B didnt think the £100 offer 
was enough to compensate her fairly, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He acknowledged there had 
been delays when new cards were issued. And that the information provided was unclear at 
times. But he thought the £100 Monzo had paid in total was fair to recognise the 
inconvenience this caused. And he didnt think Monzo had failed to secure Miss Bs account. 
He explained that by giving her pin to other people, Miss B had compromised her account. 
And he didnt think Monzo should be held responsible for this.
He thought the processes Monzo had in place to protect Miss Bs account were fair and in 
line with standard industry practice. And he thought theyd acted reasonably each time Miss 
B had disputed a transaction. He also didnt think theyd done anything wrong by not 
progressing the failed chargeback further as they were entitled not to if they felt it was 
unlikely to succeed. And he thought theyd acted fairly when no longer using emojis after 
Miss B had asked them not to. Because of this, he didnt think Monzo needed to do anything 
more.
Miss B didnt agree. She maintained her view that Monzo failed to put the necessary 
procedures in place to prevent further fraudulent activity after she reported the first disputed 
transaction. So, she didnt think their offer of compensation was fair. As Miss B didnt agree, 
the complaints been passed to me for a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss B. Ive no doubt it 
wouldve been worrying to notice several unrecognised transactions on her account. And I 
can understand why Miss B would question the security procedures put in place by Monzo 
after it had happened on a number of occasions. I can also understand how having to block 
and reissue several cards wouldve impacted Miss B and her ability to use the account as 
she wanted. But for me to say Monzo have done anything wrong, Id need to see they failed 
to but suitable security processes in place that were up to the standard Id expect. Or that 
they didnt do enough to help protect Miss Bs account after she disputed the transactions. 
And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive first looked at Miss Bs concerns regarding the overall security of her account as its from 
this issue that her other complaints have arose. Miss B doesnt think Monzo did enough to 
protect her account after she first made them aware of potentially fraudulent activity. So, Ive 
thought about whether I agree.
Monzo have explained that accounts cant be accessed without the use of the pin number 
linked to the account, or biometric data such as fingerprint or facial recognition. All three of 
these methods should be individual to the owner of the account, so I cant say that these 
measures arent unreasonable. And Ive seen in a conversation with Miss B, she admitted 
there were other people known to her who had knowledge of her pin number. Although I 
understand these may be people Miss B trusts, I think this compromised the security of her 
account. And I dont think its fair for Monzo to be held responsible for this.
Ive also seen that for several of the disputed transactions Miss B made Monzo aware of, 
she explained her card had been lost or stolen around the time the transactions were made. 
I dont think Monzo couldve put any additional measures in place to stop the theft of a card. 
But Id expect them to take necessary action to prevent any further use of the card from the 
time Miss B made them aware. And I think they did.
Each time Miss B disputed a transaction and explained her card had been compromised, 
Ive seen Monzo placed a block on Miss Bs account. This protected her account from any further mis-use. Ive then seen they issued a new card to Miss B, to ensure she could 
continue to use her account. And they explained if Miss B needed to make a payment or 
withdrawal from the account, she could use her phone and contact Monzo who would 
temporarily unblock the account to allow this. So, I think Monzo acted reasonably and took 
all steps available to them to protect the security of Miss Bs account. Because of this, I dont 
think they need to offer anything more for this part of the complaint.
Ive then focused on the other elements of Miss Bs complaint. Ive seen on two occasions, 
there were delays when Miss B was waiting for a new card to arrive. On both occasions, Ive 
seen Monzo sent the card within a day of Miss B requesting one. I dont think this was 
unreasonable and I think its most likely the delays were caused by issues in the delivery 
process, which I think was out of Monzos control. Even so, I can see Monzo recognised the 
inconvenience this wouldve caused Miss B and they credited Miss Bs account £30 on both 
occasions. So, a total of £60. I think this offer is a fair one, and I dont think Monzo need to 
offer anything else in this respect.
Miss B was also unhappy with the misinformation she received regarding the timescales of 
her ongoing chargebacks. I can see the first chargeback was successful, so Ive focused on 
the second, unsuccessful chargeback. I can see Monzo originally told Miss B the process 
would take roughly three months to complete. And when she chased for updates, she was 
told the process would be completed on a certain date. But, Monzo didnt explain initially that 
the process may take longer if the selling bank disputed the chargeback. And unfortunately, 
in this situation they did. So, I can understand why Miss B felt frustrated when the process 
didnt complete as she expected. 
Monzo offered Miss B £40 to recognise this, and I think this is a fair offer. This is because 
they had no control over the actions of the selling bank and their decision to dispute the 
chargeback. So, I think the payment adequately recognises the confusion and upset Miss B 
felt when the process didnt complete at the time she was told. But it shouldnt cover the 
additional time the process took after the chargeback was disputed. And I cant say Monzo 
acted unfairly by not taking the chargeback any further. Once a chargeback is disputed by 
the selling bank, Monzo had no obligation to pursue the chargeback further. It is up to them 
to decide whether they think it has a likely chance of being successful. And thats their 
judgement to make. And in this situation, they decided success was unlikely, so the claim 
was closed at that point. I cant say theyve acted unfairly by doing so. Ive seen theyve 
provided Miss B with guidance on how to make her payments more secure, and what 
methods have more protection. I think this was fair and shows Monzo making efforts to help 
Miss B prevent further similar situations in the future.
Ive also considered Miss Bs unhappiness with Monzos use of emojis during conversations. 
I can understand why Miss B deemed this to be unprofessional. But Monzo have explained 
theyre used to create a more personable and friendly feel to the conversation. Its not my 
role to comment on Monzos business practices. So, its not my role to say the use of emojis 
was unreasonable. But I can consider how Monzo acted after Miss B made them aware she 
didnt want the emojis to be use. And I can see they noted her request and no further 
emojis were used during the conversation. So, I think they acted reasonably and took Miss 
Bs requests into account. And I dont think they need to offer anything more relating to this.
Miss B also raised issues about being unable to speak to a manager on request. But Ive 
seen Miss B spoke to a manager on a number of occasions. I understand this may not have 
been on a phone call, but I can see a manager reviewed Miss Bs concerns and provided an 
answer. So, I cant say this is unfair. And Ive seen Miss B raised issues about the changes 
in advisors whilst she was in chats. But Monzo have explained this is done at the end of 
shifts to ensure the continuation of the conversation. And Ive seen times where the advisor 
changed so someone from the relevant department could handle Miss Bs concerns. While I can understand Miss Bs frustrations, I dont think the changing of advisors impacted the 
level of service received. So, I dont think itd be fair for me to say Monzo have done 
something wrong by doing this.
Finally, Miss B raised concerns about Monzos handling of her complaints. This isnt 
something Im able to consider as part of my decision as complaints handling isnt a 
regulated activity and so falls outside of what Im able to look at.
So, I think the £100 in total Monzo offered Miss B is a fair one, and I dont think they need to 
do anything more. I understand this isnt the outcome Miss B was hoping for, but I hope this 
decision goes some way to explaining why some of Miss Bs concerns werent created by 
anything Monzo did wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint about Monzo Bank 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman