DRN-3625352
The complaint
Mr D complains about an error caused by HiFX Europe Limited trading as XEs (XE) 
application when transferring money. Mr D says this led to the payment being made four 
times. 
What happened
Mr D says he used the XE mobile application to transfer €706.28 to pay for services from an 
overseas provider. Mr D says the application reported an error and said the transaction 
couldnt be completed. Mr D says he made two further attempts to carry out the transaction, 
but the same error prevented him from completing it. Mr D says he then called XE and was 
told they couldnt see any transactions and didnt know why he was getting an error 
message. Mr D says the agent told him to try again but he received the same error message 
Mr D says, during the conversation, the agent then told him they could now see the 
transactions, which had gone through four times. XE attempted a recall request which was 
unsuccessful as the beneficiary bank said the recipient wasnt giving authority for the funds 
to be returned. XE then told Mr D he could contact the recipient to ask for the money to be 
returned. Mr D complained to XE and said he was now €2,118.84 out of pocket. 
XE responded and explained the recipient hasnt authorised the return of the money and 
they have no control over this. XE also said theyd checked their events log at the time of the 
transactions and they couldnt identify any errors. So, XE didnt uphold the complaint. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr D. He thought XE hadnt made any errors in 
relation to the transfer of funds. Mr D disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr D will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Ive listened to the call Mr D made to XE. During this call Mr D explains he has attempted 
four transfers but has received an error message. The agent does some checks and then 
explains theyve reset Mr Ds account and they ask Mr D to log out of his account on his 
mobile application and back in again. The agent explains the system should allow Mr D to 
complete the transfer now. 
Mr D attempts the transfer again while on the call and explains the same message was 
appearing saying Something went wrong, there was a problem with your transfer. Contact 
us for help sending your money. The agent then asks Mr D to attempt the transfer through 
their website and, while Mr D is going through this process, the agent explains his account is 
showing four transactions which have gone through. Mr D asks for three to be cancelled and 
the agent explains they cant cancel the transactions but can arrange their recall process to 
recover the funds. 
The first point Ive considered is the error message. XE say their events log doesnt highlight 
any errors with Mr Ds transactions. Ive considered Mr Ds testimony and also his call with 
XE. I believe, its more likely than not, he did receive an error message when carrying out 
the transactions. I say this because, I think its unlikely Mr D wouldve attempted the 
transaction three further times had he received a notification to say his transfer was 
successful. And, I think its unlikely he wouldve phoned XE had he not experienced an 
issue. Ive also taken into account that Mr D was able to read out the error message while on 
the call with XEs agent.
 
Theres no dispute that four transfers took place, when Mr D only intended to carry out one. 
So, Ive then gone on to consider whether I think XE should be responsible for the three 
further transfers carried out by Mr D. I think whats important here is the wording of the error 
message. I accept the message suggests the transfer hasnt gone through, but it asks Mr D 
to contact XE  it doesnt ask Mr D to attempt the transfer again. I do understand why Mr D 
attempted the transfer again, but I have to consider whats reasonable in the circumstances. 
And, in this case, I think it wouldve been reasonable to contact XE as that is what the 
message says in relation to next steps. In view of the fact that the call with XE identified that 
the transfers had gone through, I believe its more likely than not, had Mr D contacted XE 
after the first attempt, it would similarly have identified the transfer had gone through. Given 
that Mr D attempted the transfer three further times before contacting XE, I cant hold them 
responsible for those transfers going through.   
In Mr Ds testimony, he suggests he attempted three transfers before calling XE, and the 
fourth attempt was during the call. While the call does indicate Mr D attempted a transfer 
after being instructed by the agent to do so, I dont believe this transaction was one of the 
four which went through. I say this because the transaction details for the four transfers 
which went through show them being made by Mr D on the same day at 8.15pm, 8.20pm, 
8.23pm and 8.48pm. XE have provided system information which shows Mr D called them at 
10.04pm. So, the four transfers which went through are all made before Mr D contacts XE. 
Im further persuaded that is the case as Mr D does say at the start of the call that he has 
attempted the transfer four times.  
I am sorry to disappoint Mr D and I acknowledge the difficulties hes facing at recovering the 
overpayment of €2,118.84 but I cant hold XE responsible for those transfers being made. 
And, I think theyve taken reasonable steps in carrying out their recall process, which has 
unfortunately not been successful.   
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman