DRN-1908222
The complaint
Mr Ps unhappy that Capital One (Europe) Bank plc (Capital One) havent removed 
incorrect information from his credit file despite being asked to.
I sent Mr P and Capital one a provisional decision on 29 May 2020 to explain why I 
thought Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. And I said Id consider anything else anyone 
wanted to give me  as long as I received it by 12 June 2020. Capital One said they 
didn't have anything further to add, but Mr P gave further explanation as to the impact 
this situation had on him and his health. But I still think Mr Ps complaint should be 
upheld. Ive explained my reasoning below.
What happened
Capital One agreed to remove incorrect information on Mr Ps credit file relating to a credit 
card application. This wasnt done as promised and so M P brought the complaint to our 
service. A final decision relating to this was issued on 24 January 2020 - reference [...]. In 
this decision, the ombudsman said that Capital One had confirmed that theyd requested 
for the information to be removed. The ombudsman instructed Capital One to pay Mr P 
£200 for the delay in removing the information and for the trouble and upset caused.
Despite Capital One saying theyd requested for the incorrect information on Mr P's credit 
file to be removed, Mr P discovered it still hadnt. He came back to our service for further 
help to get this resolved. Capital One investigated what had happened and confirmed with 
Mr P during a telephone call that his credit file had been updated - however this wasn't the 
case. It wasnt until March 2020 that the information was updated on his credit file and Mr P 
could see for himself that this had been done.
Capital One offered Mr P a further £300 for the additional delays in getting things 
resolved. Our investigator thought an additional £500 was a better reflection of the 
distress caused to Mr P. This was because hed been told things were rectified when they 
hadnt, hed had to take time off from work due to the impact this was having on his health 
and for the overall delays of nine months to get the information removed. Neither Capital 
One or Mr P were happy with the amount of compensation proposed so the case has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've also had to consider whats already been decided on in the previous final decision 
relating to this matter. So I can only consider whats happen from the time that decision 
was issued, 24 January 2020, until now.
Capital One havent been able to provide a copy of the call they had with Mr P, where he 
says he was told his credit file had been amended. But they have been able to provide me 
with copies of the call notes, and the second call Mr P had with them that day. Based on 
the information I have, I think its more likely than not that Mr P was given incorrect 
information.
Both Capital One and Mr P confirm that the information was finally updated in March 2020, 
and any adverse information placed on his credit file by Capital One was removed. Mr P 
has asked for this to be backdated. But it doesnt work in that way  once the information 
has been removed, its as if it was never there in the first place. So removing the entry from 
his credit file for the application of a credit card was all that Capital One were required to 
do.
Mr P has also mentioned hes lost out on being approved for a bank account where he 
wouldve benefited from a promotional offer and received around £200. This is because 
the information placed on his credit file by Capital One prevented him from being 
approved for the account. The previous ombudsmans decision took account of other 
applications made during the time the incorrect information was on his credit file and said:
'Having looked through the historic snapshots of his credit score that Mr P 
provided, I could see that this stayed constant through the period when searches 
from other companies were being both added and removed. So although I could 
understand Mr Ps feelings about this Capital One search still showing, I didn't 
think I could say with any certainty that it alone would have had a negative or 
detrimental impact on his ability to apply for forms of credit when his credit score 
stayed at the same level despite updates with the removal or addition of other 
searches on his record.
Mr P hasnt provided any additional information relevant to further applications made after 
24 January 2020. But even if he had, as has been said before, it would be unlikely we could 
prove with certainty that the Capital One entry alone was the issue given the historical 
consistency of his credit score.
Putting things right
Ive thought about the impact Mr P says this had on him. And I've taken into account 
what he's specifically told me about his disability, mental ill health and how this whole 
situation has impacted inability to continue working. I have no doubt this whole situation 
has been very stressful and frustrating for Mr P, and has affected his health over the last 
year. But Im only able to consider the impact this had since 24 January 2020  when 
the previous decision was issued. The previous ombudsman awarded a payment of 
£200 to acknowledge the delays and impact the situation had on Mr P until they issued 
their decision.
So because of this, I still think £300, as proposed by Capital One, is a fairer amount of 
compensation for the further trouble and upset caused to Mr P since the last ombudsman 
decision, rather than the £500 proposed by the investigator. I know Mr P will be 
disappointed with this, and he feels a much higher award should be given. But I hope Mr P 
can see I've considered what he's told me and understands why I think this is a fairer 
reflection for the reasons Ive explained above.
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and require Capital One (Europe) Bank plc to pay Mr P £300 
for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 July 2020.Helen Giles
 
Ombudsman