DRN-3157435
The complaint
Ms M says Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) irresponsibly 
lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about six instalment loans Moneyboat provided to Ms M between February 
2018 and December 2018. Ms Ms lending history is as follows:
Moneyboat offered to remove the interest on the outstanding loan as a gesture of goodwill. 
But Ms M was unhappy with this. 
Our adjudicator upheld Ms Ms complaint and thought none of the loans should have been 
given. Moneyboat didnt reply to the adjudicators view and so the complaint was passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Moneyboat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms M 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Moneyboat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
Loan 
numberDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 23/02/2018 27/04/2018 2 £200.00 £134.80
2 29/04/2018 28/06/2018 2 £500.00 £326.93
3 02/07/2018 03/07/2018 4 £400.00 £154.12
4 09/07/2018 08/08/2018 2 £400.00 £247.88
5 22/08/2018 28/11/2018 4 £400.00 £135.91
6 04/12/2018 outstanding 2 £400.00 £256.47the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Moneyboat was required to establish 
whether Ms M could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ms complaint.
Moneyboat asked Ms M for information about her income and outgoings and it carried out 
credit checks. Ms M said her monthly income was £4,000 and her monthly outgoings were 
between £1,800 and £2,050. Moneyboat saw that Ms M hadnt declared all her credit 
commitments when she applied for loan one, so it increased these by £890. So Ms M 
seemed to have a monthly disposable income between £1,310 and £1,950 to repay her 
loans. And so on this basis, the loans looked affordable for her.
But Moneyboat also made credit checks on Ms M. And, as our adjudicator explained, the 
check for loan one showed that Ms M was having problems managing her money:
The report showed that Ms M had significantly greater credit commitments than she had 
declared. 
She had 25 active credit accounts making a total value of £52,682, with a 26th account 
opened in the last six months. 
She had seven unsecured loan and home credit accounts and four outstanding 
advances against income accounts, making her current short-term credit commitments 
£2,302. 
Moneyboat increased Ms Ms declared expenses by £890. But from the information it 
had, this should have been increased by at least £2,302 making a total monthly 
commitment of £3,752.  
Ms M had eight defaults in the last 36 months 
So Moneyboat saw that Ms M had significant amounts of outstanding short term loans and 
should have realised that Ms M was finding it difficult to manage her money. So I think the 
application for loan one and all the following loans should not have been approved.  
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Moneyboats lending history with Ms M, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Moneyboat should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Moneyboat should have realised 
that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. Given the particular circumstances of Ms Ms case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan six. By loan six, I think Ms Ms overall pattern of borrowing suggested she had become 
persistently reliant on short-term loans. I say this because:
Ms M had taken six loans in around nine months;
The amounts she was borrowing didnt significantly decrease over this period;
By loan six, Ms Ms borrowing had increased two times from loan one.
I think the pattern of lending itself showed that loan six was unsustainable and so loan six 
shouldnt have been approved. I think that Ms M lost out because Moneyboat continued to 
provide borrowing for loan six because:
this loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Ms indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications on 
Ms Ms ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-
cost loans.
So Im upholding the complaint about loans one to six and I think Moneyboat should put 
things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Moneyboat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Ms M from loan one, as Im satisfied it ought 
to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. For 
example, having been declined this lending Ms M may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms M would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Moneyboats liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
I require Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) to:
refund all interest and charges Ms M paid on loans one to six; 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
this refund should be offset against any balance outstanding for the principal of loan six 
and the remainder paid to Ms M or, if a balance remains outstanding, an affordable 
repayment plan should be agreed to clear this; remove any negative information about loans one to five from Ms Ms credit file;
the number of loans taken by loan six means any information recorded about it is 
adverse. So all entries about loan six should be removed from Ms Ms credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneyboat to take off tax from this interest. Moneyboat 
must give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Ms Ms complaint. I require 
Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) to carry out the redress 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman