DRN-3125272
The complaint
Mrs H complains Provident Personal Credit Limited (Provident) is incorrectly reporting a
loan on her credit file. Mrs H says given the time that has passed, her loan account
shouldve been defaulted.
What happened
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. Mrs H didnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion. The complaint was then passed to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to uphold 
Mrs Hs complaint. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings 
follow (below in italics) and this forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Following a complaint to Provident, it issued a final response letter (FRL). The FRL
explained to Mrs H that it hadnt made an error. It said that the 1 showing on her credit file
is as a result of Mrs H missing 4.33 weeks of repayments. Provident confirmed it has an
obligation to report accurate information to the credit reference agencies, which is what is it
doing.
Mrs H, unhappy with this response, referred her complaint to our service.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and said it shouldnt be upheld. He said Mrs Hs
credit file was accurate as it showed a loan with an outstanding balance and this information
will continue to be reported until the loan is closed.
Provident appear to have agreed with the adjudicator.
Mrs H didnt agree with the adjudicators recommendation. In response she said, that based
on what the adjudicator explained Provident could potentially leave the account on her credit
file for the rest of her life. She also provided us a link to a consumer advice website which
provided further information about the default process.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the information Provident has provided, Mrs H took one loan on 6 May 2017 for
£400. Mrs H was due to make 26 weekly repayments of £24. Based on the statement of
account provided it looked like only one payment was made on 12 May 2017. Since that
date it doesnt look like any further payments have been made and an outstanding balance
remains.
Provident has also provided us with a copy of the information that it is reporting to the credit
reference agencies. It looks like, it reported a 1 in August 2017  reflecting that Mrs Hs
account was more than 4.33 weeks in arrears. In September 2017, this was replaced with a
2 presumably because no further payments were made, and the account went further into
arrears.
Then, and its not clear why, from October 2017 Provident started to report a 1 again. From
then until now Provident has been recording the account as being 1 month in arrears with
an outstanding balance to pay of £600.
Ive not seen Mrs Hs actual credit file, but what Provident is reporting is consistent with what
shes told us. The crux of this complaint is that Mrs H says the account ought to have been
defaulted by now given shes not made any payments for a number of years.
Ive considered what Mrs H says, as well as taking into account the relevant guidance, and
Im intending to agree with her: that the account ought to have been defaulted a number of
years ago. Ive explained my reasoning below.
In order to establish whether I think Provident ought to have defaulted the account Ive
considered the guidance and rules issued by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
The ICO is the body created which deals with an individuals data, and it has released a
document called Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at
Credit Reference Agencies  this is the guidance that this service uses when determining
whether a default ought to have been applied and or whether one shouldnt have been
added to a credit file.
The basis of the principles is that;
Lenders that supply data to the CRAs are required to ensure that the data is 
accurate, up to date and meets agreed quality standards.
Principle 2 goes on to explain;
2. Should a payment not be made as expected, information to
reflect this will be recorded on your credit file
If you do not make your regular expected payment by the agreed time and/or for the
agreed amount according to your terms and conditions, the account may be reported
to the CRAs as being in arrears. If this continues over time, the level of reported
arrears will increase, which may result in the lender taking some form of action. This
could include notification of their intention to report the account as defaulted
Clearly, the ICO foresees, that in certain situations it may be needed to record a default on a
consumers credit file. The principles go on to say the following about the reporting of
arrears;
Reporting of arrears over time
Arrears should generally only increase by one month at a time e.g. status code 1 to
2, 2 to 3 etc. There can be exceptions to this such as fraud, bankruptcy, county court
judgments (CCJs), returned cheques or direct debits.
Given the above, its not clear why Provident started to report a 1 then went to a 2 before
dropping back down and has been reporting a 1 since. By reducing the arrears to a 1, this
wouldve indicated that Mrs H had made payments to reduce the arrears, but we know this
not to be correct.Indeed, no further payments have been made in the last four years. So clearly, what
Provident is currently reporting isnt correct, as Mrs Hs account is more than 1 month in
arrears.
But I need to consider what the principles say about recording a default  this is dealt with
under Principle 4;
4. If you fall into arrears on your account, or you do not keep to the
revised terms of an arrangement, a default may be recorded to
show that the relationship has broken down.
As a general guide, this may occur when you are 3 months in arrears, and normally
by the time you are 6 months in arrears.
There are exceptions to this which may result in a default being recorded at a later
stage, such as secured or long term loans e.g. mortgages, or if the product operates
in a more flexible way e.g. current accounts, student loans, home credit.
I accept the principles provides exceptions to this including Home Credit  which is what 
Mrs Hs loan was. But I see no reason to depart from this guidance here. This is because the
relationship between both parties had broken down, payments havent been made for a
number of years and the current information being reported isnt accurate.
Importantly, the guidance provides examples when a default wouldnt be appropriate;
A default should not be filed:
If you make a payment, in time, that fully meets the terms set out in the 
default notice
If jointly with the lender an agreement is reached for an arrangement and you 
keep to the terms of that arrangement
If the amount outstanding is solely made up of fees or charges
If a lender is given evidence that a customer is deceased (for example a
verifiable death certificate, probate or letter of administration.
Looking at Mrs Hs complaint I can see no reason why a default hasnt yet been reported
and I dont think any of the above conditions have been met which wouldve prevented
Provident from applying one.
Mrs H hasnt made any repayments to the account since May 2017. So, she clearly hasnt
made her payments on time and she hasnt reached an agreement with Provident to repay
the loan through a repayment plan. And Mrs H owes significant amounts of the original
capital borrowed.
So overall, Im intending to ask Provident to default the account. It is of course possible, that
had the correct default process been followed, Mrs H wouldve been notified of Providents
intention and she may have set up a payment plan. Which couldve meant the default wasnt
applied.
However, given that Mrs H is aware the debt exists and hasnt as yet made payments, I think
its more likely than the not had Provident followed the correct process in 2017 the account
wouldve defaulted anyway. And Mrs H wouldve had the adverse information on her credit
file from the time.
In summary, the information Providents currently reporting isnt an accurate reflection of
how Mrs H has run the account, and I see no reason given the above Principles outlined by 
the ICO for the account not to have been defaulted. So, in line with what Mrs H has asked for to put things right, Ill be asking Provident to mark the account on her credit file as being 
in default. 
Mrs H needs to be aware, that by reporting the default, this will effectively, crystallise the 
debt, and means that after six years from the date of the default the loan will drop off her 
credit file.
The default will also not remove her obligation to repay what she borrowed. And, she also
needs to appreciate that the default could have an impact on her current credit score as a
result of this default being applied.
To be clear, whether Mrs H accepts this decision or not, an outstanding balance does
remain and needs to be repaid. She may wish to speak to Provident about the options
available to her in order to repay the balance. But Id remind Provident of its obligation to
treat her fairly and with forbearance if applicable.
Ive also considered, whether any compensation should be paid to Mrs H. But given, there
was always going to be some adverse information reported on the credit file. Based on what
Ive seen I dont think it would be proportionate to award compensation here.
I asked both Mrs H and Provident to provide this Service with any further information or 
comments no later than 25 October 2021. 
Provident hasnt responded to the provisional decision and therefore it hasnt provided this 
Service with any further information to consider.
 
Mrs H responded. She said she agreed with the findings that the account ought to have 
been defaulted, but she feels the default should be applied around three months after the 
loan was taken, so around August 2017.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H agrees that the complaint should be upheld, but she says the default ought to have 
been applied three months after the loan was taken out, so in August 2017. Whereas, in the 
provisional decision, I was recommending that the account be defaulted around six months 
after the loan was taken out. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs H says but I dont agree the account ought to have 
been defaulted in August 2017. 
The ICO recommends that accounts arent defaulted any sooner than three months, but 
generally speaking, it is good industry practice for the default to be applied when an account 
is around six months in arrears (as long as the other conditions are met as outlined in the 
provisional decision). This is supported by the ICO when it says defaults should be recorded 
 normally by the time you are 6 months in arrears. 
The reason for this is because, its not enough just to have missed payments but there 
needs to be a clear breakdown in the relationship between the lender and the borrower. And 
with most lenders waiting for six months it allows time for the parties to get into contact with 
each other and to see whether there may be a need for any help and support to be offered. And when the account reached the point where it was sufficiently in arrears, Provident 
wouldve been required to have sent a default notice, which provides a further 28 days for 
the consumer to try and prevent the default from being applied. So, for example it provides 
an opportunity for a payment plan to be set up which couldve prevented a default being 
applied. 
Taking everything into account, I think the fairest outcome is that the default is recorded from 
December 2017, because if Provident had followed the ICO guidelines at the time, it is likely 
this is when the default wouldve been recorded from. So, its reasonable that this is when 
the credit file is updated from. 
Having thought about everything Im still upholding Mrs Hs complaint for the same reasons 
that I outlined in the provisional decision. So, I still think Provident ought to have defaulted 
Mrs Hs account at the end of 2017, and Ive outlined below Im still of the opinion that 
Provident ought to have defaulted the account at the end of 2017. 
Putting things right
Given, the time limits for a default being recorded as outlined by the ICO in its guidance, I 
consider it reasonable that Provident defaulted the account. The ICO says that a default 
ought to have been applied when the account reached six months in arrears, I consider that
reasonable and that is what Im going to direct Provident to do.
To put things right, Provident needs to do the following;
Update Mrs Hs credit file to show that her loan account was defaulted from 
December 2017.
Provident will also need to arrange for any of the other adverse information reported 
after this date is amended to reflect the account has defaulted.
This means the loan record will drop off Mrs Hs credit file after six years so from December
2023. But as Ive said above, an outstanding balance remains which needs to be repaid.
Id also remind Provident of its obligation to treat Mrs Hs fairly and with forbearance when 
discussing the repayment of the balance.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mrs Hs 
complaint.
Provident Personal Credit Limited should put things right for Mrs H as Ive directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman