DRN-3986509
The complaint
Mr A complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, declined to raise a chargeback 
dispute in relation to a package holiday (actually a religious pilgrimage).
What happened
In June 2022 Mr A bought a premium package tour for himself and his wife to go on their hajj 
(pilgrimage). He paid for it with his Halifax debit card. On arrival and throughout the 
pilgrimage, he found that many of the services which had been advertised were not provided 
or were sub-standard. On returning home he complained to the merchant and asked for a 
partial refund. The merchant apologised and told him it would refund him, but it never did, 
despite Mr A chasing it repeatedly. Eventually, in September, Mr A asked Halifax to raise a 
chargeback claim for 35% of what he had paid. He provided a detailed list of the services 
which had not been provided or had not been as described.
Halifax declined to raise a chargeback. It told Mr A that this was because he had stayed for 
the full duration of the tour, and he had not provided a costed breakdown of the services not 
provided. Mr A replied to say that these were unreasonable objections. The trip had been a 
religious pilgrimage, and so he could not have just left. And it was not possible for him to 
provide the costs of the undelivered services because he had bought them as part of a 
package, not as bolt-on extras, so their prices had not been separately itemised; but the 
merchant could provide this information, and so the bank should ask it instead.
The bank did not change its stance, and so Mr A brought this complaint to our service. Our 
investigator did not uphold it. He said that Halifax had complied with Visas chargeback 
rules, and that Mr As claim would have been unlikely to succeed, so the bank didnt have to 
raise one.
Mr A was not satisfied with that decision. He argued that the bank should raise a chargeback 
dispute whether the service was cancelled by him or was not provided by the merchant, as 
the latter was effectively another kind of cancellation, and so it should not make a difference 
who cancels the service. He pointed out that the chargeback rules do not explicitly require a 
detailed breakdown of the costs of the services he was claiming for, as required by the bank 
(and he re-iterated that only the merchant could realistically provide that information). He 
said that as it did not become apparent that the services would not be provided, or would be 
sub-standard, until the various days when they were due to be provided, he would not have 
had a reason to cancel his trip at the start or early on, as the full extent of how far the 
merchant had fallen short of what it had contracted to do could not have been known until 
the end. He made detailed reference to the Visa chargeback rules to support his case, and 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considerable sympathy for Mr A and his wife regarding the situation in which they 
found themselves as their pilgrimage went on and each day brought new problems. In his 
original claim to the merchant  which he later included in his chargeback claim to the bank 
 he put together a detailed and credible account of all of the deficient or absent services 
over the course of the tour. I believe him, not least because at no point did the merchant 
ever deny any of the allegations made; indeed, it apologised and offered him a refund 
instead (although the refund never materialised). So, while keeping in mind my duty to be 
impartial and fair to both parties, I regret that I am not in a position to help him with this 
complaint. That is because I do not think that a chargeback dispute would have succeeded. 
I will explain why.
I think that the most relevant chargeback reason in this case is dispute condition 13.3, which 
is not as described or defective merchandise / services. I accept that the services were not 
as described or defective (and indeed the chargeback rules put the onus on the merchant to 
prove otherwise). And I accept that Mr As dispute was brought in time, and it did not fall into 
the category of invalid disputes. But one of the rules that had to be satisfied was Before the 
Issuer may initiate a Dispute, the Cardholder must return the merchandise or cancel the 
services. Because that rule explicitly identifies the cardholder as the party who must cancel 
the services, I am unable to accept that it does not matter which party cancels the service.
There is a footnote to that rule which says For Disputes related to services that cannot be 
cancelled, the Cardholder must request a credit from the Merchant (emphasis added). 
I have considered that exception, because Mr A did request a credit from the merchant, and 
he has given a reasonable and sensible explanation for why he did not cancel the service. 
But I am afraid that I do not think that the tour was a service which cannot be cancelled. So 
I do not think that this exception applies.
(Halifax took into account the fact that the merchant had offered Mr A a refund, but as the 
merchant had not specified a particular amount, the bank thought this was too vague for it to 
rely on. I dont think that alone should have been an obstacle to raising a chargeback 
dispute, because the rules put the onus on the merchant to either provide evidence that the 
service was as described or that a refund has already been issued. But before the merchant 
can be required to prove anything, it must first be established that the cardholder cancelled 
the service.)
I have thought about two other chargeback reasons which might have been relevant to 
Mr As claim. Dispute condition 13.1 is merchandise / services not received. But the rules 
for that one exclude disputes about the quality of service. Since the tour was provided to 
Mr A, and his complaint is really about certain parts of it not being provided, I think that is 
more suitable for the not as described or defective reason. I think the same thing about 
dispute condition 13.7, cancelled merchandise / services. (Mr A conceded this point in his 
reply to the investigators view, but I have still considered it anyway in case he had conceded 
too much.)
For the above reasons, I conclude that a chargeback dispute would not have succeeded, 
and so the bank was under no obligation to raise one. (That is not to say that the bank got 
everything right  I do not think it was Mr As responsibility to provide a costed breakdown of 
the relevant problems and how much each was worth; he had provided an estimate of 35% 
which was based on comparing the difference between the price of the platinum package he 
had bought and the price of the gold package. And he had given a detailed account of what 
the platinum package was supposed to include and which parts he didnt get, or which were 
otherwise not adequate. I think that is as much as could reasonably be expected of him. But 
this was not the sole reason why a chargeback dispute was not raised by the bank.)
I am sorry that this decision will come as a disappointment to Mr A. He clearly received poor service from the merchant, and he had good reasons for choosing to persevere with the 
pilgrimage to the end. I think that this case illustrates that sometimes the chargeback 
scheme is too inflexible to avail every consumer, and that a card issuer cannot always 
assist. Mr A will have to pursue the merchant directly for his refund. (For future reference, if 
he uses a credit card for important purchases then he may be able to obtain compensation 
from his card issuer for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by a merchant under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.)
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman