DRN-2063304
The complaint
Miss W complains that there were administrative errors by Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) when 
her father Mr W (who is her representative in this complaint) attempted to enact a Power of 
Attorney (POA) on her BOS accounts. 
What happened
Miss W held two accounts with BOS. Due to her personal circumstances, Mr W attended a 
BOS branch to enact a POA on her accounts. He provided a document which was accepted 
in branch as sufficient, and he was told the POA was enacted and he had control over 
Miss Ws accounts.
Two days later Mr W received a letter from BOS saying the POA had been reviewed and the 
document found to be insufficient, so the POA had been enacted in error. A further letter of 
explanation was sent two days later saying the document he had submitted was out of date, 
and Mr W should get further legal advice and invited him to contact BOS should he wish to, 
for further help.
Mr W complained to BOS. He did not accept the document was insufficient as he had taken 
legal advice. He said he had wasted a lot of time going into branch and on the telephone to 
try and sort this out.
In their final response letter BOS said the decision to not accept the document and withdraw 
the POA was correct. However, it did acknowledge Mr W had been given incorrect 
information in branch, so the service it provided was not good enough. It offered Mr W £25 
compensation. 
About six weeks later, Mr W was in branch and made a transfer, running into several 
thousand pounds, between Miss Ws two accounts, and then into his own private account, 
without passing any security checks, and without her authorisation.
Mr W did not accept BOSs response to his complaint and brought it to our service. He 
included the point that he had been able to access his daughters accounts without a POA in 
place. BOS acknowledged to us that Mr W shouldnt have been able to access Miss Ws 
account and this had been an error.
Our investigator thought that BOS had made an error when it had initially accepted and 
enacted the POA request in branch. But he thought it had written to him as soon as the error 
had been noticed and advised him what he needed to do next. He thought the £25 
compensation offered to Mr W was sufficient.
He considered the fact that Mr W had been able to access his daughters account incorrectly. 
His view was that although it had been a potentially serious security breach, what had 
happened was in fact what Mr W and Miss W wanted to occur, and she hadnt suffered any 
financial loss as her father was holding the money for her. He agreed that Miss W had been 
made to lose confidence in BOSs security of her account, and for the distress and 
inconvenience he thought BOS should pay her £150 compensation. He also thought that 
BOS should contact Mr W and explain what he needed to do should he wish to enact the 
POA.  
BOS accepted the investigators view and the compensation level. But Mr W, on Miss Ws 
behalf, did not. He thought the investigator had not taken into account the stress he had 
been caused during the complaints process and the sanction didnt reflect the time, trouble, 
frustration and negligence he had experienced.
So the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The document Mr W provided BOS during the initial meeting was dated approximately 
6 years earlier, and Miss Ws circumstances had changed several times in the following 
years. So, I can understand, given the serious and important implications of a POA, that 
BOS wanted to ensure it was entirely appropriate and the information they were acting on 
was accurate and up to date. 
So, I think their decision after a review, to rescind the POA and request further information, 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances, and they acted in a timely manner. Should Mr 
W require it, BOS have offered to advise him on his options if a POA is still required.
However, it is accepted by BOS that it made errors. It wrongly told Mr W the POA was 
enacted during his initial visit to branch, and that Mr W should not have been able to access 
Miss Ws accounts. What I need to decide upon is the level of compensation due to reflect 
these errors.
Firstly, I need to explain that our service is not here to penalise businesses. We aim to solve 
disputes and where there is an error, to put the consumer back in the position they would 
have been in had the error not occurred. We can also award compensation for the distress 
or inconvenience the consumer has been caused. 
Mr W has said the compensation should reflect the stress he was caused during the 
complaints process. I acknowledge that Mr W has done a considerable amount of work on 
Miss Ws behalf, but Im afraid I cant compensate him for that.
In this complaint, BOS made mistakes involving Miss Ws accounts, so she is the consumer 
and complainant, albeit represented by Mr W. As such I can only consider the distress and 
inconvenience caused to her, not Mr W. 
I dont think, on balance, Miss W was affected by BOSs error in the initial acceptance of the 
document to enact the POA. This is because BOS recognised this error quickly and wrote to 
Mr W straightaway. BOS have offered Mr W £25 compensation for this error, but for the 
reasons I set out above, this is a decision for them, and not something that I could require 
them to do. 
The complaint to BOS was made on Miss Ws behalf. There will always be an element of 
inconvenience in a complaints process, but everything was done by Mr W and Ive not seen 
anything to suggest Miss W was inconvenienced or caused any distress by it. So, I dont 
think she should be awarded any compensation for this.
Putting things rightI do however think that it is likely Miss W has lost faith in BOS security after her account was 
accessed wrongly, and I do think she is entitled to some compensation for the distress this 
caused her. 
It is a serious breach of security when someone unauthorised accesses accounts and 
withdraws money. But in this case, Miss W wanted her father to have access to her 
accounts, and shes not lost out financially. So, Im satisfied £150 compensation is a fair and 
reasonable reflection of Miss Ws loss of confidence in BOS, and for the distress this 
caused.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint. I require Bank of Scotland plc to pay Miss W £150 for the 
distress she has been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman