DRN-2135001
The complaint
Mr N and Mrs N complain that Santander UK Plc trading as Abbey National mis-sold them a 
monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1995 to support 
their joint mortgage which was taken out in 1998.   
What happened
Mr N and Mrs N complained to this Service. They said they didnt need the Paymentcare PPI 
policy  particularly as the monthly benefit did not cover the monthly repayment for the 
mortgage. They had good employee benefits, savings and other insurance. So they 
conclude the PPI had been mis-sold.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld because it looked like they were 
offered an optional policy; it was suitable for their needs. He said the information might have 
been clearer, but they probably would have bought the PPI anyway.
Mr N and Mrs N disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked 
at again. 
The PPI only covered Mr N so I will sometimes only refer to him; but I will refer to Mr N and 
Mrs N where appropriate.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those set out in the PPI 
section in our website.
Having looked at the evidence, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ns and Mrs Ns complaint. I 
know this will be a disappointment to them, so Ill explain why. 
I first looked at whether Santander made Mr N and Mrs N aware the policy was optional. 
They said they felt pressured to buy the PPI. But Santander said consumers completed a 
separate application form for Paymentcare PPI around the time of this sale. As it was likely 
they completed a separate form, I can reasonably assume they didnt have to complete it at 
all and so could have declined PPI. So I think the PPI was most likely presented to them as 
an optional product and it was added to their account with their consent. I noted also that the 
policy was tailored to cover Mr N only, even though Mrs N was also working. And Santander 
said it had no record of an earlier mortgage, so it looks like the PPI was taken out a few 
years before the joint mortgage started. So I think they probably were aware PPI was 
optional and they consented to have it added to their account.  
Mr N and Mrs N said they felt pressured to buy the policy. However, they didnt tell me 
exactly what was said to them that day. I dont think I have enough evidence here to decide 
they were pressured to buy the policy. So I cant uphold the complaint for that reason.
Santander said the sale was advised. For advised sales, the policy had to be suitable for 
their needs. In this case, I think Mr N was eligible to buy the PPI, it seems the policy was 
affordable for him and he wasnt affected by the things the policy did not cover (the 
exclusions). So I think the policy was suitable for their needs.
Mr N said he was in full time employment and could get good employee benefits from his 
employers if he was off sick or couldnt work due to an accident; he had savings and other 
insurance cover to rely on if he couldnt make the monthly repayments.
However, having decided they wanted PPI and chose to have it, I think Mr N and Mrs N 
thought the policy provided a valuable benefit to them in addition to Mr Ns employee 
benefits, savings and other insurance. Mr N said the PPI did not cover the mortgage 
repayment. But I think the PPI was tailored to enhance his other funds and employee 
benefits. So I think the PPI could have paid out in addition to his employee benefits at a time 
when they might have needed it most  and leaving their other funds and insurances intact 
for other lifetime events. So I dont think their finances at the time of the sale made the policy 
unsuitable for them. 
Mr N said they could rely on their parents to help them. I do understand his point, but there 
was no guarantee that they could still rely on this help at some unknown point during the 
term of the mortgage. So I dont think this makes the policy unsuitable for them.
I also looked at whether Santander gave Mr N and Mrs N enough clear information about the 
policy. In respect of the cost and benefits, it isnt clear whether the documents set out the 
cost of the PPI  this is a potential shortcoming in the sale. But having said that, I dont know 
how the cost and benefits were actually explained to them in the meeting. So as Ive decided 
they chose to have PPI and that it was suitable and affordable for them, I dont think that 
having more detailed information about the cost and benefits would have put them off from 
taking out the policy.
It isnt clear if all the exclusions were brought to Mr Ns attention  this is another potential 
shortcoming in the sale. But as he wasnt affected by the main exclusions in the policy, I 
dont think he would have decided not to buy PPI even if hed been given a full list of the 
exclusions. 
Taking everything into account, I think they were aware PPI was optional and they 
consented to buy it. I think it that it was suitable for their circumstances and that they had 
enough clear information to make a decision about it. So Im not going to uphold this 
complaint.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman