DRN-3793618
The complaint
Miss M complains about the value that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited put on her 
car when she claimed on her motor insurance policy after she had an accident. Shes also 
dissatisfied with the time it took to deal with her claim.
What happened
Miss M has been represented in her complaint by her father. Miss M has a comprehensive 
motor insurance policy with Markerstudy. In mid-January 2022 she had an accident when 
she was driving and her car was damaged. She made a claim on her policy.
Just under six weeks after Miss Ms accident Markerstudy wrote to her to say it had received 
its engineers report, which concluded that her car was beyond economic repair -whats 
commonly referred to as a write-off. It said the engineers had set a pre-accident value of 
the car of £6,450. And it said it would pay Miss M that amount, minus the £300 policy 
excess, once she confirmed acceptance of the offer. 
Miss Ms father responded to Markerstudys offer, saying he and Miss M didnt want the car 
to be written off. They wanted it repaired, and they didnt want it taken anywhere until this 
question was resolved. And he said hed looked at a second-hand car trading website and 
concluded that Miss M would need £3,000 more than Markerstudy had offered her to buy a 
similar car, due to a sudden increase in the cost of cars. He forwarded details of adverts for 
cars hed found online which he said were the nearest he could find to Miss Ms car. He 
pointed out that Miss M had been without the use of a car since the accident. At the end of 
March 2022 Miss Ms father told Markerstudy that a replacement car was being bought for 
£10,200.
On 9 May Markerstudy wrote to Miss M apologising that its original valuation of £6,450 was 
lower than it should have been. It said it had arranged for a payment of £50 to be sent to 
Miss M to apologise for this. And it explained that based on the average of two leading motor 
industry guides, it valued her car at £7,029. It followed this up with a letter saying that it was 
sending Miss M a settlement payment of £6,729, which was the revised valuation minus the 
policy excess. And it explained that the car now became the underwriters property, and 
would be disposed of within 14 days.
Miss M says that her motor insurance policy states that Markerstudy will pay market 
value. But she says that the amount that its offered her is significantly below the true 
market value. She believes that the industry guides are out of date and dont reflect current 
prices of second-hand cars. And shes pointed to adverts for similar cars for sale at 
considerably higher prices than the amount Markerstudy has offered her. In the end, she 
says she had no choice but to buy the replacement car for £10,200. 
Miss M is also unhappy about Markerstudys handling of her claim. She says it took ten 
weeks for the car to be written off, and meanwhile she had no transport.
One of our investigators considered Miss Ms complaint and thought it should be upheld. 
She said, in summary, that she thought Markerstudy had acted reasonably in the way it 
handled Miss Ms claim. But she thought it should have placed a slightly higher valuation on 
the car. So she recommended that Markerstudy pay Miss M the difference between the 
amount it sent her and the amount the investigator thought it should have settled the claim 
for.
Miss M didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role isnt to place a value on Miss Ms car. Instead, I need to decide whether 
Markerstudys settlement figure is within a fair and reasonable range and in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy. So my starting point is to look at the policy wording.
The policy provided that Markerstudy wouldnt pay more than the market value of the vehicle 
at the time of loss. This is a term we see in most motor insurance policies.
Market Value is defined in the policy document as:
The cost of replacing the insured vehicle at the time of loss or damage compared 
with one of the same make, model, specification and condition. The market value 
will be assessed by an automotive engineer in conjunction with the published trade 
guides at the time of loss.
Establishing the replacement cost of a vehicle isnt an exact science. Its usually possible 
to find adverts for cars for sale for a significantly higher price than someone would actually 
have to pay if they shopped around.
Our usual approach to complaints about valuations of cars is to look at motor trade guides 
for valuing second-hand cars. We find these guides persuasive because their valuations 
are based on extensive nationwide research into likely selling prices. The guides refer to 
advertised and auction prices to work out what the likely selling price for the same vehicle 
would be. They take into account all the specifications of the car, as well as mileage and 
any extras. If any guides price is significantly higher or lower than the others, we may think 
its reasonable to ignore it.
Markerstudy obtained the following valuations from two of the trade guides our service 
typically relies on. Im satisfied that the valuations were based on the correct car model, 
date of loss and mileage. The valuations Markerstudy obtained were:
£6,863: Cazana (now Cazoo)
£7,195: CAP
The figure it offered Miss M was the average of those two figures: £7,029.
Consumers sometimes say the amount theyve been paid is unfair because theyve seen 
similar cars advertised at higher prices. But we dont normally place as much weight on 
adverts to decide whether a valuation is fair. This is because the advertised prices are 
asking prices. They often mark the starting point of a negotiation, and are what the seller 
would like to achieve, rather than the price the car ultimately sells for.Wed generally expect an insurer to provide us with full copies of its valuations. As 
Markerstudy didnt do so, our investigator ran the valuations again. As well as using the 
two guides that Markerstudy used, she ran a valuation using a third guide that wed 
normally use - AutoTrader. AutoTrader has access to actual selling prices due to how it 
obtains its data, although it uses advertised prices where it hasnt been provided with the 
actual sales figure. The investigators valuations were:
£7,448: Cazoo (formerly Cazana)
£7,195: CAP
£7,652: Autotrader
While the Autotrader valuation is the highest of the three, it isnt significantly out of step 
with the others. And I consider that £7,432  the average of the three valuations that the 
adjudicator obtained is a fair and reasonable value to put on Miss Ms car.
I can understand that it was inconvenient to Miss M not to have a car while her claim was 
being processed. But less than six weeks passed between the accident and Markerstudy 
informing Miss M that her car was a write-off and offering to settle her claim. And having 
looked at Markerstudys internal records, Im satisfied that it made a reasonable effort to 
resolve Miss Ms claim as quickly as possible. 
I acknowledge that Markerstudy accepted that its initial offer was too low. But since Miss M 
wasnt satisfied either with Markerstudys revised offer or with the higher figure that our 
investigator suggested, Im not persuaded that this caused Miss M any additional 
inconvenience. In the end, Miss M wasnt satisfied with Markerstudys valuation, and 
although I agree with the investigator that Markerstudy should pay Miss M a little more than 
it offered, that amount is still considerably less than Miss M believes Markerstudy should 
offer her.
Putting things right
To put things right, Markerstudy should:
pay Miss M £403 in addition to the amount its already paid her in settlement of her 
claim;
add 8% simple interest per year to that additional payment, calculated from the date 
of the initial settlement to the date the additional payment is made.
If Markerstudy considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from this interest, it should tell Miss M how much its taken off. It should also give Miss M a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so that she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Markerstudy Insurance Company 
Limited to put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 Juliet Collins
Ombudsman