DRN-3813032
The complaint
Miss M complains about Santander UK Plc.
She says that Santander didnt do enough to protect her when she became the victim of a 
scam and would like it to refund her the money she has lost.
What happened
In April 2022, Miss M was approached by someone through the social network Telegram 
with an offer for earning extra money by completing missions. 
She was persuaded to part with money buy purchasing cryptocurrency in order to fund her 
account and complete the missions.
In total, Miss M paid a total of £1,797.11 from her Santander account. 
However, Miss M then realised it was a scam when the person who contacted her began to 
apply pressure for Miss M to pay more and more money, eventually blackmailing her.
Miss M complained to Santander, but it didnt uphold her complaint. 
Unhappy, she brought her complaint to this Service. Our Investigator considered things but 
didnt think that the complaint should be upheld.
Miss M asked for an Ombudsman to consider the complaint, so it has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint for broadly the same reasons 
as our Investigator. I know that this will be disappointing for Miss M, so Ill explain why.
It isnt in dispute here that Miss M has been the victim of a scam  the actions of the 
individual that contacted her are not those of a reputable company, and I know that this has 
been a highly distressing incident for Miss M, and I am very sorry to hear what she has been 
through.
Did Miss M authorise the payments?
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Miss M isnt liable for payments 
she didnt authorise, unless she failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the 
terms of the account or keep her personalised security details safe. Accordingly, Ive 
considered whether Miss M authorised the payments in question here.
Having done so, Im satisfied that Miss M did authorise the payments in question here. They 
were made by her using her debit card and Apple Pay. I understand that Miss M had been 
tricked by the scammer into instructing Santander to make the payments  but while Miss M 
never intended the payments to go to the scammer, this doesnt change the fact that she 
authorised them and is therefore presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Recovery of the payments Miss M made
After the payments were made, I wouldnt reasonably expect Santander to do anything 
further until it had been notified there was a scam. 
The only recourse for potential recovery of the funds for the payments would be via the 
chargeback scheme. Chargeback is a process by which disputes are resolved between card 
issuers (here, Santander) and the merchant (here, C).
However, a chargeback in these circumstances would likely never have been successful. 
This is because C is a legitimate crypto exchange and provided the services that Miss M had 
requested of it  the purchase of crypto. The subsequent transfer of the crypto to a wallet of 
Miss Ms choosing is therefore a separate matter  and so I dont think that these payments 
were recoverable once they had been made.
Should Santander have reasonably prevented the payments in the first place?
I can only uphold this complaint if I think that Santander reasonably ought to have prevented 
some or all of the payments Miss M made in the first place  therefore preventing the loss 
before it happened.
Miss M authorised the scam payments in question here  so as Ive explained above, she is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, Santander should have taken proactive 
steps to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a 
balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to 
act in their customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every 
transaction.
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider
Santander should fairly and reasonably:
Been monitoring accounts  including payments made and received  to counter 
various risks including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, Ive carefully considered what this means for Miss M and the payments in question here.Miss M made a total of six payments from her Santander account as part of the scam  
however, the individual transactions were not particularly large  and they would not have 
stood out to Santander as unusual or uncharacteristic when considering Miss Ms normal 
account activity. And while I understand that the payments were going to a crypto exchange, 
not all such payments are as a result of a scam.
So, I am not persuaded that Santander should have been triggered into taking any action or 
been obliged to contact Miss M before processing the payments. And Im satisfied that it 
didnt miss an opportunity to prevent the payments from being made.
I do have a great deal of sympathy for the situation Miss M finds herself in  she has lost 
money from her Santander account, and I know that she continued to pay more money from 
elsewhere too. It has obviously been very distressing for her. 
However, the loss that he has suffered is ultimately caused by the scammers themselves  
not Santander. And I cant ask Santander to refund this loss to Miss M when I dont think that 
it has done anything wrong.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman