DRN-3090607
The complaint
Ms K complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc didnt provide alternative accommodation when 
she made a claim on the property insurance that covers her flat. 
What happened
Ms K owns a flat in a block. The management company of the building holds an insurance 
policy for the block which is provided by AXA. In December 2020 there was water ingress at 
the block that affected three flats, including Ms Ks. Her flat was badly damaged, and this left 
her without heating or electricity. She made a claim on the policy and requested alternative 
accommodation, due to her living conditions. 
In January 2021 AXA said it wouldnt provide alternative accommodation as Ms K also had 
contents insurance, and this wasnt provided where there was alternative cover elsewhere. It 
also said it hadnt validated the claim so hadnt yet determined if the cause of the problem 
was covered by the policy.  
At the end of January the problem causing the water ingress was resolved. Ms K made a 
complaint to AXA. She said she had been forced to live in unfit conditions and this had made 
her existing health conditions worse. She also said she had been told she could move into 
alternative accommodation for one weekend, but was called while she was there to say this 
wouldnt be paid for and so she had to return home. She thought AXA should pay for the 
alternative accommodation she should have had for the month before the problem was fixed.
AXA didnt uphold her complaint. It said that as she had alternative accommodation included 
in her contents insurance, cover wouldnt apply on her policy with AXA. It also said it 
wouldnt offer alternative accommodation before it had accepted liability for a claim, and this 
took some time.  
Ms K didnt think this was fair and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She 
thought AXA hadnt acted fairly by not offering alternative accommodation, as the flat was 
uninhabitable. And she didnt think it was reasonable for AXA to apply the policy term 
relating to alternative cover, as contents insurance would only provide alternative 
accommodation where the damage had been caused by contents and this wasnt the case 
here. She thought AXA should pay £1,250 compensation to make up for the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused Ms K. She also recommended AXA pay for the accommodation 
Ms K stayed in for the weekend, on receipt of an invoice for the amount. 
Ms K accepted our investigators opinion, however AXA didnt. It said it hadnt received 
confirmation from Ms Ks contents insurer that a claim for alternative accommodation had 
been declined, so it thought Ms K should have pursued a claim with that insurer. Further it 
said that at the point it closed its file Ms K hadnt had the repairs to her flat carried out, so it 
didnt agree that the damage made her flat uninhabitable or she would have acted sooner. It 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA has provided two main reasons why it didnt provide alternative accommodation for Ms 
K. I have considered each in turn to decide if it acted fairly and reasonably. 
Cover provided elsewhere
Under the alternative accommodation cover in the policy it states that the benefit will be in 
place Provided that this cover is not insured elsewhere. So I agree AXA wouldnt be liable 
to pay for alternative accommodation if Ms K had this cover as part of another policy.
Ms K has a contents insurance policy with a different insurer. This provides alternative 
accommodation where there is a claim under that policy. However this would usually only be 
provided on a contents insurance policy where the damage that made the property 
uninhabitable was caused by an item that was covered under that policy  for example a 
leak from a dishwasher. 
The water ingress at the building was caused by a problem with the building and not the 
contents. And this isnt disputed by AXA. Therefore cover for alternative accommodation 
wouldnt generally be offered under a contents policy. So I dont think its fair for AXA to 
apply this policy condition in this instance. 
Further Ms K has provided confirmation from her contents insurer that the claim wouldnt be 
covered by them for this reason. So Im satisfied that Ms K didnt have the opportunity to 
claim on a different insurance policy.
I therefore dont think AXA has acted fairly by applying this policy condition. 
Liability hadnt been accepted
AXA has also said that alternative accommodation would only be offered where liability has 
been accepted under the policy. Under the relevant section, the policy states: This cover will 
only apply where we have made a payment or accepted liability under this section.
AXA has said it took some time to consider the cause of the damage and whether it would 
be covered under the policy, and during this time alternative accommodation wouldnt be 
covered.
While I agree the policy terms only provide for alternative accommodation once a claim has 
been accepted, I also have to consider whats fair and reasonable. 
Ms K has explained that due to the water ingress she had no hot water or electricity from the 
date the issue began at the end of December until it was rectified at the end of January. This 
meant she couldnt have a hot bath or use of central heating throughout one of the coldest 
months of the year. She has also explained that she has an ongoing health issue which has 
worsened due to the circumstances. And she has developed further health issues during this 
time. 
Based on this Im satisfied that the flat wasnt habitable during this time. And it took much 
longer for AXA to establish liability than I would expect for a claim of this nature  over a 
month. Due to this I dont think AXA acted fairly and reasonably by declining to offer Ms K 
alternative accommodation during this time. Especially considering the length of time it took to determine the cause of the damage and establish liability, which meant Ms K had to live in 
unsuitable conditions for a significant period of time.
Putting things right
As I dont think AXA treated Ms K fairly and reasonably, I need to consider what it should do 
to put things right. Ms K has described the distress the situation has caused her. She said 
she had to live by candlelight and was unable to bath or shower properly during that time. 
She says this had a big impact on her health and wellbeing. 
Considering the claim occurred during the winter months, this would have been particularly 
distressing as it would be when her heating and hot water would be most needed. Further 
Ms K has explained the various health conditions she has that she feels have worsened and 
developed because of the conditions. While it is difficult to be certain of the underlying cause 
of health conditions, I dont doubt that a month in the conditions she has described will have 
had some impact on her health and wellbeing. And that this would have been a distressing 
experience.
For these reasons I agree with our investigator that AXA should pay Ms K £1,250 
compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
Finally, Ms K has said she arranged alternative accommodation for a weekend during this 
time, but returned when she found AXA wouldnt pay for it. Its unclear who told Ms K that 
this would be paid for, it seems AXA accept there was a miscommunication internally. 
However, if Ms K can provide an invoice for the stay I think its reasonable that AXA cover 
the cost of the accommodation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Ms Ks complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Pay Ms K £1,250 compensation.
Pay for the alternative accommodation Ms K booked for one weekend, on receipt of an 
invoice for the amount. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman