DRN-3233680
The complaint
Mr M complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE unfairly declined his personal accident 
claim.
What happened
Mr M had an accident whilst riding his motorbike. He suffered a fractured ankle which 
required surgery and a stay in hospital, and he made a claim for the following benefits on his 
personal accident policy  permanent total disablement, inpatient hospitalisation, 
physiotherapy, and stress counselling. 
Great Lakes considered Mr Ms claim. It said there wasnt evidence of him having suffered a 
permanent total disablement, so he wasnt eligible for that benefit, which was a maximum of 
£25,000. But it did say he was eligible for the inpatient hospitalisation benefit, which it 
calculated to be £700. And that hed be eligible for the £500 physiotherapy and £500 stress 
counselling benefits too, subject to him providing confirmation of any appointments and 
payments made.    
Mr M complained. He said the evidence did support him having suffered a permanent total 
disablement. However, to try and resolve matters, Mr M said hed be willing to accept 50% of 
the permanent total disablement benefit, a total of £12,500. He also said he should get £800 
towards inpatient hospitalisation, and the physiotherapy and counselling benefits should be 
paid to him in advance of any such treatment taking place.
Great Lakes maintained its position, so Mr M referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the available evidence supported Mr M as having suffered a 
permanent total disablement. They said Great Lakes decline of that benefit was fair. They 
also said Great Lakes calculation of the hospitalisation benefit was fair, and it wasnt 
unreasonable of it to have asked Mr M to evidence his claim for the physiotherapy and 
stress counselling benefits. 
Mr M agreed with our investigators opinion on the £700 for the inpatient hospitalisation 
benefit. But he disagreed with their opinion on his eligibility for the remaining benefits and 
reiterated his concerns about matters. So as no agreement was reached at that stage, the 
matter was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will not be upholding this complaint for largely the same reasons as our 
investigator and will explain why.
In line with the relevant rules and regulations, Great Lakes must handle claims both promptly 
and fairly, and it must not reject them unreasonably.
The hospitalisation benefit aspect of this complaint is no longer in dispute, so I will not 
address it any further. However, for the avoidance of doubt, I too think Great Lakes 
calculation was fair and in line with the relevant policy terms.
Turning to the permanent total disablement, both parties are aware that a maximum of 
£25,000 is available towards this benefit. The terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy define 
permanent total disablement as meaning:
Disablement which entirely prevents you from working in any business or occupation of any 
kind and every kind and which after a period of 12 months from the date of disablement, is in 
the opinion of a medical practitioner, shows no signs of ever improving.
Great Lakes have said that the available medical evidence doesnt satisfy the above 
definition, and although I know Mr M disagrees with this, I dont think Great Lakes position is 
unreasonable.
Following Mr Ms accident and subsequent surgery, a Consultant Orthopaedic Surgeon 
wrote a letter to confirm theyd reviewed Mr M in a fracture clinic. This letter was dated 
22 July 2020 and confirmed Mr Ms surgery had gone well. It reported Mr Ms wounds had 
healed nicely, and although the consultant noted the risks associated with the type of injury 
Mr M had sustained, no reference to those risks having actually happened to Mr M was 
made. No mention of Mr M being entirely prevented from working because of his injury was 
made either.
A Staff Grade Orthopaedic Surgeon wrote a separate letter dated 12 August 2020 which set 
out that Mr M was walking comfortably. The letter said Mr M was getting intermittent pain 
over his fracture site, but an X-ray had shown the screws in his ankle to be in a satisfactory 
position with no loosening or callus formation. 
Within this letter, the surgeon also explained that Mr M had been advised to avoid contact 
games and would be reviewed in six months. But again, no mention of being entirely 
prevented from working was made and Mr M was noted as having made progress.
The Consultant Orthopaedic Surgeon wrote another letter dated 9 September 2020, which 
said Mr M had continued to make good progress and had been weightbearing for the past 
couple of weeks. The consultant explained theyd advised Mr M to wean out of the boot and 
crutches hed been given. And although they once again referred to the risks that could 
come from the type of injury Mr M had sustained, no mention was made of Mr M being 
entirely prevented from working because of it. 
Mr M has kindly provided this service with another letter which says he was unable to take 
up a job offer. But Im not persuaded this is evidence of him being prevented from working in 
any business or occupation, of any kind and every kind, because of what happened. I do 
appreciate Mr M taking the time to obtain this letter, the role being offered was clearly 
important to him, and I acknowledge the understandable disappointment he would have 
faced at not being able to take it up.
The findings I have made above are in no way intended to take away from the impact that 
matters have had on Mr M. Its clear from reviewing this complaint that Mr M sustained a 
nasty injury and continued to face some difficulties as a result of it. But I dont think the 
collective evidence in this complaint demonstrates that Mr M was prevented from working in 
any business or occupation of any kind and every kind. Nor do I think it demonstrates that 
Mr M suffered a disablement which showed no signs of ever improving. 
Because of that, I think Great Lakes decline of the permanent total disablement benefit was reasonable, and in line with the relevant policy terms. 
I appreciate that Mr M thinks Great Lakes position on the physiotherapy and stress 
counselling benefits is also unfair  in that hell need to provide evidence of such 
appointments and payments towards these taking place first  but I dont think it is.
Mr M has explained that he wants the two lots of £500 paid to him, upfront, so that he can 
decide when the time is right for him to seek physiotherapy and/or counselling without being 
pressured into doing so. Aside from Mr Ms testimony Ive seen no evidence of Great Lakes 
pressuring Mr M in anyway, but it isnt unusual for an insurer to require a policy holder to 
evidence their claim before paying a benefit.
The terms of Mr Ms policy explain that Great Lakes will pay up to £500 for up to five 
sessions of physiotherapy with a qualified professional, and the same again for up to five 
sessions of stress counselling with a qualified professional. But there is no evidence of Mr M 
having received any such treatment. And Im not persuaded itd be fair of me to direct Great 
Lakes to pay these benefits to Mr M upfront, and without any evidence of what has taken 
place. 
So again, I dont think Great Lakes position here is unreasonable either and I will not be 
directing it to pay the physiotherapy or stress counselling benefit without the evidence it has 
requested from Mr M. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman