DRN-3587083
The complaint
Ms Ps complaint is about her private medical insurance policy with AXA PPP Healthcare 
Limited.
What happened
Ms P held a private health insurance policy with AXA since April 2019. It was taken out on a 
moratorium basis. This meant that Ms P didnt have cover for claims relating to pre-existing 
conditions that shed had in the five years before taking out the policy  until shed had a 
period of two years in a row, since joining, that shed been trouble free from that condition.
Ms P got a GP referral to see a dermatologist in April 2021 due to a skin lesion. The 
suspected diagnosis was either a skin lesion, keratosis or basal cell carcinoma. Ms P had 
previously been treated for basal cell carcinoma. 
AXA authorised Ms P to see a dermatologist on 27 April 2021. AXA confirmed to Ms P that 
the clinic she wanted to use wasnt covered by the policy. So, if she chose to have treatment 
at that clinic, shed have to pay for it herself.
AXA offered Ms P the following options:
A fully covered specialist at a local hospital, but they didnt have availability in 
May 2021. AXA said it could ask the hospital to get in touch with Ms P when it knew 
the specialists availability for June 2021  the hospital was still waiting for this 
information.
AXAs cancer check service, but the nearest appointment was 60 miles away.
Another specialist Ms P had mentioned, but AXA would only cover 60% of their fees 
as per the policy terms. AXA noted this specialist didnt have availability until 
August 2021.
Ms P could use the NHS instead, and not make a claim on her policy.
Ms P wasnt happy that shed been paying premiums for a service she didnt feel she 
received. She didnt think AXA had treated her fairly. Additionally, Ms P also wasnt happy 
that AXA hadnt told her that her physiotherapy treatment wasnt covered as soon as it had 
enough information to do so, causing her unnecessary inconvenience.
AXA has said, in summary, that it has followed the terms and conditions of Ms Ps policy, 
and it has tried to offer Ms P options  but specialist availability was outside of its control. 
AXA also acknowledged that it wouldve been helpful if it had let Ms P know earlier that it 
was unlikely the physiotherapy would be covered  but it wouldve still offered Ms P the 
opportunity to send further information for a full claim review. Overall, AXA paid Ms P £250 
in compensation for the delays shed encountered.
Unhappy with AXAs position, Ms P brought a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. Overall, he didnt think AXA needed to do 
anything else to put things right. He thought the £250 fairly compensated Ms P for any 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Ms P didnt agree with our investigators findings. She remained unhappy that shed paid a 
premium for a service that wasnt available. Ms P also pointed out that the compensation 
AXA paid were for the issues around the claim for physiotherapy. As no agreement was 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator say insurers must handle claims fairly and shouldnt 
unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when making my decision 
about Ms Ps complaint. 
I accept that Ms P wouldve wanted her skin lesion checked as soon as possible, especially 
given her previous medical history. And she was understandably disappointed that AXA 
couldnt source an appointment for her within the time she was able to find one herself  or 
pay for the one she attended.
Firstly, Im satisfied AXA acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. These say 
that AXA will only cover in full Health For You specialist fees, or 60% fees of a different 
specialist whos still recognised by AXA. But Ms P didnt see a specialist that was recognised 
by AXA. 
Ms P says that AXA didnt provide her a service she paid for. But Im persuaded that AXA 
acted fairly and reasonably in authorising Ms Ps claim, and in attempting to find her an 
available specialist. Its unfortunate that specialists covered by AXA werent available until at 
least June 2021, but I think this was outside of AXAs control. However, AXA did also offer 
Ms P other options, but instead, she chose to see a consultant she knew wasnt covered. 
Ms Ps contract with AXA doesnt guarantee her immediate access to private medical 
treatment. Im satisfied that Ms Ps claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of her 
policy with AXA, and that AXA hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining her claim.
AXA has acknowledged that it couldve done more to tell Ms P earlier that her physiotherapy 
wouldnt be covered as the consultant wasnt covered under the policy  saving Ms P from 
having to gather more information for a claim. But I can also see that AXA said it would 
consider Ms Ps claim for physiotherapy even though shed already had the treatment, 
without GP referral and without getting in touch with AXA in advance to pre-authorise the 
treatment. So, Ms P hadnt followed the terms of the policy in making a claim. 
Based on the information Ive seen, Im satisfied the physiotherapist wasnt covered by AXA 
at the time Ms P had the treatment. And the policy terms state that if the policyholder uses a 
physiotherapist that AXA doesnt recognise, it wont pay for the treatment. So, I dont think 
AXA acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining the physiotherapy claim.
Overall, AXA has offered Ms P £250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused due to the delays shed encountered. When considering whats fair and reasonable 
compensation in a complaint, we take into account everything that has happened. Having 
done so, I think the compensation AXA has offered is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms Ps complaint. I dont think theres anything else it needs to do, to put 
things right.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint about AXA PPP Healthcare Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman