DRN-3953755
The complaint
Mrs P complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds (Advantage) handling of
her claim and poor-quality repairs to her car, under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs Ps car was damaged in 2020 and repairs were arranged by Advantage under her
insurance policy. This was subject to a complaint that was referred to our service. The
complaint was upheld. Since this time Mrs P has raised concerns with the quality of the
original repairs. She says this has resulted in fault lights displaying on her dashboard
concerning the passenger side airbag. She also says requested documents werent
provided.
Mrs P says that in December 2021 an airbag warning light came on her dashboard. Shed
experienced a similar issue several times previously, following the repairs carried out in
2020. Mrs P contacted Advantage and its appointed repairer collected her car and a
replacement vehicle was provided. She explains that she had two children with her at the
time and it took several hours for this to be arranged.
Mrs P raised a complaint through our service. She wasnt satisfied with the time taken by
Advantage to deal with the problem and its poor communication. She says Advantage told
her the car would be sent for repairs at the main dealer, but this didnt happen.
Advantage arranged for a repair to be carried out. In its complaint response it says
diagnostics showed the problem was an intermittent wiring issue that wasnt related to the
damage repairs in 2020. Although repairs were carried out it says this isnt something
covered by Mrs Ps policy.
Shortly after the repairs were completed the same fault light reappeared. Mrs P is concerned
that her car maybe unsafe to drive. In addition, she hasnt received the diagnostic
information she requested. As Mrs P wasnt satisfied with Advantages response, she
referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator says the repairs Advantage carried out shouldnt have failed so quickly
resulting in the airbag fault light coming on again. She thought it should arrange for the issue
to be resolved. In addition, she thought Advantage should pay £150 compensation to Mrs P
because it failed to provide the information she requested, and because it didnt guarantee
its repairs.
Advantage disagreed. It says it isnt liable for any future repairs for the airbag fault light
issue. It says although it carried out repairs, this was to help Mrs P. If the issue had been
identified at the time of the original repairs in 2020, it wouldnt have been covered at all.
Because an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to
decide.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2022 explaining that I was intending to partially 
uphold Mrs Ps complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My remit here is to consider the concerns raised about the airbag fault light from the time this
occurred in December 2021. Im not able to consider any of the issues dealt with in Mrs Ps
earlier complaint in my decision. Similarly, I cant consider issues that occurred after
Advantage provided its final complaint response.
It must have been upsetting for Mrs P when the airbag fault light came on. Particularly when
she had two young children with her in the car. It must also have been frustrating to discover
a fault she thought had been fixed, hadnt been.
Having reviewed the records Advantage provided, I can see that it took around three hours
for Mrs Ps car to be collected. She says that she had to arrange for a lift for herself and her
two children before this happened, due to the time it took.
Advantage says Mrs P called at 4.30pm on 22 December 2021. It apologised for the delay in
collecting he car. But says its repairer needed some time to organise this. I understand Mrs
Ps car was collected at around 7.30pm. I sympathise with the situation Mrs P found herself
in. I think its fair that Advantage offered an apology that the car couldnt be collected more
quickly. But I dont think it needs to do more in response to this point.
I can see that Mrs P was provided with a replacement vehicle whilst investigations and
repairs were ongoing to her car. I think this was reasonable to ensure that Mrs P had
transport available.
Ive read the diagnostic report that was obtained by Advantages repairer. This is dated in
March 2022. It confirms the diagnostics were carried out at Mrs Ps home address. The
report says there were numerous electrical faults recorded. It suggests that further in-depth
investigations were required. The engineer reported that Mrs P pointed to a particular airbag
fault that was showing intermittently.
The diagnostic report says the fault was due to an inconsistent feed in the wire on the
Supplemental Restraint System (SRS) wiring. I understand the SRS wiring is part of the
airbag system. The report says that advanced testing/diagnostics need to be done to clarify
the problem. But it was suspected that this lies with the condition of a wire due to stretching,
heating, or tension which can only be pinpointed with, more advanced testing.
Mrs Ps car was subsequently collected by Advantages repairer, and further testing was
carried out. Ive seen another report that was produced by the repairer the following week.
This report says when the wiring beneath the drivers seat was moved towards the centre
tunnel, this caused the airbag light to come on. Work was carried out to strip the drivers seat
and a chaffed wire was found. Repairs were carried out to the wiring harness to fix the
issue, which was on the SRS wiring loop under the drivers seat. The report says the
damage was the result of wear and tear.
The repairers report says this is a common issue for this make of car. It explains that when
the front seats are moved forwards and backwards, this eventually wears through the wiring
harness over a number of years. The report says when vehicles get to a certain age, theycan start to suffer intermittent problems. In these cases, it says, a section SRS wiring
harness replacement is usually the cure. But the repairer says that for Mrs Ps car, its
possible the SRS wiring harness isnt serviced anymore  so the only option is to repair it.
The report concludes to say a vehicle with this issue can be fine for a while until another
piece of the SRS wiring, under wear and tear, develops a fault somewhere else.
Ive thought about Mrs Ps view that the repairs that were carried out in 2020 are related to
the current issue with the airbag fault warning. She says the code that is showing is exactly
the same now as it was previously. Mrs P says she has sought advice from an independent
car electrician. She was told if the fault was originally repaired it would not continue to show
as a fault.
Ive also read the correspondence Mrs P received in July 2021. This says a new wiring loom
has been fitted to her vehicle. This involved the interior of her car being removed including
the seats and dash trims. The work is described as labour intensive and that it took several
days. I asked Advantage if the wiring loom replacement included the SRS wiring system,
that is described in the later diagnostic report from March 2022. In its response, Advantage
says the SRS system wasnt replaced.
Im not an expert in this area and so I must rely on the opinion of those who are. Advantage
has provided an expert opinion that says the airbag warning light is showing because of an
issue caused by wear and tear, which is due to the vehicles age. This isnt thought to be
related to the damage caused in the accident or by the repairs. The expert says intermittent
problems can continue to be experienced with the SRS wiring loop. Meaning that even
though Advantages repairer carried out a repair to a damaged wire, the problem can re-
appear in a different place.
Ive read Mrs Ps policy terms to understand what cover is available. The terms say:
Youre not covered for:
Wear and tear, deterioration, depreciation, or any loss or damage that happens gradually.
If the problem with the SRS wiring loop was caused by the accident or by the repairs
Advantage arranged, then Advantage would be responsible for resolving the problem. But I
havent seen evidence that shows the damage was caused in this way. Advantages
engineer says the fault is the result of wear and tear over time. I think its reasonable that the
damaged wire Advantages repairer found was fixed. But I cant say that its responsible,
under the terms of Mrs Ps policy, for the damaged SRS wiring loop as this wasnt something
caused by the accident.
Similarly, it hasnt been shown that the repair to the damaged wire failed, causing the airbag
light to come on again. The indication is that another fault has occurred elsewhere on the
SRS wiring, due to a gradual cause of wear and tear.
Mrs P raised further concerns that Advantage didnt provide paperwork relating to the initial
repairs. And that it agreed to send her car to the main dealer, but this didnt happen. She
also didnt think the wiring loom had been replaced and felt Advantage should be
responsible if her car failed its next MOT due to the fault light.
Advantage consented for these issues to be included within this complaint. So, I can
consider them here. I can see from the records that Mrs P did ask for all paperwork relating
to the repairs. I dont think this was an unreasonable request. Particularly as there were
ongoing problems that Mrs P wanted to understand and have resolved. Advantage
acknowledges it didnt send this information. But says it did carry out a repair Mrs P wasntentitled to under her policy.
Having considered this point, this information shouldve been provided when requested.
Advantage should ensure all relevant paperwork is now provided. This may aid Mrs P in
arranging future repairs with the SRS wiring issue highlighted by Advantages repairer.
The records show Advantage did intend sending Mrs Ps car to the main dealer for
investigations into the fault light issue. I can see it emailed Mrs P to let her know its
intentions. We asked it why this didnt happen. Advantage says this wasnt necessary as its
repairer found the source of the problem with the SRS wiring loop.
I can understand why Mrs P was keen for her car to be sent to the main dealer. But
ultimately Advantage did diagnose the cause of the problem. This wasnt something caused
by the accident or its repairs. This wasnt Advantages responsibility. So, I dont think
involving the main dealer was necessary. That said, communication with Mrs P wasnt clear
around this point, which was confusing and caused frustration.
Advantage confirms that the wiring loom was replaced. The records provided indicate that
this was the case. This includes several messages sent to Mrs P in July 2021 confirming this
work was being undertaken. Advantage has clarified that this didnt include the SRS wiring
loop, which is thought to be the source of the intermitted airbag fault light. But Im satisfied
that the wiring loom was replaced as agreed.
In a recent submission to our service, Advantage has shown Mrs Ps car passed an MOT in
November 2022 with no mention of the airbag fault. Should there be issues going forward I
dont think Advantage is responsible for arranging repairs for the reasons I have given.
In summary, I dont think Advantage is responsible for the wiring fault, so I dont think it
behaved unfairly in declining to carry out further repairs. It didnt treat Mrs P fairly in not
providing the paperwork she requested, which it should now ensure is provided. Its also
apparent that communication wasnt of a good standard in relation to the main dealers
involvement. To acknowledge these points Advantage should pay Mrs P £150 compensation
for the frustration, upset, and inconvenience it caused her.
I said I was intending to partially uphold this complaint and that Advantage should:
provide copies of all relevant paperwork relating to the repair and investigation work it
carried out on Mrs Ps car; and
pay Mrs P £150 compensation for the frustration, upset, and inconvenience it
caused.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Advantage responded to say wiring loom repairs were completed in 2021 not 2020. It also 
thinks £150 compensation is too high. It says the documents it didnt supply wouldnt have 
changed the outcome regarding the repairs. It adds that it carried out work that wasnt 
covered by Mrs Ps policy free of charge. 
Mrs P responded to say her warning light came on in 2020 as soon as she had collected her 
car. Not in 2021. She says this is regarding the same wiring issue and doesnt agree with 
Advantage that the issues are unrelated. She also says no repairs were carried out on her 
car in 2022 as stated in the provisional decision. Mrs P doesnt think the expert opinions considered are independent as they either work for 
Advantage or it appoints them. She says Advantage accepted liability as the warning light 
wasnt an issue until it was damaged whilst the car was in its care in 2020. Mrs P also says 
that all work shouldve been carried out under warranty. 
Mrs P says the provisional decision refers to the wiring loom being replaced, but earlier in 
the decision it says it wasnt replaced. She also says her car passed its MOT - only because 
the fault is intermittent. She says the warning light wasnt on at the time of the inspection, 
which was down to good fortune. 
Mrs P concludes her further comments to ask what she should do when Advantage doesnt 
provide the paperwork she requested.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill respond to the further comments provided by both parties. But having considered this 
information my decision hasnt changed. 
I acknowledge the date of repairs to the wiring loom highlighted by Advantage. I dont 
disagree with this, which is as described in my provisional decision. This doesnt impact on 
my findings. 
Ive thought about Advantages view that £150 compensation is excessive. Specifically, 
around its comments that the missing information wouldnt have an impact on the repair 
issue. In my provisional decision I said Mrs Ps information request was reasonable and 
shouldve been responded to at the time. I havent changed my view of this as a result of 
Advantages further comments. Mrs P wanted this information to understand the situation 
more fully in relation to the issue with her car and the repairs that were required. I also 
highlighted the communication failings regarding the involvement of the main dealer. 
I think its reasonable for Advantage to compensate Mrs P for these issues. I think £150 is 
fair.  
I acknowledge Mrs Ps comments about when the warning light first showed in 2020. I dont 
dispute this. But I cant see that my provisional decision contradicts this point. Again, I dont 
think this has an impact on my findings. I understand Mrs Ps view that the wiring issue is 
related to the repairs Advantage arranged. However, a detailed explanation has been 
provided by an expert to show where the problem lies. This is with the SRS wiring loop. Im 
satisfied that this isnt something Advantage is responsible for.
I note Mrs Ps reference to no repairs having been carried out in 2022. I dont dispute her 
comments but again I cant see that this point is contradicted in my provisional decision. I 
understand Mrs Ps view of the opinions provided by Advantages engineers. But I have no 
reason to doubt the veracity of the opinions provided. 
I acknowledge Mrs Ps comments that Advantage carried out a number of repair attempts. 
She asks why this was done if it didnt think it was at fault for the damage. 
Advantage has provided persuasive expert opinion to show the issue Mrs P refers to is 
caused by wear and tear. This isnt Advantages responsibility to repair. A repair was carried 
out as a goodwill gesture. But Im not persuaded that it needs to do more with respect to this 
point. I note Mrs Ps reference to work being carried out under warranty. This point is discussed in 
my provisional decision. The reason for the intermittent fault has been made clear. Further 
faults are likely to occur. I dont think its been shown that the repair to the damaged wire has 
failed. Rather the expert opinion is that this has likely failed in another place.   
Mrs P refers to a contradiction as to whether a wiring loom was replaced, or not, in my 
provisional decision. Advantage confirms the wiring loom was replaced. I cant see where I 
said otherwise in my provisional decision. This is different to the SRS wiring loop, which isnt 
something that was included in the replacement. 
I note Mrs Ps comments that her car passing an MOT was due to good fortune. However, I 
dont think Advantage is responsible for the intermittent warning light issue. Im sorry Mrs P 
has this ongoing issue with her car. But Im not persuaded that a change to my provisional 
decision is warranted, as it isnt Advantages responsibility to resolve this issue. 
If Mrs P accepts my final decision Advantage will be required to provide copies of all relevant 
paperwork relating to its repair and investigation work. I think this is fair. I note her view that 
the business may not comply with this requirement. But I cant comment on something that 
hasnt happened. Im sorry Mrs P is disappointed with my findings, but I havent seen reason 
to change my decision as a result of the further comments provided by either her or 
Advantage.    
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs Ps 
complaint in part. Advantage Insurance Company Limited should:
provide copies of all relevant paperwork relating to the repair and investigation work it
carried out on Mrs Ps car; and
pay Mrs P £150 compensation for the frustration, upset, and inconvenience it
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman