DRN-1094315
 
The complaint
Ms R and Mr A complain that Santander UK Plc blocked the wrong debit card on their joint 
account, and thereby allowed money to be withdrawn from the account.
 
What happened
Ms R and Mr A had a joint current account with Santander. In 2017 they travelled abroad, 
and while they were there Ms R lost one of her debit cards. She reported this to Santander, 
but she says the bank blocked her other card by mistake. She says that after that happened, 
two cash withdrawals were made from the account, using the missing card. Those 
withdrawals add up to about £226. She says this was Santanders fault. She complained at 
the time and asked for a refund. Santander blocked the other card, but apart from that Ms R 
says she received no other response from Santander.
In 2019, Ms R brought this complaint to our Service. (She represents Mr A in this complaint.) 
Santander said that although on Ms Rs statements the two withdrawals were dated two 
days after she had reported the missing card, the withdrawals had actually been made three 
days earlier  the day before the block. So blocking the wrong card had not actually caused 
her any loss. The card had been physically present and the personal identification number 
(PIN) had been entered both times, so Santander concluded that she had made the 
withdrawals herself. Santander apologised for blocking the wrong card, and paid her £50. 
Finally, Santander said it had sent three letters to Ms R in 2017, asking her to get in touch, 
but had received no reply. Ms R says she did not receive those letters.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He was satisfied by the banks evidence that 
the withdrawals were made on the day before Ms R reported her card missing, and he 
thought Ms R had just been misled by the dates given on her statement. He said the banks 
letters had been correctly addressed. Since blocking the wrong card had not caused any 
financial loss, he thought £50 was fair compensation for that. Ms R did not accept that 
decision, and she asked for an ombudsman to review this case. She said she hadnt been 
overseas at the time of the withdrawals.
 
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
I have seen screenshots from the banks systems showing that one of the withdrawals was 
made on 24 June 2017. The bank says that both withdrawals were made on that date. I 
havent seen a similar screenshot for the other one, but I accept that it was also made on the 
same date, because both withdrawals were dated 27 June on Ms Rs statement, and its normal for withdrawals at overseas cash machines to be dated on statements a couple of 
days later. So I would expect two withdrawals dated 27 June to have been made on the 
same date.
The bank blocked the other card on 25 June, according to its records. So even if it had 
blocked the right card, the two withdrawals had already been made by then. (The missing 
card was blocked on 27 June, when Ms R reported the withdrawals.)
Ms R says she was no longer abroad on 27 June. I believe her, but its not in dispute that 
she was abroad on 24 June, before she lost the card.
 
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2020. Ms R may respond on Mr A's behalf.
Richard Wood
Ombudsman