DRN-3271588
The complaint
Mrs M complains that a car she had acquired via a conditional sale agreement with PCF 
Bank Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Mrs M has brought her complaint with assistance from a relative but for ease of reference I 
will refer only to Mrs M as the credit agreement is in her name.
What happened
In June 2020 Mrs M entered into a five-year conditional sale agreement with PCF for a used 
car. The car was around five years old and had a mileage of around 46,500.
Mrs M says that a short time after acquiring the car she experienced a number of faults with 
it. She says the tyre pressure warning lights illuminated, there was an issue with the rubber 
seal around the windscreen, the gearbox would switch from automatic to manual 
independently and the wing mirrors would move. Mrs M says that she brought all of these 
issues to the supplying dealerships attention and repairs were carried out on the car.
In or around March 2021 Mrs M says she had the car serviced during which an oil leak was 
found. In April 2021 the cars gearbox failed and Mrs M says she was told the repair wouldnt 
be covered by the warranty because of the earlier discovery of the oil leak which hadnt been 
repaired.
Mrs M complained to PCF about the quality of the car. PCF didnt uphold her complaint. It 
said that due to the amount of time Mrs M had had the car in her possession it would need to 
receive evidence that the fault with the gearbox was one which had either been present or 
developing at the point of sale.
Mrs M disagreed with the view of PCF and complained to this service. Our investigator didnt 
recommend Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. She said there hadnt been any evidence 
as to any repairs on the gearbox prior to this breakdown so she couldnt reasonably 
conclude there had been a failed repair to that part. And that, when taking into account the 
length of time Mrs M had had the car and the number of miles shed been able to drive it, our 
investigator said she couldnt reasonably say the failure of the gearbox had been developing 
or present at the point of supply.
Our investigator said gearboxes failed for a number of reasons and there wasnt sufficient 
evidence so that she could reasonably say that the car hadnt been of satisfactory quality 
when it had been supplied to Mrs M. 
Mrs M disagreed with our investigators view. She said she had raised a complaint about the 
gearbox a short time after the car had been supplied to her. Mrs M also said that after the 
car had been serviced, the garage hadnt advised her about the oil leak nor said she 
shouldnt drive it because the gearbox could be damaged. 
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, 
but I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable.
As the conditional sale agreement entered into by Mrs M is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. PCF is also the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about 
their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price, and all other 
relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability.
Here, the car wasn't new being around five-years old and with a mileage of around 
46,500. I think that, taking into account these things, a reasonable person would have 
expected there to be issues with maintenance and repair over time since components of 
the car would have been subject to wear and tear through use. So, unlike a new car, there 
wouldnt be expectation that the car was fault free.
Ive seen that Mrs M raised issues with the car with the supplying dealership a few weeks 
after having acquired the car and this included a problem with the gearbox. Ive also seen 
a number of job sheets provided by the supplying dealership as to any work undertaken 
on the car both before and after its supply to Mrs M. 
However, I havent seen that there have been any repairs carried out to the cars gearbox. 
And although I accept Mrs M raised an issue with the gearbox switching from automatic to 
manual shortly after taking the car, Ive also seen that she was able to continue to use it 
for around nine months and drive around an additional 8,750 miles. I think its fair to say 
that had the gearbox either had, or been developing, a fault at the point of supply that Mrs 
M wouldnt have been able to use the car for so long or achieved that mileage. So, I dont 
think the evidence Ive seen supports that the cars gearbox was of an unsatisfactory 
condition at the point of supply. 
Mrs M says that the repair to the gearbox isnt covered by the warranty because of an oil 
leak that was found at the cars service shortly before the car broke down. She says she 
wasnt advised that there was an oil leak nor that it could have an impact on the gearbox. 
Mrs M has also said that she has taken the car to other garages and no oil leak has been 
found and so an oil leak cant be the cause of the gearbox now failing. 
I dont know what was said by the warranty company regarding covering the costs of the 
gearbox repairs nor do I know what was said by the garage who serviced the car. I also 
havent seen the warrantys terms and conditions. However, looking at the evidence thats 
been provided about past repairs, the MOT and the pre-sales inspection, I havent seen 
any evidence that there was any oil leak present at the point of supply of the car. I note any oil leak appears to have developed around nine months after Mrs M acquired the car. 
Taking into account the age and mileage of this car, I think a reasonable person would 
think this had more likely than not arisen through wear and tear and didnt mean the car 
wasnt durable. I dont think any oil leak, if present, makes the car of unsatisfactory quality 
at its point of supply. 
I also cant hold PCF responsible for anything the servicing garage did or didnt say to Mrs 
M about an oil leak. So, although I appreciate Mrs M is disappointed at the warranty not 
covering the gearbox repairs, I cant reasonably say this was due to any act or omission of 
PCF.
As set out by our investigator, there can be a number of reasons for a gearbox failing, 
including wear and tear. Gearboxes are considered to be serviceable items, that is repairs 
and replacements will arise over time due to use. So, I would need to see evidence that 
there was a fault with the gearbox which had caused it to fail prematurely before I could 
say the car hadnt been as durable as reasonably expected. 
Here, the car was around five years when acquired by Mrs M and so its components had 
already been subject to wear and tear so repairs and maintenance were reasonably 
expected to arise. Mrs M was then able to use the car for around nine months before the 
gearbox failed, I dont have enough evidence to say that this wasnt due to wear and tear 
through use.
For the reasons set out above, and although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to 
Mrs M, Im not upholding her complaint. I havent seen enough evidence for me to 
reasonably say the car had a fault either present or developing at the point of supply nor 
have I seen evidence that the gearbox wasnt reasonably durable. Im satisfied that the 
car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply and that PFS hasnt acted unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman