DRN-3945662
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) provided poor service when 
settling a claim they made following a fire at their home.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ls home was severely damaged by fire in April 2021. They approached Ageas, 
which provided their home insurance, to make a claim. Ageas accepted the claim and used 
D  a claim handler  to deal with the claim on its behalf. As Ageas is responsible for the 
actions of D, Ill refer to Ageas throughout the rest of this decision to make reading easier.
Mr and Mrs L used their own loss adjuster to handle things on their behalf  but again for 
ease of reading Ill only refer to Mr and Mrs L from now on.
Mr and Mrs L complained to Ageas about the way an initial visit to assess the damage was 
conducted. They say they were promised money for a disturbance allowance at £100 a night 
until alternate accommodation could be found, and also £5,000 towards lost contents and up 
to £10,000 for alternate accommodation.
None of these promises were kept  and Ageas said they shouldnt have been made, as 
they hadnt been authorised.
Mr and Mrs L moved in to Mr Ls parents home, which was empty. Some alternate 
accommodation was eventually found about three months later, and Mr and Mrs L moved. 
Whilst in the alternate accommodation Mr and Mrs L had to keep chasing Ageas to make the 
rent payments when they fell due  and at one point were threatened with eviction. To avoid 
that they paid £3,000 of rent themselves, which Ageas refunded a week later.
Mr and Mrs L complained about the way they were being treated as early as mid May  and 
only after this did they receive any money to help them replace clothing etc that had been 
lost in the fire.
Mr and Mrs L also complained about the time it took Ageas to settle the claim, and that it 
unreasonably refused a request for a semi-permanent roof cover to be installed. They say 
this meant the builders took a couple of hours each day removing and replacing tarpaulins 
that were supposed to keep the house dry  time that could have been better spent on the 
repairs.
Ageas sent a final response to Mr and Mrs Ls complaints in November - it said it hadnt 
realised they were complaining in May  and offered £400 to make up for the way it had 
behaved. It also said it would pay any outstanding disturbance allowance. This offer was 
withdrawn about three weeks later, as Ageas didnt think any payment was due.
Mr and Mrs L didnt think that was fair, so they asked us to review the complaint. Our 
investigator didnt think the offer was enough. He looked carefully at the terms and 
conditions of the policy and noted that they said Ageas would pay up to 2 years rent for 
alternate accommodation. However, he also noted that Mr and Mrs L hadnt paid any rent 
whist at Mr Ls parents house  so he couldnt ask Ageas to pay for this. He did think that 
some disturbance allowance was due, and he thought Ageas should pay any extra costs Mr 
and Mrs L had had  such as travel costs - and thought Ageas should pay £250 towards this.
He agreed that Mr and Mrs L had been told theyd get a disturbance allowance of £20 a 
night, and that Ageas agent had unfairly raised their expectations of receiving this in its final 
response letter, only to then withdraw this. He recommended compensation of £200 for this.  
He also looked at the delays in payment, in particular for the rent due on the alternate 
accommodation. He concluded that would have been both stressful and embarrassing for Mr 
and Mrs L, and that although they got their £3,000 back in a week, they shouldnt have had 
to pay this amount at all. He thought an additional £200 should be paid to Mr and Mrs L to 
compensate them for this.
Overall, he concluded that Ageas should pay Mr and Mrs L an additional £650 on top of the 
£400 already offered.
Ageas agreed, but Mr and Mrs L asked the investigator to also take into account the fact that 
Mr Ls parents had to delay selling their home by four months because Mr and Mrs L had 
nowhere else to go. Mr L told us he thought that was a potential loss of just over £1,000 in 
lost interest. And he says hes never received the £20 a day disturbance allowance he was 
promised at the beginning of June 2021.
Our investigator explained that hed included what he thought was a fair sum for the 
additional costs Mr and Mrs L had whilst they were at Mr Ls parents home in the 
compensation (£250 for extra travel). He didnt think he could ask Ageas to pay for a 
potential loss of interest because of a delayed house sale  as that wasnt Mr and Mrs Ls 
loss.
Mr and Mrs L have asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint as they think the 
compensation is too little to make Ageas change its ways. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry Mr and Mrs L have suffered such a traumatic event.
I can see from the paperwork provided that Ageas and its agents provided a less than 
satisfactory service to Mr and Mrs L. It did acknowledge that when it offered £400 to make 
up for this.
However, I also agree with our investigator when he said he didnt think this was enough  
and Im pleased to see that Ageas accepted his recommendations.
Mr and Mrs L dont think Ageas is being asked to pay enough, given its broken promises and 
poor service. They say that an additional £650 wont make Ageas change any of its 
practises.
The remit of this service isnt to penalise Ageas for the way it does business. Instead our 
remit is to make sure customers receive reasonable compensation when things go wrong, as 
they did here. We normally do that in two ways  by putting a customer in the position theyd 
have been in if a mistake hadnt been made (correcting any financial losses, for example) 
and by asking a business to provide compensation for any unnecessary distress and inconvenience theyve caused.
We ask businesses to put mistakes right financially by considering what the correct course of 
action should have been. I completely understand how frustrating it must have been for Mr 
and Mrs L to have been promised money they were then told they wouldnt get. So I do 
appreciate their expectations were raised unfairly when they were promised various sums of 
money at the first (and subsequent) meeting they had with Ageas representative.
However, if the agent had done his job properly, he wouldnt have been promising money 
that then didnt get paid. Instead hed have explained the sort of things that would be paid for 
 such as any additional rent that Mr and Mrs L might pay, or extra travel costs. Thats what 
the terms and conditions say will be paid. 
Often, if these costs cant be quantified, an insurer will pay what is called a daily disturbance 
allowance. Its important to note that this isnt a payment for the inconvenience of having to 
live elsewhere for a time, its meant to reimburse additional costs. Mr and Mrs L told us they 
didnt pay extra to live in Mr Ls parents home, but they did have to travel farther for work, 
etc. So I think our investigators suggestion that Ageas pay £250 towards these costs is 
reasonable.
As for the promise made in the final response letter that Ageas would pay any outstanding 
allowance, Ageas doesnt think this was incorrect  but as there wasnt anything due, no 
payment needed to be made. But I do think Ageas raised expectations that there would be a 
payment  and again I agree with our investigators recommendation that this warrants £200 
compensation.
Finally I can see that it must have been both worrying and embarrassing to be threatened 
with eviction because of Ageas shortcomings. That simply shouldnt happen in these 
circumstances. Mr and Mrs L also had to use their own money, even if only for a week, and 
that is an unnecessary issue for them to deal with in already trying circumstances. I agree 
Ageas should pay £200 compensation for this.
Mr and Mrs L asked us to consider whether we should instruct Ageas to pay about £1,000 of 
lost interest, because the sale of Mr Ls parents property was delayed by about six weeks. I 
dont doubt there may have been a delay, but I dont think I can ask Ageas to reimburse Mr 
and Mrs L in these circumstances. Firstly, its a hypothetical loss, as we dont know what 
would have happened if Mr and Mrs L hadnt moved in to the property. And second, the loss 
would have been for Mr Ls parents  not Mr and Mrs L. 
Mr and Mrs L also explained that they thought Ageas had unnecessarily delayed repairs by 
not agreeing to pay for a temporary roof on the property whilst work was being done. Im 
afraid I cant say that this was a mistake on Ageas behalf. Ageas is required to make good 
the damage to approved standards. How it chooses to do that is up to Ageas, and if it 
doesnt consider the additional expense was warranted, I cant make it compensate Mr and 
Mrs L for this.
Finally, as I explained at the start of my decision, I am only able to ask Ageas to compensate 
Mr and Mrs L fairly  I cant impose a punitive amount in order to get Ageas to change its 
business practises.
Putting things right
To put things right Ageas should pay Mr and Mrs L £1,050  the original £400 and the extra 
£650 described above. My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr 
and Mrs L £1,050 compensation for the way it handled this claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman