DRN-3566751
The complaint
Mrs W complains about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim 
relating to a water leak in her kitchen.
What happened
Mrs W has a home insurance policy underwritten by Lloyds which covers her home and its 
contents. In late May 2021, she made a claim after discovering a water leak in her kitchen.
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so in this decision Im not 
going to give a blow by blow account of the way the claim was handled.
In brief, Mrs W was unhappy with delays in Lloyds handling of the claim and poor service 
from them and/or their contractors.
Lloyds accepted the claim. But Mrs W says they unnecessarily delayed their inspection of 
the damage. And the survey failed to quantify her losses by taking measurements. 
She says they offered to cash settle the claim, but with an unreasonably low offer, which 
turned out to be significantly less than the repairs eventually cost. And after shed told them 
she wanted them to carry out the repairs rather than settle with cash, they offered her a cash 
settlement again  seemingly in ignorance of what shed already told them.
She says the builders and or surveyors missed arranged appointments, turned up 
unexpectedly on at least one occasion, delayed responding to her or didnt respond at all, 
missed issues and damage, caused further damage to her kitchen and its contents and left 
her with an improvised cooking hob which was in fact leaking gas.
Mrs W says the claim handling by Lloyds, their surveyors and the contractors has been 
characterised by delays, a lack of replies to her queries and a complete absence of any 
proactivity in getting the necessary repairs completed.
She was also concerned at the amount of disturbance allowance Lloyds paid her given that 
she and her family stayed in a house with no adequate cooking facilities and a kitchen 
which, at times, couldnt be used at all. 
Mrs W has made three complaints to Lloyds. Their final responses  in July 2021, August 
2021 and December 2021 recognised and apologised for poor service and delays. And in 
total, Lloyds paid Mrs W £1,400 in compensation for the trouble and upset shed been 
caused by their errors.
As I understand it, Lloyds have also now paid Mrs W a total of £3,180 in disturbance 
allowance for her and her two children for the period between August 2021, when repairs 
began on her kitchen through to the beginning of April 2022, when the repairs were to be 
completed.
Mrs W brought her complaint to us in October 2021. At that point, she wasnt happy with the 
progress of the claim, she felt the compensation wasnt adequate given the delays and other 
issues and she wasnt being adequately compensated for the extra expense caused by her 
having no cooking facilities. 
And despite the December final response from Lloyds increasing the compensation offered 
to £1,400 in total. Mrs W remains unhappy for those same reasons.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ws complaints. She thought the £1,400 compensation 
offered for Mrs Ws trouble and upset was fair and reasonable. But she asked Lloyds to 
increase the amount paid in disturbance allowance to Mrs W.
After initially not accepting that outcome, Lloyds later agreed in principle the basis on which 
the investigator suggested the disturbance allowance should be calculated (£10 per day per 
adult and £5 per day per child). They paid Mrs W an amount of money on that basis, 
although Im satisfied their calculations are wrong. Ill return to this in more detail below.
Mrs W disagreed with the investigators view and asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman. She still thinks the amount of compensation proposed is too low given the 
trouble and upset shes suffered. And she wasnt happy with the amount paid as disturbance 
allowance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should say something first of all about the period under consideration in our investigation 
and in this decision.
Mrs W complained to Lloyds in July and in August 2021. They paid her £150 in 
compensation over the two complaints and admitted there had been delays and poor 
service.
Mrs W referred those complaints to us in October 2021 and we began our investigation. 
Mrs W then made a further complaint to Lloyds, getting a final response in late December 
2021. 
Because the latter complaint was largely about the same things  delays, poor service and 
the disturbance allowance  we added this to the existing complaint. Lloyds were clearly 
happy for us to do that  rather than start an entirely separate complaint.
The FCA rules which govern the way our service operates  the dispute resolution (or DISP) 
rules  allow us to look into a complaint only where the business concerned has already had 
a chance to resolve the complaint themselves. 
In this case, Lloyds have had a chance to look at everything raised by Mrs W up until the 
time of the last final response they provided to her, in late December 2021. 
If Mrs W has further complaints about how things have been handled since then, she would 
be entitled to raise a new complaint with Lloyds  and then refer that complaint to us if she 
isnt happy with Lloyds response. But I cant now  in this decision - look at anything thats 
happened after the date of the last final response, which was 21 December 2021.
Compensation for trouble and upset 
Theres no dispute that Lloyds handled Mrs Ws claim badly between late May 2021, when she made it, and late December 2021. Lloyds have apologised for failures in the service 
provided to Mrs W and theyve paid her £1,400 in compensation.
The remaining dispute now is whether that £1,400 is adequate, bearing in mind the degree 
of trouble and upset suffered by Mrs W.
I can see from the evidence and information we have on file that Mrs Ws claim has been 
handled very badly  by Lloyds and/or their contractors. Ive listed above some of their 
failings, which included missed appointments, unnecessary delays and leaving Mrs H with a 
faulty hob which leaked gas. 
I can understand Mrs Ws anger and frustration and I appreciate that the whole episode has 
caused her a significant amount of stress. As she says, it appears shes had to drive any 
progress on the claim and the repairs herself by almost constantly chasing Lloyds or their 
contractors when mistakes and delays have occurred.
That said, taking all the circumstances into account, I think the amount Lloyds paid to Mrs W 
for the delays and failings up to late December is fair and reasonable. I bear in mind that the 
period in question is seven months  and that Lloyds arent responsible for all of the delays 
in that time. And in that period, Mrs W was without full cooking facilities  and occasionally, 
the whole kitchen.
As our website makes clear, we consider compensation awards between £750 and £1,500 
appropriate in cases where the customer has suffered substantial distress, upset and worry 
and serious disruption to daily life over a sustained period (many months).
I think thats exactly what Mrs W has suffered and I note that the compensation Lloyds paid 
is close to the top end of that bracket.
Wed consider higher awards (above £1,500) appropriate usually where the customer had 
suffered substantial distress or severe disruption to their daily life, typically lasting more than 
a year, and/or some irreversible impact. And Im satisfied Mrs W hasnt suffered that degree 
of trouble and upset  al least not in the time between May and December 2021.
Disturbance Allowance
Our view is that where a policyholder remains living in a property which doesnt have the 
usual cooking and/or washing and/or other facilities whilst repairs are carried out, the insurer 
should compensate them for any additional expenses they incur. 
We also take the view that its often not practical or possible for a policyholder to itemise  
and/or provide proof or evidence of - all additional expenses. And in those circumstances, 
wed usually expect a disturbance allowance to be calculated at a rate of £10 per day per 
adult and £5 per day per child. 
I neednt go to great lengths to justify that stance and/or explain why I dont consider 
Mrs Ws case to be an exception to the usual rate, because eventually, after some debate, 
Lloyds have accepted that the usual rate should be applied in Mrs Ws case.
That means we have an agreed basis for the calculation of the disturbance allowance 
payable to Mrs W. And Im grateful to Lloyds for their willingness to agree that position.
However, I believe their actual calculations have gone awry and Ill explain why.
Lloyds have calculated a £20 per day allowance (Mrs W lives in the property with her two children). And theyve agreed that should be paid from the beginning of August 2021, when 
the repair work took her cooker out of operation, up to 6 January 2022, when Mrs W had a 
temporary cooker installed.
As I said above, I can only look at the period up to 21 December 2021, but Id be surprised  
and dismayed  if Lloyds didnt apply the same principle for the short period after that date 
and before 6 January 2022.
Lloyds calculate that to amount to £3,180 (up to 6 January 2022) and I agree with that 
calculation  at £20 per day, between the relevant dates.
However, Lloyds then subtracted from that amount £1,600 theyd already paid to Mrs W as a 
disturbance allowance. And so, they paid her a further £1,580.
The £1,600 previously paid to Mrs W was agreed between her and her personal claims 
handler (appointed by Lloyds). But that was at a rate of £200 per month and covered the 
period between August 2021 and March 2022 (inclusive)  eight months.
Im looking at the period (five months) between August and December 2021  as I explained 
above. I cant go further than that because Lloyds havent received any complaint from 
Mrs W about the period after December 2021.
Lloyds are right to calculate the amount of disturbance allowance payable to Mrs W at 
£3,180 for that period (plus the few days to 6 January 2022). However, what theyd already 
paid Mrs W for that period specifically is £1,000 (at £200 per month) and not the £1,600 they 
subtracted from the disturbance allowance.
It's not strictly within the ambit of this decision, but Ill simply observe that if Lloyds agreed 
£200 per month for January to March 2022 (after the temporary cooker was installed), then 
thats an entirely separate matter and not something which should affect the disturbance 
allowance paid for August to December 2021. 
I will simply note that the £200 per month was agreed in March 2022, long after Mrs W had 
her temporary cooking facilities installed in early January. I assume that, at that point, it was 
agreed that the disruption continued to some extent despite the temporary cooking facilities 
being in place  which stands to reason given that the repairs to the kitchen were still 
underway. 
Putting things right
As I set out above, Im satisfied the compensation already paid to Mrs W for her trouble and 
upset is fair and reasonable.
However, taking into account the calculations set out above in relation to the disturbance 
allowance, Lloyds should have paid Mrs W a further £2,180 at the time they in fact paid her 
£1,580. 
The £2,180 is the £20 disturbance allowance per day  over 143 days (1 August 2021 to 
6 January 2022) - less the £1,000 (at £200 per month) already paid to Mrs W for the five 
month period August to December 2021.
Given that Lloyds paid Mrs W a further £1,580, they now need to pay her another £600 
(£2,180 minus £1,580).
Mrs W has essentially been deprived of that money, since the period August to December 2021, when she should have received it to cover her extra expenses. So, Im going to 
require Lloyds to pay interest on that £600 at 8% simple. 
The money should have been paid when the expenses occurred  so, Im assuming evenly 
through that five month period (August to December 2021). So, the interest should be 
calculated from the mid-point of that five-month period (which would be the middle of 
October 2021) to the date that Lloyds pay the amount set out in this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mrs Ws complaint.
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited must pay Mrs W a further £600 disturbance 
allowance to cover the period August-December 2021. And pay Mrs W interest on that 
amount at 8% simple, calculated from mid-October 2021 to the date they make this 
payment.
If Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs W how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mrs W a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman