DRN-4198897
The complaint
Ms P complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited (Hastings) sent her car 
insurance policy renewal information to a third party.  
What happened
Ms P moved address in 2021 and reported this to Hastings so they could update their 
records. Ms P says, in 2022, she noticed her direct debit payment for her premium had 
increased. Ms P raised this with Hastings who said her premium had increased and theyd 
notified her of this in renewal correspondence sent to her. Ms P complained as she says she 
couldnt find any communication about this. Hastings responded and initially claimed they 
had no record of Ms P calling them to change her address. Ms P says Hastings claimed she 
was therefore driving her car without the correct insurance. So, Ms P cancelled her policy 
and was charged a cancellation fee. Ms P complained again, and Hastings then accepted 
their records showed Ms P had notified them of her change of address. Hastings apologised 
for the inconvenience caused and also offered £85 compensation.   
Our investigator looked into things for Ms P. He agreed Hastings had made an error but 
recommended they increase their offer to £150. Ms P and Hastings disagreed so the matter 
has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Ms P will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Ms P. Ms P confirms her complaint is about 
correspondence being sent to her previous address. The key facts about the complaint 
arent in dispute. Hastings say, when sending renewal quotes and confirmation, a copy is 
sent to the policyholder and also the payer of the policy  in this case, Ms P was both. 
Hastings updated Ms Ps address on the policyholder details tab but have admitted they got 
things wrong when they didnt update the address on the payer details tab  this meant 
some correspondence was sent to Ms Ps previous address. The only issue I have to decide 
is whether their offer of compensation is fair and reasonable.
I understand Hastings agreed to credit the cancellation fee to Ms Ps new policy. I think 
thats fair in the circumstances as it doesnt appear Ms P needed to cancel her policy. I say 
this because Hastings say Ms Ps address had been changed on her policy information, so 
the cover was correct. Additionally, I think its right that Hastings should compensate Ms P 
for the worry and upset caused by their poor service. To help decide what a fair and 
reasonable level of compensation should be, Ive looked at the error by Hastings and what 
the impact of that error has been. 
I can see two letters were sent to Ms Ps previous address. While I accept Ms P wouldnt 
have received these letters by post, I do think she was made aware of her renewal and 
premium. I say this because, on the dates these letters were sent, two letters were sent to 
Ms P, correctly addressed, which explain her policy is due for renewal together with the 
price, and another letter confirming her policy has renewed and enclosing her policy 
documents. Hastings also explain all of this correspondence was sent by email  which was 
selected by Ms P as her preferred method of contact.  
I understand Ms P feels the most concerning point for her is that her personal details have 
been passed to a third party who lives at her previous address  someone Ms P says she 
has had an issue with in the past. I can see Ms P is concerned, in particular, about them 
having details of her car registration and make and model. But Ive seen both letters and 
wish to reassure Ms P they dont contain the details she is most worried about. One letter is 
a renewal reminder. This sets out the renewal price, and also contains details of Ms Ps bank 
sort code and the last four digits of her account number. It also sets out a payment schedule 
if Ms P chooses to pay her premium by monthly instalments. The other letter confirms       
Ms Ps policy has renewed and contains the same information as the previous letter. So, 
while I understand this has caused Ms P to worry, and some information about Ms P has 
been shared with the third party living at her previous address, its not the information which 
Ms P is most worried about. 
That said, some information has been shared with a third party. I note Hastings say the £85 
offered is fair as the only information sent to Ms Ps previous address is the price itself, how 
theyve calculated this and when the monthly payments will be taken. Hastings say theres 
no evidence a third party has viewed the letters  which in any event only had limited 
information. I acknowledge Hastings points, but, in the same way Hastings say theres no 
evidence the letters were read by the third party, theres no evidence to suggest they havent 
been. Had the letters been returned to Ms P unopened and sealed, I think its reasonable to 
conclude they hadnt been read. But in this case, they havent been returned to Ms P and, 
while I cant say with certainty whether theyve been read by the third party, I acknowledge 
Ms P is upset and worried that information about her has been sent to a third party. And, 
looking at this information in more detail, theres limited information about her bank account, 
a policy number, who she has taken out her insurance with and the price she has paid.           
So, taking this into account, I dont think the £85 offered is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I accept Hastings werent to know Ms P has a dispute with 
the third party the letters were sent to, but it doesnt change the fact that information about 
Ms Ps policy, although limited, has been sent to a third party. I think its important to take 
into consideration its two letters and contains information which Ms P mightve wanted to 
keep personal  such as the price she paid for her policy and the dates her monthly 
instalments will be taken. So, I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances for 
Hastings to pay compensation in the sum of £150.  
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ive focussed on what I believe are the key issues. 
I wish to reassure Ms P and Hastings Ive read and considered everything theyve sent in, 
but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent 
seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my 
decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our 
service. Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Hastings have sent information about Ms P to a third party. So, in 
addition to the £85 already offered, they should increase their offer by £65 and pay Ms P a 
total amount of compensation of £150. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Hastings Insurance Services Limited must 
pay Ms P compensation of £150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman