DRN-1602465
The complaint
Mr R complains about the total loss settlement offered by Sabre Insurance Company Limited 
(Sabre) following a theft claim under his motor insurance policy. 
References to Sabre include its agents.
What happened
Mr Rs vehicle was stolen in May 2019 and later recovered. Sabre appointed an engineer to 
assess Mr Rs vehicle to determine how the claim should be settled under the policy. The 
engineer reported that the vehicle should be deemed as a total loss due to the costs 
involved to repair it. The engineer valued Mr Rs vehicle at £4,500. 
Mr R disputed this amount and said he would need roughly £8,000 to £10,000 in order to 
replace his vehicle for a like-for-like replacement based on online adverts hed seen. Sabre 
then arranged for a different engineer to inspect the vehicle and, as a result of this, 
increased its offer to £6,000. 
Sabre said it checked the MOT records for Mr Rs vehicle and found a discrepancy with the 
mileage. The engineer said the mileage hadnt changed since the record shown on the MOT 
in 2006. So it asked Mr R for further information about the mileage. 
Mr R sent Sabre the amount of litres in fuel he had used to try to help determine the 
accurate mileage of his vehicle. But Sabre said it couldnt use this to determine the mileage 
of the vehicle due to fuel prices changing over time. It also said that Mr Rs accountant had 
said the litres of fuel only took account of Mr Rs business use and didnt include personal 
use of the vehicle. 
Sabre instead relied on a conversation that took place between it and Mr R where it was 
discussed that hed done around 5,000 miles per year but had only used the vehicle for a 
few miles in the couple of years leading up to the theft.  
Mr R was unhappy Sabre said it couldnt use this information to determine the mileage. Hes 
disappointed it didnt increase the valuation and feels he wasted his time when obtaining 
information about the amount of fuel used, which wasnt going to make a difference.  
Sabre maintained its offer of £6,000 and didnt agree to increase this. As Mr R remained 
unhappy with the settlement Sabre offered, he brought a complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into this complaint. He agreed there was a discrepancy with 
the mileage given the MOT records conflicted with the conversation that took place about Mr 
R using his vehicle for roughly 5,000 miles per year. He said he thought it was reasonable to 
use a mileage of 145,000 as Sabre had proposed. However, having done so, he thought the 
valuation should take into consideration the available motor trade guides which he didnt 
think had been appropriately considered in Sabres offer. Following this, he said Sabre 
should increase its offer to £8,334.50 and include simple interest at 8% from the date of loss 
to the date of settlement on the amount outstanding as part of the claim. 
Sabre didnt agree and maintained it had offered a fair valuation. It didnt think the motor 
trade guides could provide a more accurate valuation than the separate engineers 
inspections it used. It also said our investigator had valued the vehicle as being in clean 
condition, which it didnt agree with. So, it asked for the case to be referred to an 
ombudsman to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Im in agreement with our investigators view for broadly similar reasons. Ill 
now explain why. To keep things simple, Ive set out my decision using sub-headings below 
and will address each point in turn. 
the value of Mr Rs vehicle 
The terms and conditions of the policy say that, in the event of a theft claim, Sabre will: 
settle the claim by repair or replacement of your vehicle or paying in cash the 
amount of the loss or damage. The maximum amount payable will be the market 
value or declared value, whichever is the lower. 
Whilst the policy doesnt specifically define the term market value in the policy, we take the 
usual meaning of the word. In motor insurance contracts, this means Sabre is required to 
pay a policyholder the amount the vehicle was worth immediately prior to the loss. The 
amount due to Mr R is based on the market value and this is discussed further below. 
However, to determine market value, an accurate mileage is needed for the vehicle. 
Its important for me to now explain that my role here isnt to provide what I consider to be a 
fair valuation of Mr Rs vehicle based on the market value at the time of loss. My role is to 
consider whether I think Sabre applied the policy terms when making an offer in a fair and 
reasonable way. Based on all the information available to me, I dont think it has here.
These types of complaints are common, and this service has a well-established approach to 
considering these. We start by looking at the motor trade guides available to us. We find 
these guides more persuasive than other methods of valuing vehicles because the guides 
are based on extensive nationwide research of like selling prices. 
Sabre appointed engineers to carry out inspections of Mr Rs vehicle once it was recovered. 
Sabre used separate engineers reports and online research it found of other vehicles it 
considered to be similar to Mr Rs. I note these online adverts ranged in price significantly 
from £3,000 to £9,000. Sabre initially offered to settle Mr Rs claim by paying him £4,500, but 
this was later increased to £6,000. 
I also note Sabre said the type of vehicle Mr R had did vary in price based on several 
different factors including condition and age. Ive considered the steps Sabre took to provide 
Mr R with a fair settlement, and I think on balance, given the conflicting opinions and online 
adverts ranging in price, Sabre shouldve referred to the motor trade guides. As Ive 
explained above, I find these more compelling evidence of market value here because the 
guides give extensive nationwide research about likely selling prices  rather than adverts 
containing a sellers preferred asking price. And its the market value thats due under the 
terms of the policy.
Calculating the mileage to value Mr Rs vehicle 
Its not disputed here by either party that the precise mileage of Mr Rs vehicle was difficult to 
determine from the time of loss. I accept both parties took reasonable steps to try to 
determine a reasonable mileage reading based on several factors. I understand Mr R took 
the time and significant effort to give Sabre the amount of litres of fuel he had put into his 
vehicle between 2006 to 2019. I also note Sabre said the litres of fuel only took account of 
the business use and not Mr Rs personal use of the vehicle, but Mr R said he kept all his 
records in any event. 
Ive listened to the calls between Sabre and Mr R to determine whether Mr R was instructed 
to do this. With that, I dont agree based on what Ive reviewed, Mr R was told if he could provide the amount of litres of fuel he put into the vehicle, this would give a more accurate 
reflection of the mileage and increase the settlement amount. But I do think he was given the 
impression Sabre would consider any evidence he could send it for that purpose.
2006 was used as the starting point here given Mr Rs MOT history didnt show an increase 
in mileage on the records taken when MOT tests were completed each year since that point. 
Mr R had a discussion with Sabre about the mileage and it was said that its likely he did 
5,000 miles per year since 2006.  
Mr R said there was a period of roughly two years where he didnt use his vehicle regularly, 
and so Sabre said a fair mileage reading would be considered between 140,000 to 150,000 
miles. 
Taking everything into account here, I find its fair and reasonable in this case to value Mr 
Rs vehicle at 145,000 miles based on all the circumstances. Ive gone onto check whether 
an average could be taken from the years prior to 2006 but Mr Rs MOT history only dated 
back to 2006. 
So based on what I do have available to me, Im satisfied on balance its fair and reasonable 
here to put the mileage at 145,000 based on the conversation between Mr R and Sabre. 
Sabre accepted to remove two years of mileage given Mr R said he rarely used the vehicle 
in the two years leading up to the unfortunate theft. I think it acted reasonably by doing this 
in an attempt to reach a fair mileage reading.
Mr R said he purchased a new vehicle to replace the vehicle that was stolen. He told our 
investigator that hed only travelled a few miles since he purchased the vehicle. Whilst I dont 
dispute this to be the case, I dont think this changes anything here as we cannot determine 
the exact mileage of the vehicle that was deemed a total loss based on how much hes used 
his replacement vehicle over a shorter period of time and during what is considered to be 
quite unusual circumstances. 
The valuation given by the motor trade guides 
As above, in this case I think the fairest way to determine the reasonable market value for Mr 
Rs car is to use the motor trade guides. I note due to the age of Mr Rs vehicle our 
investigator was only able to produce a valuation from two guides  one being a bespoke 
valuation. I can see that these gave the following valuations: 
Cazana: £8,769
CAP: £7,900 
I accept this case hasnt been the most straightforward for either party to determine the 
market value given the discrepancy surrounding the mileage and various online adverts 
giving a range of asking prices. 
With that said, I find Sabres final offer of £6,000 to be significantly out of the range of these 
valuations. I also note Sabre argued that these valuation calculations are based on Mr Rs 
vehicle being in a good, clean condition. I accept Mr Rs vehicle was old, however Ive not 
been persuaded by the engineers reports provided by Sabre that it would be fair or 
reasonable to value the vehicle as being of a poor condition at the time of loss.  So, I think 
on balance its fair to place more evidence on the two valuations above than the reports 
obtained by Sabre in this particular case. Therefore, I think Sabre should pay Mr R the 
average of the two valuations to settle Mr Rs claim.Putting things right
My decision is I uphold Mr Rs complaint and require Sabre to increase its total loss 
settlement from £6,000 to £8,334.50, less any excess and amount Mr R has already been 
paid as part of the settlement. Sabre should also include 8% simple interest from the date of 
the loss to the date of settlement on the outstanding amount owed to Mr R.   
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require Sabre Insurance Company Limited to: 
Pay Mr R £8,334.50, less any excess and payments already made to him as part of 
the total loss settlement; and 
include 8% simple interest from the date of the loss, to the date of settlement on the 
remaining amount due to settle Mr Rs claim.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Sabre Insurance Company Limited to take off tax from this 
interest. Sabre Insurance Company Limited must give Mr R a certificate showing how much 
tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman