DRN-2394278
The complaint
Mr B complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) hasnt settled his claim for his 
broken television.
What happened
Mr B has an insurance policy underwritten by D&G which covers his televisions and related 
products in his home. Mr B added a television to his policy in October 2019. Shortly 
afterwards, he reported an issue with it. D&G approved repairs to take place on the 
television.
A couple of weeks after the repairs were complete Mr B found the same issue was 
occurring. D&Gs repairers said the parts needed to repair the television were no longer 
available. D&G passed the claim to its claims team and it said it would pay the claim upon 
proof of ownership. It asked Mr B for a receipt. It said it was doing this due to the high 
volume of cash settlements hed received over two years for broken televisions.
Mr B said he didnt have the receipt but sent evidence of the box and the manual. D&G didnt 
accept this and Mr B complained. He said that it should pay the claim as it was willing to 
repair the television.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She didnt think it was fair to ask Mr B for additional 
information. She felt that the box and manual was enough to show he owned the television, 
along with the fact D&G had already authorised repairs on the television. D&G disagreed 
and asked for an ombudsman.
I asked further questions and let both parties know that I wasnt intending to uphold the 
complaint. I explained that given the number of similar claims Mr B had made, I didnt think it 
was unreasonable that D&G was asking for proof that he owned the television and that it 
was purchased in working order. I asked if either party had any comments to make before I 
made a final decision. Neither party responded with any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs policy terms say that the policy wont be valid if you fail to provide any relevant 
information which we have requested. In this particular claim D&G asked Mr B for proof of 
purchase (either a receipt of a bank statement showing the purchase) before it would pay 
the claim. It told Mr B it was requesting this due to the number of claims he had made in the 
last two years. Based on the information D&G has provided, I dont think this is 
unreasonable.
I understand Mr B had already had his television repaired under the policy, but I can see that 
when it was decided that it couldnt be repaired, D&G referred the matter to its claims team. 
It was at this point that it became concerned with the number of cash settlements it had paid 
over two years to Mr B for broken televisions. So, it wanted to be sure that Mr B owned the 
television and that it had been purchased by Mr B in working order before it paid the claim.
I cant see that D&G declined the claim, it has told Mr B it will process it when it receives the 
information its requested. I can see Mr B has sent in a picture of the box and the manual. 
Whilst I agree that this shows he has the television in his possession I dont think that it goes 
far enough to show proof of purchase, or that the television hes claiming for was working 
when he purchased it. And given that Mr B only added this television to his policy in October 
2019, and the claim was shortly after I dont think its unreasonable in this case for D&G to 
ask for this evidence before it pays out a cash settlement.
D&G has said that if Mr B can provide the evidence its asked for it will process the claim. 
And Im satisfied from the information that D&G has provided to me that its acted fairly by 
asking for this information. So, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman