DRN-4184334
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr S held a credit card account with Barclaycard. The account was opened in February 2017 
with an initial credit limit of £3500. In July 2018 the credit limit was increased to £5000 and in 
April 2019 the credit limit was increased to £6500.
Mr S complained that the credit limit increases were unaffordable.
Barclaycard didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out proportionate checks 
before lending to Mr S.
Mr S remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They said that the credit limit shouldnt have been 
increased in July 2018 because the information obtained by Barclaycard indicated that the 
lending wasnt affordable for Mr S. 
Barclaycard didnt respond to the investigators view so Ive been asked to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mr Ss complaint.
Barclaycard needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks before agreeing to 
lend to Mr S, Theres no set list of checks that a lender has to complete. But lenders must 
have regard to things like the amount being lent, the total amount repayable, the monthly 
repayment and the consumers individual circumstances.
When Mr S applied for the card, he provided details of his income and expenditure. 
Barclaycard validated Mr Ss income as £1510 per month and assessed his monthly 
expenditure as £1030, leaving him with monthly disposable income of around £432.
Based on what Ive seen, I think the checks completed by Barclaycard were reasonable and 
proportionate. I havent seen anything in the information gathered by Barclaycard which 
wouldve given it cause for concern or meant that further checks shouldve been carried out. 
Im also satisfied, having reviewed the information gathered, that the lending decision was 
fair. I say this because there was nothing in the information gathered which suggested that 
Mr S wouldnt be able to sustainably repay the credit.
The credit limit was increased to £5000 in July 2018. Ive reviewed the checks carried out by 
Barclaycard at the time. Barclaycard has said that it used a credit reference agency to 
assess affordability based on a red/amber/green rating. Barclaycard said that in the month 
that the credit limit was increased, Mr S returned a green rating.
Ive reviewed the information from the credit reference agency. I agree that in the three 
months leading up to the credit limit increase Mr S returned a green rating. However, in July 
2018  the month of the credit limit increase  the rating was returned red. The rating 
continued to return red for two more months. In these circumstances, I think it wouldve been 
proportionate for Barclaycard to carry out further checks.
Ive gone on to consider what further checks wouldve shown. Ive reviewed Mr Ss external 
debt at the time of the credit limit increase, which stood at around £18,800. In view of the 
fact that Mr Ss income when he applied for the card was £22,000, the total level of 
unsecured debt including the credit limit increase wouldve exceeded Mr Ss annual income.
This is a very high debt to income ratio. Ive looked at Mr Ss bank statements to see 
whether Mr S could sustainably repay the credit limit increase. Based on what Ive seen, I 
dont think it was likely that Mr S could sustainably repay the credit limit increase without 
further borrowing. The red credit reference agency rating, the high debt to income ratio and 
Mr Ss low level of disposable income all point towards the credit limit increase being 
unaffordable for him.
I cant see that Mr Ss financial circumstances improved by the time the credit limit was 
increased again in April 2019. So, for the same reasons as Ive given above, I dont think the 
credit limit shouldve been increased a second time.
Putting things right
To put things right Barclaycard must:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges on balances exceeding £3500
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr S along with 8% 
simple interest from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement. * Barclaycard 
should also remove all adverse information recorded after July 2018 relating to this account 
from Mr Ss credit file
If after the rework there is an outstanding balance of more than £3500, Barclaycard should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr S for the outstanding balance. Once Mr S has 
cleared the balance Barclaycard should remove all adverse information recorded after July 
2018 relating to this account from Mr Ss credit file
*HMRC require Barclaycard to deduct tax from any award of interest. Barclaycard must give 
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard must take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Emma DavyOmbudsman