DRN-3085547
The complaint
Miss R complains National Savings and Investments (NS&I) asked her to confirm the 
spelling and formatting of the answers she gave to security questions. Shes unhappy this 
delayed her instruction to withdraw funds and caused her inconvenience.
What happened
Miss R called NS&I on 13 March 2021 and asked whether she could withdraw funds. The 
call handler asked her some security questions which Miss R failed. Therefore, the 
withdrawal request wasnt actioned at this time and her account was blocked. Miss R raised 
a complaint because she didnt feel it was fair that she had been asked to confirm the exact 
formatting and spelling of her answers. 
NS&I wrote to Miss R on 18 March 2021 about her complaint. They said theyd resolved the 
complaint and signposted Miss R to our service. They also sent Miss R a form to fill in so the 
account could be unblocked. She returned this on 24 March 2021. NS&I sent a further letter 
on 30 March asking Miss R to provide a witnessed signature, as they didnt hold one on file. 
Miss R has explained this was inconvenient and time consuming. 
As Miss R remained unhappy, she asked us to investigate. The investigator felt that NS&I 
hadnt done anything wrong in respect of the security questions asked and thought the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Miss R didnt agree with the investigators findings. In her response, she said the questions 
werent clear or fair. She said NS&Is call handler originally upheld the complaint. Also, when 
they sent her the form, they didnt realise they didnt have a signature for her on file. This 
meant she was further inconvenienced and is unhappy with their customer service all round. 
Therefore, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NS&I are required to have security procedures in order to meet their regulatory obligations 
and ensure accounts are kept safe. We arent the regulator and in this sense Im unable to 
comment on the processes NS&I have in place.
NS&I have explained that Miss R set up the security questions on 29 November 2018. This 
was done online, and Miss R set the answers.
Ive listened to the call from 13 March 2021. The call handler asked a security question 
about Miss Rs eldest sibling, but Miss R wasnt sure exactly what she answered as she had 
twin siblings. She also wasnt entirely sure about the spelling. During the call, she was also 
asked about the date of birth of her spouse and eldest child. The call handler asked for the 
date in the format Miss R gave when setting up the answers.
I understand it would be difficult to remember the exact formatting and answers provided 
given the time which had passed. Ive also thought about Miss Rs comments. For example, 
she says it shouldnt matter if the year is provided in the full format or whether a space or 
dash was used because the answer is still correct.
However, when Miss R didnt pass the questions initially, she had a further two opportunities 
to answer. And she was also asked a third question. The call handler also explained she had 
a box in which to enter the answer. Before answering for the third time, the call handler said 
the account would be blocked if the answers werent entered correctly. And Miss R chose to 
proceed.
Ive thought about what happened during the call, and Im satisfied the service was 
reasonable. This was because the call handler explained what was needed to clear the 
security questions and explained what would happen if they werent answered correctly. It 
wasnt clear to the call handler exactly why the security questions had failed, or which 
question had failed because she couldnt see the answers, but she did try and help by 
explaining what might affect it including the format.
Moreover, Ive listened to the questions and Im of the view they were asked clearly. The call 
handler asked for the name of Miss Rs eldest brother or sister. It also wasnt unreasonable 
that NS&I asked Miss R to provide the answers in the same way that she first provided them.
During the call, Miss R also told the call handler that she had difficulty with spelling and she 
has also explained this to us. Ive carefully considered what Miss R has told us about this. I 
note on occasion during the call Miss R first wrote her answers down. Also, Miss R didnt 
have to proceed with the call when she was having difficulty with answering the questions 
correctly. For example, she could have provided the instructions online. I appreciate Miss R 
wanted to telephone NS&I because she found the online platform difficult, but this was 
another option available. Ive also seen the account log to show that she had logged into her 
account that day. So, I wouldnt expect to see NS&I do anything more here.
Miss R has also highlighted her concerns about what happened after her account was 
blocked. This includes how NS&I handled her complaint. Also, the form she returned 
required her signature, but they didnt realise she hadnt previously provided one.
I cant comment on NS&Is complaints procedure itself as explained by the investigator. But 
Ive thought carefully about whether NS&I reasonably assisted Miss R after her account was 
blocked and she raised her concerns. I can see NS&I responded to say the complaint had 
been resolved on 18 March 2021. I appreciate this was confusing for Miss R as she still 
needed to return the form. I also understand Miss R was caused some inconvenience as she 
had to complete this form and then also provide a witnessed signature in order to withdraw 
the funds.
Miss R says NS&I should have recognised they didnt have her signature before sending the 
first form. She says this would have saved time because they could have requested the 
information sooner. I accept NS&I could have checked whether they had her signature on 
file and I fully understand what Miss R has said here.
However, I must decide whether not checking means NS&I treated Miss R unfairly. And in 
this instance, Im not persuaded it does. When Miss R called the purpose of the call was to 
withdraw funds and it was only during the call that her account was blocked as a result of failed security questions. The call handler also confirmed that the letter would be sent 
automatically by the system. And I dont consider this unusual as its practical given the 
volume of accounts managed by NS&I. As the letter was sent automatically by the system, I 
cant say I would have expected NS&I to check the requirements of the letter against what 
they already had on the file. Although, I do appreciate this would have been helpful in the 
circumstances.
Moreover, Miss R returned the first form on 24 March 2021 and NS&I sent the request for a 
witnessed signature on 30 March. Therefore, Im content they acted reasonably promptly 
and sought to help Miss R gain access to her account. I wouldnt have expected them to do 
anything further here.
Ive also considered Miss Rs comments that the call handler agreed with her about the 
complaint. NS&I said that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Ive listened to the call and 
reviewed the evidence and Im not persuaded that what was said by the call handler means 
the complaint should be upheld considering my findings as explained above.
Overall, Im satisfied NS&Is service was reasonable here. I do understand how strongly 
Miss R feels that the security questions were too difficult because of the spelling and 
formatting requirements so I know my decision will be disappointing. Ultimately, NS&I do 
need to balance the needs of its customers to access and transfer funds conveniently with 
keeping those funds secure. And the evidence Ive seen doesnt persuade me that theyve 
done anything wrong in respect of the information they asked Miss R to provide. And whilst I 
appreciate it took longer for Miss R to withdraw the funds, NS&I did send her the forms and 
information, so she was able to unblock the account and make the withdrawal. Therefore, 
they reasonably assisted her after her account was blocked.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman