DRN-3442773
The complaint
Mr G through his court appointed representative Mrs H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc 
failed to protect Mr Gs money and allowed fraud on his accounts by family members to 
dissipate his funds. Mrs H is also unhappy with the way HSBC have dealt with Mr Gs 
mortgages.
What happened
Mr G had accounts both personal and business and mortgages with HSBC. Following a 
stroke on 3 March 2009 Mr G was unable to look after his financial affairs.
The court appointed a local solicitor as an attorney in November 2014 at the request of the 
family because of arrears with Mr Gs mortgages. Mrs H was appointed as Mr Gs attorney in 
2017 following the closure of the first attorneys firm. Mrs H is also Mr Gs sister.
Mrs H told us that after his stroke Mr Gs accounts were accessed by family members.
After she was appointed Mrs H noticed irregularities with the way the accounts had been 
used following Mr Gs stroke. She noticed that ATM transactions had taken place on his 
personal account at a time when Mr G was incapacitated in hospital. She has said that as 
Mr G lacked capacity to operate the account  she disputes transactions made on the 
account in particular ATM withdrawals and payments made using Mr Gs debit card. The 
total in dispute is £18,740.00 in ATM withdrawals and £897.10 in card payments.
The disputed ATM and card transactions took place between 2 February 2010 and 
September 2013. From March 2009 until February 2010 direct debit payments were made 
and the account operated in a similar way to when Mr G had capacity. Direct debits were 
being paid provided the balance on the account was below the £5,000 overdraft.
Mrs H has told us that Mr G had a business which he had operated as a sole trader. A few 
months before his stroke he had incorporated a limited company and opened business
accounts in the name of the new company.
She has said that the business manager at the local HSBC branch knew Mr G and the family 
well and he was related to Mr Gs ex-wife. Mr Gs ex-wife was still involved in Mr Gs life, 
before the stroke she had been renting a room in Mr Gs house and she cared for him after 
his stroke. Mrs H thinks that the business bank manager should have made the bank aware 
of Mr Gs health condition and restricted the accounts. She thinks HSBC had knowledge 
through the awareness of the business bank manager in his personal capacity.
Following his stroke Mr G was not able to work as a result of which no income was coming 
into his business accounts or his personal accounts. DWP payments started being received 
into the account in November 2009.
Mrs H has said that Mr Gs daughter looked after the business and the business accounts 
following Mr Gs stroke. Mr G had a number of business accounts with HSBC which have all 
been closed. Following on from Mr Gs daughters involvement in the business one of his 
accounts was closed with an outstanding debit balance of over £19,000 which HSBC wrote 
off. I havent been able to get evidence of why the account balance was written off.
HSBC have said that they became aware of Mr Gs condition following the registering of the 
Power of Attorney in February 2017.
Mr G had three mortgages with HSBC on his home. The payments were made out of his 
personal account. After the stroke it appears that the mortgages were paid for through 
insurance but only for one year. It isnt clear who dealt with the paperwork for the insurance 
and how this was processed as Mr G lacked capacity and no attorney was appointed at the 
time.
Mrs H has complained that between October 2009 and November 2010 HSBC took 
mortgage payments each month that were reversed, charging interest and increasing Mr Gs 
debt. Mr G was visited at his home by HSBC on 15 April 2011 to discuss the mortgage 
arrears. HSBC wrote to Mr G on 17 May 2011 asking for his authority to appoint a third party 
to discuss his accounts.
Due to non-payment of Mr Gs mortgage and further advances against the property where 
he lived, Mr Gs house was charged with £10,997.01.
Mr Gs mortgage debt increased because from September 2010 only mortgage interest was 
charged to the account. This resulted in mortgage arrears. Once she was appointed attorney 
Mrs H tried to sort out the arrears on Mr Gs mortgages and prevent his house from having 
to be sold.
She has also said that HSBC charged Mr G 200% APR interest in his mortgage.
Mrs H complained to HSBC. They said they hadnt been aware of Mr Gs ill health until 
February 2017 when the POA was registered in the local branch. As such they didnt think 
they were liable for the ATM withdrawals. They also explained the interest rates on Mr Gs 
mortgages. The letter from HSBC confirmed that Mr Gs highest mortgage rate had been 
5.65%.
Unhappy with their response Mrs H complained to our service. One of the investigators 
looked into the case. He thought that because of the passage of time it wasnt possible to 
establish what had happened. And due to Mr Gs health, it wasnt possible to ask him if he 
had given permission to his daughter and ex-wife to operate his accounts. Because he 
couldnt establish if Mr G had consented to the use on his account, he couldnt recommend 
that HSBC refund Mr G any money. He also didnt think that HSBC had charged Mr G 
unreasonable interest on his mortgages.
Mrs H was unhappy with the view  She thought HSBC were on notice of Mr Gs health as 
soon as the stroke happened because Mr Gs bank manager was his ex-brother in law. She 
said that as Mr G had lost mental capacity and wasnt able to look after his own finances the 
bank shouldnt have let anyone else use the accounts.
In my provisional decision I said:
Our jurisdiction to consider Mr Gs complaint.
The rules about complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. HSBC has asked me to consider whether the complaint was made too late.The Dispute Resolution rules (DISP) which determine which complaints can be considered 
by this Service are set out in the regulators handbook. The rules include time limits by which 
complaints must be made. The DISP rule in this case is DISP 2.8.2. It says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the FOS
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
The event complained of is the unauthorised use of Mr G's personal accounts which started 
in February 2010 with an ATM withdrawal of £300. As well as mortgage arrears and high 
interest being charged on the mortgages.
In this case the complaint was referred to us more than six years after the event complained 
of. The consumer sent a form to us dated 9 July 2020, which is 10 years from the start of the 
event complained of.
However, I have then looked at section 2 (b) -which outlines that the complaint must be 
made three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to become aware) that he had cause for complaint.
Mr G lost mental capacity in March 2009. Following his stroke the medical evidence I have 
seen suggests his incapacity continues and so he could never become aware that he had 
cause for complaint.
I appreciate that he had a court appointed attorney in November 2014. However, there is no 
evidence that I have seen that the first court appointed attorney sought to look at 
retrospective statements or investigated what had happened in the accounts. We won't look 
at whether the attorney had a duty to look at these things but whether they actually did  I 
can't see that the first attorney raised any issues with the bank regarding the use of Mr G's 
account or any disputed transactions. Therefore, I am of the view that the three-year time 
limit had not started during the period the first court appointed attorney was in post between 
November 2014 and February 2017.
Mr G's second attorney was appointed in February 2017. I can see on file that HSBC sent 
her a final response letter on 13 May 2020. I can see from correspondence with an 
employee at HSBC who I will refer to as Miss C that Mrs H was communicating with her 
regarding looking at Mr G's accounts including the mortgage accounts. A letter dated July 
2019 from Ms C provides a list of Mr G's accounts to Mrs H. And according to HSBC the rep 
contacted the bank on 7 March 2020 in connection with Mr G's accounts and the actions of 
the bank.
Mrs H has told me that on being appointed as Mr G's attorney she concentrated on sorting 
out Mr G's mortgage arrears and securing the house. She then turned her attention to the 
accounts. So, looking at these dates I'm satisfied that the attorney contacted HSBC and 
expressed dissatisfaction within three years of becoming aware of the issues with the 
accounts. It follows I think that the complaint is one that has been brought to us in time.
Mr Gs business accounts.
I have looked at Mr Gs business accounts and the business account statements, and I can 
see that Mr Gs overdraft balance was written off by HSBC so I cant say that Mr G has 
suffered any loss in respect of the business accounts. So, I wont be looking at this aspect of 
the complaint.Did HSBC have knowledge of Mr Gs condition.
HSBC have said that they didnt have knowledge of Mr Gs condition until they were notified 
of the appointment of an attorney in February 2017. On that basis they deny liability for what 
has happened on the accounts between the time of the stroke in March 2009 and the 
appointment of Mrs H as attorney in 2017.
I have considered this position. I have seen correspondence from HSBC that shows Mr G 
was visited at his home by HSBC on 15 April 2011 to discuss the mortgage arrears. HSBC 
wrote to Mr G on 17 May 2011 asking for his authority to appoint a third party to discuss his 
accounts because he was unwell. I think that HSBC through their agents were therefore 
aware that Mr G was unable to deal with his financial affairs in 2011.
Mrs H has suggested that HSBC knew of Mr Gs condition earlier than this. She has said 
that the business manager at the local branch knew Mr G and the family well and he was 
related to Mr Gs ex-wife.
In addition, Mrs H has said that other members of Mr Gs family also used the same 
business manager and have mentioned that they discussed Mr Gs health with him. I 
appreciate that this is second-hand information but as an informal dispute resolution service 
we are not bound to follow any strict rules of admissibility of evidence. I find it plausible that 
Mr Gs condition would be discussed with friends and family, even in a more formal banking 
setting. However, although the business manager probably did know about Mr Gs condition 
in his personal capacity he wouldnt have had any professional reason to look at Mr Gs 
personal accounts- In addition I have no evidence that he was the business manager at the 
relevant times. I also dont have any information as to whether this business manager was 
dealing with Mr Gs daughter for the business account. So, although I am satisfied that 
HSBC ought to have known about Mr Gs health after May 2011, I cant say that its likely 
that HSBC was aware of Mr Gs health issues before that date.
Should the bank have allowed anyone to use the account
Mrs H has said that following Mr Gs stroke, the bank shouldnt have let anyone else use 
Mr Gs account.
As Ive said above, I think HSBC had knowledge of Mr Gs condition from May 2011. Up to 
that point Mr Gs account wasnt being used very differently to how he operated it. I accept 
that no income was coming in. He did reach the limit of his overdraft on a number of 
occasions but then this went down again after DWP payments were received. And Mr Gs 
account operated close to his overdraft limit before his stroke.
I think in hindsight Mrs H thinks the bank should have done things differently. I think that the 
situation Mr G found himself in was very difficult and things operated on a day to day basis 
instead of a plan being put in place. I think Mr Gs family should have considered the long 
term situation but I can also imagine that this would have been a very difficult thing to do in 
the circumstances because of the shock of everything that had happened to Mr G. I think the 
family did the best they could in the circumstances, and I dont think the bank could have 
made up for any deficiencies in the familys planning.
Had the bank blocked the account in May 2011 or even before as Mrs H wanted, Mr G 
wouldnt have had access to any funds whilst the process of appointing an attorney was put 
in place. I think the bank adopted a pragmatic approach to the situation. I cant see that the 
way the account was operated would have alerted them that something untoward was 
happening in the account. I say this because payments in were being made. I can see that on 12 June 2009 £3,000 was credited into Mr Gs personal current account ending 3707. As 
Mr G was incapacitated at the time and still in hospital following the stroke, I cant say who 
paid in this amount in cash. Mrs H has said this payment was the money from the sale of a 
vehicle. This suggests to me that the account was operating reasonably and wouldnt have 
alerted the bank of any issues. In addition, cash withdrawals were not big amounts of 
money. Mr G didnt have savings that were being depleted. So, I dont think the bank did 
anything wrong in continuing to allow the account to be operated.
I am also aware that I have seen no evidence that the first attorney appointed in 2014 
contacted the bank to let them know of their attorneyship. Had they done so the bank may 
have proceeded differently from 2014.
The disputed transactions
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to 
process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance 
with the Payment Services Regulations and terms and conditions of the customers account. 
And I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
Mrs H disputes cash withdrawals and payments made using Mr Gs debit card which total 
£19,637.10. These disputed transactions started in February 2010.
Mrs H has also said that between March 2009 and November 2014 when the first attorney 
was appointed by the court, Mr G didnt have capacity to operate his accounts. She is saying 
there was no one that was authorised to perform transactions on his behalf. I can see that 
from March 2009 until September 2009 payments were being made towards mortgages, 
insurance premiums, cable and mobile phone contracts and TV licence. These were direct 
debit payments that continued. These payments had previously been authorised by Mr G.
From October 2009 the account reached beyond its overdraft limit and some payments were 
reversed due to insufficient funds in particular some mortgage payments. In November 2009 
the first DWP payment of £1,433.40 was paid into the account. This allowed the balance on 
the account to be reduced and mortgage payments and other direct debit payments were 
able to be processed. This suggests that someone was helping Mr G to apply for DWP 
payments. But again, I have no information who was acting for Mr G in this respect.
From December 2009 DWP payments of around £470 pounds were paid in every month into 
the account. This amount wasnt enough to pay all the direct debit payments and the debit 
balance was slowly creeping up.
In regard to the ATM withdrawals, from 2 February 2010 cash withdrawals were made using 
ATM machines close to Mr Gs home. £800 was taken out in the space of five days in 
February 2010.
From January 2011 the balance on the account hovered at a few hundred pounds over 
£5,000 regularly and regular payments from DWP of around £485 took the account to below 
the overdraft limit of £5,000. Cash was withdrawn normally the day after the DWP payment 
was received leaving the account near to the overdraft limit of £5,000. This pattern was 
repeated every month. No other transactions appeared on the statements apart from Debit 
interest and fees. This pattern continued until 2014 where the account balance was cleared, 
and the account wasnt used until 2015 when the account was closed.These ATM withdrawals are the ones Mrs H disputes. Mrs H is concerned that the cash 
withdrawals couldnt have been made by Mr G. I am aware that a new card was requested 
on Mr Gs account in May 2009. Mrs H has said that Mr G was in hospital following his 
stroke until July 2009 so could not have ordered a new card, and there was no need to as 
the original card still had some time before it expired. I note from the letter dated 
15 May 2009 enclosing the card that the PIN number on the card wasnt changed. The card 
was used to take cash out of the ATM and pay for some items at supermarkets and other 
stores. The PIN was used for these transactions.
It isnt clear who ordered the card but whoever used the card seems to have already known 
the PIN as they were able to use it at ATM machines to withdraw cash. Looking at the 
statements the card wasnt used for its first ATM withdrawal until February 2010, even 
though the card was available from May 2009 and there was money which could have been 
withdrawn from the account. This doesnt strike me as the behaviour of someone trying to 
defraud Mr G of his money.
In order to use the card to withdraw cash at the ATM a PIN would have been needed. As the 
PIN hadnt changed the person or persons using the card must have been aware of Mr Gs 
PIN number either because he shared it with them or because it was written down and they 
found it. Mrs H has said she hasnt found any evidence of a written down PIN amongst 
Mr Gs paperwork. She has also said Mr G couldnt remember his PIN after his stroke and 
he couldnt have given permission to allow family members to use his account because he 
had lost capacity.
It isnt possible to ask Mr G what happened about his PIN and whether he shared it with any 
family members. It also isnt possible to get confirmation from family members as they arent 
a party to this complaint. I have asked HSBC if they have any information about who 
requested the card. They have said that given the time that has passed, and the account 
having been closed in 2015 they have no information they can provide.
This makes the process of establishing how Mr Gs PIN was known by whoever used the 
card difficult. There is no evidence the PIN was disclosed by Mr G after his stroke. And there 
is no evidence of how the PIN was accessed and by whom. Because of the lack of evidence, 
I cant safely say that fraud was committed on the account and the transactions were 
unauthorised. It is just as possible that Mr G shared his PIN with a family member at some 
point which allowed the ATM withdrawals to take place.
Mrs H has said that members of Mr Gs immediate family but in particular his ex-wife used 
the money in the account. But unfortunately, it isnt clear who was carrying out the 
transactions. Because the money was taken out in cash its very difficult to establish what 
the money was used for. Mrs H says the money was being taken by Mr Gs ex-wife and used 
for her own benefit. But I have no evidence before me to support that.
From the evidence I have it isnt possible to establish whether the money taken out of the 
account was used for the benefit of Mr G. It seems most likely some of it was and it may be 
the case that some of it wasnt. Mrs H has said Mr Gs ex-wife and other family members 
were taking advantage of Mr G and not caring for him properly and the money wasnt spent 
on him. I am not able to make any judgement on this. It is sad to think that a vulnerable adult 
may have been taken advantage of by members of his family. However, I am also aware that 
Mrs H can only speculate as to what happened and what the money was used for. So, 
although I am very sorry, it isnt possible for me to make a determination on this because I 
dont have enough evidence before me to decide.
Mrs H says that Mr G has suffered a loss at the hands of immediate family members and the 
bank should have done something to prevent this. However, we dont have the evidence to establish whether Mr G has suffered a loss. I say this because looking at the situation 
overall, Mr Gs income dropped dramatically as a result of the change to his health and there 
was no way that the payments from DWP alone were going to keep pace with the 
commitments he had before he was unwell- we cant be as sure as we would need to be that 
the money that was coming in wasnt being used to support Mr G or for his benefit even 
though he ended up in financial difficulty.
The question I need to determine is whether the bank can hold the account holder liable for 
the transactions on the account. I appreciate Mrs H thinks that as soon as Mr G lost capacity 
the mandate was revoked, and the bank shouldnt have processed any further payments in 
order to safeguard his money. But as Ive said in my view the bank was not on notice of 
Mr Gs condition until 2011 following the visit to the house to discuss the mortgage arrears. 
And although something could have been done in 2011  Mr G is our most relevant witness 
and he isnt able to tell us who he shared his PIN with and when.
I have had to consider what I think the bank should have done in 2011 following the visit to 
Mr Gs home. The bank could have blocked the account, asked for an attorney to be 
appointed or withdrawn use of the card. But this would have left Mr G with no access to 
funds for day to day living. Its also not possible to speculate who would have ended up 
looking after Mr Gs affairs.
The events that unfolded after Mr Gs stroke were a very difficult situation. I am sure different 
family members had different views as to what should happened and how Mr Gs affairs 
were best managed and Im sure that coping with day to day of the situation took 
precedence over planning for the future. So, although I appreciate that what happened to 
Mr G is tragic, I cant hold HSBC liable for how Mr Gs ex-wife or other family members were 
able to use the card. In view of this I think that HSBC are entitled to hold Mr G liable for the 
payments on his account.
Mortgage Accounts
Mrs H hasnt been entirely clear what concerns she has about the mortgage accounts. She 
has mentioned a charging order, mortgage arrears, switching to interest only and concerns 
about being charged 200% interest.
Mr G had three mortgages with HSBC on his home. The payments were made out of his 
personal account. After the stroke it appears that the mortgages were paid for through 
insurance but only for one year.
Mrs H has complained that between October 2009 and November 2010 HSBC took 
mortgage payments each month that were reversed charging interest and increasing Mr Gs 
debt. The statements suggest the reversals started in April and May 2010.
I have looked at the statements provided by Mrs H regarding the mortgage accounts. In April 
2010 the balance on the personal account was over £5,000 in debit. Because of this the 
mortgage payments and other bills started to be reversed as the overdraft limit had been 
exceeded on the account. Payments stopped being presented and reversed in September 
2010. Going forward only debit interest was charged from 28 September 2010, no further 
mortgage payments were presented and only debit interest was charged on all three 
mortgages monthly. This increased the amount owed on each of the three mortgages. So, 
the reason for the mortgages being reversed was insufficient funds in the account. When the 
account reached an overdraft limit of £5,000 the mortgage payments werent paid. I cant say 
that HSBC were wrong in not allowing payments to go through if the account had exceeded 
the overdraft limit agreed with the bank.I have seen a letter purporting to be from Mr G dated 17 May 2010 and received on 18 May 
2010. Requesting that his mortgage be transferred to an interest only basis. Mrs H has said 
this letter couldnt have been written by Mr G as he didnt have mental capacity to write it 
and he was unable to write due to the stroke he had suffered a year earlier. The letter 
suggests that Mr Gs mortgages for the year after his stroke were being paid by his 
insurance. I appreciate that Mr G may not have written the letter and I dont know if HSBC 
acted on this letter, however given the financial situation he was in and that his benefit 
payments would not cover the capital element of his mortgages it doesnt seem an 
unreasonable thing for someone to have done to try and reduce his outgoings in the short 
term.
I have seen a letter dated 8 April 2011 which suggests HSBC had applied for a charging 
order. HSBC charged the property with £10,997.01. However, this charge was removed, and 
Mr G isnt liable for it. I havent had any further evidence about this charge.
Mrs H has complained about the interest rate being charged on Mr Gs mortgages. She 
became aware of this when she tried to pay off the mortgage.
Payments started to be made again in February 2016 for account 2426 at that point the 
mortgage outstanding was £15,316.40. A payment of £5,000 in July 2017 reduced the 
amount owing to £8,084.84. Two further large payments in August 2017 reduced the 
balance to £2,542.38. The final payment on 27 September 2018 left 43 pence owing. The 
next debit interest payment deducted 42 pence leaving one penny owing in the account on 
28 September 2018. The account closed following payment of the one penny owing on 
4 October 2018. This is the amount that Mrs H has queried as being charged 200 %. The 
FRL from the bank clarifies that the maximum interest that was charged on the mortgages 
was 6.4% so I cant say that Mr G was charged 200% on his mortgage payments. Looking at 
the mortgage situation I am satisfied that given the constraints on Mr Gs income the bank 
hasnt done anything wrong in the way that they processed his mortgage accounts.
I am aware that Mrs H will be very disappointed with my provisional findings. I want to 
reassure her that I have looked at everything that she has provided in great detail and I am 
very sorry at what has happened to Mr G. I appreciate that she has her own views as to who 
is responsible for Mr Gs financial situation. However, looking at all the evidence I have I 
cant safely say that Mr G was a victim of fraud on his account. It follows that I cant 
recommend that the bank refund any of the ATM and card transactions. In respect of the 
mortgages I cant see that the bank has done anything wrong here.
Responses to my provisional findings
Mrs H has said that the bank knew of the first attorneys appointment and has provided 
documentary evidence of this. But hasnt provided me with anything further following my 
provisional decision.
HSBC havent commented on my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H has sent documents that show that HSBC were aware of the appointment of the first 
deputy in April 2015. In my provisional decision I acknowledge that the bank knew of Mr Gs 
condition from May 2011 and the fact they knew of the deputyship in April 2015 doesnt 
materially change the position. I have nevertheless re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I 
have seen nothing to change my mind and so my provisional findings stand.
My final decision
My final decision is that for the reasons stated above I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman