DRN-3690833
The complaint
Ms G is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) did not prevent her from falling victim to 
a scam and will not refund the money shes lost.
While Ms G brings this complaint with the help of a representative (a firm of solicitors), for 
ease I will mostly refer to Ms G. 
What happened
Ms G uploaded her CV to a job website. Shortly afterwards, she was contacted by 
somebody offering her employment at a hospital overseas, which included accommodation. 
This person who I shall call A asked Ms G to send them £3,480 to arrange a family visa for 
her. Ms G discussed the details of the opportunity with her family and they agreed to lend 
her the money to cover the payment.
Ms G went into a branch on 11 November 2021 accompanied by her mother  she paid 
£3,500 into the account. Ms G provided the account details shed received from A and 
Santander processed her request, sending the payment by international money transfer.  
The following day, Ms G became suspicious when A requested another payment from her. 
She tried making contact but didnt get a response.  Ms G realised shed been scammed and 
reported the matter to Santander on 24 November 2021.  Santander contacted the 
recipients bank to tell it what had happened and to request that any funds that remained be 
returned. But there was no response. 
Ms G raised a complaint as she didnt think Santander had done enough to protect her from 
the scam. But Santander declined to reimburse her  it said she willingly made the payment 
to A, after it had a conversation with her warning about scams.
Ms G didnt agree. She said Santander had only asked her the reason for the payment and 
nothing else. She believed that had it asked her additional questions about the background 
to the payment, it would have prevented the scam. She highlighted the following questions 
as examples of what it could have asked her: 
- Had she conducted background research on the person who had contacted her?
- Could she discuss with it why the person was asking for the funds?
- Had she been provided with any documents to back up what the person was saying?
- Had she discussed this with anyone else?
What did our investigator say? 
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Gs complaint. She said based on the available evidence 
she was satisfied Santander had quite a detailed conversation with her about the payment, 
including aspects of it being too good to be true, which included warning her about scams. 
However, Ms G had still wanted to go ahead. In the circumstances, our investigator didnt 
think Santander should have declined to make the payment because Ms G had reassured it 
that it was genuine.  The investigator also concluded Santander had taken steps to try and 
recover the funds, but none had been returned. So, she didnt think it needed to do anything 
Ms G wasnt happy with the outcome, so her complaint has been passed to me to decide. In 
doing so, she said that if the bank had concerns it shouldnt have put the payment through.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common ground that Ms G authorised the payment to A. So, even though she was the 
victim of a scam, the payment was authorised under the Payment Services Regulations. 
Santander had an obligation to follow Mr Gs payment instruction, and Ms G is presumed 
liable for her loss in the first instance. But thats not the end of the story. There are 
circumstances in which a bank should make additional checks before processing a payment, 
or, in some cases, decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from 
the possibility of financial harm. 
Ms G needed to make the payment by international money transfer to A and she went into 
the branch to do this. The type of transaction was out of character for her.  So, in this case I 
would have expected Santander to ask Ms G questions about the payment, to understand 
the reason behind it and to gather more information. 
However, on this point, Ms G says Santander only asked her the reason for the payment and 
nothing else. Ms Gs given some examples of the questions she feels it could have asked 
her. Santander on the other hand says its staff had a detailed conversation with her, which 
included a warning about scams. 
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I need to decide what I consider is most 
likely to have happened based on the available evidence. And then consider whether 
Santander acted fairly in its dealings with Ms G when she authorised payment from her 
account or whether it could and should have done more before processing it. Ill now deal 
with these matters. 
As I have said, Ms G maintains Santander didnt ask her any questions beyond the reason 
for the payment. But on balance I think Santander had a detailed conversation with her, 
which included several questions and a warning about fraud and scams. Ill explain why.  
Santander has provided statements from three members of staff. I think these are significant 
as they were all at the branch at the relevant time. One member of staff (M1) served Ms G 
and her mother. The other member of staff (M2) was behind the counter and involved in 
releasing the funds for the payment and a third member of staff, M3 was also present. All are 
consistent in recalling that Ms Gs mother accompanied her during the visit and these facts 
are also accepted by Ms G. Separately, its also accepted that Ms Gs mother was there as 
she was paying money into her daughters account so that she had the available funds.  All 
three members of staff also recall Ms G confirmed the payment was connected to a job 
placement at a hospital overseas.
M1 says she had an extensive conversation about what the funds were for, which included 
whether there was any suspicion that it was a fraud or scam. She says, 
  I then had extensive conversation about what the funds were bring sent over for and if the customer had any suspicions that this was fraud or a potential scam, the customer was 
more than happy to send payment showed me the email on the phone, I explained we 
couldnt check details on the system so they had to be doubly sure this was genuine and not 
being forced in any way to send funds to a third party and that this was going to the correct 
place and company. She told me the reason and said she hasnt been contacted to make 
this payment
This is supported by M2 who was behind the counter at the time. She says M1 asked lots 
of questions about the payment and asked where shed got the details. Also, that if this was 
a scam they might not be able to recover the payment. Both indicate that they were shown 
an email and Ms G was comfortable this was genuine and wanted to proceed. M2 says that 
they asked as many questions as we could.  
M3 says she recalled the transaction well because we asked so many questions. She says, 
I remember the customer and the mother of the customer was extensively asked 
questions and challenged to ensure they were comfortable making the payment and they 
were absolutely adamant. She says she also remembered the conversation because either 
Ms G or her mother said accommodation was included and she recalled saying it was a 
good opportunity but linked it to a conversation about it being too good to be true. However, 
Ms G said her uncle had helped to arrange it. M2 also recalls reference to a family member 
in this context and M3 says they were shown an email on Ms Gs mobile phone that 
confirmed the placement. 
Ive highlighted what the staff have said and considered this testimony very carefully against 
what Ms G has told us.  While Ms Gs uncle didnt have anything to do with arranging the job 
placement, Ms Gs family appear to have lent her money to pay for the visa and she has 
referenced her uncle. So, I can understand why he would have been mentioned in the 
conversation. Thinking about this and the other information staff have recounted, Im 
persuaded theres enough similarity and detail in these individual recollections to show that 
its more likely than not, that the bank raised questions of whether the underlying 
circumstances were indicative of fraud. And that the conversation wasnt limited to a single 
question about what the payment was for. The e-slip for the transaction captures the words 
work placement at a hospital and there is a tick alongside the box marked scam warning 
which is consistent with staff testimony that a warning about fraud and scams was given. 
Ive gone on to think about what M3 has said about aspects of the job opportunity being too 
good to be true to see if staff should have done more, for example, prevented the payment. 
But I also note from Ms Gs submissions she said, I had seen other jobs online offering 
similar perks and therefore this job did not seem too (sic) good to be true.  Ms Gs 
representatives echo this  they said employment benefits listed by the scammers matched 
the benefits Ms G had seen online for other jobs overseas and that she had checked the 
address of the hospital and this matched the genuine address. 
I think this is important evidence because it appears Ms G had already undertaken some 
checks and shed also discussed the proposal with her family before going into the branch. 
And having done so, her actions suggest she was comfortable that shed taken appropriate 
steps to address any risk. And after the bank had raised the possibility of fraud - and for 
clarity, as set out above Im satisfied there is persuasive evidence from Santander that it did 
 she still proceeded with the payment. Thinking about all of this, I dont think Santander 
could have prevented the scam or crucially stopped Ms G from sending the payment through 
other means even if it had, for example, her family. As the evidence suggests she was keen 
to ensure the payment was made. So, it follows that I dont think Santander treated her 
unfairly in executing the payment.
RecoveryThe available evidence shows that Ms G contacted Santander by phone on 24 November 
2021 after 5pm. Ive listened to a call from that evening which shows that Santander was 
gathering information from her in order to raise a claim to recover the funds. Its not clear 
whether Santander raised a claim for recovery of the funds that evening but there is 
evidence to show a claim was certainly live by 25 November. Any potential delay here may 
have been due to the time of day Ms G called. But in any event, I dont think this 
disadvantaged her, given the recipient bank didnt respond and Ms G didnt raise this with 
Santander straight away.  
For completeness, I can see that on 15 December 2021 Santander was advised through the 
SWIFT messaging system for international payments that there had been no response to its 
retrieval request.  Having regard for the steps Santander took and the response it received, I 
dont find it treated Ms G unfairly in attempting to recover the funds. 
Customer service
Ms G doesnt think Santander tried to assist her. But as referenced above, in the call Ive 
heard, the bank was trying to help  it asked her for the key details, enabling it to raise a 
claim. I understand Ms G visited the branch again, but she didnt feel staff were supportive. 
But by this point Im not sure what they could have done. And in any event, I think its more 
likely that Ms Gs upset stemmed from the scam itself.   
Im really sorry to disappoint Ms G because I understand this is a lot of money for her to lose 
and shes been the victim of a scam. But for the reasons Ive given, I dont find Santander 
treated her unfairly. It follows that I wont be asking it to do anything to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman