DRN-4252409
The complaint
Mr G complains that Evolution Money Limited (Evolution) mis-sold him a secured loan.
Mr G has also brought a complaint against the lender about the lending decision and the 
action it took against him when he was in financial difficulties. I have dealt with that 
complaint in a separate decision.
What happened
Mr G took out a second charge mortgage for £11,950 (plus fees) in March 2017 in order to 
consolidate debt following advice from Evolution.
Mr G said that he had a drug and alcohol addiction at the time he took out the loan and was 
already suspended from his job. He spent the sum paid to him of around £7,300 on drug 
debts. Mr G made the first payment but was then unable to make any further payments as 
he lost his job. The lender subsequently instigated legal proceedings and an arrestment of 
earnings order was granted by the Court. Mr G sold the property in June 2022 and the 
remainder of the balance of the mortgage was settled at that point.
Evolution says that Mr G was referred to it on 24 February 2017. Evolution then completed a 
telephone application with Mr G in order to ascertain the suitability and affordability of the 
loan, which included a fact-find, credit search and income and expenditure (I&E) 
assessment. It says that Mr G was asked questions about his credit file and there were no 
mortgage arrears or missed/late payments and he was maintaining his credit commitments. 
A verbal I&E assessment was also completed to ensure the loan was affordable and 
sustainable for him. During the call Mr G stated that he was employed and didnt have any 
work-related disciplinary proceedings against him and was not aware of any changes to his 
employment circumstances.
Evolution says that based on the initial checks Mr G qualified for a loan of £11,950 and a 
mortgage illustration document was issued. Following Mr Gs confirmation of the terms, the 
application was passed to Evolutions case management department to assess the 
supporting documentation and validate the information he had provided verbally. Evolution 
says that its records indicate a verbal job check was completed with Mr Gs employer. The 
loan funds were released to Mr G on 10 March 2017.
Evolution says that the loan was used to consolidate nine existing credit commitments for 
which Mr G was making a monthly payment of between £500 and £600, and therefore the 
loan benefitted him by reducing his monthly expenses. It says that Mr G applied for the loan 
by deception and lied regarding his employment status and any anticipated change to his 
circumstances. It says that it was not aware of this during the loan application.  
Investigators View 
Our investigator looked at the case and concluded that Evolution hadnt given suitable 
advice.
She set out that the recommendation by Evolution ought to have been made on a Consumer 
Buy To Let (CBTL) basis in Mr Gs circumstances. 
The investigator didnt think Evolution could reasonably have foreseen that Mr G would lose 
his job. However, she wasnt persuaded that the advice from Evolution to Mr G to take the 
second charge loan was suitable. It left him in negative equity, secured many unsecured 
debts to his property and no questions were raised around his level of gambling or whether 
the loan would be sustainable for him as a result. She was of the view that Evolution should 
have declined to provide advice and explained that it couldnt make a recommendation that 
was suitable to his circumstances.
In order to put things right, the investigator thought that Evolution should refund the broker 
fees paid by Mr G. 
Evolutions Response
Evolution says that the job check it completed didnt indicate that Mr G was undergoing 
disciplinary action. However, he later confirmed that he had lied about this. It says that had 
Mr G told the truth about this, it would have changed its decision to lend. 
Evolution disagrees that lending with a loan to value (LTV) of 110% is unreasonable as it 
says this fit within its lending criteria and that the risk sits with Evolution and not Mr G.
Evolution says that its records show that the level of gambling was discussed with Mr G and 
that he advised that he was in a work syndicate and was placing bets on behalf of his 
colleagues. 
In relation to the short-term loans, Evolution says that it appreciates that this paints a picture 
of Mr Gs past borrowing, but the loan consolidated all the active ones to break the cycle of 
Mr G continuing to use them. It also says that, although Mr G was using his overdraft 
balance to pay creditors, this was an arranged overdraft which he was not exceeding and 
was also cleared with the loan funds. 
Evolution said that it is not positioned to give debt advice so is unable to comment on 
whether an IVA, bankruptcy or coming to an arrangement with his creditors would have been 
a better option for Mr G.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the evidence, I agree with the investigators view for broadly the same 
reasons and I've explained my reasons further below.
The Mortgage
It was clear from the information Mr G provided to Evolution when taking out the mortgage 
that he wasnt living in the property the loan was to be secured on. The property was already 
owned by him and it was his only buy to let property. Mr G has also confirmed to this service 
that the first charge mortgage was on a residential basis and that he had previously lived in 
the property. 
As a result of this, the Mr G should have been sold a CBTL mortgage. This isnt a regulated 
mortgage contract governed by the regulators rules on mortgage lending (known as MCOB). 
Instead, the standards and conduct of a CBTL mortgage are governed by the rules set out in 
Schedule 2 of the Mortgage Credit Directive Order 2015 (MCDO). 
The Advice
The loan taken out by Mr G in March 2017 was for £11,950 over a term of seven years. 
Added to this was an arrangement fee of £1,195 (payable to Evolution as the broker) and a 
servicing fee of £956. The loan was on a variable rate of 26.82% at the time the loan was 
taken (APRC 35.51%). The monthly payment was £347.95 with the total amount repayable 
being £29,227.56.Mr Gs property was valued at £48,000. The outstanding amount of the first charge mortgage 
on Mr Gs property was £40,837, so along with the money borrowed for the loan with 
Evolution, this meant a loan to value (LTV) ratio of 110%. Once the fees added to the loan 
are included, this gave an LTV of over 114%.
As set out above, the mortgage should have been lent on a CBTL basis and was therefore 
governed by MCDO. These rules set out the standards for providing advice and state:
13 (4) Where a creditor or credit intermediary provides advisory services to a 
borrower, the creditor or credit intermediary must -
(a) obtain the necessary information regarding the borrowers personal and financial 
situation, preferences and objectives so as to enable the recommendation of suitable 
[CBTL] mortgage contracts;
(b) base its recommendation on information that is up-to-date and takes into account 
reasonable assumptions as to risks to the borrowers situation over the term of the 
proposed agreement, including information on the typical rental levels and rental 
demands within the propertys locality, the impact of future interest rate rises, rental 
voids, and rental arrears and typical letting costs;
(c) act in the best interests of the borrower by -
(i) informing itself about the borrowers needs and circumstances; and
(ii) recommending suitable mortgages in accordance with paragraphs (a) and (b); 
and
(d) give the borrower a record on paper or another durable medium of the 
recommendation provided.
Ive listened to the call between Mr G and Evolution which took place on 24 February 2017. 
Mr G said that the purpose of the loan was to consolidate debt and that he wanted a monthly 
payment of about £250. He was looking to borrow around £7,500 over no more than a five-
year term. He told the advisor that it was most important for him to reduce his monthly 
outgoings as he wanted to go on holiday.
Mr G said that he was struggling with payments but keeping up to date, although he had 
missed a few credit card and payday loan repayments. 
The advisor noted that Mr G had a relatively low credit score of 451, when the average for 
their customers was around 500. He told Mr G that this was due to him having a high 
balance to limit ratio of 99%, along with the payday loans. At this stage the advisor said 
Those are the reasons youve probably come through to us, But its not going to deter us, 
thats something that we can offer finance against. I dont think it was appropriate for the 
advisor to indicate that a loan could be offered in these circumstances before going through 
the credit file and obtaining further information about Mr Gs financial situation.
The advisor then went through Mr Gs credit file and calculated that the credit cards and 
payday loan debts amounted to £7,921 and that he was spending £851.40 a month on these 
debts. Some of the reasons he gave for the payday loans were that he needed funds for a 
flight to attend a job interview, that he needed a deposit for a holiday and that he had taken 
some loans for his sister. 
The advisor said that it wasnt possible to partially consolidate the debts so Evolution would 
have to offer a higher loan amount of £8,000. Mr G then asked about consolidating the 
overdraft of £3,000, which would mean a loan of £11,000. The advisor then said that Mr G 
qualified for a loan of up to £15,000 subject to affordability. He advised that this left Mr G in 
negative equity and that for anything above an LTV of 110% the interest rate went up. 
Therefore, to get the best rate the maximum amount of the loan would be £11,950 which 
would be exactly 110% LTV.Mr G asked what the monthly payments would be for various loan terms and following this 
said to the advisor to go for seven years. After this, the advisor went through the I&E 
assessment. He had an income of £1,784.75 and after the consolidation he was left with a 
disposable income of £245.87 including a percentage for a stress test.
The advisor recommended that Mr G take a loan of £11,950 over a term of seven years. He 
set out that, when Mr G was asked to prioritise between the monthly repayments, the 
amount of the loan and the term, his main concern was getting a budget of around £250 a 
month. Although the loan payments were £347, Mr G was saving over £500 compared to the 
£851 he was clearing off so the advisor said he had achieved that budget because your 
outgoings arent actually exceeding £250, theyre actually decreasing. The total amount of 
loan Mr G was looking for was initially £7,500; the advisor said he could achieve that but Mr 
G had asked for further funds as it serves more of a purpose, clears almost everything off 
and reduces his monthly outgoings. Finally, the advisor said that Mr G had asked for term of 
five years but Mr G had requested to extend that to seven years to make it suit his needs a 
bit more.
Having regard to the recommendation, it didnt fit with any of the criteria Mr G said he 
wanted at the beginning of the call; the monthly repayment was almost 40% higher than the 
budget he declared; the amount of the loan was almost 60% more than he requested, and 
the term was also 40% longer than the maximum he said he wanted at the outset. 
Whilst I appreciate that Mr G increased the amount of the loan to almost £12,000, this was 
after being told what the maximum amount he qualified for was and, of that, the maximum he 
could get at a lower interest rate if the LTV was under 110%. At no point did the advisor 
question whether it was in Mr Gs best interests to increase the amount borrowed and no 
mention was made of the interest rate he would have got if hed taken the £7,500 that he 
initially wanted, which would have meant an LTV of around 100%. Likewise, the increasing 
of the term and the monthly figure was a result of the fact that the higher loan amount meant 
Mr Gs initial budget and maximum term were no longer possible. 
Giving advice doesnt mean that Evolution had to find a loan for Mr G. It had the option to 
simply advise him that it was unable to recommend any loan as being suitable for him in his 
circumstances. 
I accept that, at the outset of the call, the advisor said that Evolution does encourage 
customers to look at other sources of funding and asked if Mr G had contacted his current 
mortgage provider or considered applying for an unsecured loan. Mr G said that hed had a 
falling out with his mortgage provider and said that this was a quicker option. No further 
clarification was sought in relation to this. The advisor offered details for the Money Advice 
Service but Mr G said he didnt need these. This was before the advisor had asked any 
questions about Mr Gs financial situation, gone through his credit file or completed the I&E. 
And it appears to me that no further consideration was given to the possibility that a second 
charge loan might not be suitable for Mr G at all based on his individual circumstances.       
Overall, the recommendation appears to have been largely based on Mr G asking the 
advisor to increase the loan amount and then Mr G picking which term he wanted based on 
the repayment amount. Having listened to the advice call, it is my view that the advisor 
simply recommended what Mr G asked for, as opposed to considering whether it was 
suitable for him or in his best interests. 
Whilst being taken through the I&E, Mr G was asked how much he spent on lotteries or 
gambling each month. He said that there were a few entries for gambling on his statements 
and that he gave £10 a month to a staff lottery fund. The advisor asked what Mr G would pay 
out in total for gambling each month and Mr G said that he spent £150-200 a month. The 
advisor then said If we see entries like that, that does get questioned, it wont prevent us 
from giving you the loan so dont worry about that but just bear in mind you will get 
questioned when they see your bank statements. The advisor doesnt appear to have included anything on the I&E for gambling expenditure and didnt ask any further questions 
about this.
The bank statements show a significant number of gambling transactions in the period 
before the loan was approved. For the month from 25 January 2017 until 24 February 2017, 
there was a total of £820 paid out on gambling over 63 transactions (including the £10 staff 
lottery).
Mr G has confirmed that he had a gambling addiction and that the loan was taken out at the 
height of his addiction. Although the advisor didnt know that, I dont think he made the 
obvious enquiries about Mr Gs gambling expenditure that he should have done and think 
that he should have asked further questions about this before determining whether the loan 
was suitable or in Mr Gs best interests. Further, I dont think it was appropriate for the 
advisor to say that gambling transactions wouldnt prevent Evolution from giving the loan.
Evolution says that Mr G was asked questions about his credit file and there were no 
mortgage arrears or missed/late payments and he was maintaining his credit commitments. 
I disagree that Mr G was maintaining his credit commitments. His credit file, which the 
advisor went through, shows that he had opened 15 accounts in the last six months, that he 
had taken £1,145 of cash advances on credit cards in the last 12 months, that 13 credit 
searches for loan applications had been done in the last three months and 55 in the last 12 
months. 
The credit file also showed that an arrangement had been in place for the last 2 months for 
two of the payday loans and that payments were behind (or late) for three other payday 
loans. The credit file also showed that four of the credit cards were over their limit, two were 
close to the limit and the payments were behind (or late) for two of the cards. 
The bank statement also showed that Mr G was frequently near his overdraft limit and had 
exceeded it occasionally. For example, on 30 December 2016, 24 January 2017 and 31 
January 2017, Mr G was already over his overdraft limit of £3,000 then spent money on 
gambling transactions which took him further over his limit. These examples indicate that Mr 
G was clearly not managing his debts sustainably and that he potentially had a gambling 
problem. The statements also showed that direct debits for a loan and a credit card had 
been returned unpaid. So I dont think the information available to Evolution demonstrated 
that Mr G was maintaining his credit commitments at all. 
Of the active loans and credit cards on the credit file, all but one of the credit cards had been 
opened in the previous six months. In addition to these, Mr G had taken out a further 
unsecured loan of almost £10,000 for a new car in October 2016. I also note that during the 
I&E call Mr G told the advisor that he had taken out payday loans to travel to a job interview, 
to pay for a deposit on a holiday and to give to his sister. He also told the advisor that 
reducing his outgoings was important as he wanted to go on holiday. Given the information 
available to Evolution, I think it ought to have questioned whether Mr G was managing his 
finances and whether securing his debts on his property would be suitable for him or in his 
best interests.  
Evolution says that the loan was used to consolidate a number of credit commitments and 
therefore benefitted Mr G by reducing his monthly expenses. It has also said that the funds 
from the secured loan consolidated all the active short-term loans to break the cycle of Mr G 
continuing to use them.
Whilst the loan reduced Mr Gs monthly expenditure by consolidating some  but not all  of 
his debts, on the information available to the advisor at that time, it would have increased his 
overall indebtedness by over £3,000. This was due to the additional amount of £1,029 paid 
to Mr G on top of the £10,921 for the consolidation, along with the arrangement fee of 
£1,195 and a servicing fee of £956. I also note that one of the credit cards with a balance of 
£1,900 was interest-free, so consolidating this card meant that Mr G would have to pay more interest on this. I accept that the advisor initially advised that it was not worth consolidating 
this debt and that it was up to Mr G if he took the advice or chose to clear it. However, the 
amount of the loan which the advisor recommended to Mr G still included the amount to 
consolidate this debt.
The consolidation also meant that the debt was secured against his rental property  which 
provided part of his income  over seven years which would add a significant amount of 
interest to the amount he initially borrowed and mean that his property could be repossessed 
if he was unable to maintain the repayments. This would also have left him in negative equity 
as the LTV was 114% including the fees which had been added to the loan. 
In its response to the investigators view, Evolution disagreed that lending with an LTV of 
110% was unreasonable as it says this fitted within its lending criteria and that the risk sits 
with the lender and not Mr G. Firstly, the LTV was 114% as the fees were added to the loan 
which was secured on Mr Gs property. Further, the fact that Evolution says this met the 
requirements of its internal policy doesnt of itself mean it has acted fairly. I would expect 
Evolution to take this into account when determining whether the loan was suitable for Mr G 
and in his best interests in the other circumstances of this case. 
In combination with the other information available to Evolution, this should have indicated 
that Mr G was already heavily indebted and that a further loan  particularly another loan 
secured against his property  may not have been suitable for him. And I dont agree that the 
lender was taking all the risk. This loan placed Mr G in negative equity on the property, 
meaning its likely he wouldnt be able to re-finance the lending, for example to reduce the 
interest rate; that he couldnt sell the property to repay it should it prove unsustainable; and 
that he would be left with a shortfall if it was ever repossessed. These seem to me to be 
substantial risks that Mr G was exposed to by virtue of this loan.
For the reasons above, I dont think the recommendation by Evolution was appropriate, 
having regard to the information it held about Mr Gs financial circumstances and gambling, 
particularly given the large amount of the loan and the fact it would be secured against his 
property putting him in negative equity. Given Mr Gs circumstances, I dont think a secured 
loan was in Mr Gs best interests or that Evolution should have advised Mr G that a secured 
loan was suitable for him.
Evolution says that Mr G applied for the loan by deception and lied regarding his 
employment status and the purpose of the loan being to fund drug debts. It says that the job 
check it completed didnt indicate that Mr G was undergoing disciplinary action.
Evolution has provided a document to show that it requested a job check from Mr Gs 
employer on 3 March 2017, albeit there is no record of who carried out the check and who 
was spoken to at the employer (a 0 has been entered next to the contact name).
I accept that its likely Mr G misled Evolution as part of the loan application. But Evolution 
ought to have had regard to the matters Ive set out above as part of its recommendation, 
regardless of what Mr G has said. As explained by the investigator, Mr Gs employment 
status has had no impact on the reason the complaint has been upheld. For the reasons set 
out above, even if Mr G had remained in his job the loan wouldnt have been suitable for him 
based on the information available to Evolution. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Evolution should refund the arrangement fee of £1,195, which 
was added to the loan and paid to Evolution by the lender.
In my decision on Mr Gs case against the lender, Ive concluded that the lender shouldnt 
have offered the loan to Mr G. The arrangement fee was added directly to the loan and was 
paid to Evolution by the lender, but Ive directed the lender to disregard this when calculating 
redress. As Ive directed the lender to pay Mr G simple annual interest of 8% on any overpayments he is calculated to have made to the entire loan as a result of my decision, Im 
not asking Evolution to apply interest to the refund for the arrangement fee on top of this.
In light of the above, I require Evolution to do the following to put things right:
Evolution should refund the arrangement fee of £1,195 paid by Mr G (which was 
added to the loan and paid to Evolution by the lender).
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I uphold this complaint against Evolution Money 
Limited and require it to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman