DRN-1604294
The complaint
Mr S complains that his laptop wasnt satisfactorily repaired when he made a claim under his 
gadget insurance with Assurant General Insurance Limited. He also complains about 
Assurants handling of the claim.
What happened
Mr S had gadget insurance with Assurant and contacted it to tell it hed accidentally dropped 
his laptop and it wouldnt power on. Assurant accepted the claim and asked for the laptop to 
be sent to its repair agent. Mr S told Assurant that, because he used it for work, he was 
concerned about sensitive data on the laptop, but he was assured all data would be wiped 
from the laptop as part of the repair process, so he agreed to send it in. 
On the day the laptop was due to be returned, Mr S contacted Assurant to ask for it to be 
delivered to his employers address. But unfortunately, as Assurant didnt have the 
employers name, it was unable to change the address and the laptop was sent to Mr S 
home address. On receipt of the laptop, Mr S contacted Assurant to explain it had been 
returned to him with the wrong charger. Assurant said it wouldnt be possible to return the 
original charger and sent him £20 to buy a replacement. 
Mr S wasnt satisfied with this and so he complained to Assurant. He also complained the 
laptop had been sent to the wrong address despite him having asked for it to be sent to his 
employers address. He said the laptop was damaged while it was in Assurants control and 
that once hed managed to charge it, hed discovered it still wasnt working properly. Finally, 
he said the data hadnt been wiped by the repair agent, as he was assured it would be.
Assurant said Mr S would need to send the laptop back for it to assess whether the repair 
had been satisfactory. But Mr S said he didnt feel safe sending the laptop back due to the 
data having not been wiped on the first occasion, and that he couldnt wipe the data himself 
as it was still faulty. He told Assurant he wanted it to pay for the cost of him scrapping the 
device, and for it to provide either a cash settlement or a replacement laptop.  
Assurant agreed to uphold the other elements of the complaint in part. It accepted it had 
failed to wipe the data from the laptop, explaining that due to the nature of the repair it wasnt 
necessary. It also accepted it had been returned to the wrong address with the wrong 
charger, and that, on balance, it might have caused some damage to the laptop. In addition 
to the £20 it had already paid for the charger, Assurant offered £75 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its failings. But it maintained that as Mr S was unable 
to send the laptop to its repair centre, it couldnt verify the faults, so it was unable to offer a 
cash settlement.
Mr S wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service, stating he wanted Assurant to 
replace the laptop. But our investigator didnt feel the complaint should be upheld. She was 
satisfied that £20 for a replacement charger was reasonable, as was the offer of £75 
compensation. And she said Assurant couldnt fairly be expected to issue a cash settlement 
for the laptop unless Mr S agreed to send it to the repair agent, commenting he could have 
produced an independent report as evidence that the repair wasnt successful.
In response to this, Mr S produced an independent report as evidence the laptop was still 
damaged. But Assurant maintained it should be given an opportunity to fix the laptop as the 
report said they could not repair the device due to the model not being supported by their 
company, and because they do not have spare parts suitable for the repair. It said if the 
report had confirmed the laptop was beyond repair then maybe it would look to replace it, 
but as the repair wasnt completed due to a lack of parts, this didnt mean it couldnt attempt 
and complete a successful repair. 
Our investigator maintained her view of the complaint and Mr S asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. He has since bought a new laptop, explaining he was told to do 
so by the company that produced the independent report. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy requires Assurant to repair or replace devices that are sent for repair under a 
valid claim. Its clear from the report Mr S has submitted that faults remained with the laptop 
after the repair agent sent it back, and, as its likely the ongoing problems were due to an 
incomplete or unsatisfactory repair, Im satisfied Assurant was responsible for putting that 
right.
Mr S has said hes not prepared to send the laptop back because hes lost confidence in 
Assurant. Assurant accepts it didnt wipe the data from the device, but its explained that due 
to the nature of the repair, it wasnt necessary. While I not Mr Ss concerns, Im satisfied with 
Assurants explanation, and I dont think his refusal to return the laptop to Assurant for 
further investigations is reasonable.
Mr S has since bought a new laptop for which he wants Assurant to reimburse him. I 
understand why he needed a new laptop, but hes failed to produce evidence that the 
insured laptop is beyond economic repair and, consequently, I think Assurants position that 
it cant do anything further without the opportunity to assess the outstanding damage is fair. 
Regarding the compensation due to Mr S, Im satisfied that £20 for a new charger was 
reasonable. While I understand Mr S experienced some unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience as a result of Assurants handling of the claim, I agree £75 addresses the 
impact the failings in customer service have had on him. I note Assurant accepts its more 
likely than not that the device did sustain some cosmetic damage while in its control but, 
given it was a used laptop, I dont think it merits separate redress.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman