DRN-1978457
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with FCE Bank Plc (Ford Credit)
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ford Credit, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs B acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
I note that this case was referred to us in November 2019. I can see that our investigator has 
made frequent attempts to obtain Ford Credits views and evidence. At the point of writing 
this decision no information has been supplied by Ford Credit and I dont think its fair to 
keep Mrs B waiting for a decision any longer. Im therefore formulating my decision on the 
information that has been made available to me.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Ford Credit, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. It also says we 
should take into account whether a car has proven to be durable when considering if it was 
of satisfactory quality.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mrs B. The car 
here was brand new so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults.
Here, Im persuaded that there have been faults with this car that have been present or 
developing from the very start. Mrs B complains of a few faults but, in particular, Im 
persuaded the juddering shes complained of has been present from the start. Im persuaded 
thats the case because I can see that the juddering was reported soon after Mrs B took 
receipt of the car and it was confirmed in the independent inspectors report completed in 
June 2019, the month after Mrs B took receipt of the car.
That report said the vehicle was hesitant and jerky and suffered engine 
operations/performance issues that led to a road test being aborted. I understand that Ford 
Credit have suggested this is a characteristic of the car, but I dont think a reasonable person 
would consider that an acceptable problem. I think a car that jerks and hesitates to the point 
that an independent expert would abort a road test is clearly of unacceptable quality.
I can see that Ford Credit repaired a scratch on the car and fitted parking sensors within the 
first few weeks of ownership. The relevant legislation gives the business one opportunity to 
repair faults present at the point of supply. I think its clear that Ford Credit had that 
opportunity in May 2019 when Mrs B returned the car to them. They repaired a scratch and 
fitted parking sensors, but they failed to acknowledge the juddering Mrs B complained of. Im 
persuaded that juddering has not been resolved and therefore think Ford Credit should now 
allow Mrs B to reject the car
Putting things right
Ford Credit should end the finance agreement and collect the car.
Theyll need to refund any deposit Mrs B paid and they should add interest to that refund as 
Mrs B has been deprived of that money whilst funding a car that was of unsatisfactory 
quality.
I think its clear Mrs B has been inconvenienced by these matters. Shes had to bring her 
complaint to this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier and shes 
experienced problems with a brand-new car that she shouldnt have had to get resolved. In 
those circumstances, I think Ford Credit should pay her £200 compensation.
Im not asking Ford Credit to refund any finance instalments in respect of lack of use as its 
clear   Mrs B has had reasonable use of the car and been able to travel about as many miles 
as she was allowed under her agreement
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell FCE Bank Plc to:
end the finance agreement at no further cost to Mrs B;
collect the car at no cost to Mrs B;
refund any deposit and add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mrs B £200 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mrs Bs credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman