DRN-3678493
The complaint
Mrs J complains Zurich Insurance PLC have declined a claim she made, for storm damage 
to the roof of her property, under a home insurance policy.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Damage caused by Storm is an insured peril in the policy, however no definition is 
given about what conditions constitute a storm. The damage to the ridge tiles of the 
roof of the property, occurred at the time a named storm was passing over the U.K. 
However, weather reports specific to the location of Mrs Js property show that wind 
speeds werent of that which would usually be expected to cause structural damage. 
Even if I agree there was a Storm and for the sake of argument, accept that 
potentially the weather reports were incorrect, and the area of Mrs Js property may 
have experienced very high wind speeds that were capable of causing the type of 
damage reported. I would still have to consider if the Storm was the main cause of 
the damage caused. And, having considered all of the evidence available to me, Im 
not persuaded it was. 
Zurich sent a contractor to Mrs Js property to assess the damage and report on its 
cause. That report concluded the damage was mainly caused due to the fact the 
mortar had eroded from between the joints of the ridge tiles, meaning they were not 
properly secured. It reports that could have blown off at any time. The report explains 
the mortar likely eroded as it did not contain a sufficient amount of concrete. 
Mrs J has disputed this as her property is only just over ten years old and she does 
not think that is possible. 
However, Ive also considered the description of the repairs required as stated by a 
roofer Mrs J instructed. This says, To remove all brittle cement and replace and re-
muck 4 new ridge tiles. So, I think this also supports the conclusion that the ridge 
tiles were not properly secured at the time and therefore the storm only served to 
highlight this existing issue. 
The policy additionally has an exclusion relating to poor workmanship, poor design 
and faulty materials which applies to all sections of the policy. So, based on this, and  
given the evidence available about the most likely cause of the damage, its repair 
also wouldnt be covered under the policy due to this exclusion.  
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. I think Zurich has acted fairly and 
reasonably in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Js complaint against Zurich Insurance PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman