DRN-1463063
 
The complaint
Mr M says he was mis-sold a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by 
Santander UK Plc (Santander). 
What happened
Mr M took out a mortgage in May 2005. Just over a year later Mr M was sold a regular 
premium PPI policy to cover his mortgage repayments if he was unable to work due to 
accident or sickness or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld as he thought there wasnt 
enough evidence to show that the policy wasnt presented as optional and thought it 
wouldve provided a suitable benefit. 
Mr M disagrees he says PPI was never discussed and didnt know he had it. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
The sale took place a number of years ago so unsurprisingly there is very little information 
available from the time of the sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis of what information 
I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
Santander had to make it clear to Mr M he had a choice in taking the policy and that it wasnt 
a condition of the mortgage. The policy was sold over the phone a year after Mr Ms 
mortgage had been agreed and was in place. So I think Mr M wouldve understood he didnt 
have to have PPI to get the mortgage and it wasnt a condition of the lending.
Santander have given us a copy of the financial planning review conducted at the time. I can 
see from this that quite a lot of detail was recorded about Mr Ms circumstances and that PPI 
was discussed and recommended. I can also see that the welcome pack sent out (including 
schedule of cover and payment information) refers to Mr M choosing to take out PPI.
So I think on balance - although Mr M might not remember this - PPI was discussed and 
recommended and Mr M chose to take it because he wanted the cover. If this wasnt the 
case I think Mr M wouldve questioned why he was sent out a welcome pack and paying for 
something he hadnt agreed to. Santander advised Mr M to take the policy. What this means is that Santander not only had 
to provide information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr M could 
make an informed choice about buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if it were to 
recommend PPI that the policy was suitable to Mr Ms needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Santander did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr M for the following reasons:
Mr M was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim.
 
Mr M says he wasnt entitled to any sick pay and had no other means of making his 
repayments if he couldnt work. The policy wouldve covered him for up to 12 months 
if he couldnt work due to accident or sickness or lost his job. 
 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr M in his circumstances 
especially considering he was taking on a significant and long term financial 
commitment. Given the implications if he was unable to meet his repayments I think he 
wouldve been interested in protecting them.
 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mr M at the time. 
And if he decided he no longer wanted the policy he could cancel it which I 
understand he did do after a few years.
 
I also need to consider whether Santander gave Mr M information in a way which was clear, 
fair and not misleading so that he could make a proper choice about whether or not he 
wanted to take the policy out.
I dont know if Santander did give all the information as it shouldve. But for the same 
reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what Mr M has told us about his 
circumstances at the time, I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy if hed been given 
all the proper information.
Which means I dont think Santander has to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
 
 
 
 
 
 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint against Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman