DRN-1473483
The complaint
Mr M complains that a car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement with BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants to end 
the agreement and reject the car.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr M entered into a 4-year hire purchase agreement for a used car with 
BMWFS. The car was around 18 months old and had a mileage of just under 20,000. Mr M 
said that he carried out a HPI check on the car which didnt show up any insurance related 
repairs.
Shortly after acquiring the car, Mr M noticed that when driving at speed the car suffered from 
excessive vibration around the near-side rear of the vehicle. He called the dealership, who 
suggested there may be an issue with the cars wheel balancing and so Mr M arranged to 
have this tested at another garage. 
The garage balanced one of the cars wheels, but Mr M says it also pointed out to him that 
the car appeared to have been re-sprayed and may have been involved in an accident at 
some point. Mr M contacted the dealership who asked him to bring the car back in so it could 
investigate.
Mr M decided to arrange for the car to be independently inspected first. The independent 
engineer took the car on a 13-mile road test and also drove it at speeds over 60mph. The 
independent engineer reported that when driven at 60 mph or over, the car vibrated 
excessively in the rear which in turn meant the child seat fixed to a rear seat shook to an 
unacceptable level. They also reported that the near-side front and rear doors were 
misaligned and had been removed and refitted at some point. They said that in their opinion 
extensive bodywork repairs had been undertaken and the car had been re-sprayed. The 
independent engineer said the vibrations could be due to an issue with the near-side rear 
suspension or stub axle. They concluded that the car was not fit for purpose.
Mr M took the car back to the dealership and said that he wished to exercise his short-term 
right to reject the car as it had been in his possession for less than 30 days and wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. He also said that he had been misled as he hadnt been told about the 
car being involved in accident and, if he had, he wouldnt have bought it. He also complained 
to BMWFS.
The dealership said it took the car to another garage that diagnosed the vibration as being 
caused by the wheels requiring to be re-balanced and that once this had been undertaken 
the car no longer vibrated.
BMWFS didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint about the car. It said that as this was a used car the 
dealership wasnt obliged to tell him if the car had been involved in accident. It also said that 
as the issue had been with the wheels needing to be re-balanced which had been addressed 
there were no grounds to reject the car as there wasnt a mechanical fault.
Mr M was unhappy at BMWFSs response and complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that his complaint should be upheld. She said based on the evidence from 
both parties it seemed likely that the car had a fault at the point of sale.
Mr M had arranged for the car to be independently inspected and a report together with 
photos of the car had been prepared. The photos showed misaligned doors, the 
removal/refitting of parts and different paint depths suggesting a re-spray on the near-side 
rear of the car. Mr M had also provided more recent photos showing that the front bumper 
panel pops out and is misaligned. Our investigator said she didnt think the repairs had 
been of satisfactory standard.
Our investigator said Mr M had arranged to have one of the wheels re-balanced and 
BMWFS had suggested that this work may have exacerbated the vibration issue, but she 
wasnt persuaded by this view. She said Mr M had provided an independent report that said 
the car wasnt fit for purpose within a short time of acquiring the car.
BMWFS had disagreed with the contents of that report as it was relying on the wheel 
balancing report from a third-party garage used by the dealership. However, no report had 
been provided to this service to corroborate the only issue that was the need to have wheels 
re-balanced. Our investigator said she thought there was sufficient evidence to say that the 
earlier repairs on the car hadnt been of a satisfactory quality and that the car was faulty at 
the point of sale. Mr M had wanted to exercise his right to reject the car and it was fair for to 
do so.
Our investigator recommended that the car should be rejected and the agreement cancelled; 
the deposit repaid together with the cost of a hire car that had been rented while the car was 
at the dealership; that the monthly instalments under the agreement should be repaid for 
July, August and September 2019 while the car was at the dealership; that the cost of the 
independent inspection should be repaid and finally that compensation of £250 be paid for 
the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr M having to deal with the faulty car.
Mr M agreed with our investigators view but BMWFS disagreed. It said that although the car 
had some previous paint-work repairs these were to an acceptable standard and it couldnt 
be said that the car wasnt of a satisfactory standard just because it had undergone repairs.
BMWFS also said that the independent engineers report wasnt fit for purpose because their 
assumptions as to the cause of the vibration was wrong. Mr M had had the cars wheel re-
balanced by another garage prior to the independent inspection and the car being returned 
to the dealership for further investigation. It was entirely reasonable to suggest that the 
standard of work carried out by the first garage was not to a reasonable standard and may 
have exacerbated the issue further.
It said that the independent engineer hadnt carried out an adequate inspection as he hadnt 
carried out any tests to substantiate what he said which was that the structure of the car had 
been compromised. The conclusion of the report received by the dealership regarding the 
findings of the garage that it had asked to examine the car was that the vibration was caused 
by the wheel balancing being out. Re-spraying to an acceptable standard and experiencing 
an imbalance of a wheel did not make the car unfit for purpose.
As the parties couldnt agree the complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, but I 
am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Mr M is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. BMWFS is also the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about 
their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied  term  that when goods are 
supplied "the quality of the goods is satisfactory". The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other 
relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
Here the car wasnt brand new so wouldnt be judged by the same standard as a new 
one. I think a reasonable person would expect some issues to arise after a reasonable 
period of time and that the car would have undergone some wear and tear.
Ive seen that Mr M believed the car had been misrepresented to him by the dealership 
as it hadnt informed him about any previous body repairs. However, I think as a used 
car, it would be expected that it may have required some bodyshop work at some point 
so I dont think that the dealership misled Mr M over this.
Ive seen that the independant expert engaged by Mr M to inspect the car considered 
that the car had undergone extensive repairs. The report they prepared also includes 
photos. I think these show quite clearly that the cars doors on the near-side are 
misaligned. 
Mr M has also provided photos of the front bumper popping out which I think also 
suppports the view of the independent engineer that the repairs werent carried out to a 
good standard. This is because I think its more likely than not that the issue with the 
bumper is linked to the accident damage and the subsequent repairs.
Ive seen that Mr M raised his concerns about the car within a very short time of 
acquiring it. At the suggestion of the dealership, he took the car to a garage for the 
wheels to be re-balanced. Ive seen from the invoice that this was only carried out on 
one wheel. Mr M then arranged for the car to be independently inspected. The 
independent engineer corroborated what Mr M had said about the car vibrating 
excessively when driven at speeds over 60mph. I dont think I have any evidence that 
the vibration had become worse following the wheel being re-balanced and I disagree 
that it is reasonable to say that the first garage did anything to aggravate the problem. 
Im satisfied that the excessive vibration had been present from the point of sale of the 
car to Mr M.
BMWFS says that the independent engineers report cant be relied upon because another garage subsequently found that the vibration was due to the wheels being 
imbalanced and that this was then fixed. However, Ive seen that the independent 
engineers opinion was that the vibration might be due to a suspension or sub axle 
issue looking at the quality of the repairs to the car and misaligned doors. I think there 
was sufficient evidence that the car had extensive repairs, and these werent 
undertaken to reasonable standard so I cant say the independent engineers opinion 
was unreasonable in the circumstances and limits of their inspection. 
I dont know what the garage said to the dealership about the only issue being the 
wheels requiring a re-balance as no report has been provided despite it being 
requested by this service. However, Mr M says that although the vibrations were 
reduced after the car had had all of its wheels rebalanced and was returned to him by 
the dealership, they were still present when driving at speeds over 60mph. So, I dont 
think I can say this subsequent repair fixed the issue or that the independent 
engineers opinion has been proven to be incorrect. It seems likely an issue still exists 
that is causing the car to vibrate. 
So, on looking at the evidence I am satisfied that it is more likely than not that the car 
had a fault at the point of sale and wasnt of satisfactory quality. The car doors were 
misaligned and the excessive vibrations, when driving at speed, were unacceptable. 
On the evidence Ive seen I dont think this was a simple matter of the wheels needing 
to be re-balanced. 
Ive seen that Mr M requested to use his right to reject the car and did so in the first 30 
days of taking the car. This means he wasnt required to allow the retailer an 
opportunity to repair and I think Mr M was entitled to make that request and to hand 
the car back, cancelling the agreement and receiving his deposit back. Im upholding 
his complaint.
Putting things right
For the reasons given above Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Im asking BMWFS to do the 
following:
Collect the car at no cost to Mr M.
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Reimburse Mr M his deposit of £1,500 together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Reimburse Mr M the £240 cost of the independent inspection together with interest at 
the yearly rate of 8% from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Reimburse Mr M £197.10 for having to hire a car for one week in June/July 2019 
while his car was being investigated together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Reimburse Mr M the monthly payments made under the agreement for June, July 
and September 2019 when the car was being further investigated by the dealership 
together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% from the date of payment until the date 
of settlement.
Pay Mr M £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience of having to deal 
with the faulty car.
Remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mr Ms credit file.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Im asking BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited to do the following:
Collect the car at no cost to Mr M.
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Reimburse Mr M his deposit of £1,500 together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Reimburse Mr M the £240 cost of the independent inspection together with interest at 
the yearly rate of 8% from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Reimburse Mr M £197.10 for having to hire a car for one week in June/July 2019 
while his car was being investigated together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Reimburse Mr M the monthly payments made under the agreement for June, July 
and September 2019 when the car was being further investigated by the dealership 
together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% from the date of payment until the date 
of settlement.
Pay Mr M £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience of having to deal 
with the faulty car.
Remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mr Ms credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman