DRN-1746067
The complaint
Mr S complains that BISL Limited didnt e-mail him to request a copy of his drivers licence 
even though he informed them that it was his preferred contact method. He thinks BISL is 
responsible for his car insurance policy being cancelled and wants an apology and 
compensation. 
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that the insurer of the 
first car insurance policy Mr S took out (who Ill refer to as A) had requested a copy of a 
driving licence as part of its verification checks. And BISL had followed its process of 
requesting these and sending the cancellation letter by post which he didnt think was unfair. 
He noted that BISL had fairly offered to pay Mr S £25 for failing to read to him all the 
necessary information about a new insurance policy he later took out with a different insurer 
(who Ill refer to as B). 
Mr S disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsman to review the matter. He said he has 
trouble receiving letters at his address which is why he said he preferred e-mail 
correspondence. He said he didnt receive the letter requesting a copy of his driving licence, 
so he didnt have a chance to respond. He feels its unfair for BISL to choose how it 
communicates with him especially given it text him to let him know his policy had been 
cancelled. He added that he has since taken out another insurance policy through BISL with 
B and it hasnt asked for a copy of his driving licence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr S feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
I need to consider whether BISL has treated Mr S unfairly when it decided to request a copy 
of his driving licence by post. So, in order to uphold this complaint, I need to be satisfied 
BISL has treated Mr S differently to its other customers or made an error when it requested 
additional documents and then cancelled his policy. 
Ive seen evidence that A asked BISL to retrieve a copy of Mr Ss driving licence. So, Ive 
considered the terms and conditions of As policy  which Mr S agreed to. These say failure 
to provide the requested validation documentation can lead to the policy being cancelled. 
And any cancellation notice will be sent by post to Mr Ss last known address. This is the 
process BISL has followed here. So, Im satisfied it made the request for the driving licence 
and then gave the required seven day written cancellation notice of the policy in line with the 
terms and conditions. 
I note Mr S requested for BISL to communicate with him by e-mail. But this was only a 
preferred method of communication. And I can understand the point BISL has made that it 
would defeat the point of requesting proof of Mr Ss driving licence via e-mail as writing to his 
address forms a part of the validation process. 
Mr S has pointed out that B hasnt requested to see a copy of his drivers licence. I can 
understand why Mr S has found this confusing in the circumstances. But it is up to the 
individual insurer to request further evidence or information from one of its policyholders. 
BISL doesnt have any control over this and was simply carrying out the request of A to ask 
Mr S for a copy of his drivers licence. So, I dont think Mr S has been treated unfairly here. 
Ive seen that BISL has offered Mr S £25 to recognise that it failed to read out all of the 
required information to him when he took out another policy with B. I believe this wouldve 
caused Mr S a small amount of distress in the circumstances. So, this offer seems 
reasonable to me and is in line with what Id expect in the circumstances.
So, Im not going to ask BISL to do anything more here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman