DRN-2008732
 
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy at the way National Westminster Bank Plc handled the management of
her joint account when her husband passed away. Mrs W would like compensation to put
things right.
What happened
Mrs W held a joint account with her late husband. When he sadly passed away, Nat West
closed their joint account and told Mrs W she was only a signatory on the account. This left
Mrs W with no access to her account or money.
Mrs W complained and Nat West learned they'd made an error. Mrs W was a joint account
holder, and not a signatory and therefore the account shouldn't have been closed. Nat West
told Mrs W they'd reinstate the account with her as the sole account holder and send her a
new debit card.
Nat West sent debit cards in Mrs W's late husband's name causing further distress and
delays.
Mrs W says she had to spend a lot of time sorting things out with Nat West and this was
already an emotional and distressing time for her. She complained to Nat West, and they
paid her £400 compensation which Mrs W says she felt bullied into taking. Mrs W
complained further and Nat West increased their compensation offer to £1,250 in total.
Mrs W didn't think the compensation amount was enough, so she brought the complaint to
our service.
The investigator who looked into things thought the compensation of £1,250 was in line with
what our service would expect Nat West to give, so she didn't ask them to do anything more.
In June 2020, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said;
I haven't looked into whether Nat West made an error when closing the joint account. It's
clear that they did, and both parties are in agreement with that. Therefore, I've only
considered whether the total compensation amount offered is enough.
I'd firstly like to pass on my condolences to Mrs W. I don't doubt this has been a really
difficult time for her both emotionally and financially. And I appreciate why Nat West's
actions would have made this time more difficult for her. However, as upset as Mrs W is
about this situation, it's not in my remit to punish businesses. Therefore, I have to make a
decision based on what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances taking into account all
the information provided by both parties.
For Mrs W to learn her joint account had been closed meant she had no access to her
money. I think it's reasonable to consider Mrs W would have needed to pay for things, such
as funeral costs, while grieving the loss of her late husband. And therefore, I think this
situation would have been significantly more distressing for Mrs W. I'm aware Mrs W spent a
significant time trying to sort things out with Nat West. She shouldn't have had to do this
as she expected them to deal with things appropriately.
When Nat West had realised their error, I'm aware they apologised and told Mrs W they'd
reinstate the account and send her a new debit card. However, the debit card sent was in
Mrs W's late husband's name. Not only would this have reasonably caused more distress
and upset for Mrs W, it also further delayed her having access to her funds. I'm not aware of
the reason why the debit cards were sent in Mrs W's late husband's name, but I do think this
error was careless.
I don't think the initial compensation amount of £400 fairly reflects the errors made, or the
distress that Nat West caused. I'm aware Mrs W says she felt bullied into accepting this
amount. While I've no reason to doubt Mrs W's feelings, I haven't seen anything to suggest
she was bullied by Nat West. However, I'm pleased to see they reviewed their compensation
amount after Mrs W complained further.
I've considered the total compensation amount of £1,250 and I don't think it's enough to put
things right. I haven't seen any evidence that Mrs W suffered with late payment costs or
extra charges while not having access to her account. Therefore, I've only considered the
non-financial impact. It can be really hard to put a value on the non-financial impact of a
mistake, especially when it happens during an already stressful and upsetting situation.
Nat West have admitted they shouldn't have closed the joint account, and told Mrs W she
was only a signatory on the account. If they hadn't done this, Mrs W wouldn't have had to
spend time trying to sort things out herself. Once Nat West realised their mistake, I'm
pleased to see they tried to put things right by reinstating the account and telling Mrs W
they'd send her a new debit card. However, a further error was then made as Nat West
sent a number of cards in Mrs W's late husband's name. While I've considered the extra
delays this would have caused for Mrs W, I think the emotional impact is important here. I
don't doubt how upsetting it would have been for Mrs W to receive post in her late husband's
name, especially when he'd died unexpectedly at a relatively young age. And from her bank
who she'd already been in contact with to explain the situation, and they reassured her
they'd put things right.
I'm also aware Mrs W had to escalate her complaint to senior members of staff before the
compensation amount was revised. I've seen the first response from Nat West where they
confirm they've paid £400 compensation, and the second response from them confirms their
position is correct. It was only when Mrs W escalated things further that the complaint was
reviewed again and more compensation was offered.
Overall, this would have been an extremely distressing, emotional and worrying time for Mrs
W. She unexpectedly lost her husband, and then was left without access to her money for
nearly a month. Mrs W spent a significant amount of time trying to sort out the issue, only for
Nat West to make further mistakes by sending correspondence in her late husband's name.
In the circumstances, I think a compensation amount of £1,750 is appropriate.
I recognise the amount I've suggested isn't in line with what Mrs W wants. But, based on
what's happened, I don't think I can fairly ask Nat West to pay anything more.
Mrs W responded to my provisional decision and agreed with the findings. Nat West also 
responded and agreed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has put forward any further arguments and both have accepted my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from my findings.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc should:
Pay Mrs W £1,750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman