DRN-4173869
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Revolut Ltd failed to carry out an international transfer correctly 
and that it has still not returned the funds to him.
What happened
In January 2022 Mr D transferred £7,000 from his Revolut account to his bank account 
abroad but the funds didnt arrive.
Revolut says it has tracked the funds as arriving at the recipient bank, who then rejected the 
payment for unspecified reasons. The payment was therefore shown as being on hold at the 
recipient bank on 24 January 2022. Usually in such cases the payment would bounce back 
within five days. When that didnt happen, it put a recall on the payment but it has never 
received any response from either the recipient bank nor its correspondent bank.
The recipient bank has told Mr D that it did not reject the payment. It says it never received it 
because Revolut didnt send the cover message that would allow the money to be credited. 
So the payment sat with its correspondent bank. More recently the recipient bank has told 
Mr D that Revolut asked for the funds to be returned and so he should contact Revolut.
Our investigator said she was unable to conclude that Revolut was at fault. Mr D disagrees 
with the investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a very difficult situation as Mr D has still not had his money back. But in looking at this 
complaint my focus is on whether Revolut is responsible for what has gone wrong.
International transfers often involve the money passing through lots of different hands. In this 
case it originated with Revolut who forwarded it to its partner bank. The money is then 
transferred to the recipient banks correspondent bank and then finally on to the recipient 
bank. A system called SWIFT is used to carry out the transfer. In this case a SWIFT process 
called the cover method was used. 
The cover method is a two-step process. Firstly, a message is sent to announce that the 
funds are coming. Then a second cover message is sent which allows the funds to move 
between the correspondent accounts.
Although the recipient bank has said that the cover message was not sent, Revolut has 
provided copies of the necessary SWIFT messages being sent. Also, there is a tracker 
system that shows the funds arriving at the recipient bank.
Revolut is responsible for the transaction up to the point when it arrives at the recipients 
correspondent bank, when it then becomes the recipient banks responsibility. The cover 
message is what would have allowed the money to move from Revoluts partner bank to the 
correspondent bank. Without it the funds would have stayed with the partner. And the 
recipient bank has confirmed that the funds arrived at its correspondent bank. So from that 
its possible to conclude that its more likely than not that Revolut carried out the transaction 
correctly, including providing the cover message.
Based on the available evidence, Im satisfied that the funds did arrive at the recipient bank 
or its correspondent bank. So, Im unable to conclude that there was an error in the way that 
Revolut carried out the transfer.
Revolut then tried to recall the payment. Ive seen the SWIFT message that it sent to its 
partner bank asking them to do that. Ive also seen copies of numerous messages that both 
the partner bank and Revolut sent to the recipient bank and its correspondent. There has 
never been any response to any of these messages. As I understand it, Revolut also wrote 
to the recipient bank but, again, with no response.
As Mr D was able to make contact with the recipient bank, Revolut asked him to get an 
explanation from them about why it wasnt responding to its SWIFT messages. It also gave 
him the reference number so that he could ask the recipient bank to respond. Im unsure 
whether Mr D asked the recipient bank these direct questions but there has certainly been 
no response from them about this issue.
I can also see that Mr D asked the recipient bank to contact its correspondent bank about 
locating the funds. But again, I havent seen that they did that or that they advised Mr D of 
any outcome about that, beyond saying that Revolut had asked for a recall.
In telling Mr D that and suggesting he should therefore contact Revolut to find out where the 
money is, they gave Mr D a copy of the SWIFT recall request. But that only proves that 
Revolut did ask for the recall. It is not proof that the recipient bank actioned it. 
As it stands, Revoluts investigations cannot find any record of the refund being made. 
Clearly this situation has been made much more difficult due to the recipient bank and its 
correspondent bank failing to respond to any approaches by Revolut. The latest situation is 
that Revolut has asked Mr D to liaise with the recipient bank to provide the SWIFT message 
from them confirming that the recall was done. Or, if the refund was done via a different 
method, to provide proof of that. Is that evidence is provided, Revolut will use it to try and 
locate the funds. I think this is a reasonable response by Revolut.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman