DRN-1748980
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Yorkshire Building Society, trading as Chelsea Building 
Society ("Chelsea"), mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2004. The policy was taken out to cover 
their mortgage and was in Mr Ts name only. It provided him with cover for accident, 
sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs T didnt
agree. They replied in some detail to say, in summary, that:
Chelsea advised them to take the PPI. This is demonstrated by the choice of words 
used in the mortgage application form about PPI.
Because Chelsea recommended the policy, it should have made sure it was suitable 
for them.
If a conversation about suitbility had taken place, Mr T would have realised that he 
didn't need the PPI because of his sick pay entitlement from his employer.
Money was tight after they'd just moved into a new house with their young family and 
they would have avoided the cost of the PPI if they could have.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
this case.
 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I'll explain why.
Chelsea says it didn't recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs T. I've considered this carefully 
because Mr and Mrs T feel strongly that Chelsea did recommend the policy to them.  
It's important to distinguish between a personalised recommendation - where there is an 
obligation on the business to consider the consumer's individual circumstances and ensure 
that the product is suitable for them. And a more general recommendation which suggests - 
often with persuasive wording - that a particular product might be of interest to a consumer; 
but it is for the consumer to decide if the product is right for them.
In this case, I'm not persuaded that Chelsea provided a personalised recommendation 
aimed specifically at Mr and Mrs T. The wording on the mortgage application form was no 
doubt aimed at encouraging a consumer to consider whether they wanted - and needed -  PPI. But I don't find that it amounts to a recommendation to buy it.
As I haven't found that Chelsea recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs T, it didnt need to 
ensure that it was suitable for them.
So the key question I need to consider is did Chelsea give Mr and Mrs T information that
was clear, fair and not misleading in order to put them in a position where they could make
an informed choice about the insurance they were buying?
And, if there was a problem with the way the policy was sold, then I need to consider 
whether Mr and Mrs T are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something 
different  such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the 
sale?
Mr and Mrs T accept they ticked the box to say they wanted PPI. But they say they did not 
give their informed consent - they thought they needed PPI because of the way the 
application form had been worded. There are three clear options on the application - to take 
the PPI, to make their own arrangements to protect their mortgage payments, or not to take 
out PPI. So I think it was made clear from the paperwork that the PPI was optional and that 
they didn't have to take it. Mr and Mrs T say the wording is in marked contrast to the section 
about buildings insurance - but this is because buildings insurance was not optional.
I agree the wording in the application highlights that their home could be at risk if they lost 
their income. But I don't think it was inappropriate to bring this to a consumer's attention. I'm 
not persuaded that Mr and Mrs T would have felt pressurised to buy the policy because of 
the wording in the application form.
Overall, I think Chelsea made Mr and Mrs T aware that PPI was optional and they chose to
take it out, without being pressurised to do so.
Its possible the information Chelsea gave Mr and Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear as
it should have been. But I dont think they would have been put off taking out the policy if
they had received better information. I say this because:
The policy was taken out in Mr T's name only and he was eligible for the policy given his
circumstances and the terms and conditions.
Mr T wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits such as
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As he
could have benefited from the full extent of the cover, I think it unlikely he needed better
information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
Mr F told us he would have received full pay for six months from his employer if he couldn't 
work due to sickness or an accident. The mortgage was a major long term financial 
commitment and Mr and Mrs T's home was at risk if they couldnt meet the repayments. The 
policy would have covered him for longer than his employee benefits - up to 12 months, so 
could have been a useful benefit. It also covered him if he'd become unemployed.
 It's not clear whether the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr and Mrs 
T before they agreed to purchase it. For this reason I have considered whether clearer 
information about the cost would have affected Mr and Mrs Ts decision to purchase the 
policy. I've decided that they had chosen to take out the policy and they would have 
known they would have to pay something for it. The policy was competitively priced. Mr and 
Mrs T say money would have been tight because they had just moved into a new house and 
I accept that. But I don't think this means the PPI wasn't affordable for them. So I think it 
unlikely they would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had 
been provided.
For the reasons Ive explained, despite what they say now,  I dont think Mr and Mrs T would 
have made a different decision about taking out the policy if better information had been 
provided to them  overall I think they would have still taken out the policy.
But Chelsea has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T because: 
Chelsea got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs T about that. Because Chelsea didnt 
tell Mr and Mrs T, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Chelsea has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire Building Society, trading as Chelsea Building 
Society, does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T.
But Yorkshire Building Society, trading as Chelsea Building Society does have to pay back 
to Mr and Mrs T any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI 
premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman