DRN-1680438
 
The complaint
Mr B complains Experian Limited (Experian) has allowed a third-party to view his credit 
report without it having Mr Bs permission to do so. He is also unhappy with the customer 
service he received. He seeks compensation for the trouble and upset this matter has 
caused.
What happened
Mr B requested a statutory credit report from Experian and noticed a third party had 
searched his Experian credit file twice in April 2019. He was unhappy with this as he doesnt 
have any products or services with the third party and hadnt given his consent for them to 
search or obtain information about him from Experian since he last applied for a mortgage in 
2018.
Mr B feels strongly in allowing the third party to access his data it has breached the General 
Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and Data Protection Act (DPA) 2018. Further, he 
asserts Experian has breached the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) and this is a criminal
breach under the Computer Misuse Act (CMA) as the third party has obtained his data 
illegally with Experians consent. 
Mr B says he has spent over six hours trying to resolve the issue and feels Experian 
provided poor customer service as it terminated calls to him, was impolite during his 
telephone conversations with them and failed to resolve the data breach. He asked Experian 
to pay £1,000 compensation for the time he has spent attempting to resolve his complaint 
and the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
In its final response dated 16 August 2019, Experian didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said 
as a Credit Reference Agency (CRA) it allows access to Mr Bs data from third parties on 
good faith that the company carrying out the search has had direct consent to do so. It said, 
if this was not the case it would contact the company on his behalf regarding any inaccuracy 
on the report. It didnt accept it had acted unfairly.
Mr B remained dissatisfied and referred his complaint to this service. An investigator looked 
into things for Mr B. She explained that this service doesnt have the remit to look into 
breaches of legislation which as the GDPR and DPA, which are the responsibility of the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO). But she could look into whether Experian had 
made any errors in allowing the third party to search his credit report and if it acted fairly in 
its response to Mr B.
The investigator listened to all the telephone calls between Mr B and Experian. She didnt 
find the Experian representatives to be rude or impolite, nor did she find that any of them 
had deliberately terminated the calls. She said is apparent from the calls is Mr Bs 
dissatisfaction with the original response to his complaint, as he felt that it was 
misinterpreted. As a result, the Experian representative said they will note exactly what his 
complaint points are and reinvestigate, but this wasnt done.
Experian accepted it hadnt provided the standard of service it would expect to Mr B and 
offered £50 in recognition of this. The Investigator thought this was fair and reasonable to 
settle Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B disagreed. He feels the investigator has just agreed with the business without proper 
consideration and so he asked for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all the information from both parties afresh, having done so Im in agreement 
with the investigators view. I appreciate this will comes as a disappointment to Mr B, Ill 
explain why.
Ive also read and considered all the available information, but Ill concentrate my comments 
on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive 
failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it 
in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I think its important to sat at the outset, that my role here isnt to fine or punish a business. If 
an error has occurred, I look to see look at how a business has sought to address the issue 
and whether that approach is fair and reasonable.
I can understand that Mr B is very concerned about how his personal information is 
accessed and shared, but the investigator has explained that it's not our role to decide if 
there has been a GDPR breach, and Mr B will need to contact the Information 
Commissioners' Office about that.
Experian acts on good faith that the consumer has given consent to any credit searches 
carried out by a third party. Im not persuaded its Experians responsibility to question 
consent that a business has told them theyve received from a consumer and Experian have 
blanket consent to hold such information. 
As Mr B has viewed his report and feels the information is incorrect, he has the right to 
contact Experian or the credit reference agency who holds the incorrect information and 
raise a dispute. I can see Experian has contacted the third party and is awaiting an outcome. 
This will then be reviewed with the business involved, and if the business agrees that the 
entry is incorrect or consents to its removal it is updated or removed. So, I cant fairly say 
Experian have done anything wrong. It has taken on board Mr Bs concerns and acted upon 
them.
In terms of the customer service Mr B received from Experian. Firstly, I have listened to all 
the telephone calls between the parties. I dont find any of the representatives to be rude or 
impolite and I can see the disconnection of one of the calls occurred as it was transferred 
and in error.  Mr B didnt consent to Experian holding his telephone number and so the 
representative wasnt able to call him back.
I understand from the telephone calls Mr B remained unhappy that his complaint had been 
misinterpreted. He was advised his complaint would be reinvestigated, but Experian failed to 
do this. Experian has acknowledged it fell short of the service standards it would expect and 
offered £50 compensation in recognition of this.As Mr B doesnt believe this is enough to put matters right, he is seeking a sum in the region 
of £1000. Im afraid I dont agree; Mr B hasnt suffered a financial loss and this service 
awards relatively modest awards for trouble and upset. So, putting all of this into the balance 
I think what Experian has offered is fair and reasonable. And I think it is enough to put 
matters right. 
If Mr B wishes to raise his concerns regarding any breach of the GDPR regulations or DPA 
then he remains at liberty to do so with the ICO as previously mentioned.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given Experian Limited must:
Pay Mr B the £50 already offered for trouble and upset
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman