DRN-2563997
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that they didnt receive suitable advice from Brown Shipley & Co 
Limited. Specifically they complain that they werent advised to move their funds out of the 
Woodford Equity Income Fund (WEIF) before it was suspended.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W were clients of Brown Shipley, and its predecessor. They were paying for an 
advisory service  that is that Brown Shipley would carry out annual reviews of their 
portfolios and advise them what to do. Mr and Mrs W would then have to agree before any 
changes were made.
In March 2019, Brown Shipley met with Mr and Mrs W to complete their annual review. The 
recommendations were sent in April 2019. The advisor explained it could no longer offer the 
same advisory service and suggested alternatives. The advice was to move to Brown 
Shipleys Managed Fund Service (MFS) which is a discretionary service. Mr and Mrs W were 
advised to move their entire portfolio into the MFS Balanced Fund which they were told was 
in line with their attitude to risk. Brown Shipley provided the following as alternatives should 
Mr and Mrs W not want to follow their advice:
- Encash their investments 
- Move to a custody only service with Brown Shipley with no ongoing advice
- Manage their investments themselves
- Take advice elsewhere
Its important to note that Brown Shipley didnt recommend any of the alternatives but made 
Mr and Mrs W aware of them. Mr and Mrs W chose to take advice elsewhere and transfer 
their portfolio to a different advisor. At this point, one of the funds they invested in  the 
WEIF  had been suspended. Mr and Mrs W complained that Brown Shipley didnt advise 
them to move their investments from the WEIF during their annual review, particularly 
because at this point the WEIF had been removed from its Investment Universe.
Our Investigator didnt feel this complaint should be upheld. He explained that the original 
advice to invest in the WEIF was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances. And he said 
the service Brown Shipley provided was reasonable. The Investigator explained that Brown 
Shipley advised Mr and Mrs W to move their portfolio prior to the WEIF being suspended. He 
said that the service Mr and Mrs W paid for was to have an annual review and not be told 
any more frequently what to do with their investments. As Mr and Mrs W chose not to follow 
Brown Shipleys advice, their funds remained invested in the WEIF when it was suspended.
Mr and Mrs W acknowledged that the original advice was suitable but felt the advisor 
shouldve specifically told them to move their funds from the WEIF, rather than giving 
general advice to move their whole portfolio to a discretionary service. Mr and Mrs W wanted 
to continue to have an advisory service which Brown Shipley was no longer offering. But as 
they were paying for advice they felt Brown Shipley shouldve also specifically advised them 
about the WEIF. They asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint and make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr and Mrs Ws frustrations as, in hindsight, it wouldve been useful for 
them to know to take action specifically in regard to their funds in the WEIF. However, I dont 
think Brown Shipley has done anything wrong here and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs W had an agreement with Brown Shipley to have annual reviews whereby they 
receive advice on what to do with their portfolio. I can see that this annual review happened 
in March 2019 and Brown Shipley did a full review of Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances and 
attitude to risk. Based on this review, they were advised to transfer their portfolio to the MFS 
Balanced Fund  as part of a discretionary service provided by Brown Shipley. 
Ive seen the MFS Balanced Fund fact sheet and can see that it invests in a variety of assets 
and holdings which coincide with Mr and Mrs Ws attitude to risk. I can also see that the 
WEIF is not part of the top ten holdings. Brown Shipley has provided evidence to show that 
due to its continuing poor performance, it removed the WEIF from its Investment Universe in 
February 2019. So, Im confident that the advice Brown Shipley gave to Mr and Mrs W 
included moving their investments from the WEIF  despite this not being explicitly said.
Brown Shipley told Mr and Mrs W that if they didnt want to move to the MFS Balanced 
Fund, or felt it didnt meet their needs, they could either manage their investments 
themselves or take advice elsewhere. And whilst there wasnt a time limit to accept the 
advice, Brown Shipley had provided suitable advice in line with the agreement it had with Mr 
and Mrs W. And had this advice been followed, Mr and Mrs Ws investments wouldve been 
moved from the WEIF.
Mr and Mrs W told Brown Shipley on 5 June 2019 that they had decided to move to a 
different advisor who could offer the service they wanted. The WEIF was suspended on 3 
June 2019 so they were not able to move their money. Later, when the WEIF was wound up, 
Mr and Mrs W say they suffered a loss on the money that was in this fund. I appreciate Mr 
and Mrs W wanted Brown Shipley to advise them to move their money specifically from the 
WEIF, but the advice given in March 2019 was to move their portfolio and this wouldve 
included the money invested in the WEIF.
Mr and Mrs Ws agreement with Brown Shipley didnt include ad-hoc advice, and had they 
wanted this they wouldve needed to pay for it. I appreciate Mr and Mrs W wanted to be told 
that the WEIF was no longer part of Brown Shipleys Investment Universe when that 
happened, but I can see that the annual review shortly after included advice to move their 
portfolio which wouldve meant they were no longer invested in the WEIF. And the advice 
they received was suitable for their needs and attitude to risk. As Mr and Mrs W decided 
they didnt want to go ahead with that advice, their funds werent moved out of their current 
portfolio, including the WEIF. I think Brown Shipley gave suitable advice and the right level of 
service to Mr and Mrs W. The advice included moving out of the WEIF and it was Mr and 
Mrs Ws choice not to accept this advice, so Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman