DRN-3956090
The complaint
Mr A complains about the charges that I Go 4 Ltd applied when he cancelled his telematics 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr A took out a policy with I Go 4 Ltd through an online comparison site. Three months later, 
Mr A cancelled his policy as hed sold his car. But Mr A was unhappy that I Go 4 Ltd 
provided him with a refund of just £39.81. Mr A thought the cancellation charge was too high, 
that hed been charged twice for the telematics box, that some optional extras were 
mandatory and that hed been charged too much for his time on cover. He was also unhappy 
that a refund for his driving score hadnt been provided. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Mr A 
had chosen to take out a policy through I Go 4 Ltd and hed agreed to pay the deposit and 
for the optional extra hed chosen. And she thought hed agreed to its terms and conditions, 
including its charges. 
She thought the cancellation charge was fair and that Mr A had paid the telematics fee once. 
She didnt see evidence of Mr As loss of earnings due to having the telematics device 
reinstalled. She thought the insurer was responsible for the charge for time on cover, so I Go 
4 Ltd wasnt responsible for this. And she thought the refund for the driving score had been 
correctly passed to the finance company that funded Mr As loan for his premium payments. 
Mr A replied that hed been forced to take out the optional extra in order to complete his 
purchase with I Go 4 Ltd. He said he had to take a day off work for I Go 4 Ltds technician to 
reinstall the telematics device. And he wanted payment of the refund for driving behaviour. 
Mr A asked for an Ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr A is very unhappy with the refund he received when he cancelled his 
policy. But I dont think I Go 4 Ltd did anything wrong. Ill now explain why I think this. 
Ive looked at how Mr A took out his policy and I can see that he applied through an online 
comparison site. Mr A said that not many brokers provided quotes, but I cant reasonably 
hold I Go 4 Ltd responsible for this. 
The sale of the policy was non-advised by the broker, I Go 4 Ltd, which means it has a 
responsibility to provide clear, fair and not misleading information to policyholders. I think it 
made clear to Mr A that he would have to pay a deposit and a telematics charge. And I think 
its terms and conditions, which Mr A agreed to when he took out his policy, clearly explain its 
cancellation charges. I can see that there are various options for Mr A to choose to add, and 
I havent seen that he was compelled to take them. 
Theres no disagreement that the first telematics device didnt work correctly. And Mr A was 
caused some inconvenience by having to arrange for it to be reinstalled. But he hasnt 
provided any evidence to show that this caused him any financial loss. And I think, in 
keeping with our published guidance, the level of inconvenience doesnt warrant 
compensation. 
When Mr A wanted to cancel his policy he asked I Go 4 Ltd about adding another car to his 
policy. And I think it then explained his options and he decided to go ahead with the 
cancellation. The charges, and his refund were then explained to him. 
I Go 4 Ltd charged Mr A its £75 cancellation fee. I think thats in keeping with other 
cancellation charges Ive seen. So I think thats fair and reasonable. I think the non-
refundable telematics fee was clearly set out in the terms and conditions, so I think it was fair 
for I Go 4 Ltd to charge it. 
Mr A was unhappy with the refund of premium. But, as the Investigator explained, the 
premium is charged by the insurer and Mr M would have to raise his complaint with it as its 
a separate business to I Go 4 Ltd. 
Mr A was unhappy that his refund of premium for his driving score was passed to the finance 
company that funded his annual premium. But I think I Go 4 Ltd clearly explained that this 
would be done when it told him about the refund and that it would be used to reduce his 
monthly payments. I think its for Mr A to contact the finance company for a statement if he 
wants further information about this. 
So I think I Go 4 Ltd has treated Mr A fairly and reasonably and in keeping with its terms and 
conditions. As it hasnt done anything wrong, I dont require I Go 4 Ltd to pay Mr A any 
compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman