DRN-3842303
The complaint
Mr B, through a representative complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proportionate affordability checks before it granted him loans. 
What happened
Mr B was advanced seven home collected loans between May 2016 and March 2019. Ive 
included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
weekly 
repaymentshighest 
repayment
1 £300.00 11/05/2016 22/09/2016 21 £19.50
2 £300.00 06/10/2016 04/02/2017 20 £22.50
3 £300.00 03/02/2017 29/06/2017 20 £22.50
4 £300.00 11/07/2017 30/03/2018 33 £15.00
5 £200.00 07/12/2017 20/07/2018 33 £10.00
6 £400.00 17/08/2018 15/03/2019 33 £20.00
7 £600.00 15/03/2019 14/10/2019 33 £30.00
Following Mr Bs complaint Morses wrote to his representative to explain that it wasnt going 
to uphold it. Mr Bs representative didnt agree and referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint. He thought Morses had made a reasonable decision 
to provide loans 1  4 and so he didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint about them. But he thought 
the lending was now harmful for Mr B by the time loans 5 - 7 were granted and so the 
adjudicator upheld Mr Bs complaint about these loans. 
Morses disagreed with the outcome the adjudicator had reached. Ive summarised its 
comments below;
There were a number of short breaks between loans such as two weeks between 
loans 3 and 4. 
Loan 5 was Mr Bs smallest capital loan to date. 
Income and expenditure checks were carried out before loan 5 was approved and 
Mr Bs income was checked with a payslip. 
Morses also says it saw a copy of a mortgage statement and a water bill, so it knew 
the figures for this expenditure to be correct. 
There is no evidence Mr B struggled to repay these loans, indeed he had a good 
repayment history.
After loan 5, Mr B only had one loan outstanding at any one time. 
Mr B didnt tell Morses of any financial difficulties he may have been having. 
Mr Bs representative has confirmed a copy of the assessment has been sent to Mr B, but no 
further comments have been provided. 
The case was then passed to an ombudsman to make a decision about the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr B could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of different things, 
such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and 
Mr Bs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr B. These factors include:
Mr B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr B. The adjudicator thought this had 
been reached by the time loan 5 was granted. 
Morses was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr B was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Bs complaint.
Neither Morses nor Mr B (or his representative) appear to disagree with the outcome the 
adjudicator reached about loans 1  4. I therefore I no longer think these loans are in 
dispute. I would add, that like the adjudicator, I do also agree Morses made a reasonable 
decision to provide these loans. So, I say no more about them. Instead, this decision will 
look at whether Morses did all it ought to have done before it provided loans 5  7. Loans 5 - 7 
For these loans, Morses has shown that it asked Mr B for details of his income and 
expenditure. Mr B declared a weekly income of £455 for loan 5, £450 for loan 6 and £400 for 
loan 7. Morses also says for loan 5 it saw a copy of Mr Bs wage slip so it was confident the 
amount he declared was accurate  although I would add a copy of the wage slip hasnt 
been provided. 
In terms of expenditure, Mr B declared weekly outgoings of £150 for loan 5, £37 for loan 6 
and £55 for loan 7. In my view, the declared expenditure is unlikely to have been accurate. 
After all, for loan 5 payments have been noted as needing to be made for a mortgage yet for 
loans 6 and 7 there are no figures for either the mortgage or any rent. In addition, payments 
for utilities are noted for loans 5 and 7 and not for loan 6. It would be, in my view, unlikely 
Mr B would be paying utilities, then stop and then suddenly start paying them again. 
So, its arguable whether Morses checks went far enough considering how long Mr B had 
been indebted to Morses, his future weekly commitment and the concerns highlighted above 
about his expenditure.
By the time loan 5 was granted, it wouldve been reasonable for Morses to have at the very 
least, started to have verified all the information it was being given and Ive not seen 
anything to suggest Morses did this. However, I dont think I need to try and establish, in this 
case, whether a proportionate check wouldve led Morses to conclude these loans were 
unaffordable for Mr B. 
So, in addition to looking at the checks that Morses did Ive also looked at the overall pattern 
of Morses lending history with Mr B, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which 
Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further 
loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
5. I say this because:
At this point Morses ought to have realised Mr B was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr B had taken his fifth loan in almost 18 months. So Morses 
ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr B was having to borrow further 
to cover a long-term short fall in his living costs. 
While loan 5 was the smallest capital loan value to date, when it was granted, loan 4 
was still outstanding, this led to a weekly commitment due to Morses of £25 per week 
 the largest commitment Mr B needed to pay  to date.  
Mr B appears to have had some minor problems repaying loan 4, as it took four 
weeks longer than planned. This, along with the concerns about the weekly 
expenditure ought to have led Morses to conclude that Mr B couldnt sustainably 
repay these loans. 
Over the course of the lending relationship, Mr Bs weekly commitments generally 
increased. While the commitments did decrease at loan 4, this was offset by the fact 
Mr B took loan 5. This may have given Morses confidence that Mr B was no longer 
reliant on these loans. However, the fact that these loans were lent, at times in a 
consecutive manner (or close to the previous loan), ought to have led it to realise 
these loans werent sustainable anymore. 
Mr B wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Morses. Loan 7 was 
taken out 33 months after Mr Bs first loan and was to be repaid over the joint longest term  33 weeks. His final loan was also the largest capital loan to date and was 
double the value of the first loan.  Mr B had paid large amounts of interest to, in 
effect, service a debt to Morses over an extended period.
I think that Mr B lost out when Morses provided loans 5 - 7 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr B borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mr Bs ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint about loans 5 - 7. 
Finally, while Morses has pointed out some small gaps between loans, such as the two-
week gap between Mr B repaying loan 3 and taking loan 4. I dont think in this case, those 
gaps are significant enough to have either made Morses think that it could start a new chain 
of borrowing or were an indication that Mr B had resolved whatever financial issue had led 
him to borrow in the first place. So, while Ive noted the gaps, in this case, given what else 
Morses knew it hasnt changed my mind about the outcome.
 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had if it hadnt lent loans 5 - 7, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there 
are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr B may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr B in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morsess liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have provided Mr B with loans 5 - 7. 
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr B towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything Morses has already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr 
B which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr B originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should pay Mr B the total of A plus B.D. The overall pattern of Mr Bs borrowing for loans 5 - 7 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Morses should remove these loans entirely from 
Mr Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint in part. 
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Mr B as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman