DRN-4325176
The complaint
Ms S complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) unfairly declined her claims 
under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in relation to a 
timeshare product she purchased with a loan they provided to her.   
What happened
In or around September 2017, Ms S attended a meeting with a timeshare supplier who Ill 
refer to as C. During that meeting, Ms S agreed to purchase a Trial Membership timeshare 
product from C. The purchase price of £4,595 was funded by a fixed sum loan agreement 
with Shawbrook. 
In or around December 2021, using a professional representative (the PR), Ms S made a 
claim to Shawbrook under sections 75 and 140A of the CCA. The PR said that during the 
sales meeting in September 2017, C made a number of misrepresentations about the trial 
membership benefits which turned out not to be true. And it was these misrepresentations 
that had induced Ms S to enter into the purchase contract with C and the associated loan 
agreement with Shawbrook.
The PR said that despite the representations made by C, Ms S subsequently discovered:
availability was poor; and
resorts werent exclusive to members as they were open to non-members, being 
available to book online through other websites.
Further, the PR said that the terms of the purchase agreement are so egregious so as to be 
unfair in themselves. They made the following observations to support the existence of an 
unfair debtor-creditor relationship under section 140A of the CCA (S140A):
the meeting Ms S attended wasnt disclosed as a sales presentation at the outset;
commission paid by Shawbrook to C wasnt disclosed to Ms S;
no comparisons with other loan companies were provided;
Ms S wasnt told she was free to arrange her own finance;
Ms S was pressured into completing the purchase;
Ms S wasnt given the opportunity to read the purchase and loan agreements;
maintenance fees payable by Ms S increased drastically;
there was no assessment of Ms Ss income and expenditure and the loan 
affordability; and
no credit checks were completed.
The PR also said C had breached various legislation and regulations relating to the product 
sold to Ms S.
Shawbrook didnt uphold Ms Ss claims. They said there was no evidence she was reluctant 
to accept the recommendations made to her or that she sought to cancel her purchase 
within the cooling off period provided. Shawbrook said Ms S had signed a Customer 
Compliance Statement confirming her understanding of both the purchase and loan 
agreements. They said theyd completed a credit assessment in line with their regulatory 
obligations.
Ms S didnt accept their response, so the PR raised a complaint with Shawbrook. In 
response, Shawbrook didnt think theyd done anything wrong and:
didnt agree Ms S had been aggressively targeted or pressured unduly;
didnt think C had breached the regulations referred to by the PR;
said management fees werent payable under the trial membership held by Ms S;
Ms S had never had a holiday request denied and had since upgraded her 
membership;
didnt accept a fiduciary relationship existed between Ms S and C and the payment of 
commission didnt create an unfair debtor-creditor relationship;
As Ms S remained unhappy, the PR referred her complaint to this service. Having 
considered the circumstances of Ms Ss complaint, one of our investigators didnt think her 
complaint should be upheld.
The PR confirmed that whilst Ms S didnt agree with our investigators findings, they werent 
able to assist her further. Miss S requested her complaint be passed to an ombudsman to 
review and provide a decision but didnt provide reasons why she disagreed with our 
investigators findings.
As an informal resolution couldnt be reached, Ms Ss complaint was passed to me to 
consider. Having done so, Id considered a number of issues which I dont feel were 
previously fully addressed. So, I issued a provisional decision on 27 July 2023 giving Ms S 
and Shawbrook the opportunity to consider my findings and provide any further comment 
and evidence before I reached a final decision.
In my provisional decision I said:
Relevant Considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP1 3.6.4R of the FCA Handbook 
means Im required to take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant 
regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
Section 75 of the CCA (S75) provides consumers with protection for goods or 
services bought using credit. Ms S paid for the timeshare product with a restricted 
use fixed sum loan agreements. So it isnt in dispute that S75 applies here. This 
means that Ms S is afforded the protection offered to borrowers like her under those 
provisions. And as a result, Ive taken this section into account when deciding whats 
fair in the circumstances of this complaint.
S140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between Ms S and Shawbrook arising 
out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement). And 
because the product purchased was funded under that credit agreement, theyre 
deemed to be related agreements. Only a court has the power to make a 
determination under S140A. But as its relevant law, Ive considered it when deciding 
what I believe is fair and reasonable. 
Its relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision of 
1 The Dispute Resolution Sourcebook from the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook of Rules and Guidance 
(DISP)an ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we dont provide 
a legal service. And this service isnt able to make legal findings  that is the role of 
the courts. Where a consumer doesnt accept the findings of an ombudsman, this 
doesnt prejudice their right to pursue their claim in other ways.
Its important to recognise that the complaint considered specifically relates to 
whether I believe Shawbrooks response to Ms Ss claim was fair and reasonable 
given all the evidence and information available to me. Where evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my decision is made on the 
balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened given the evidence thats available from the 
time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt necessarily to address in 
my decision every single point thats been made. And for that reason, Im only going 
to refer to what I believe are the most salient points having considered everything 
thats been said and provided.
Ms Ss claim relates specifically to the Trial Membership she purchased from C in 
September 2017. It appears she upgraded her Trial Membership to a different 
product in or around June 2018. But that transaction doesnt form part of the claim 
raised. So, Ive only considered the circumstances as they relate to the purchase in 
September 2017.
Was the timeshare product misrepresented?
For me to conclude there was a misrepresentation by C in the way that has been 
alleged, generally speaking, I would need to be satisfied, based on the available 
evidence, that C made false statements of fact when selling the holiday product to 
Ms S in September 2017. In other words, that they told Ms S something that wasnt 
true in relation to one or more of the points raised. I would also need to be satisfied 
that the misrepresentations were material in inducing Ms S to enter the contract. This 
means I would need to be persuaded that Ms S reasonably relied on any false 
statements when deciding to purchase the Trial Membership.
Ive considered the allegations made against the information and evidence available. 
The difficulty I have is identifying what was actually said at that time of the sale. It 
was, however, indicated that Ms S was told these things. So, Ive thought about that 
alongside the evidence available. 
Ive only seen the front page of the Trial Membership Agreement together with the 
Loan Agreement. The Trial membership provided Ms S with five holiday weeks over 
a three-year period (i.e., to September 2020).  I cant see that these documents 
support what Ms S says she was told or that what was said amounted to 
misrepresentation. In particular, these documents makes no reference to availability 
or exclusivity. And in any event, Shawbrook have confirmed that Ms S only attended 
a prelude holiday in June 2018 when she decided to upgrade her Trial Membership. 
So, it doesnt appear Ms S used her Trial Membership beyond that prelude holiday.
Although not determinative of the matter, I also havent seen any other 
documentation which supports Ms S assertions, like marketing material or 
documentation from the time of the sale that echoes what she say she was told. 
Whether in terms of booking availability, exclusivity or otherwise.
On balance, and in the absence of supporting evidence from the time of the sale, I 
therefore cant reasonably say, with any certainty, that C did in fact make the alleged 
misrepresentations.
The claim under S140AThe court may make an order under S140B in connection with a credit agreement if it 
determines that the relationship between the creditor (Shawbrook) and the debtor 
(Ms S) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following (from S140A):
a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of the rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
In deciding whether to make a determination under S140A, the court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks are relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
and matters relating to the debtor).
The allegations of pressure
The original claim alleges that Ms S was pressured into entering the purchase and 
loan agreements. However, against the straightforward measure of pressure as its 
commonly understood, I find it hard to argue that Ms S agreed to the purchase at the 
time of the sale when she simply didnt want to. I havent seen any evidence to 
demonstrate that she went on to say something to C, after the purchase, to suggest 
shed agreed to it when she didnt want to. Ms S hasnt explained why she didnt 
subsequently seek to cancel the purchase within the 14-day cooling off period 
permitted. So, if she only agreed to the purchase because she was pressured, I find 
this aspect difficult to reconcile with the allegation in question. 
I havent seen anything substantive to suggest Ms S was obviously harassed or 
coerced into the purchase.  And because of that, Im not persuaded that theres 
sufficient evidence to demonstrate that Ms S made the decision to proceed because 
her ability to exercise choice was  or was likely to have been  significantly impaired 
contrary to Regulation 7 of the CPUT Regulations.
Time to consider the agreement(s)
As Ive said, Ive seen very limited documentation from the time of the sale. But 
having previously seen similar documents relating to Cs product sales, Im aware 
they normally include a period of 14 days from the date of agreeing to the purchase 
within which to cancel the agreement without giving any reason  as required under 
the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 
(the TRs). 
So, even if I were to find that Ms S wasnt given adequate opportunity to read, 
consider and understand the purchase documentation at the time of the sale - and I 
make no such finding - I would expect her to have had sufficient time in which to 
consider her decision within the subsequent 14 days. And, where appropriate, raise 
any questions or concerns before the loan was drawn and the purchase completed. 
Theres no suggestion or evidence that Ms S did raise any questions or concerns 
prior to the sale being completed. Or that she had any intention of cancelling the 
agreement.
Disclosure of Commissions
Part of Ms Ss claim questions the status of C (as the introducer of the loan) and their 
resultant responsibilities towards her. In particular, its argued that a payment of 
commission by Shawbrook to C wasnt declared to Ms S. But I dont think the fact 
that Shawbrook might have paid C commission was incompatible with their role in the 
transaction. C wasnt acting as an agent for Ms S, but as the supplier of contractual 
rights obtained under a timeshare product agreement. And, in relation to any loan, 
based upon what Ive seen so far, it doesnt appear it was Cs role to make an impartial or disinterested recommendation or to give Ms S advice or information on 
that basis. As far as Im aware, Ms S was always at liberty to choose how she 
wanted to fund any purchase and there was no requirement or duty upon C to 
provide funding recommendations or options.
Whats more, I havent found anything to suggest Shawbrook were under any 
regulatory duty to disclose the amount of commission paid in these circumstances. 
As I understand it, the typical amounts of commission paid by lenders to suppliers 
(like C in this case) was unlikely to be much more than 10%. I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest otherwise. And on that basis, Im not persuaded its likely that a 
court would find that any non-disclosure and payment of commission created an 
unfair debtor-creditor relationship under S140A, given the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Management charges
The product purchased by Ms S was a Trial Membership. Shawbrook say that such 
memberships do not attract annual management charges  these only apply to full 
memberships. While it appears Ms S subsequently updated her Trial Membership in 
June 2018, that transaction doesnt form part of Ms Ss claim here. So, in the 
absence of any evidence to support what Ms S says about management charges in 
relation to her Trial Membership, Ive not seen anything that persuades me that a 
court is likely to find that this aspect led to an unfair debtor/creditor relationship under 
S140A.
Regulatory breaches
One of the main aims of the various regulations that applied here was to enable 
consumers to understand the financial implications of their purchase so that they are 
put in a position to make an informed decision. If Cs disclosure and/or the terms of 
the purchase didnt recognise and reflect that aim, and Ms S ultimately lost out or 
almost certainly stands to lose out from having entered into a contract, the financial 
implications of which she didnt fully understand at the time of contracting, that may 
amount to unfairness under S140A.
However, given the limited documentation provided, I havent seen any evidence to 
support the breaches alleged here. And as the Supreme Court decision in Plevin2 
makes clear, it doesnt automatically follow that regulatory breaches create 
unfairness for the purpose of S140A. Such breaches and their consequences (if 
there are any) must be looked at in the round, rather than in a narrow or technical 
way. In other words, if I were to find thered been regulatory breaches  and I make 
no such finding - they are only likely to lead to unfairness where theres evidence Ms 
S suffered loss as a consequence.
I havent seen any evidence that C enforced any of the terms within the Trial 
Membership agreement to such an extent that they caused loss or resulted in 
unfairness. And in any event, it appears the Trial Membership ended in June 2018 
when Ms S upgraded it, as did the associated loan with Shawbrook.
Were the required lending checks undertaken?
There are certain aspects of Ms Ss claim that could be considered outside of S75 
and S140A. In particular, in relation to whether Shawbrook undertook a proper credit 
assessment. The allegations within the claim suggest the loan was provided 
irresponsibly. In particular that no affordability checks were undertaken by C or 
Shawbrook.
2 Plevin vs Paragon Personal Finance Ltd [2014] (Plevin)Ms S hasnt provided any evidence to show that the loan was unaffordable or 
unsuitable for her. And Ive not seen anything that supports any allegation of financial 
difficulty from that time. 
Shawbrook havent provided details of the checks they undertook albeit they have 
confirmed their checks and assessment complied with their regulatory obligations. If I 
were to find that they hadnt completed all the required checks and tests  and I 
make no such finding  I would need to be satisfied that had such checks been 
completed, they wouldve revealed that the loan repayments werent sustainably 
affordable for Ms S in order to uphold her complaint here. With no such evidence 
provided, I cant reasonably conclude the loan was unaffordable for her or that she 
suffered loss as a consequence.
Summary
Having carefully considered everything thats been said and provided, I havent found 
anything that persuades me that C did misrepresent the trial membership to Ms S. Or 
that a court is likely to find anything to suggest an unfair relationship existed under 
S140A. And because of that, I cant reasonably conclude that Shawbrooks treatment 
of Ms Ss claim was unfair or unreasonable.
In the circumstances, I dont currently intend to uphold Ms Ss complaint. However, in 
the event Ms S is able to provide further evidence or information to support her 
claims, I will consider that before issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Ms S and Shawbrook confirmed theyd received my provisional decision. Shawbrook 
had nothing further to add. Ms S said she would refer my findings to her barrister, but she 
hasnt since provided anything further for me to consider.
With the time given for further comment and evidence having now passed, Ive not received 
or seen anything that persuades me to vary from my provisional findings. And for that 
reason, my final decision remains unchanged.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman