DRN-2770926
The complaint
Mr D complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with a claim he made on his motor 
insurance policy after a collision he had on the motorway.
Any reference I make to AXA also includes its agents. 
 
What happened
On 15 July 2019, Mr D was involved in a collision on the motorway, for which the third party 
accepted full liability for the incident. As a result of the collision, Mr Ds car was damaged 
and initially deemed a total loss. Mr D was keen for his car not to be written off and for it to 
be repaired. Hes said that hes taken great care of the car since hes owned it.
Mr D is unhappy with a number of things that he says AXA has done wrong during the 
course of his claim with them. I have summarised these below:
The valuation of his car: Mr M had his car insured at a valuation of £11,000. He 
provided AXA with this valuation when he first took out the policy in 2017. AXA has 
used a motor valuation guide which has provided a pre-accident valuation of £7,180. 
Mr D is unhappy with this, he feels that he has paid premiums to reflect a valuation of 
£11,000. He has also provided both this service and AXA with adverts showing 
examples of similar cars that have been advertised at a higher price to what AXA has 
offered as settlement. Mr D also said that his car had a number of special features 
which would also have increased its value. 
Mr D incurred a number of costs as a result of the incident. He has had to pay an 
additional £3,681 in repairs to the car. He paid £79 in a taxi fare home from the 
incident. And he incurred a cost with the hire car.
His motor insurance premium increased, he says as a result of an accident that 
wasnt his fault.
He received poor customer service from AXA  often it took a long time for them to 
respond to him.
AXA remain of the opinion that the valuation of Mr Ds car was a fair one and in line with the 
motor valuation guide. It agreed to waive the excess fee of £300, which meant that Mr D 
received the full settlement amount for his car. However, it didnt agree to pay the additional 
costs of the repairs or the other costs Mr M incurred as a result of the incident. It says the 
premiums have increased as a result of the incident and this is normal practice, as Mr D now 
poses a higher risk. However, it did agree that the service it had provided wasnt as good as 
it could and should have been and so it agreed to pay him £250 in compensation.
Our investigator also looked into things for Mr D. He thought AXA had acted fairly when it 
valued Mr Ds car  and he didnt think that the additional extras that Mr D had on the car 
had increased its valuation above what AXA had already offered. He didnt think that AXA 
had acted unfairly when it increased Mr Ds premiums. And although he agreed that the 
customer service AXA provided could have been better, he felt that the £250 it had already 
offered was fair. However, the investigator felt that Mr D ought to be reimbursed for the cost 
of the taxi fare for his ride home after the collision  and so he recommended that AXA 
refund this to Mr D, as well as 8% simple interest from the date Mr D paid for the journey 
until AXA repay it. 
AXA responded to our investigator to say it agreed to repay the cost of Mr Ds taxi fare, plus 
the interest.
Mr D didnt agree with our investigator. He doesnt believe the valuation is a fair reflection of 
the market value of his car and he wouldnt be able to buy a similar replacement with the 
amount AXA has settled the claim for. He remains out of pocket for the additional cost of the 
repairs to the car and for the damage waiver on the courtesy car. And the premiums for his 
insurance continue to increase.
Because Mr D didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reaching my conclusion, I dont wish in any way to downplay or disregard the situation Mr 
D has found himself in. Ive no doubt it was truly horrible to be involved in a motorway 
collision. And Im sure the fact that he now feels he is out of pocket, for something that has 
been agreed not to be his fault, has probably made an already bad situation worse.
But being independent means, I have to take a step back and consider what both parties
have said. And I have to look to see if AXA has acted fairly and reasonably when
dealing with Mr Ds claim. 
Valuation
Its probably worth starting off by saying that it isnt my role to value Mr Ds car. What I need 
to do is consider whether AXA settled the claim in a fair and reasonable way, and in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr Ds policy says, We will not pay more than the market value of your car at the time of the 
loss less any excesses. And market value is defined as The cost of replacing your car with 
another of the same make and model and of a similar age, mileage and condition at the time 
of the accident or loss.
When Mr D decided that he would prefer for the car to be repaired, AXA settled the claim by 
paying Mr D what it thought was the fair pre-accident market value for his car which was 
£7,180. It said that it used a motor valuation guide to determine this figure, and it checked 
the valuation with at least one engineer. AXA also agreed to waive the excess fee. Mr D has 
asked if he would need to pay this given that the accident wasnt his fault, and the answer to 
this is yes. The policy defines excess as the amount you must pay towards any claim even 
if the incident is not your fault.
Mr D has raised concerns that the vehicle valuation on the policy was £11,000, and so he 
thinks that he should be paid this amount. But this is the maximum that AXA would pay out 
for the car. It wouldnt, unless specified in the policy, which it isnt in Mr Ds policy, pay more 
than the market value.In assessing what we consider to be market value, we obtain valuations from motor trade 
guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research of 
likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations as well as the cars 
make, model and other specifications. So, we generally find them to be more reliable than 
other resources such as adverts. We also take all other available evidence into account, for 
example, engineers reports.
Ive checked the motor trade guides for the value of Mr Ds car at the time of the incident and 
they produced the following valuations: £7,180 (guide one), £7,095 (guide two) and £5,750 
(guide three). I can see that AXA has settled the claim at the higher end of these valuations, 
and it also checked the valuation with its engineer, so Im satisfied that AXA has done 
enough to provide a fair market valuation for Mr Ds car.
Mr D doesnt agree with this because his car was a higher specification and had additional 
features, like a panoramic roof and heated seats, which he says add value to the car. When 
the investigator checked the guides, I can see that he included these features as part of the 
valuation, and it didnt increase the value. At new, added extras can be expensive but the 
amount paid doesnt mean a comparable increase in the market value. And while some 
optional extras may improve the sale price of a car, Im aware that many don't. And even 
where they do, I understand that the increase in value for the car is only likely to be a small 
fraction of the initial cost of those extras when ordering the car as new from the dealer. 
I fully understand Mr Ds frustration with the situation hes in as hes found several examples 
of similar cars with the same make and model as his car that are advertised for sale at a 
higher price. Mr D couldnt find a car for sale that matched the features, age and mileage of 
his exactly, so he has sent these as a guide. But these prices are an offer to sell. The offers 
reflect that a consumer will want to negotiate the price at the time of purchase. This is not 
necessarily the price that will be obtained. So, these advertised sale prices can often be 
misleading when assessing the market value of a car.
With the above in mind, I think AXAs pre-accident market value for Mr Ds car is fair. 
Additional costs
Ive looked at the notes provided to me by AXA. I can see from these that Mr D was very 
keen for his car not to be taken to the salvage agent, and he wanted to do everything he 
could to have it repaired. AXA deemed the car a total loss, and so it wouldnt have paid for 
the repairs, because it found these to be uneconomical. Notes also suggest that Mr D was 
prepared to contribute towards the cost of repairing the car  something which he is now 
unhappy with.
Because it was Mr Ds choice to have his car repaired, I dont think I can hold AXA 
responsible for the additional cost to him. Mr D was aware of the valuation AXA had placed 
on his car prior to agreeing the repairs with the engineer. So, I think it likely he was aware 
that the repairs would be at an additional cost to him, but he went ahead with this anyway. 
And for the reasons Ive already stated above, I think AXAs valuation was a fair one, and so 
I wouldnt expect it to increase the settlement figure to cover the additional repair cost to Mr 
D.
Mr D was offered a hire car while his car was in for repairs. He paid a damage waiver in 
case anything happened to the car while it was in his possession. From what Ive seen, the 
damage waiver was optional  and Mr D didnt have to take out this cover. This was a type 
of insurance to protect him from paying the full cost of any damage that might occur to the hire car. This isnt something that is covered in the policy documents, and so I dont think it 
was unfair of AXA to decline to reimburse Mr D this. 
The policy documents do however state that Mr D should be reimbursed for any costs 
incurred for travel expenses while he didnt have the use of his car. Mr D says that he paid 
£79 in a taxi fare from the incident location to take him home. I agree that AXA should repay 
this to Mr D along with 8% simple interest.
Increase in premiums
Its not my role to say how much an insurer should charge for premiums, what factors it 
should assess, or how much risk to attach to each of those factors. Insurance is essentially 
an assessment of risk. And we generally take the view that, providing they treat people fairly, 
insurers are entitled to charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk. 
Insurers consider many factors when setting premiums. And each insurer will take its own 
approach as to how to do that. When deciding how much to charge for their policies insurers 
will make an assessment of how likely it is that their policyholders will make a claim and how 
much they might have to pay out for those. And each insurer will go about that in its own 
way. 
So, when deciding if an insurer has dealt with a consumer fairly, I look to see if its treated 
them the same as it would other consumers with similar circumstances. Ive looked at AXAs 
information about Mr Ds premiums both before and after the incident. And I've looked to see 
how those have changed. 
The information it has used to price Mr Ds policy is commercially sensitive so I can't share 
that with him. But I can see the premiums it quoted for 2020 had actually decreased from 
what it initially quoted in 2019. But in 2019, Mr D negotiated a £52.14 discount on the 
premium, which he didnt do in 2020, and so this is the reason it has increased for 2020.
I am aware that Mr D has now changed insurance provider, and so he hasnt paid the 
premium AXA quoted to him.
Customer service
From looking at the file, I can see that Mr D spent a lot of time trying to contact AXA. And 
often without much response. I can imagine how frustrating this must have been for him. 
AXA has paid Mr D £250 to compensate him for this, and based on what Ive seen, I think 
this is a fair amount.
  
Putting things right
AXA should now do the following to put things right for Mr D:
- pay Mr D a total of £79 to reimburse him for the taxi journey.
- pay Mr D 8% simple annual interest on this amount, calculated from the date made 
Mr D paid for the journey until the date this complaint is settled. *
*If AXA consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, they 
should tell Mr D how much they have taken off, and give Mr D a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman