DRN-3901627
The complaint
Miss B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund the money she lost, which she 
believed was as a result of a scam.
What happened
The circumstances which led to this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont 
repeat them in detail here. But, in summary, I understand them to be as follows.
Miss B says she has been a victim of a scam. 
For completeness and to set out the events that have happened, Miss B has explained to us 
that she had hired builders previously to undertake work at her home but says they 
scammed her. Miss B added that these builders took her money and left. I understand they 
either didnt carry out the work to the standard expected or didnt do the work they were 
instructed to do.  
Following this, Miss B was looking for someone to carry out stone mason work at her home. 
Shes told us she wanted some work done in granite and works done with the flooring and so 
she looked for a stone mason online. She came across an individual Ill refer to as Mr D. 
Miss B says on speaking with Mr D and telling him about her plans to build an extension, he 
told her he could step in and help her with this. He asked to see the plans from the council 
which after showing him, he said he could do. 
Miss B told us she trusted Mr D and hired him. She explained there was no contract between 
her and Mr D.
Miss B made numerous payments to Mr D across a number of her accounts with different 
banking providers. Between November 2018 and March 2019 Miss B made around 15 
payments to Mr D from her account with Lloyds. In total Miss B sent around £7,947.23 from 
her Club Lloyds account to Mr D. 
Miss B explained Mr D was attending her property and doing work on her home. She said it 
looked ok to her, so she continued to make payments. Miss B realised something was wrong 
following a report from the council, after a building surveyor came to inspect the work at the 
property. Miss B told us the work Mr D had carried out failed the inspection. 
On discussing the inspection report with Mr D, Miss B said she was told he couldnt pay her 
back as the money was gone  that itd been spent on materials and doing work at the 
property.   
Miss B contacted Lloyds in December 2020 about the payments shed made to Mr D and 
also raised a complaint. Lloyds issued its final response letter in February 2021. Having 
looked into things, Lloyds said it was sorry it didnt send Miss B a letter she asked for and it 
arranged to pay her £50.00 for this. It also paid £6.00 for her mobile phone costs. However, 
it said it couldnt raise the payments Miss B made to Mr D as a fraud or a scam claim as 
works had been completed. It acknowledged that the work carried out didnt meet Miss Bs 
expectations but said this would be viewed as a civil matter. 
Miss B also contacted the police about what happened, but they have not continued to 
pursue Mr D in relation to what happened. 
Miss B remained unhappy, so she complained to our service. Our investigator reviewed what 
happened and recommended that her complaint not be upheld. She said this because she 
didnt think the evidence provided showed that Mr D intended to defraud Miss D and had no 
intentions of providing the goods or services she paid for, from the start. Our Investigator 
didnt think, based on what shed seen, Miss B had been the victim of a scam. She added 
that even if she did make a finding that the work carried out was to a poor standard this 
itself, doesnt show Mr D set out with an intention to defraud her. Because of this, she 
couldnt find Lloyds liable for the money Miss B had lost. 
Miss B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In brief, Miss B commented 
that another banking provider refunded her payments shed made and questioned how our 
Investigator hasnt found the money should be refunded to her. Miss B also questioned the 
information our Investigator received from the surveyor and maintains that Mr D meant to 
scam her. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive seen and been told; I dont find Lloyds is liable 
for the money Miss B has lost. I will now explain why.
At the outset Id like to recognise Miss Bs strength of feeling about what has happened here 
and why she feels so strongly that her money should be returned to her. I dont doubt that 
these events have had a significant impact on her. Id like to assure both Miss B and Lloyds 
that Ive carefully considered all the information provided to us but that in setting out my final 
decision, I have focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter. I dont need to comment 
on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Miss B, and its understandable given the significant 
sum why she feels she has been the victim of a scam. But not all cases where individuals 
have lost significant sums of money are in fact fraudulent and/or a scam. 
Miss B doesnt dispute making the payments to Mr D and Lloyds had an obligation to follow 
her instructions in line with the mandate it held on the account. 
When Miss B contacted Lloyds to tell it what had happened, it needed to consider good 
industry practice to determine what to do next. When the claim relates to a civil dispute 
rather than a scam, it doesnt need to contact the receiving bank to recover the money. In this case, Lloyds considered the payments Miss B made to Mr D were a civil matter and, 
therefore, couldnt be raised as fraud or a scam. 
So, the key thing I need to consider when making a finding on this point is what the evidence 
tells us about the intentions of Mr D  i.e. whether the evidence is strong enough to say that 
Mr D took payments with no intention of performing his side of the agreement.
In this case, Miss B and Mr D didnt enter into a contract with each other and in the absence 
of this, Ive not seen anything in writing to confirm exactly what was agreed and what work 
Mr D was to carry out and at what agreed price. However, I do note in her contact with our 
Investigator that Miss B explained that Mr D did attend her property for around a year or 
slightly longer and that he did buy materials and do work on her home. Miss B commented to 
our Investigator that she thought the work looked ok which was a reason she continued to 
make payments to Mr D. It was following the inspection report from the council that Miss B 
said she realised something was wrong. 
Given everything Miss B has shared with us about the background circumstances, I 
understand that she seemingly had a lot of work done on her property. Ive been given a 
copy of a building control report following a site inspection dated 9 April 2019. This report 
shows that work was carried out by Mr D and that Mr D was present at the time of inspection 
- as it appears Mr D has signed the report as the site representative. From this report, while I 
acknowledge that the work might not have been done to the standard expected, this in itself 
doesnt mean Lloyds should be held liable for the losses Miss B has suffered as a result. 
The inspection report would appear to support what Miss B has told us, in that Mr D did 
frequent her property over a considerable period of time and carried out work on her home. 
Whilst the work has now been deemed not to have been completed to the expected 
standard, I cant safely say with any certainty, with what I know that Mr D set out with an 
intent to defraud and that Miss B has been the victim of a scam.   
Further, whilst I am unable to share details about the beneficiary or the receiving bank 
account, due to data protection laws, the bank hasnt said it had any concerns about how the 
account was being operated prior to Miss B making payments and there were no other 
notifications of fraud on the account.  
After taking everything into careful consideration, on balance, I cant safely say Miss B has 
been the victim of a scam and that Lloyds couldve prevented the loss Miss B has incurred. 
I do recognise my decision is not the outcome Miss B was hoping for and Id like to assure 
her Ive taken everything shes told us into account  including what she has shared about 
her circumstances  the home conditions she was living in. In turn I also dont underestimate 
the impact this matter has had on her, but for the reasons Ive explained above, I cant fairly 
and reasonably ask Lloyds to refund her the money shes lost. 
I note Miss B has raised she was reimbursed for payments she made from another account 
she held with a different banking service provider. But in reaching this decision, I have 
considered the payments Miss B made from her club Lloyds account only and so this point 
doesnt change my conclusions. 
For completeness, I can see Lloyds accepts better service couldve been provided to Miss B, 
in particular, that she shouldve received a letter shed asked for. Lloyds in its final response 
letter said itd arrange to pay Miss B £50 in recognition of this, along with £6 for mobile call 
cost. Based on everything Ive seen; I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
and so I make no further recommendation for this point.  
  My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint 
against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman