DRN-4448611
The complaint
Mrs S complained that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) hadnt paid her 
cancellation claim under her travel insurance policy. Mrs S is represented by her husband in 
her complaint, but Ill just refer to Mrs S.
What happened
Mrs S had a travel insurance policy insured by AIG. When Mrs S complained to us she said 
shed made a claim on the policy for her financial loss due to an airline cancelling her flight to 
travel abroad. 
Mrs S complained that AIG wanted the airline to provide confirmation of the flight 
cancellation and the reasons for the cancellation before it would assess the claim. In 
summary she said:
Shed paid for travel insurance to protect her from travel disruption. 
The airline refused to provide an explanation for the cancellation but shed sent AIG 
copies of her emails with the airline to show shed tried to get the information AIG 
wanted.
Shed shown AIG that an insurable loss had occurred. 
She wanted AIG to pay her loss which she said £1,867.76 for the replacement flight 
she had to book. The original booking that was cancelled by the airline cost 
£1,072.96. 
During our investigation Mrs S provided a response from the airline to her claim to the airline 
for flight costs reimbursement (the CEDR form). The CEDR form said Mrs S was travelling to 
her destination country by a connecting flight. Before she travelled the connecting flight time 
was changed so she no longer had the minimum connecting time recommended at the 
relevant airport. The airline said it had told Mrs S travel agent that the agent needed to 
amend the booking details within a specified timescale otherwise the airline would cancel the 
booking and the travel agent failed to act. Mrs S booking was cancelled but the flights went 
as scheduled.
When AIG received the information in the CEDR form it declined the claim on the policy. AIG 
sent Mrs S a letter setting out why it considered the circumstances of her claim werent 
covered by the policy terms. Mrs S disagreed with AIGs decision. 
Our investigator said AIG had acted fairly by wanting the information from the airline before it 
made a decision about the claim. And she said AIGs decline of the claim was reasonable.
Mrs S disagrees and wants an ombudmans decision. She said her travel agent had re-
confirmed the flight booking within the given timescales which the airline ignored and 
cancelled her booking which led to her replacement flight additional costs. She referred to 
some wording in the policy which she said meant her claim was covered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S but I think AIG acted fairly and declined the claim reasonably. 
Ill explain why.
The Trip Curtailment & Interruption section of the policy lists the claims evidence required 
for such claims, which may include Cancellation invoice or letter confirming whether any 
refund is due for the unused part of Your Trip or/and An official letter from Your carrier 
confirming the cause and length of the delay for interruption.
Im satisfed that AIG acted in line with the policy terms, and fairly, in wanting confirmation of 
the flight cancellation and the reasons for the cancellation from the airline before it would 
assess the claim. When AIG received more information from the CEDR form it assessed the 
claim promptly and wrote to Mrs S setting out the reasons it was declining the claim.
Im satisfed that AIG reasonably declined the claim. Mrs S says the policy covers trip 
cancellation and refers to the policy wording which says:
Each benefit has a specific coverage period during Your Period of Insurance as 
follows:
Coverage during Your Period of Insurance for policies purchased with a Flight only:
1. Cover for Trip Cancellation & Postponement (wherever applicable) starts at the 
later of:
the time You book Your Trip; or
pay the insurance premium.
And Mrs S says that AIGs policy exclusions only apply to cancellation by the insured, not to 
cancellation by a third party which is what happened.
The policy wording and exclusions Mrs S referred to dont mean her claim is covered. The 
Insurance Product Information Document, which gives a summary of the key parts of the 
policy, says theres cover to cancel, postpone, cut short or interrupt the trip for specified 
reasons. As is usual for travel insurance policies, for the claim to be covered under the policy 
terms the circumstances of the claim have to be an event thats insured under the policy. 
AIGs letter to Mrs S set out the covered insured events under the Trip Cancellation & 
Postponement section and the Trip Curtailment & Interruption section. AIG reasonably 
concluded that the airline cancelling Mrs S booking in these circumstances arent an insured 
event under the policy. It doesnt matter whether the booking cancellation was the fault of the 
airline or the travel agent, I dont think the policy terms cover the claims circumstances. The 
cover AIG provides under the policy isnt unusual. Theres no basis on which I can 
reasonably say AIG must pay the claim.
Our investigator suggested Mrs S pursue the matter with the travel agent or raise a 
chargeback with her card provider if relevant, which may be time limited. Thats for Mrs S to 
action if she wishes. The complaint she made to us was about AIG and Ive explained why 
I think AIG acted fairly and declined the claim reasonably.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman