DRN-4360752
The complaint
The estate of Ms S has complained about Great Lakes Insurance SEs handling of the late 
Ms Ss travel insurance claim.
Any reference to Great Lakes includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
Ms S held a travel insurance policy with Great Lakes. Whilst abroad, she fell and injured her 
hip. She was admitted to hospital and later had surgery. Sadly, Ms S passed away whilst 
abroad.
The executors of Ms Ss estate complained to Great Lakes about its handling of the claim. 
Great Lakes didnt agree with their concerns, and so the complaint was brought to this 
Service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Great Lakes had 
handled the claim reasonably.
The executors asked for an ombudsman to review the matter, and so the case has been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly like to offer my condolences to Ms Ss family for their sad loss. 
Although Ive only included a very brief summary of what happened above, Id like to 
reassure the executors that Ive carefully considered all of their submissions.
The executors have complained about the quality of nursing care that Ms S received whilst 
abroad. Theyve also questioned the doctors decision to carry out a partial hip replacement 
rather than a total hip replacement. 
As our investigator has explained, we cant consider the quality of care provided by the 
hospital or the medical decisions taken by the treating doctor. Great Lakes was told that 
Ms S needed a total hip replacement, and arranged for her to be transferred to a private 
hospital so this could take place. I dont know why the doctor then decided to do a partial hip 
replacement, but Great Lakes wasnt involved in that decision, and only learnt of it after the 
surgery had happened. 
Ms S had the surgery seven days after her injury. The executors think that poor 
communication between Great Lakes and Ms Ss medical team caused unnecessary delays 
here. Ive therefore considered this, and taken into account the detailed timeline provided by 
the executors, as well as the information provided by Great Lakes.
After Ms S had been admitted to the public hospital, she told Great Lakes that her doctor 
said she needed to be transferred to a private hospital for a total hip replacement. Great 
Lakes wanted to see a medical report before it would agree to this. Its standard practice for 
a travel insurer to request a medical report to establish that any planned treatment is 
medically necessary. This was provided to Great Lakes later that day.
I understand that a nearby private hospital (that could do the surgery) initially refused to 
accept Ms S as a patient, because the hospital didnt want to deal with international 
insurance companies. Thats really unfortunate, but I cant hold Great Lakes responsible for 
this. I see that Great Lakes arranged for a local agent to liaise with the hospitals, which is 
what Id expect in the circumstances. 
Great Lakes did make arrangements for Ms S to be transferred elsewhere for the surgery, 
but after this had been agreed, it found out there was social unrest in that area which 
prevented the transfer. I see that Great Lakes was then able to liaise with the nearby private 
hospital that could do the surgery, and they agreed to treat Ms S. 
There was then a short delay, as the private hospital wouldnt accept Ms S until her treating 
doctor had contacted them. But the treating doctor refused to do so until Great Lakes paid a 
deposit to her. When Great Lakes learnt of this, it obtained the quote and paid the deposit 
later that day.
Overall, I think Great Lakes acted reasonably here, and I cant see that it was responsible for 
any delays in Ms S having the surgery. 
The executors have also complained that Great Lakes caused delays in arranging Ms Ss 
repatriation to the UK. 
Great Lakes learnt that Ms S had been transferred back to the public hospital (after sadly 
having cardiac arrests whilst in the private hospital). After her transfer, Ms S began having 
seizures. I see that her medical team recommended an urgent air ambulance transfer to the 
UK as soon as her seizures had stabilised. They advised Great Lakes on 29 November that 
Ms S wasnt yet stable and couldnt be moved at that time.
Great Lakes then obtained air ambulance quotes, so it could repatriate Ms S once she had 
stabilised. On 2 December, Great Lakes had received one air ambulance quote. It spoke 
with Ms Ss family member and advised that the doctor was waiting for Ms Ss seizures to 
stabilise before she could be moved. Ms Ss family member said Ms S hadnt had a seizure 
for 24 hours, and so Great Lakes requested an updated medical report. Meanwhile, Great 
Lakes received the second air ambulance quote, and this was approved by it on 3 
December. 
However, before the repatriation could take place, the air ambulance provider wanted up-to-
date information on Ms Ss condition. But matters were complicated because an intensive 
care unit (ICU) bed needed to be found in the UK first. I see the air ambulance provider 
made significant efforts to try and find an ICU hospital bed for Ms S, but there was a 
shortage of beds and so it had difficulties finding one. 
Unfortunately, Ms Ss condition then deteriorated. She was considered critically ill, and a UK 
consultant (who worked in a hospital where she was potentially going to be admitted) 
advised Great Lakes not to move her, as he thought this would reduce her chance for 
survival. Great Lakes medical director was in agreement with this. Great Lakes therefore 
wanted Ms S to stabilise before repatriating her, given the risk of moving her at that time. I see that Great Lakes requested further information from Ms Ss treating doctor, as well as a 
CT head scan, so it could have up-to-date information on her condition. This was done, but 
Ms Ss condition deteriorated further, and she sadly passed away.
Whilst I can of course appreciate why Ms Ss family wanted her back in the UK as soon as 
possible, this was a complex repatriation as Ms S was very unwell, and was a significant 
distance from the UK. I think its clear from the communications Ive read that Great Lakes 
didnt want to jeopardise Ms Ss chance of survival by repatriating her when it wasnt safe to 
do so. Ms S was critically ill, and it was thought she may not survive the flight. I think it was 
reasonable for Great Lakes to rely on the advice of the specialist in the UK hospital (which 
its medical director agreed with) to delay moving her, as there was a chance that she could 
still improve.
I therefore dont find that Great Lakes caused any unnecessary delays here. 
Ive also considered the remaining concerns raised by the executors. 
Great Lakes refused to pay for Ms Ss daughters husband to fly out to support his wife. The 
policy only covers the travel expenses for one relative or friend to travel from the insureds 
home country to stay with them, and Great Lakes had already covered this for Ms Ss 
daughter. So it was correct for Great Lakes to say that there was no cover for Ms Ss 
daughters husband. I see that Great Lakes offered to pay for Ms Ss other child to also 
travel there - although this was outside the terms of the policy, I would assume that Great 
Lakes made this offer because Ms S was critically ill. So I dont think Great Lakes did 
anything wrong here.
The policy covered up to £2,000 for extra accommodation for someone to stay with the 
insured, and to travel there from the insureds home country. Great Lakes stopped covering 
Ms Ss daughters accommodation when the cost of this reached £2,000. Given the 
circumstances, it decided to pay for the cost of her flight (£598.37) on top of this, even 
though the limit under the policy was £2,000 for both accommodation and travel. I think 
Great Lakes acted fairly here.
Finally, the executors are unhappy that Great Lakes advised Ms Ss daughter that she had 
reached the policy limit for accommodation the same day this happened. I also see that 
Great Lakes mistakenly sent letters addressed to Ms S after she had passed away, which 
understandably caused upset to her family. 
The executors have the legal authority to bring a complaint on Ms Ss behalf after she 
passed away. However, I dont have the power to compensate the executors/Ms Ss family 
members for actions that Great Lakes took which impacted them personally. Thats because 
they dont have a relevant relationship with Great Lakes to make them eligible to complain in 
their own right.
I recognise the executors will be disappointed with my decision. This was an incredibly 
difficult time for Ms Ss family, and I cant begin to understand what they went through. 
However, overall, Im satisfied that Great Lakes dealt with the claim reasonably and didnt 
cause any unnecessary delays. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms S 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman