DRN-3275454
The complaint
Ms P complains that Nationwide Building Society recorded a missed payment on her credit 
file when shed applied for a payment deferral on her credit card account with them.
What happened
Ms P holds a credit card account with Nationwide.
In or around April 2020, she contacted Nationwide to request a payment holiday as her 
income had reduced due to the impact of the global pandemic. Nationwide agreed to Ms Ps 
request and provided a payment holiday between 14 April and 16 July 2020. 
Ms P financial circumstances hadnt changed. So, she made an online application for a 
further payment deferral in or around August 2020. Ms P doesnt recall receiving a response 
from Nationwide, so assumed her request had been agreed.
In or around September 2020, Ms P discovered that a missed payment had been recorded 
in respect of the credit card payment due in August 2020. She contacted Nationwide who 
told her they hadnt received her request for a further payment holiday. So, Miss P 
complained. 
Nationwide agreed to investigate Miss Ps complaint. But they still couldnt find any record of 
her application. They offered a goodwill payment of £25. But Ms P didnt accept this. She 
wanted Nationwide to remove the missed payment recorded on her credit file.
Nationwide didnt agree theyd done anything wrong. So, Miss P referred her complaint to 
this service. One of our adjudicators investigated Ms Ps complaint. Our adjudicator didnt 
think Nationwide had done anything wrong and theyd considered Ms Ps complaint fairly. 
Ms P didnt agree with our adjudicators findings. So, her case has been referred to me to 
reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders on 2 April 2020 which 
explained what it expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising out 
of the global pandemic. It provided guidance asking businesses to consider payment 
deferrals of up to three months under regulated credit agreements. 
The FCA said their guidance applied where consumers were already experiencing or 
reasonably expect to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of the pandemic. 
The FCA also said that firms should ensure that there is no negative impact on the 
consumers credit file because of the payment deferral.  
Further guidance issued by the FCA on 1 July 2020 extended these measures, and where 
consumers were still struggling due to the global pandemic, businesses were advised to 
freeze or reduce their payments for a further three months. 
Nationwide agreed a three-month payment deferral for Ms P, which appears to comply with 
the guidance issued by the FCA. Nationwide have confirmed they wrote to Ms P in July 2020 
to remind her that the payment deferral was due to end. They said, If you cant start making 
your new minimum monthly payments, you need to complete the income and expenditure 
form. Their letter provided a website link to access this. Their letter also said, If you 
havent done this in time and you miss a payment, your account may go into arrears. This 
could affect your credit record.
Nationwide have provided a screenshot of the confirmation Ms P wouldve seen if and when 
her payment deferral extension application was submitted. It said, Well do our best to start 
your payment holiday from the date your next payment is due. However, if your next 
payment is due in the next few days, your payment plan might start the following month. 
Well let you know in writing when your 3 month period begins.
Nationwide said Ms Ps application wasnt received and so wasnt agreed. So, they didnt 
send her a letter confirming this. Its unclear what happened to the application Ms P said she 
completed. But in any event, I dont think Ms P could assumed itd been agreed. Nationwide 
hadnt confirmed it to her.
Following her complaint, Nationwide did agree a further payment deferral covering the 
payments due in September, October and November 2020. And from what Ive seen, I dont 
believe Nationwide reported those payments as being missed on Ms Ps credit file. So, this 
also complied with the FCAs guidance.
Nationwide have since confirmed a request on 10 August was received although they 
havent been able to explain why this wasnt processed. This is unfortunate and I can 
understand why Ms P is unhappy this didnt result in her August payment being deferred. 
It isnt the role of this service to supervise, regulate or impose fines on any business. Its also 
not our role to ask a business to alter its procedures or processes or impose improvements 
on the level of service offered to their customers. These aspects fall firmly within the remit of 
the regulator  in this case, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
But it is our role to examine and decide whether a business has been fair and reasonable in 
the manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the individual 
circumstances of Ms Ps experience with them. 
While Ms Ps application to extend the payment deferral may not have been processed, it 
appears it wasnt submitted or received until a few weeks after Ms Ps previous deferral had 
expired. Given the dates of the previous deferral, it appears Ms Ps monthly payment was 
due around the middle of each month. So, I think its more likely than not that any deferral 
wouldnt have taken effect until her September payment anyway. Given Ms P also hadnt 
received any confirmation from Nationwide in writing, I dont think it was safe for Ms P to 
assume her request had been agreed. So, I think she was obliged to continue to meet 
payments until otherwise advised.
Nationwide have recorded the payment missed in August 2020 on Ms Ps credit file. I realise 
this is concerning for Ms P, but Nationwide were obliged to report this under guidance issued 
by the Information Commissioners office. And Im not able to ask them to remove it as it is a 
fair and accurate reflection of what actually happened.
Nationwide did offer a goodwill payment of £25 to Ms P, recognising her frustrations and 
concerns. But they werent obliged to do this, and it isnt the role of this service to instruct 
Nationwide to make such payments. That is a business decision for Nationwide.I do appreciate Ms P will be disappointed, but I cant reasonably conclude that Nationwide 
did anything wrong. Ultimately, they agreed a further payment deferral. Unfortunately, no 
agreement was given or communicated to Ms P in relation to her August payment. So, she 
was obliged to ensure that was covered at the time.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman