DRN-3598459
The complaint
Mr D has complained about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AAUICL)s 
decision to decline a claim he made for storm damage under his home insurance policy.
 What happened
In October 2021 Mr D made a claim to AAUICL as an outside wall on his property was 
damaged during a storm. 
AAUICL instructed a Surveyor to inspect the damaged wall. In light of the Surveyors 
findings, AAUICL rejected Mr Ds claim. AAUICL said the damage wasnt caused by an 
insured peril but due to gradual wear and tear. 
Mr D complained to AAUICL about its decision. But AAUICL didnt uphold it. It said storm 
conditions hadnt occurred at the time of the event and the damage wasnt consistent with 
what a storm typically causes. It said the damage was caused by gradual wear and tear 
which was excluded from cover under the policy. 
Mr D asked us to look at his complaint.
Our Investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She thought storm 
conditions had occurred and met the definition of storm under AAUICLs policy. She also 
thought the Surveyor report lacked persuasive reasons as to why the damage couldnt be 
caused by a storm. 
The Investigator provided AAUICL with links to news reports about storm conditions on the 
date in question in the town where Mr D lives. She saw from clear signposted photos Mr D 
had provided AAUICL with that there was a collapsed tree adjacent to the end of the road 
where Mr D lives when the storm occurred. 
Having checked local weather reports, the Investigator found that 16 miles away from Mr Ds 
address there were wind gusts which met the definition of storm under AAUICLs policy. 
The Investigator recommended AAUICL meet Mr Ds claim for the damaged wall, which he 
has paid privately to be repaired. 
AAUICL didnt agree. It provided a screenshot of a local weather check site it uses. This 
showed no data for wind gust speeds at a range of 16 miles from Mr Ds home. At 21 miles 
away from his home, it showed wind gusts below the definition under the policy. It said the 
direction of the wind on the date in question means the house would have protected the wall 
from the wind. 
AAUICL said photos of the wall show there were cracks in the mortar. And it believes other 
damage would have been present; for example to their roof or garden furniture if storm 
conditions had occurred. It says there were reports of a tornado and storm conditions in the 
area in July 2021, but none for October 2021. 
So AAUICL said its decision was correct. As AAUICL doesnt agree, the case has therefore 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.We ask three questions when considering storm damage claims to help decide whether an 
insurer has acted in a fair and reasonable way. AAUICL applied the same approach in this 
case. These are: 
 Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
 If so, is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes? and;
 Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all these questions is 'yes' then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of the above questions is 'no' - the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be 
covered.
AAUICLs policy defines the term storm as:
A period of violent weather defined as: a) Wind speeds with gusts of at least 48 
knots (55mph) which are the equivalent to Storm Force 10 on the Beaufort Scale; b) 
torrential rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm per hour; c) snow to a depth of at least 
one foot (30cms) in 24 hours; or d) hail of such intensity that it causes damage to 
hard surfaces or breaks glass.
Ive viewed videos online, through social media and news reports of storm and tornado 
weather conditions for 31 October 2021  the date of Mr Ds claim - in the town where Mr D 
lives. Mr D provided a photo of a collapsed tree adjacent to the end of the road where he 
lives. Footage online from an estate 9 miles away from Mr Ds address show a number of 
trees damaged by extreme weather conditions on the date of Mr Ds claim. 
Our checks against local weather reports show data for wind gusts of 55 mph 16 miles away 
from Mr Ds home. AAUICLs weather check for the same distance shows no data for wind 
gusts. 
AAUICL say the Investigators summary is no more reliable or accurate than the data it has 
relied on. However, I disagree as weather checks we have carried out clearly provided wind 
gust data at 16 miles which AAUICLs checks didnt. And AAUICL says that our reliance on 
data for 16 miles away from Mr Ds address is a long distance away - while relying on 
weather data recorded 21 miles away to reject his claim. 
Based on the information available Im satisfied that storm conditions occurred at the time of 
Mr Ds claim and meet the definition set out under AAUICLs policy. So the answer to the 
first question is yes. 
The Surveyors report doesnt recommend the claim should be declined. Under the section; 
Is the external damage covered under the policy? The Surveyor has answered yes. The 
description of the damage is written as follows:
External wall half brick with piers, has become unsafe and fallen down due to the 
strong wind.
I dont think the Surveyors report provides any meaningful information as to why Mr Ds 
claim shouldnt be met. There is no reference as to the cause of damage or the condition of 
the wall. The surveyor describes the general condition of the property as being in a good 
state of repair.
AAUICL say storms tend to cause damage to walls, roofs and garden furniture. In this case, 
only Mr Ds wall was damaged and so it believes the poor weather caused an already 
weakened structure to collapse. AAUICL says photos of the wall show cracks in the mortar 
which appear to have been there for some time and there are areas which have been 
previously repaired. AAUICL says the direction of the wind means the house would have sheltered the wall and so it was unlikely that the bad weather caused the wall to fall toward 
the garden. So AAUICL says the answer to question 2 is no as the damage isnt consistent 
with damage a storm typically causes. 
Having viewed the photos of Mr Ds wall, I can see there are cracks in various areas. 
Despite these cracks being present, the majority of the wall remained intact and only a small 
section of it has collapsed. If the whole wall had cracks which resulted from wear and tear, I 
think it's fair to expect to see a larger area of the wall to collapse and not just a section. 
So in response to questions 2 and 3, Im satisfied the information available shows that the 
damage being claimed for is consistent with damage that a storm typically causes and storm 
conditions were the main cause of damage. 
Mr D says he and his wife have had to find the money to pay for the wall to be repaired. I 
therefore think a fair and reasonable outcome is for AAUICL to meet Mr Ds claim and 
reimburse him for the costs to repair the wall minus an applicable excess under the claim. 
AAUICL should pay interest on the amount Mr D paid subject to reasonable proof from the 
date he paid to the date it reimburses him as set out below.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited to do the following:
Meet Mr Ds claim for storm damage.
Reimburse Mr D  subject to reasonable proof  for the costs he paid to repair his 
wall damaged by storm minus any applicable excess. 
Pay interest on the reimbursed amount at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from the 
date Mr D paid to the date AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited reimburses 
him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman