DRN-3626620
The complaint
Mr M says Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc failed to act on the written instructions he sent to a 
branch and he had to undertake a long journey to resolve this.    
What happened
Mr M sent a letter to one of the banks branches on 29 September 2021 with instructions for 
a transfer of funds to allow him to complete a property purchase. When it became clear the 
branch hadnt received his instructions he travelled there in person  a round trip of over 
1,000km. Whilst at the branch he asked about reactivating a dormant account, but no-one 
could help, either in person or over the phone.
Mr M wants the bank to reimburse his travel costs and compensate him for time lost. And to 
ensure that when a customer writes to the bank it actions the request(s) as something 
similar also happened to him in 2018.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. He said as the bank hadnt received the 
letter it hadnt made an error and so couldnt be expected to cover Mr Ms travel costs. He 
thought the £50 goodwill payment from the bank, without admission of liability, was fair. 
Equally, he said, the bank had acknowledged the service from its dormancy team was poor 
and arranged a time for it to call Mr M. He found the £35 it had paid for the inconvenience 
this caused to be reasonable.
Mr M disagreed with this assessment. He said we seem to have ignored that the same 
problem had happened in 2018 and sided with the big corporation. The Bank of Irelands 
postal system was not fit for purpose. Why should he have to use registered post  it is only 
ever letters to this bank that get lost. Mr M asked for an ombudsmans review, so the 
complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint and Ill explain why. First though I 
would like to make clear that as an independent and impartial organisation we dont act on 
behalf of either consumers or financial businesses - theres no benefit for us to find in favour 
of one party over the other.
From the evidence supplied I have seen nothing to suggest the bank received and failed to 
act on Mr Ms instructions. Rather it seems most likely it never received his letter. And I cant 
fairly hold the bank liable for a failing in the postal system.
Mr M made the decision to travel to the branch, he had the option to re-send his instructions 
by registered post  mitigating the time and cost of the long journey. The bank, though not at 
fault or the cause of the journey, has paid Mr M £50 as a gesture of goodwill. This is 
reasonable and I can find no grounds to order a higher payment given my previous finding.
The bank has accepted it was hard to contact its dormancy team at the time, and 
apologised. It arranged an outbound call from the team to Mr M and paid £35 to recognise 
the inconvenience hed experienced. I find this to be reasonable.
Mr M argues the banks postal system is not fit for purpose, but our remit is to look at the 
merits of individual complaints - and whether a bank error has had a detrimental impact that 
it needs to put right. It is the role of the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) to review 
systems, polices and processes within the industry. So I cannot comment on the suitability of 
the banks post scanning process. 
It follows I am not instructing Bank of Ireland to take any further action. 
I note Mr M feels we have ignored the fact that he made a complaint in 2018 relating to 
similar issues. But as the investigator has explained we cannot consider any aspect of this 
complaint now as it is out of time. The rules we have to follow say that a customer must 
bring a complaint to us within six months of the date of the business final response letter  
and that was 22 November 2018 - unless there are exceptional circumstances that prevent 
this. This was explained in the final response letter Mr M received from the bank, and he has 
not presented any evidence of such exceptional circumstances.  
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman