DRN-3399848
The complaint
Ms D has complained about her car insurer, U K Insurance Limited (UKI) in that it decided 
her car was a total loss following an accident. And she complained about the amount it paid 
her for its market value.
 
What happened
Ms D was involved in an accident on 3 December 2019. The other driver accepted liability. 
The accident occurred mid-afternoon, but Ms D had some difficulty in getting her car 
collected by UKIs recovery agent. Finally, in the early hours of the morning a taxi was 
arranged to take Ms D home and her car was recovered to the transport companys base 
rather than going to a garage. UKI then delayed arranging the hire car Ms Ds policy 
provided for as she didnt get it until 6 December. 
On 11 December 2019 UKIs engineer decided Ms Ds car was beyond economic repair 
(although not structurally damaged). He had spoken to Ms D and believed she was aware of 
the value of the settlement UKI would be paying her for the market value of her car. But 
Ms D understood the engineer would be calling her back to talk about this. No call back 
occurred, and whilst a letter was sent on the same day explaining everything to Ms D, Ms D 
said she didnt receive it.
Ms D also understood from the engineer that any settlement paid would come to her, and 
shed have a few days after that with the hire car before needing to return it. But Ms D had 
outstanding finance on the car, so UKI paid the settlement to the finance company  as 
advised in the letter but not by the engineer. On 22 December 2019, Ms D then got a text 
saying the hire car would be collected the next day. She called UKI and learnt it had settled 
her claim by paying her finance company £4,965 which it said was the market value for her 
car. But the total outstanding finance had been £6,398. Ms D was confused and upset as 
she had no settlement and no car. She said she would never have agreed to the settlement 
value, if she had been told what amount it was and she felt the car could have been 
repaired. 
UKI said it would look into the settlement amount and tried to call Ms D to discuss her 
concerns. But around the time Ms D said she only wanted to deal with UKI by email. A 
second UKI engineer said he felt the original value was low but as Ms D would not speak to 
him, he could do nothing further to review the value. UKI accepted it had failed Ms D when 
she and her car had needed collecting after the crash, and it also accepted its original 
engineers communication could have been better. For those failings it offered Ms D a total 
of £125 compensation (£50 and £75 respectively, with the £50 being paid to Ms D).
Ms D said she felt like UKI had stolen her car. She thought it should, at least, have offered 
her the chance to keep the car. When Ms D complained to us, UKI said it hadnt offered 
Ms D the chance to keep her car because she never said she wanted to do so. In 
November 2020, UKI also provided a revised valuation amount to our Investigator for Ms Ds 
car of £6,686 but its engineer still had not spoken to Ms D about the value. Rather he had 
completed a desktop review taking into account internet sales data for the car. Ms D advised 
she had been paying the finance company in the interim and UKI confirmed that the finance 
company had said that it no longer had an interest in the car.
Our Investigator felt UKI initially paid too little for the market value of Ms Ds car which could 
have been reviewed around the time it was making the payment to the finance company. He 
said it should now pay the difference to Ms D between what it had paid the finance company 
and its revised market value. He was also of the view UKI should reimburse Ms D any extra 
costs she had to pay to the finance company.  He also said UKI should pay Ms D a total of 
£400 compensation (an increase of £275 on what it had offered so far).
UKI didnt object to the findings but Ms D felt they didnt go far enough. She noted her car 
had been sold on rather than scrapped, and felt we should be making UKI get back her car 
for her  or at least making it produce details from its salvage agent of the buyer so she 
could track it down. She explained over several emails how unhappy she is and the amount 
of worry and stress all of this has put her through.     
Ms D also explained her concern about how UKI had handled two previous claims for her, 
made earlier in 2019. She said she felt those claims had affected the cars market value.  
When we asked UKI about these claims, it said Ms Ds concerns about them did not fall for 
consideration as part of this complaint. So the Investigator explained to Ms D that he 
wouldnt be able to look at her concerns about these two claims.
Ms Ds complaint was passed to me for consideration. I had our Investigator make some 
enquiries with Ms Ds finance company to see if she had incurred any extra costs because of 
UKI not paying the higher settlement earlier. The financier confirmed she had not. I issued a 
provisional decision explaining that I felt UKI had failed Ms D, but that I didnt think it had 
stolen her car. I said it should refund her the cost of car mats if she showed proof of 
purchase, as well as pay her the increased settlement value (plus interest) and a total of 
£1,500 compensation.
UKI said it would accept my findings. Ms D said she disagreed with them. She said I had 
overlooked some things she had said, such as that UKI was not her insurer. Ms D said she 
felt I had ridiculed her about her having paid her finance agreement. Overall, she felt my 
decision was unfair because, in her view, UKI had stolen her car. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
Previous claims
I understand that Ms D has some concerns about how these were handled, and that she 
says they werent settled. As our Investigator explained, I cant look at that  UKI needs the 
chance to address these issues first if Ms D now raises them with UKI. But what I can see 
from this December 2019 claim is that no deduction from the market value for the car was 
made on account of it having any pre-existing unresolved damage. So, Im satisfied the 
previous claims did not impact or affect this claim.
Roadside
UKI accepts it let Ms D down as regards its roadside recovery. Seemingly there was a 
technical issue which caused a delay, but which UKI should have known about and so avoided the delay. It was clearly worrying and frustrating for Ms D to be waiting so long and 
at night. Ill take that into account when awarding compensation. But whilst I know Ms D 
thinks things would have gone differently  that her car might not have been sent for sale as 
a total loss  if it had gone to her garage, I cant be sure that is the case. Thats because UKI 
could still have collected the car from Ms Ds garage to assess it. 
Conversation with UKIs first engineer
The call wasnt recorded. So, I dont know what was said. But clearly there was a breakdown 
in communication in some way. UKI did follow the call up with a letter and I dont know why 
Ms D didnt receive that. But I think the engineer should have known that the settlement for 
Ms Ds car would go to the finance company  so she wouldnt know when it was paid or 
when the hire car she had would need to be returned. And if that wasnt a conversation for 
him to have with her  then a claims handler should have spoken with Ms D. I can 
understand why Ms D, a few days before Christmas was upset to receive notification, which 
for her was out of the blue, from the hire company that the car she had been using had to go 
back the next day. And I see from UKIs notes that it actually thought it should extend that 
hire period to 2 January 2020. UKIs notes show it would have done this, had the hire car still 
been with Ms D. But instead it took a couple of days for it to reach this view by which time  
Ms D had returned the hire car and it couldnt extend the agreement which had ended. Of 
course, it could have looked to provide another car. But it didnt do that either. Ill take this 
upset Ms D was caused into account when deciding about compensation.
Salvage
Its clear to me that Ms D wasnt given a proper opportunity to fully consider her position on 
the claim by the first engineer. UKI says it didnt give her the option to keep the car because 
she didnt ask to. Rather it told her it was a total loss and she sent in her documents as 
requested by the first engineer. But I dont think UKI has been reasonable here as it should 
have offered or at least ensured that Ms D didnt want to keep her car. Ms D came away 
from the conversation with UKIs engineer believing she would be happy with the total loss 
settlement but obviously not knowing the amount. So, from her perspective there was little 
need to challenge the position. Whereas I think she would have challenged the position had 
a proper and coherent conversation taken place with this engineer. It is clear to me that 
Ms D has some very strong feelings about this car. So, I think if UKI had been clearer with 
her about all the options which it should have explained properly to her, she would have 
asked to keep her car (potentially depending on the salvage value). 
UKI has told us that if Ms D had asked to keep the car, it would have deducted 17% from the 
settlement value. The settlement value at that time was £4,965 which already left a shortfall 
for Ms D to pay the finance company. And 17% of the settlement was £844, so, in total, for 
Ms D to keep the car she would have been left owing the finance company £2,277, and 
would still have had to find the funds to repair her car. For some reason here, UKIs engineer 
failed to decide on the repair costs of the car. He seems to have heard that Ms D was 
reluctant to drive her car, and from there determined she wanted it to be classed as a total 
loss  so he did that. I dont consider that was an appropriate way of dealing with this by an 
insurance engineer. And I think, even if Ms D did have concerns about her car being 
repaired  if she had been told the market value which was anyway too low, and given her  
strong feelings of attachment she clearly has to this car, I think its likely she would have 
opted to keep her car and repair it. After all, continuing to pay the monthly finance amount 
wasnt an additional cost for Ms D, it was what she was doing anyway  and, in fact, always 
had to do following UKIs initial low settlement. And, importantly, whilst he didnt comment on 
what was needed to repair the car or the cost of these repairs, UKIs engineer did conclude 
that the car was not structurally damaged. As far as I can see from photos, the main damage 
was just the back windscreen having been broken. There was no sign of any major denting or scraping or sign of parts of the car falling off or needing replacing. So, in the grand 
scheme of things, I dont consider this car could have been a total loss in real terms. As 
such, I will take the loss of her car into account when Im deciding the compensation later in 
my decision.
However, I cant make UKI find Ms Ds car and get it back for her. I know Ms D thinks this 
can or should be done but that is simply not reasonable, or possible. With regret for any 
upset this causes Ms D; her car is no longer hers, it became UKIs property when it paid the 
settlement to her finance company, it was legitimately sold on to UKIs agents and those 
agents sold it on again. In short it now belongs to someone else. Even if I felt it would be 
reasonable to do so (which I dont), I dont have the power to undo all of that. And I cant 
reasonably require UKI to share with Ms D details from its agent about the onwards sale of 
the car. That sort of information is confidential. This service will not make UKI track the car 
down and return it or divulge details to Ms D of the new owners. 
I know Ms D would have liked to have taken some things from her car. She said that when 
she bought the car she paid for some mats and heated leather seats, so she wanted to take 
these back. Whilst I can understand Ms Ds position on this, Im not sure its a reasonable 
one. The seats at least are an integral part of the car  they arent accessories. When a car 
is sold for salvage we would usually expect an insurer to give the policyholder chance to 
remove any personal possessions  but the seats dont amount to personal possessions 
However, the mats do, which I think UKI should pay for, pending proof from Ms D of their 
purchase cost.    
Market value
UKIs original settlement figure was low. Its second engineer identified that. And, later he 
used information readily available to him, to determine what a reasonable value was. 
However, I consider it grossly unreasonable that neither UKI nor this second engineer 
wouldnt increase the market value simply because Ms D wouldnt speak with him. UKI 
and/or its engineer could have easily emailed Ms D its further thoughts on the market value 
of her car at the earliest opportunity. The difference in the increased value from what UKI 
had paid to the finance company originally could then have been paid to Ms D, and she 
would have had the benefit of those funds. Or if at the time the review was completed, Ms D 
still owed some repayments to the finance company, part of that increased amount could 
have been used to pay that off, and the remaining part paid to Ms D. Either way shed have 
still had more money in her pocket because in the months after the original settlement made 
by UKI, Ms D paid off the remaining finance. I think UKI should pay the increased market 
value to Ms D, plus interest* from 13 December 2019 being the date the original settlement 
was paid to the finance company, until settlement is made to Ms D.
I know Ms D thinks that even the second assessment of the market value is too low. But Im 
satisfied that value was reached reasonably. We expect insurers to use trade guides to 
assess the market value of cars. Here, UKIs second engineer completed some research 
which satisfied him that cars were actually selling for more than the values in the trade 
guides. So he then calculated an average increase above the trade guide prices and that 
increased amount was the basis for the second, higher valuation. In completing that 
calculation, I can see that the relevant make and model for Ms Ds car was considered. And 
that make and model comes with a folding roof and heated seats. So those features were 
taken into account in the market value for Ms Ds car. I think that was reasonable and indeed 
much in Ms Ds favour too. So I dont consider UKI needs to make any further increase to 
the market value figure.Finance agreement
Ms Ds car was subject to a finance agreement. When UKI paid its original settlement to the 
finance company, Ms D was left with £1,433 to pay to the finance company. But the 
difference between UKIs original value and that calculated by the second engineer was 
£1,721. So, even if Ms D had chosen not to keep her car, if UKI had calculated the correct 
market value initially, or quickly re-evaluated it, Ms Ds finance agreement could have been 
paid off in full by UKI with a payment of £288 going to Ms D. That of course wouldnt be 
enough for Ms D to buy a new car, but with the finance agreement concluded, she could 
have looked to buy a new car under another finance agreement. I understand the frustration 
and worry Ms D suffered by having to continue this arrangement. An award of interest by me 
on the increased market value amount will make up for her not having had money during 
that time, and Ill take this into account when deciding compensation too.
However, Ive made enquiries with the finance company, who said that the money she paid 
to it was just repayment of the purchase price of the car. So, Im satisfied there were no 
extra charges or costs that would have been avoided if full settlement had been made 
earlier, at the time of UKIs original settlement. Therefore, whilst Ms D was out of pocket for 
funds because she had to continue the monthly finance payments, she didnt incur any extra 
costs because of UKIs failure to settle her claim initially at a reasonable market value. As 
such, apart from the increased market value, plus interest*, and compensation for upset 
(including that of not having a car), Im not going to make UKI pay anything more to Ms D.
Compensation
This whole matter has been very upsetting for Ms D who also suffers from poor health. And 
its clear the problems began with the roadside recovery. With UKIs first engineer then 
letting her down further by not being clear with her, which then led to a series of concerns 
and issues for Ms D. I think that if UKI had handled things better, Ms D would either have 
taken her car back with a view to repairing it, or her finance agreement for that car would 
have been cleared, giving her the opportunity to try and find another car subject to a similar 
agreement. Either repairing her old car or finding another might have taken time, and I cant 
be sure, if things had transpired in line with either of those scenarios, when or if Ms D would 
most likely have had a car again. But I think that UKI should have left her in a position where 
she could have got another car  as it was she was left with no car for her to repair and 
outstanding finance to be paid. UKIs failures simply didnt afford her the opportunities she 
should have had if it had handled her claim reasonably. And, a key cause of significant upset 
for Ms D, was that her car was sold on and lost to her. 
Additionally Ms D has been very upset and frustrated by everything that has happened, 
I know she feels lied to by UKI and that she feels it effectively, stole her car. UKI didnt steal 
her car. But I understand why she feels this way. And I think if UKIs communications with 
her had been better and professional to include detailing the costs of the repairs, as well as 
the market value, plus permitting her the option of keeping her car subject to the salvage 
amount, Mrs D wouldnt have got to this point of feeling utterly let down and deceived. So 
taking all this into account plus the fact that UKI disposed of her car when it really shouldnt 
have, and the fact that she should have been left in a position of either having her car back 
for repair or, at the very least, being able to look into getting another car via finance, I think 
UKI should pay Ms D a total of £1,500 compensation. 
UKI paid Ms D £50 previously, as referenced in in its letter dated 18 January 2021. It also 
offered £75 compensation in its letter of 9 January 2020 but it didnt pay that figure. So I now 
consider it should pay her another £1,450.I can assure Ms D that I have taken into account everything that she has said. But my 
decision cant refer to everything. Rather it is my job to look at the issues at the heart of the 
matter and make findings on them. And Ms Ds insurer is UKI. UKI is the company behind 
the branded name that appears on Ms Ds contract paperwork. 
Im sorry if Ms D thinks I ridiculed her about her actions in paying off the finance agreement. 
That was not my intent at all. Ms D did exactly the right thing by continuing to pay her 
finance agreement. My point was that she would not have had to if UKI had done the right 
thing. And, to make sure I awarded her fairly for its mistakes I had to find out what her losses 
because of its errors were. She had the expense of continuing to make the payments which 
she otherwise shouldnt have been paying. So I awarded interest to her to make up for that. 
But sometimes finance agreements will cost more the longer they continue. Or other charges 
might apply. And so I made enquiries with the finance company, because if Ms D had paid 
more in those payments than would have been the total owing to the finance company at the 
time of UKIs original settlement, Id have made UKI reimburse her anything extra shed had 
to pay. But the finance company confirmed there were no extra costs. Ms D did absolutely 
the right thing, which mitigated her loss incurred because of UKIs unfair act. 
I understand, from Ms Ds point of view, why she thinks my decision doesnt go far enough to 
correct the situation UKIs unfair treatment created for her. But I am satisfied that, despite 
what Ms D believes, UKI did not steal her car. Thats not to say that UKI didnt fail her. I think 
it did. But I remain of the view that the fair and reasonable resolution for its failures is as 
explained provisionally and summarised in the putting things right section below. My 
provisional findings and award, along with the further comments Ive made here, are now 
those of this, my final decision. 
Putting things right
I require UKI to pay Ms D the following:
The cost of the car mats (pending proof of purchase from her).
£1,721 being the different between its original settlement paid to the finance company 
and its revised market value figure. Plus interest* applied from 13 December 2019 until 
settlement is made.
£1,450 compensation for missing out on the opportunity to repair or attempt to replace 
her car, and the other distress and inconvenience caused to her by its failings. Where 
total fair and reasonable compensation is £1,500, but £50 of that sum has already been 
paid to Ms D.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs requires UKI to take off tax from this interest. It 
must give Ms D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out above 
at putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman