DRN-2284830
The complaint
Mr D complains Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans irresponsibly lent to him.   
What happened
Mr D was approved for a loan by Buddy Loans in September 2017. The capital amount of 
the loan was £1,500, with an 18-month term. The monthly repayments were approximately 
£113.
Mr D complains Buddy Loans lent to him irresponsibly. He says Buddy Loans did not 
complete proportionate checks before approving him. He says had Buddy Loans done this it 
wouldve seen he was spending a significant amount of his income on gambling. Mr D says 
he wasnt in a position to repay the loan as a result of this. Mr D says he has lost out 
financially by paying additional interest and charges.
Buddy Loans says it lent responsibly. It says it completed reasonable and proportionate 
checks, which included completing an income and expenditure assessment, supported by 
searching Mr Ds credit file. Buddy Loans says these checks were proportionate, and 
showed the loan was affordable to Mr D. It says there wasnt evidence of Mr D spending 
money on gambling.
Our investigator recommended Mr Ds complaint be upheld. She felt Buddy Loans had not 
considered the information it had obtained from Mr D. In particular she felt Mr Ds high credit 
utilisation (115%) was contradictory to the information Mr D had provided at the application 
stage. She also felt there were indicators of Mr Ds financial hardship which shouldve 
stopped Buddy Loans from lending to him.
Buddy Loans disagreed with the assessment and as such the matter has been passed to me 
to issue a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ds complaint.   
As Buddy Loans is aware the regulations which applied at the time, required it to carry out 
an assessment on whether Mr D could repay any loan in a sustainable way. These checks 
are referred to as an affordability assessment or an affordability check.
This means Buddy Loans needed to consider if any repayments which Mr D would be 
required to make would cause him any financial difficulties or have any adverse 
consequences on his finances. The checks also needed to be proportionate to the specific 
circumstances of the loan which was being approved.
The relevant rules dont set out which specific checks it has to complete for them to be 
reasonable and proportionate. But these checks needed to be proportionate to the amount of 
credit being provided including the total amount of credit, amount of repayments and total 
length of the term. It is also not sufficient for Buddy Loans to just complete proportionate 
checks. It also needs to consider the information it is provided with and make a fair lending 
decision.
Buddy Loans says it completed a detailed income and expenditure assessment on Mr D; as 
well as searching his credit file. Buddy Loans say Mr Ds answers gave it no reason to think 
the loan was unaffordable or that the information he had provided would be incorrect. Buddy 
Loans say these checks were proportionate to the amount being borrowed; and that they 
showed Mr D could afford the loan. As such its decision to lend was fair. 
Ive carefully considered Buddy Loans argument, but in this instance, Im not persuaded it 
lent responsibly to Mr D. 
As Ive set out above, it is not enough for Buddy Loans to simply complete checks, it also 
needs to carefully consider the information it is provided with before making a decision to 
lend.
In this instance Buddy Loans has provided our service with a copy of Mr Ds application, 
credit file and income and expenditure assessment. When looking through this information 
Im satisfied there is enough evidence to suggest Mr D wasnt a suitable applicant to be lent 
too.
Mr Ds application lists occupation as working full time with a monthly salary of 
approximately £1,500, with Buddy Loans underwriters calculating this to be around £1,080 
for his wages. It has calculated Mr Ds non-credit expenses as approximately £480, and his 
credit commitment payments as approximately £144 per month (seemingly including the 
£113 for this loan). This leaves Mr D with an alleged disposable income of £450. The 
application for the loan purpose is described as other. 
Mr Ds credit file shows he has a current account with an overdraft, as well as a credit card. 
There is also a separate advance against income. The credit file shows that on his two credit 
facilities (both overdraft and credit card); that Mr D is exceeding his limits. For his credit card 
he is 15% over his limit; and for his current account he is almost double his limit. Mr Ds total 
debt ratio is also at 115%. What is also of note is in the months prior to the lending decision 
that Mr Ds exceeding of these limits is increasing; suggesting his overall level of debt on a 
monthly basis is increasing. As mentioned above there is also an advance against Mr Ds 
income for £200 which is a significant proportion of his wage; and again, this credit was 
taken out close to the time of the Buddy Loans application. 
When taking all of this information into account Im satisfied Buddy Loans at the very least 
shouldve completed further checks, but in all likelihood shouldve also declined the 
application at this stage. I say this because based on the evidence it had Im satisfied this 
loan was always likely unaffordable and unsuitable to Mr D. 
Mr D has told us that he was struggling financially at the time of the application and based 
on the information Buddy Loans had available to it; Im satisfied this was likely the case too.
Of particular note is the fact Buddy Loans have not seemingly challenged the information it 
was given. From its checks Mr D would appear to have a disposable income of over £400 
per months. However, this is at odds with the information being shown on his credit report. 
This shows that Mr Ds borrowing is increasing on the months leading up to the application, firstly through the exceeding of credit card and overdraft limits, but then leading to advancing 
money against his wages. It also appears as if Buddy Loans has only allocated minimum 
payments to Mr Ds existing credit commitments (including only £1 towards his advance 
against his income). Im satisfied this shouldve raised questions for Buddy Loans as it is 
aware of its need to ensure borrowers are making repayments sustainably; which in this 
instance would mean more than minimum repayments. This is further increased by the fact 
Mr D was already in excess of his agreed credit limits.
All of this information combined persuades me Mr D was likely managing his finances to 
either a tight margin or likely a negative one. His credit file supports his testimony that he 
was struggling financially and was resorting to other forms of credit to supplement his 
income (especially if he was spending some of this on gambling). Mr Ds indebtedness was 
increasing further the closer he got to this application; and Im satisfied Buddy Loans ought 
to have been aware of this. As such Im satisfied its decision to lend was unfair, as it was 
likely increasing Mr Ds indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable and unaffordable.
Putting things right
In order to put thing right I require Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans:
Refund all interest and charges Mr D paid on this loan:
Pay Mr D 8% simple interest on the refund interest and charges from the date they 
were paid to the date of settlement*:
Remove any adverse information on Mr Ds credit file in relation to this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans to take off tax 
from this interest. Advancis Limited must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax it has 
taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Advancis Limited trading as Buddy 
Loans.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman