DRN-1823700
The complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) sold by 
Lloyds Bank PLC, trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester, in 1998. 
For consistency Ill refer mainly to Lloyds in my decision.
What happened
I see Lloyds has already paid Mr D some money in relation to part of the commission it 
received from selling the MPPI. 
However, one of our adjudicators said the complaint about the policy being mis-sold 
shouldnt be upheld. Mr D still thinks the cover was mis-sold in the first place and so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Im afraid Ive decided 
not to uphold the complaint. 
Id like to place on record that I certainly dont doubt that Mr D honestly and genuinely 
believes he was mis-sold this type cover. However, the sale was a long time ago now and 
the MPPI looks to have been stopped around 2001 and the mortgage itself has also been 
closed for many years. Against this backdrop, I think the paperwork we have left about the 
sale is most likely to be only a small part of what was used; essentially I think quite a lot of 
information is missing because of the passage of time.
I think this is quite relevant to the complaint because Mr D, not unreasonably, points out that 
the mortgage agreement doesnt show that MPPI was added or that he agreed to such a 
policy. And he uses this to demonstrate that he never provided his proper consent because 
he didnt even know the MPPI existed.
Nevertheless, businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely, especially in cases 
where we know the mortgage / MPPI relationship with the consumer ended many years ago, 
as is the case here. 
But what we do have here, in my view, is circumstantial evidence which I think makes it 
more likely that Mr D, at one point anyway, agreed to the cover. He would also have been 
aware that such a policy had been set up on his mortgage account. 
For example, theres no doubt that MPPI was sold to Mr D. On this basis, I dont think theres 
any reason why the third-party insurer wouldnt have initiated the policy schedule and sent it 
to Mr D. This would have outlined who was covered by the policy, what for, and the basic 
rules about making a successful claim. I also think Mr D would have needed to set up a 
direct debit (or similar) to have the £15 monthly premium transferred from his bank account. I 
think these things would have made Mr D aware of the existence of the policy, although I of 
course accept he may have forgotten about this after some 22 years have elapsed.
I also see some handwritten notes made by the adviser at around the time of the sale. These 
only represent partial evidence, but they do indicate that MPPI was put to Mr D as a 
recommendation. Ive also seen quite a few similar Lloyds MPPI sales from around this time 
in the course of my work. My experience is that consumers would need to fill out a separate 
MPPI application form in addition to their Lloyds mortgage application, for a policy to be 
created. As Ive said above though, I think this may well be one of the missing documents.
This all adds weight to what Ive said above and, taken as a whole, makes it more likely he 
consented to the MPPI back in 1998. On balance, I think Mr D consented.
Its not disputed by Lloyds that the MPPI was probably recommended as part of an advised 
sale. This means it had a duty to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr Ds particular 
circumstances. I think it was.
I think this because Mr D was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major 
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. He was employed and I agree he would 
have had some sickness protection already with his job. But this doesnt make the MPPI 
unsuitable. The mortgage was secured against Mr Ds home and was a long-term and 
significant financial commitment. The consequences of not being able to make the 
repayments could have been serious. In the event of a successful claim, the MPPI would 
have paid the mortgage for up to 12 months. This would have been in addition to the other 
means he already had in place.
Mr D also put forward some other financial products he had in place as evidence of him not 
needing MPPI. Ive considered the life and critical illness policies he told us about. But whilst 
these are useful in their own right, they cover different things to the MPPI and so I dont find 
these relevant to the MPPI sale; I think they just covered different eventualities. 
I therefore dont think recommending MPPI to Mr D was unreasonable in this case.
Lloyds also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. Given the lack 
of certain point of sale documents, I obviously cant confirm what was said at the meeting(s) 
and its possible Lloyds could have done a better job in explaining things. But from what Ive 
seen before, I think the disclosure of information would have probably been quite good. It 
would also have been easy for Mr D to see the cost of the monthly MPPI premiums. So, I 
think Mr D probably had enough information on which to make an informed choice about 
what he wanted to do.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr D but there simply isnt enough for me to say his MPPI policy was 
mis-sold to him. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont direct 
Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything to put matters right. Its my understanding Mr D has already 
been paid the commission element Ive mentioned above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 Michael Campbell
Ombudsman