DRN-2137614
The complaint
Mr H complains because Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has declined a claim under 
his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H held a travel insurance policy, provided by URV. Mr H bought his policy on 8 March
2020 and travelled abroad on 14 March 2020.
On 17 March 2020, Mr H cut short his trip because of restrictions related to COVID-19
(coronavirus) at the resort where he was staying. Mr H returned to the UK earlier than
planned, on a flight arranged by his holiday provider.
Mr H then made a claim under his policy with URV for his unused holiday costs.
Mr H says URV initially told him his claim wasnt covered because of a policy exclusion
relating to pandemics, epidemics and/or force majeure. Mr H complained to URV and said
his policy didnt contain any such exclusion.
URV considered Mr Hs claim again and said the curtailment section of his policy listed
certain insured events which cover was provided for  but coronavirus was an
unprecedented situation which insurers had never had to face before and, so, wasnt listed
as a covered event.
As Mr H remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought it would be fair and reasonable for URV to accept Mr Hs claim.
URV didnt agree, so the case was passed to me. 
I made my provisional decision about Mr Hs complaint in August 2020. In it, I said:
Insurance contracts dont cover every eventuality and an insurer is entitled to decide the
extent of the risk it is prepared to accept in return for the payment of a premium. The risk
accepted is set out as listed, insured events described within each policy section, and this
risk is further limited by policy exclusions.
Mr Hs policy doesnt contain any exclusion relating to pandemics, epidemics and/or force
majeure. But the terms and conditions of his policy only cover cutting short (curtailing) a trip
if one of the specific, listed insured events happens. These are if:
you, a travelling companion, a family member, a close business colleague, or the
person you were staying with became ill, was injured or died;
you were advised by the Police that your home had been burgled, or suffered serious
fire, storm or flood;
your pre-booked accommodation was damaged by a natural disaster, and alternative
accommodation was not provided;
you were called for jury service or required as a witness in a court of law;
you, or a travelling companion as members of HM forces had your leave orders
cancelled.
Mr H didnt cut short his trip for any of these reasons, so I dont therefore think his claim is
covered under the terms and conditions of his policy.
But I also need to consider what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. When thinking about what is fair and reasonable, Im required to have regard to
considerations such as relevant regulations and guidelines, as well as the specific
circumstances Mr H found himself in.
Relevant regulatory rules (the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Principles for Business)
say:
a firm should pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook requires insurers to:
handle claims promptly and fairly;
provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate
information on its progress;
not unreasonably reject a claim; and
settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
Ive thought about whether I think URV has unreasonably rejected this claim. And, based on
the particular circumstances of Mr Hs complaint, I think it has.
Our investigator thought it would be fair and reasonable for URV to accept Mr Hs
curtailment claim on the basis that his policy covers situations where pre-booked
accommodation was damaged by a natural disaster. I dont agree.
The policy definition of natural disaster, as acknowledged by our investigator, is stated to be
volcanic eruption, flood, tsunami, earthquake, landslide, hurricane, tornado or wildfire. This
is an exhaustive list and pandemic or quarantine situations are not mentioned. I dont think I
can fairly or reasonably conclude that the COVID-19 virus is reasonably similar to events
such as volcanic eruptions or floods, which result from the natural processes of the earth.
However, Mr Hs policy does cover curtailment in the event that you, a travelling companion,
a family member, a close business colleague, or the person you were staying with became
ill, was injured or died.
Mr H has provided evidence which confirms the area he was staying in was closed with
immediate effect from 16 March 2020 because two other holidaymakers in the resort were ill
 they had received a confirmed diagnosis of COVID-19.
While Mr H was not staying with these holidaymakers, Mr H was staying in the same small
town as those who became ill. Because these holidaymakers had fallen ill, most of the
facilities at the resort were shut when Mr H arrived. Mr H says he was told he needed to eatin his room, and this is supported by a letter from his holiday provider. Mr H says all the bars
and restaurants were closed and only the supermarkets were open.
While Mr H was able to access ski services in the first two days after his arrival, ski areas
were closed with immediate effect because of the illness of the holidaymakers staying in the
resort on 16 March 2020. A local state of emergency was introduced, and tourists were
given 24 hours to leave the area. Mr Hs holiday provider has confirmed that all its clients
were repatriated to the UK on 17 March 2020.
So, ultimately, Mr Hs trip was frustrated and he had to cut short his holiday and leave the
resort on 17 March 2020 because of restrictions which were put in place due to the illness of
persons staying in the area.
I think, in these circumstances, it would be fair and reasonable for URV to accept Mr Hs
claim under the curtailment section of his policy on the basis that he had to return to the UK
on 17 March 2020 because persons staying in the same resort became ill.
In its submissions to this service, URV said it considered COVID-19 to be a known event
before Mr H purchased his policy. Certain sections of Mr Hs policy exclude cover for known
events, but this exclusion isnt stated to apply to the curtailment section which Mr H is
claiming under.
Even if the curtailment section of Mr Hs policy did have such an exclusion, Im not satisfied,
based on the information that Ive seen, that it would be fair or reasonable to consider
COVID-19 as a known event at the time URV says it was.
Mr H bought his policy on 8 March 2020 and at this time the World Health Organisation had
yet to declare the COVID-19 outbreak as a pandemic. Im not aware of any travel insurer
that had publicly stated it considered COVID-19 to be a reasonably foreseeable issue or
event which it didnt wish to insure at the time  or before - Mr H bought his policy. And,
while I appreciate URV wasnt responsible for the sale of this policy, Id expect any proposed
exclusions about COVID-19 to have been made clear to policyholders when buying their
policy.
So, my provisional decision was that Mr Hs claim should be upheld and URV should pay his 
claim. 
Mr H didnt respond to my provisional decision. URV didnt agree with my provisional 
decision and made the following comments:
a travelling companion is defined within the terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy;
Mr H would need to seek financial recovery from both his travel agent and his credit 
card company or bank before his travel insurance policy would pay a claim.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the comments which URV has made in response to my provisional 
findings, but these dont change my decision. 
Ive considered the policy terms and conditions in their entirety and I note the definition of 
travelling companion which URV has pointed to. However, I havent upheld this complaint 
on the basis that a travelling companion of Mr Hs fell ill. In addition to travelling companions, the policy also covers curtailment if a person the 
policyholder is staying with becomes ill. I think it would be fair and reasonable for URV to 
accept Mr Hs claim, based on the particular circumstances of his complaint, because 
persons staying in the same small town as him became ill. 
Ive considered what URV has said about Mr H needing to seek recovery of his costs 
through other sources before his policy would respond to a claim. The terms and conditions 
of Mr Hs policy say URV will pay costs which you have paid for and cannot get back from 
anyone else.
URV has pointed to Mr Hs travel agents responsibilities to him under the Package Travel 
and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018. These regulations say a travel agent 
must offer a traveller an appropriate price reduction for any period during which there is a 
failure to perform the travel services included in a package unless this is attributable to the 
traveller. This means Mr H may be legally entitled to a price reduction on the cost of his 
holiday from his travel agent in circumstances such as these, where a trip has been 
curtailed. 
However, I think it would be unfair and unreasonable for URV to decline Mr Hs claim on the 
basis that this money is potentially recoverable from his travel agent.
Mr H has confirmed he has not received any refund from his travel agent, and his travel 
agent has provided a letter saying it sought advice from its trade association and was told:
Clients who travelled, but whose holidays were curtailed should seek reimbursement 
for their losses from their holiday insurance provider 
As I understand it, the application of the Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements 
Regulations 2018 to a curtailment claim is relatively untested in the civil courts. So, it seems 
likely that, given the position taken by Mr Hs travel agent, he may have to pursue legal 
action in order to reclaim any money for his costs in curtailing the holiday under the 
regulations. 
I dont think its fair or reasonable for URV to expect Mr H to have to do this before his policy 
will provide him with cover. Mr H has paid for a travel insurance policy with URV. I dont think 
it would be clear to a reasonable consumer that the reference in the policy to costs which 
you cannot get back from anyone else means theyd potentially need to take legal action 
against a third party before a liability would arise under their insurance policy.
URV has also said that Mr H would need to seek recovery of the money he is claiming for 
from his credit card or bank before cover under his policy would take effect. 
I dont think its clear from the wording of this policy that policyholders are required to seek 
recovery from their credit card provider or bank before they can make a successful 
insurance claim. Even if the policy was clearer in this regard, Id expect URV to have 
directed Mr H to his credit card provider or bank at a much earlier point, in line with its 
obligations under regulatory rules to provide policyholders with reasonable guidance to make 
a claim. 
Furthermore, I dont think any obligations which Mr Hs credit card provider may have to 
provide him with a proportionate refund of the cost of his holiday in these circumstances are 
certain. The likelihood of success of any claim which Mr H may have against his bank for 
money paid on a debit card is even less certain. So, I dont think its fair or reasonable in the circumstances for URV to require Mr H to seek 
recovery of the costs he is claiming for from his travel agent, credit card provider or bank 
before paying his claim.  
Putting things right
URV needs to put things right by accepting Mr Hs claim under the curtailment section of his 
policy from 17 March 2020, subject to the applicable policy limit and/or excess. 
URV needs to add interest to the claim payment at 8% simple per annum from the date of 
the claim until the date settlement is paid. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Hs complaint against Union Reiseversicherung AG and I direct it to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman