DRN-3723009
The complaint
Mr R complains that he was unable to access his online banking facility through HSBC UK
Bank Plc trading as first direct bank (First Direct) as he wasnt able to use the digital secure
key.
What happened
I previously issued my provisional decision on this case. I wanted to give both parties the 
chance to respond with anything else they wanted me to consider before I issued my final 
decision on the matter.
Mr R says that following a period of being encouraged by First Direct to use a mobile
banking application to access his accounts, he decided to download the application, as he
thought it might come in useful for his upcoming holiday.
Mr R says that the banking app didnt work and so he contacted First Direct and spent a long
time on the phone trying to resolve the problem.
Mr R says that he did manage to log in to the mobile banking app on one occasion, however,
further attempts were unsuccessful  which again led to more phone calls to First Direct to
try and resolve things.
Following one of the phone calls Mr R had with First Direct, he discovered that by him
downloading the banking app and using a digital secure key to access his account, he would
disable the use of his physical secure key  which meant that he wasnt able to log in using
his computer/laptop.
Mr R requested that a new physical secure key was sent out to him, however he was told
that this would take 5-10 days  and so he wouldnt have online access to his account before
going away on holiday.
Mr R contacted First Direct again on the phone  asking for a transfer to take place between
his accounts because he now couldnt access his online banking. On this call, he was told
that a physical secure key could be sent out quicker than the 5-10 days he was previously
told.
When Mr R returned from is holiday, the physical secure key had arrived, and he was able to
access is accounts again. But he found that the transfer he had requested before he went on
holiday hadnt been completed.
Mr R complained to First Direct about the things he says it got wrong. First Direct responded
and apologised for how long Mr R had spent on the phone  it also apologised for not calling
him back when it said it would. First Direct also explained that it wasnt able to determine the
cause of the issue with the digital secure key, but it could see that someone had offered to
reset this for him and it could see that it had sent out a replacement physical secure key. 
First Direct did though compensate Mr R £50 for not processing the transfer it had agreed to
do.
Mr R wasnt happy with First Directs response. He said he would like at least £120 to
compensate him for the time spent on the phone and the distress caused to him prior to his
holiday when he couldnt access his accounts.
Our Investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint, but they didnt uphold it. The Investigator
found that First Direct had tried to help Mr R resolve this issue with the digital secure key,
but Mr R had decided that he didnt want to attempt to try using it again  and so First Direct
sent a physical key  the Investigator didnt find First Directs actions to be unreasonable
here. The Investigator also found that the £50 First Direct had already offered Mr R as a
result of it not transferring some money was a fair way to settle things.
Mr R didnt agree with the Investigator. He remained unhappy that First Direct didnt tell him
that his physical secure key would be disabled once he switched to the digital secure key. Mr
R reiterated that he was inputting information correctly to log in  but it was the app that
wasnt working. He said that First Directs resolution to contact it with banking issues while
he was away was unreasonable given how much it would cost him to call and his previous
experience of how long he had waited for his calls to be answered.
Because Mr R didnt agree with the Investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to
make a decision on the matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I dont intend to uphold Mr Rs complaint  I appreciate
this will come as a disappointment to him, but I will explain my reasoning for this below.
I dont think theres any dispute that Mr R experienced difficulties in using the digital secure
key, but I dont think that this necessarily means that First Direct has done something wrong.
Although I can understand why Mr R became frustrated with the process.
It isnt clear exactly why Mr R experienced problems with the digital secure key. The
information First Direct has sent suggests that this was due to an inputting error, however I
can understand Mr Rs point of view, that he couldnt have been getting the code wrong on
so many occasions.
In these situations, Id expect First Direct to make reasonable attempts to help Mr R. And
based on what Ive seen so far, I think it has.
Ive listened to the calls Mr R had with First Direct. Mr R didnt want to continue to attempt to
log in with the support of First Directs staff on the phone. It would have been difficult for First
Direct to help Mr R with the digital secure key or fully diagnose the problem if Mr R didnt
want help during the call. So I think First Direct did make attempts to help Mr R  which is
what I would have expected it to have done in this situation.
First Direct agreed to send out a physical secure key so that Mr R could go back to the
previous way of logging in  as I would have expected it to. I appreciate this didnt arrive in
time for Mr Rs holiday, which was clearly an inconvenience for Mr R, but I dont think First
Direct did anything wrong here.
Mr R says that he wasnt told prior to the switch that his physical secure key would be
disabled if he activated the digital secure key. Ive listened to a call Mr R had with a
representative of First Direct about the secure key issues he had on 24 July 2021. Thisappears to be the first time Mr R called First Direct about the issue. Mr R was told during this
call that he couldnt use both keys to access his account and that by activating the digital
secure key, he wouldnt be able to use the physical one.
Based on the information Ive seen from First Direct; I dont think Mr R successfully activated
the digital secure key until 30 July 2021. I say this because First Directs records show that
Mr R continued to use the physical secure key for logging on between 24-30 July 2021, so it
appears he could access his account during this time using the physical key.
Once Mr R had been successful in using the digital secure key on 30 July 2021, it doesnt
appear that he was able to use the physical key after this until his new one arrived.
Based on what Ive seen and taking into account the timeline of events, I think Mr R was told
prior to activating the digital secure key that he wouldnt be able to use both at the same
time.
I can understand that from Mr Rs point of view it must have been frustrating to have to wait
for his calls to be answered. And that he didnt get a call back at the time he was told he
would. I can see that First Direct has apologised for these things, and I think its apology here
is sufficient.
I can see that Mr R has raised further issues with logging in online  I havent considered
these separate issues as part of this provisional decision, as I cant see that First Direct has
had the opportunity to investigate this first. So if Mr R does want to complain about these
subsequent issues, he will need to raise a new and separate complaint with First Direct.
First Direct has already upheld Mr Rs complaint about not carrying out the transfer he
requested and its paid Mr R £50 for this. Im not aware that Mr R has been financially
negatively impacted by First Direct not making the transfer when requested and so I think
the £50 payment for the inconvenience is sufficient to settle this part of Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R responded to the provisional decision to say that he was promised he would receive his 
physical secure key before he went on holiday. 
First Direct didnt respond, so Ive assumed it has nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, I wont be upholding Mr Rs complaint. 
Given that neither party has provided much other information for me to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from the findings in my provisional decision. Although I will address Mr Rs 
additional point below. 
I have listened to the calls Mr R had with First Direct again. I havent found on any of the 
calls that Mr R was promised a physical secure key would arrive before his holiday. 
During a call on 31 July 2021, it is clear Mr R didnt want to continue to use the digital secure 
key anymore and asked for the physical secure key to be sent out. Mr R was aware that this 
was unlikely to arrive before his holiday because he says this on the call and expresses 
dissatisfaction that he wouldnt be able to log into his online banking while he was holiday. During the second call Mr R had with First Direct on 31 July 2021, he complains that he 
wont have his banking facility for several weeks because the physical secure key wont 
arrive in time before he goes away, which he confirms was in two days time. He then goes 
on to ask why it takes so long for the physical secure key to arrive and the advisor confirms 
the time frame is usually 10 working days but it could come earlier.
Mr R then speaks to another representative from First Direct on 2 August 2022, who 
confirms that they could send out the physical secure key by first class post, which the 
previous representative wouldnt have been able to do. But they also confirmed that they 
couldnt guarantee that it would arrive before Mr Rs holiday.
It is possible that First Direct hasnt sent me a copy of a call where Mr R was promised a 
physical secure key before he went on holiday. Even if I accept that this did happen, for the 
reasons Ive explained above, I dont think Mr R was expecting to receive the secure key in 
time for his holiday  and I can see that he was told in the final call that it wasnt guaranteed 
that it would arrive in time. So I cant fairly say that Mr R suffered a loss of expectation here.
It follows that for the reasons set out in both my provisional decision, and this final decision, I 
wont be upholding Mr Rs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman