DRN-3871628
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd has only decided to refund him 50% of his losses after 
he was the victim of an investment scam. 
What happened
Mr O says a private investment trader was recommended to him by friend. He says he spoke 
to the trader over the phone and was shown performance of his previous trades. Mr O says 
he was promised returns of around 6-9% but has also mentioned a 10% increase on any 
amount he deposited. He says after seven months the full amount invested and earned, 
would be returned. Mr O says he was reassured that his deposit amounts would be returned 
until the end of the term.
Mr O says he carried out several checks before deciding to invest which included:
- Checking the company (on Companies house) in February 2021.
- He found the trader on LinkedIn and verified his account.
- He used trusted sources/websites to verify he was credible, and all reviews were 
positive.
- He looked at social media platforms and met him in person to verify he was genuine.
When asked if he checked if the trader was FCA authorised he said he wasnt aware what 
role the FCA would play. He says all contracts signed were physical paperwork and he 
couldnt provide a digital copy. The progress of investments was communicated via the 
website the trader used, which no longer works.
Mr O made five payments totalling £22,000, over the course of seven months, from 
December 2020 to June 2021.
Mr O says he realised it was a scam when the investments were due to mature, but the 
trader started making excuses and stopped communicating with him. The website Mr O had 
been able to access also stopped working. He says he started to hear about others being 
scammed. And groups were formed on social media to discuss experiences of being 
scammed by the same trader. Mr O told Monzo that the trader also scammed at least 18 
other individuals and none of their investments were successful. 
Monzo investigated Mr Os complaint. Whilst it isnt a signatory to the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) it decided to apply the principles of the code. It concluded 
Mr O didnt take enough steps to check who he was paying and what for. But it also agreed it 
could have done more to protect Mr O. It decided to refund 50% of Mr Os losses. And as a 
gesture of goodwill Monzo credited Mr Os account with £25 as it felt it could have provided a 
better service.
One of our investigators looked into things. She said:
- She wouldnt be asking Monzo to refund Mr Os remaining losses. 
- She considered the complaint with the CRM in mind, and she didnt think Mr O had a 
reasonable basis of belief for making the payments. 
- She didnt think he carried out enough checks to ensure the investment was 
legitimate. 
- Mr O had originally said hed checked Companies House before deciding to invest 
but she could see the company wasnt registered at this time. Mr O later said he 
questioned this at the time and asked the trader and was told the company was in 
the process of being registered. The investigator said she thought it was unusual for 
Mr O to have decided to transfer £12,000 prior to the company being registered.
- Mr O said he met the trader in person  but this was sometime after hed made 
payments. Mr O said the delay in meeting the trader face to face was because of 
various lockdowns during this period resulting from the pandemic, but they had 
video calls prior to meeting. And other friends and acquaintances had met him in 
person and shared their experiences before hed transferred any money. The 
investigator said she appreciated that lockdowns would have impacted Mr Os ability 
to meet the trader in person prior to deciding to invest. And although Mr O said hed 
had others share their experiences with him she didnt think he carried out sufficient 
checks overall before deciding to invest. Mr O said he did all he could to meet the 
trader in person and that should be considered.
- Mr O had been promised that under no circumstances was his capital at risk and 
this wasnt believable. She went on to say a genuine firm wouldnt make a guarantee 
like this.
- He was promised a monthly return of 10% which seemed too good to be true and 
should have raised suspicion. Mr O said the stock market had a boom during covid 
and a monthly return of 10% was achievable. She considered this further but said 
guaranteed returns each month of 10% didnt seem genuine, as investments 
fluctuated. Mr O said the trader said there were reserves to cover moments of losses 
and thats why the monthly 10% was guaranteed. And he says the returns were only 
in principle. He said in a video call the trader said the guarantees worked the same 
as an FCA guarantee. He said banks hold reserves in case of emergencies and the 
trader shared his reserves at the time and his client list and it all seemed sufficient at 
the time.
- As a result, the investigator decided both parties (Monzo and Mr O) should bear 
responsibility. Monzo agreed to a partial refund because it hadnt met the standards 
required under CRM code, but Mr O also didnt have reasonable basis of belief. She 
said the 50% refund from Monzo was fair in the circumstances. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator for largely the same 
reasons. I think the current offer from Monzo is fair  to refund Mr O 50% of his losses. Ill 
explain why I think this. 
Monzo is not a signatory to the CRM. But has decided to apply the codes principles here. 
The CRM requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised 
Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances.
As a starting point Monzo must first consider if it met the firms standards under the code - 
to provide an effective warning. If it didnt then it is required to refund Mr Os losses. Here 
Monzo says it didnt present Mr O with an effective warning when he made the payments as part of this scam. And a result it has agreed to refund Mr O 50% of his losses. I havent gone 
on to consider the warnings as Monzo has already agreed to refund Mr O for this reason.
It is then for Monzo to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of care under 
one or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code.
Those exceptions are:
- The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made.
- The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate
Here the investigator agreed with Monzos position that Mr O didnt have a reasonable basis 
for believing that the payment was for genuine goods or services and/or the person with 
whom they transacted was legitimate. 
I have carefully considered all Mr Os evidence and comments and Im not satisfied that 
Mr O did have a reasonable basis for believing that the investment was legitimate. 
I accept that Mr O was fully convinced by the trader to invest with him. But I dont think it was 
reasonably believable that it was legitimate. Ill explain why.
I can see that at the time the trader had a website and Mr O says it appeared genuine. The 
website can no longer be accessed so its not clear what Mr O would have seen when it was 
live.  I can see why a website and an accessible investment platform would have been a 
persuasive element to a scam like this. But there are several elements which make most of 
what Mr O was doing seem unlikely to be genuine. 
- We havent asked Mr O detailed questions about how he came to know of the trader. 
And Mr O hasnt been entirely clear on how he encountered him.  So, we dont know 
if he was contacted by the trader when someone else passed on his details. Or if he 
contacted the trader following a recommendation. Either way Mr O said that he 
received a recommendation about the trader which he relied on. 
Mr O hasnt said what was discussed as part of this recommendation which made the 
trader appear genuine. But when later asked if he knew of any successful 
investments with the trader he said no, and all other investors were scammed as 
well. 
So, Im not sure what recommendation could have been given to Mr O which 
persuaded him to invest such large sums of money if at the time no-one else (to Mr 
Os knowledge) had received any returns on their funds. This is just one element 
which persuades me that Mr O didnt have a reasonable basis for believing this was 
a legitimate investment opportunity.
- At the time Mr O initiated contact with the trader the company was not registered on 
Companies House. But Mr O cited this as one of the checks he made before deciding 
to invest. It transpired that Mr O had made two payments prior to the company 
appearing on Companies House, totalling £12,00, which is over half of the total 
amount he invested. So, I dont think he did reasonably rely on the company 
registration as being a reason to decide to invest with the trader. Mr O has since 
gone on to say he did question this with the trader who said he was in the process of 
registering the company. But even if that was the case Mr O had already decided to 
invest £12,000 knowing the company wasnt registered.
- Mr O says he used trusted websites to check the trader was genuine and all reviews were positive. But on one of the websites Mr O has mentioned I can only see three 
reviews in total. All of which are short and dont provide any detail. And I can see the 
trader still has a LinkedIn profile. But Im not persuaded that the three reviews on one 
website plus the profile and social media checks are sufficiently persuasive that the 
trader was genuine or reliable. 
- Monzo asked if Mr O had checked the FCA register to see if the trader was 
authorised to give financial advice. But he says he didnt know what role the FCA had 
to play here. I appreciate Mr O might not have heard of the FCA but its not clear 
what reassurances the trader provided that his services were legitimate, regulated or 
that Mr O or his funds were protected in anyway. This is something I would have 
expected Mr O to be concerned about before deciding to invest.
- Whilst Mr O says he had video calls and phone calls with the trader, a significant 
volume of correspondence between the two of them is over WhatsApp and is 
informal. Whilst I appreciate Mr O had developed rapport and trust with the trader 
over a period, WhatsApp is not recognised as a professional platform to discuss 
investments. And I think Mr O ought to have had some concerns about this.
- I have seen a copy of a contract with the same trader and another individual (not Mr 
O). If Mr Os contract was the same or similar there is no mention of a fee or payment 
to the trader. And within the WhatsApp conversation between Mr O and the trader 
there doesnt seem to be any mention of this either. It would seem unusual that a 
trader wouldnt be asking for payment for the services being provided. It does also 
seem strange that Mr O doesnt have a copy of his own contract if he signed one. 
- Mr O says the stock market had a boom during the time he was investing which is 
what made the investment returns seem reasonable. But Mr O hasnt said what he 
thought he was investing in to receive such a high return, other than it was in foreign 
exchange markets (which also differ to stock markets). Even if I were to agree that 
the returns werent overtly high, I do agree with the investigator that the contract term 
- the security of the sum invested was guaranteed - is unrealistic. The contract I 
have seen says under no circumstances shall the capital invested be lost of 
unaccounted for. This seems too good to be true given it is widely appreciate that 
investment is associated with risk of loss.  
- Mr O was sending money to the traders personal bank account. Given these were 
such large sums of money and the trader claimed to be a limited company, its not 
clear why Mr O didnt question this. And even if the trader had said it was because he 
was the director of the company it still wouldnt seem legitimate to send funds to a 
personal bank account in this way. Mr O ought to have been concerned by this.
Im sorry Mr O has been the victim of a cruel scam. And I think he was hooked in by the 
scammer who persuaded him he could make good returns on his investments. But 
unfortunately, I think he didnt appreciate that much of what was being promised was either 
too good to be true or didnt quite add up. And, as such, I think its fair that Mr O bears joint 
responsibility for his losses. 
Under the CRM code if he didnt have a reasonable basis for believing what he was doing 
was for legitimate purposes then Monzo only needs to refund him 50% of his losses. And 
thats what it has done here. So, I wont be recommending that Monzo refunds anything 
further than it has already offered. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman