DRN-1429298
 
 
Complaint
Mr W says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for 
a mortgage.
What happened
Mr W took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2003, and increased the cover when he took 
out a further advance in 2005. Mr W paid for the PPI with a regular monthly premium, which 
didnt attract interest. It covered him in case he was off sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws case. 
Having done that, Ive decided that Mr Ws PPI policy was not mis-sold, for much the same 
reasons as our adjudicator.
Mr Ws customer instruction form offered him the choice to take or turn down PPI. The box to 
buy PPI was ticked, the box to turn it down was left blank, and Mr Ws name was written 
below to confirm he wanted it to cover himself. Mr W signed the form to confirm his choices. 
The PPIs cost was set out separately to the cost of the mortgage  the policy was not part 
and parcel of the lending and was not a condition of the mortgage. The electronic record of 
Mr Ws mortgage application also records that he chose PPI.
Then when Mr W applied for his further advance, I can see it was reiterated that he didnt 
have to buy any insurance from HSBC if he didnt want to, and the PPI was described as 
optional. The offer of advance set out the PPIs cost separately to the advances cost, and 
Mr W accepted the offer. Overall, I think its most likely that HSBC made Mr W aware he had 
a choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it and then increase it  though 
I can understand if he no longer recalls doing so after so many years.
Its not clear whether HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr W, or not. The requirements were 
stricter on HSBC if it did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr W, Ive assumed it did. That 
means HSBC had to check the policy was right for him. Mr W has provided contradicting 
information about his circumstances, which our service and his representatives have tried to 
clarify a number of times. But taking into account the information available from the time 
alongside what Mr W has said over the course of his complaint, it looks most likely that he was eligible for the cover and wouldnt have been significantly affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations. For example, his mortgage application says he was self-employed, 
but the policy still covered him, and it shouldnt have been any harder for him to claim.
Mr W hasnt given us details of any alternative cover that he had, and none is mentioned in 
the documents from the time. He may have had some sick pay, but based on what he told us 
about that, the PPI wouldve covered him for longer, and it paid out on top of his work 
benefits. Its worth bearing in mind that this mortgage was a long-term commitment, and if 
Mr W had fallen behind on the payments he couldve lost his home. So it sounds like the PPI 
couldve been useful for him in protecting his home and providing some peace of mind.
The cost of the policy was set out clearly, alongside what it wouldve paid out. So I think 
Mr W wouldve understood how much he would need to pay for the PPI if he chose it, as well 
as what it was protecting.
Lastly, its possible that HSBC didnt point out all the main things the policy wouldnt cover. 
But as I explained above, Mr W doesnt appear to have been significantly affected by any of 
those things.
So I have not found a reason to say that this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman