DRN-2470553
The complaint
Mrs Z is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) havent refunded her money after shes said 
she was the victim of a scam.
What happened
On 2 January 2020 Mrs Z said she was called by a scammer pretending to be her household 
internet provider. They told her they need to run tests on her phone and asked her to use an 
internet search to access a link.
Later the same day she logged onto her internet banking and discovered around £10,000 
had left her HSBC bank account without her knowledge. Some of the money had been 
transferred to another bank account and some of the transactions she didnt recognise used 
her card to send money to money transfer websites.
She contacted HSBC to report the fraud. She told HSBC she had no idea how the money 
had been taken and confirmed she hadnt been contacted by anyone who might be a 
scammer. HSBC contacted her the next day on 3 January 2020 to confirm that based on 
what shed said it was unable to refund the money as it couldnt see how fraudsters had 
accessed her account.
According to Mrs Z, she contacted HSBC on 3 January 2020 to say now shed had time to 
think about things there was a call shed received from her internet provider where they 
checked her phone and instructed her to visit a website. She thought this must be how the 
scammers gained access to her account but insisted she didnt give them any of her 
personal details or security information. It considered this new information but didnt feel it 
plausibly explained how the money had been taken.
Mrs Z brought the complaint to our service but our investigator didnt uphold it. They didnt 
think it was likely scammers had remotely accessed Mrs Zs phone as shed suggested. 
They also believed Mrs Zs secure key had been used to verify payments to a new payee 
and she hadnt been able to explain how scammers mightve accessed this when shes said 
they contacted her by telephone. 
Mrs Z didnt accept the investigators findings. She maintains scammers mustve somehow 
been able to take over her phone in such a way that didnt require any of her security 
information or that HSBC didnt ask for verification using her secure key on this occasion. As 
she didnt accept the investigators findings, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The regulations relevant to this complaint are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSRs). I wont quote them directly here but, broadly speaking they set out when a customer 
is responsible for the transactions on their account  typically when theyve been authorised 
by the consumer in some way. And where theres a dispute about whether a customer 
authorised a transaction there needs to be evidence to support the banks case if it wishes to 
hold the customer liable.
HSBC has said it doesnt feel there is sufficient evidence Mrs Z has been the victim of a 
scam in this case and theres no evidence of any third party compromise on her account. As 
such, it feels she authorised the transactions shes disputing by using the agreed process 
and security credentials it asked for and therefore is liable for the transactions. 
Mrs Z refutes this. And shes gone into detail about why she feels the business is wrong 
about this, providing a lot of additional information about her complaint and the payments 
that were made. Ive considered all of this information very carefully and Ive listened to the 
calls that took place between her, her husband and HSBC. 
But having done so, overall, based on the balance of probabilities and the evidence 
available, Im not persuaded Mrs Z has been the victim of a scam. I dont think the 
information shes provided gives a plausible explanation as to how someone wouldve 
accessed her account without her knowledge or consent. I think its more likely than not the 
payments were authorised by her and she should be liable for them. In reaching this 
conclusion Ive taken the following information into account:
Mrs Z has confirmed on numerous occasions that when speaking to scammers she 
didnt install anything on her phone, only clicked a link that took her to a website. She 
also said on numerous occasions she didnt give any of her security information to 
the person on the phone and they didnt ask for any passwords. Based on what is 
currently understood of remote access takeover scams, either software needs to be 
installed on the device, or log-in information would be needed to access online 
banking. So what Mrs Z has told us doesnt reflect that shes been the victim of a 
remote access takeover scam.
The transactions Mrs Z has disputed started four minutes after she says she was 
called by the scammer. There are no incorrect log-ins recorded and no attempts have 
been made to reactivate or change security or log-in information on her account. So 
whoever logged onto her online banking to make the transactions knew her security 
information. As Mrs Z has said she didnt give this to anyone, theres no plausible 
explanation as to how someone other than she couldve done this.
HSBCs records show Mrs Zs secure key  her phone  was used to verify the 
payments to a new payee. And it says this step is always required when making a 
payment to a new payee. Mrs Z has strongly refuted the secure key was used to 
verify the payment. Shes said HSBC simply must not have required this extra 
authentication on this occasion. Shes provided a video tutorial, publicly available and 
created by HSBC, which shows instructions on how to pay a new payee and she said 
this doesnt mention the secure key. Banks may not always make all security 
information publicly available to protect its customers, but in any event the video 
shes provided does confirm a payment to a new payee must be verified with the 
secure key. It states the user will need to use fingerprint or face ID to verify the 
payment to a new payee before its made. With an existing payee, you dont need to 
verify your identity for the second time. So I dont think this video provides any 
evidence to suggest the extra verification required for a new payee isnt required as 
Mrs Z has said.
Mrs Z has said shes carried out her own tests and has successfully been able to make a payment to a new payee without additional verification, but I have no way of 
verifying this. As Ive mentioned, HSBC has stated customer are always, without 
exception, required to complete this step. And in this particular case, its records show 
that the transfer Mrs Z is disputing, were carried out with additional verification from 
her secure key. So I think its more likely than not this step was completed. This 
means when the disputed transactions were made, someone needed to have used 
Mrs Zs phone to verify them. Either with her fingerprint or face ID, or her 
personalised security information. Based on what Mrs Z has said  that she didnt 
give her information to the scammers - I cant see how its possible a scammer 
couldve done this.
According to HSBCs records, three of the transactions disputed by Mrs Z were made 
using her card  they were payments made through money transfer sites. If she 
didnt give any details or banking information to the scammer its unclear how they 
accessed her card details to make a debit card purchase as this information wouldnt 
have been accessible from her online banking. 
One of the debit card purchases prompted a message to Mrs Z to thank her for using 
the service. It would be unusual for a scammer to use Mrs Zs genuine contact details 
as this couldve alerted her to the payment immediately. Most scammers would do 
what they could to remain undetected for as long as possible. Its not clear why a 
scammer wouldve done this.
The activity Mrs Z has said was carried out by scammers isnt consistent with the 
way this kind of scam tends to be perpetrated. There was over £20,000 in Mrs Zs 
account when she says the scammers accessed the funds. Its not clear why, when 
all transactions they had made had been successful, they stopped at around 
£10,000. According to HSBCs website, its daily transfer limit is £25,000 to another 
UK bank account. There are no recorded failed attempts to use the card or make 
transfers. So it seems it wouldve been possible to access more of the money in Mrs 
Zs account. Its not clear why, having successfully made several transfers 
undetected, before they had accessed all the funds available, the scammer switched 
to using a payment website (which then alerted Mrs Z to the activity) rather than 
continue accessing the money.
Mrs Z didnt tell HSBC shed received a call from her internet provider or that she was 
asked to check her phone until after shed been informed her scam claim hadnt been 
accepted. Shes said this is because it didnt occur to her that the call might be in 
some way connected, but I dont think this is plausible. Ive listened to all of the calls 
between Mrs Z, her husband who was speaking at times with her consent, and 
HSBC. On numerous occasions she was asked if shed received any calls from any 
third parties, even from utility providers and she had said no. It seems strange this 
level of prompting didnt draw her attention to a call shed received from a utility 
provider, the day of the scam, while shes said she was on her phone accessing her 
online banking, during which she was asked to click a link on her phone.
During one call with HSBC, after shed been told it would not be reimbursing her for 
her loss, Mrs Z asked her husband to speak for her. He proceeded to tell HSBC hed 
been reading up on remote access takeover scams and how they worked. During the 
call he asked HSBC for information about how they mightve worked in a situation 
like Mrs Zs. It seems strange that, despite having learnt about how this type of scam 
worked and being present during this call, Mrs Z still wasnt prompted to remember a 
call exactly like a call one might receive during a remote access takeover had 
occurred the day she was scammed a couple of days earlier. It was only after this call, and after Mrs Zs husband says he learned about remote access takeover 
scams, she began to insist this is what mustve happened to her. Although as Ive 
explained, what shes described doesnt reflect what we know about how they tend to 
work.
At different points during her conversations with HSBC Mrs Z said she didnt access 
her online banking when on the phone to the scammers, but later said she had while 
she was on hold with them. Shes said she was alerted to her money being taken 
because she received a message from one of the payment services the scammer 
used. On other occasions shes said she noticed because she was checking to see if 
an expected payment had left her account from an online retailer buying presents for 
her sons birthday. So her recollection of some of the events in the days following the 
scam have been inconsistent. And whilst this alone perhaps wouldnt be concerning, 
I think its fair to take this into account in the round, along with everything Ive 
mentioned above.
The online banking sessions during which the disputed transactions were carried out 
were accessed from an IP address registered to a different part of the country to Mrs 
Zs location. Mrs Z has argued this demonstrates it couldnt have been her accessing 
the account as she couldnt have travelled that distance in the few minutes between 
her genuine session and scammers. But I dont think the location of the IP address 
offers reliable evidence it wasnt her accessing the account. Its relatively straight 
forward to disguise an IP address so it appears in a different location. So when 
considered alongside all the other information available in this case I dont think this 
point persuasively evidences a scammer accessed the account.
Overall, I dont think Mrs Z has been able to provide a plausible explanation as to how her 
account was compromised based on what we currently know about how the type of scam 
shes describing tends to be perpetrated. I also think there have been some inconsistencies 
in Mrs Z recollection of events and the way shes explained what happened.
Whilst I accept recollections of events can change over time, most of the information Mrs Z 
gave HSBC about the scam was within three days of her money leaving her account. And 
having listened to the calls that took place between her, her husband and HSBC I think she 
was given numerous opportunities and prompts to be able to provide her version of events 
accurately. 
Mrs Z has repeatedly stated no-one knows what scammers are capable of so its not 
possible to rule out that she has been the victim of a highly sophisticated remote access 
takeover scam. But my role is to make a decision about whether or not HSBC has reached a 
reasonable conclusion. This is based on what I think is more likely given the evidence 
presented and currently available. And overall, I dont think its more likely than not Mrs Z 
has been the victim of a scam based on the evidence available here. So I dont think HSBC 
has been unreasonable in reaching this conclusion.
Mrs Z had also raised that HSBC allowed such a large amount of money to leave her 
account in such a short period and feels it shouldve done more to protect her. And whilst I 
am surprised to see such significant transactions in such a short period didnt prompt contact 
from HSBC, such measures are in place to protect its customers from financial crime. As Im 
not persuaded a financial crime has occurred in this case, I dont think its missed an 
opportunity to prevent Mrs Z from losing her money.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman