DRN-3329858
The complaint
Mr G complains that Infinox Capital Limited (Infinox) incorrectly recategorised his Contracts 
for Difference (CFD) trading retail client account as an elective professional one. He 
complains that he didnt understand at the time what protections he was losing by having his 
account recategorised, and didnt fully understand what negative balance protection 
involved. As a result, Mr G complains that he now owes Infinox over £38,000 and would like 
that debt written off. 
What happened
In January 2019 Mr G opened a CFD trading account with Infinox. He was initially 
categorised as a retail client, but he emailed Infinox and explained that he was interested 
in a professional account and asked Infinox to list additional documents in accordance 
with ESMA procedure.
As part of this assessment, Mr G provided evidence that he had carried out transactions, 
in significant size, on a relevant market at an average frequency of 10 per quarter over the 
previous 4 quarters.
He also provided evidence that he worked or had worked in the financial sector for at least 
one year. This position was a financial advisor for a company based abroad. He 
explained that he had experience in investments, and he traded forex himself.
As a result, Infinox thought that Mr G met the criteria to be categorised as an elective 
professional client. It wrote to him to explain the protections hed be losing, including 
negative balance protection, and required him to sign and accept the new terms. Mr G did 
so on 30 January 2019 and his account was recategorized.
Mr G traded for over a year, until in March 2020 a number of his positions suffered a loss. 
As a result, Mr G ended up having a negative balance of over €38,000. Mr G complained to 
Infinox. In short, he said he hadnt fully understood what negative balance protection 
was, nor that he could end up owing so much money beyond what hed deposited. Infinox 
didnt think it had done anything wrong, and confirmed he met the criteria to be categorised 
as an elective professional client. So, Mr G referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld, so 
the case was passed to me to decide. 
 
I issued a provisional decision in February 2022. In it I said:
Its not in dispute that Mr G met the criteria requiring a certain amount of trading, and that he
didnt have a portfolio worth over €500,000. So, the only way Mr G could be categorised as
an elective professional client is if he worked (or had worked) in the financial sector for at
least one year in a professional position, which requires knowledge of margin FX and CFD
trading.
The key question in this case is therefore whether Mr G met this criterion  if he did, then
Infinox didnt do anything wrong and Mr G was correctly recategorized. Mr G has complained
that he didnt fully understand what negative balance protection meant nor that this could
involve him owing such a large amount to Infinox. But Im not persuaded that it would be fair
and reasonable to hold Infinox responsible for that. In my view, the warnings he was given
as well as the explanations he was given when he applied to become an elective
professional client were clear in explaining what protections he was giving up. It was for Mr
G to ask any further questions, if he had any, and to be sure he understood what he was
giving up in exchange for the higher leverage he evidently wanted.
But if Mr G did not meet this criterion, then this means he was incorrectly classified as an
elective professional client. In turn, this meant that it was wrong for him to have been
exposed to higher leverage and wrong for him to have not benefited from the protections
retail consumers usually have, particularly negative balance protection.
Having considered the evidence Mr G provided to Infinox at the time, Im not currently
persuaded he demonstrated that his job required knowledge of margin FX and CFD trading.
In fact, in my view, its quite clear that his job did not involve this type of trading at all.
Infinox initially seemed to accept that it needed more information from Mr G before allowing
him to proceed. Shortly after his request Infinox emailed Mr G and asked for additional
statements to show that he met the criterion in relation to trading. And it also asked him to
confirm details of his job  for example his job title, nature of the role and products he dealt
with.
Mr G said that he worked as financial advisor, life planner and he confirmed his role
involved financial consultancy, sale of financial solutions. He then said that for over 20
years he [had] been working on products of investment funds, shares, insurance, forex. In a
previous response he had provided his foreign financial services license, the website of the
company he worked for and his professional profile on a networking site. He confirmed that
he had high financial qualifications and had invested his money on Forex, stock exchange,
investment funds, real estate.
Infinox reviewed the information Mr G provided and concluded that he met the criterion 
and therefore recategorized his account and allowed him to trade as an elective professional
client.
But Im not persuaded Infinox did review this information properly. Theres no doubt Mr G
was an experienced financial services professional  and there was no doubt that Mr G had
substantial personal experience in trading margin products and CFDs. But Infinox needed to
satisfy itself that Mr G worked in the financial sector for at least one year in a professional
position, which requires knowledge of the transactions or services envisaged.
ESMA has explained that investment firms must ensure that the position was professional in
nature and held in a field that allowed the client to acquire knowledge of transactions or
services that have comparable features and a comparable level of complexity to the
transactions or services envisaged. 
It said that this meant knowledge gathered in relation to simple products may not be relied 
upon where a private individual investor requests to be treated as a professional client in 
respect of more complex products (e.g. knowledge related to vanilla government bonds 
should not be relevant with respect to envisaged transactions in complex derivatives).
It wasnt enough that Mr G had worked in financial services for a long time. He was looking
to trade CFDs  and COBS 3.5.3 required him to have had a job which involved margin orCFD trading. Ive seen insufficient evidence to persuade me his role at the time he applied
for account involved this. And Ive seen no evidence that Mr G had any other role in the past
which involved CFD trading. Mr Gs role was described, variously, as financial planner or
financial advisor. He worked for an insurance company that sold life insurance products
among other things  but Ive seen insufficient evidence that this company had anything to
do with margin trading or CFDs.
Its clear that Mr G mentioned a number of times that he had experience in CFDs  and in
one of his replies it isnt clear whether he is suggesting that his job involved this or not. But it
was for Infinox to be satisfied he met the criteria  and in my view, Infinox had enough
evidence to show that Mr G did not meet the criteria, and this is what it shouldve told Mr G.
Instead, rather than satisfying itself and clarifying any incomplete or contradictory information
about Mr Gs professional role, it simply offered him the opportunity to trade as an elective
professional client. So, Im currently minded to uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Mr G agreed with my provisional decision, but Infinox did not. It said:
The Ombudsman has interpreted this rule, stating COBS 3.5.3 required him to have had a 
job which involved margin or CFD trading. 
However, our interpretation and understanding of this rule differs to that of the Ombudsman. 
Our understanding is that requires knowledge does not automatically mean that the 
individuals job must directly be involved in margin or CFD trading. We interpret this to mean 
that in the individuals professional position and experience, they are required to have 
knowledge of margin or CFD trading and an understanding of how these products work. [Mr 
G] quite clearly stated that he worked as a financial advisor and life planner and that he had 
over 20 years experience of working with various financial products, including forex, which is 
traded on margin. Together with the trading statements he supplied which quite clearly 
showed he was trading on 1:100 leverage meaning he was already registered as a 
Professional Client with another firm. 
We take out regulatory responsibilities very seriously and do not agree with the 
Ombudsman that we did not carry out our assessment of [Mr Gs] Professional Client 
application properly. We made an informed decision based on all of the information before 
us. And we believe the decision to opt the client up to Professional was made in good faith, 
based on our interpretation of the rules and all the information available to us 
Nevertheless, we had already concluded last year not to pursue [Mr G] for the negative 
balance and this has already been written off by Infinox. However, we are still inclined to 
contest the decision made by the Ombudsman based on the above comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered Infinoxs comments  having done so, Ive not been persuaded to 
change my provisional findings. 
COBS 3.5.3 sets out quite clearly what type of professional role is required in order for a 
client to be able to rely on, it in order to become an elective professional client:
(c) the client works or has worked in the financial sector for at least one year in a professional position, which requires knowledge of the transactions or services 
envisaged; (my emphasis)
And I already set out, in my provisional decision, that ESMA has made clear that a 
professional role that requires knowledge of vanilla investments is not the same as a 
professional role that requires knowledge of complex derivatives. 
In that regard, Im not suggesting the role itself required Mr G to be a trader  there are 
many ways in which Mr G couldve worked in a sector which gave him detailed knowledge of 
complex derivatives without being a trader himself. But the key question is whether the 
professional position itself required knowledge of the transactions or services envisaged  in 
Mr Gs case, that broadly meant trading CFDs. 
As I said in my provisional decision, its clear that Mr G was an experienced trader himself  
but his role did not require knowledge of CFDs and did not involve trading or advising on 
CFDs. Im satisfied based on the evidence Ive seen that Mr Gs role involved what ESMA 
termed vanilla investments at best, and was not relevant to the complex derivatives Mr G 
was intending to trade without the protections usually afforded to retail clients. This means 
that Mr G did not meet the criteria to be recategorised as an elective professional client. I 
cannot comment on what other firms Mr G was trading with or how they decided to 
categorise him  I can only consider Mr Gs complaint against Infinox. 
For these reasons, and those that I gave in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that Mr G 
was incorrectly categorised as an elective professional client
Putting things right
Im therefore satisfied that what I suggested in my provisional decision for putting things right 
is fair and reasonable. I consider Infinox Capital Limited ought to erase the debt Mr G 
accrued as a result of trading while he was an elective professional client with it. 
I note that Infinox has explained in its response to my provisional decision that it had already 
decided to do this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint against Infinox Capital Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022. 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman