The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has handled 
their claim following an escape of water at their house.
Mr and Mrs P have been represented by a third party throughout the claim and this 
complaint. For ease of reading all references to Mr and Mrs P include the actions of their 
representative, except where I have referred to the representative directly.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P had a home insurance policy with RSA. In October 2018 they made a claim 
following an escape of water from an en-suite shower tray. 
RSA accepted the claim and sent out a loss adjuster to inspect the damage to the property. 
They put together a scope of works required to repair the damage. It valued the damage at 
around £6,000. However Mr and Mrs Ps own loss assessor put together a scope of works 
that calculated around £32,000 worth of damage.
There was some back and forth about the extent of the damage but RSA said it was satisfied 
that its original scope was accurate. It sent a cheque to cash settle at this amount. 
Mr and Mrs P werent happy with this as they said RSA had disregarded their loss 
assessors findings. They said they wanted an independent surveyor to come and view the 
damage and produce a new scope of works.
RSA didnt uphold the complaint. It said it thought the loss assessor had exaggerated some 
of the damage and had included items that werent covered by the policy  such as matching 
sets. It said it considered its scope to be accurate so wouldnt agree to an independent 
surveyor.
Mr and Mrs P didnt think this was fair as they said the damage had also worsened over time 
and the scope was carried out a while ago. They brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She 
said that as the two scopes were so different in price, and Mr and Mrs P had provided 
pictures of the extent of the damage, she thought it would be fair for RSA to send out an 
independent surveyor to make a final assessment.
RSA didnt agree. It said that it wouldnt usually do this for such a small claim and therefore 
didnt want to set a precedent. Further it felt the loss assessor had exaggerated the claim 
and it was happy that its original scope covered the extent of its liability under the policy. It 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
DRN-1974834What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator, I will explain why
The dispute here is about the scope of work that is covered under the policy. Both RSA and 
Mr and Mrs Ps loss assessor have provided a breakdown of what they believe is covered. I 
have considered both, along with the photos that Mr and Mrs P have provided.
I can see that there are a number of items included in Mr and Mrs Ps scope that wouldnt be 
included under the policy. This includes matching items in a set. So I think it is unlikely that 
the full scope of works would be covered. 
However from the photos Mr and Mrs P have provided I can see that the damage is more 
extensive than the original scope provided by RSA seems to suggest. There are a number of 
items of furniture that havent been included as well as more extensive damage to carpets 
and wooden floors. 
So for this reason I think its likely that the scope of work covered under the policy is more 
than that quoted by RSA, but less than that quoted by Mr and Mrs Ps loss assessor. And 
therefore there isnt currently a scope of works that accurately reflects the damage that 
would be covered.
Until the scope is agreed the claim cannot progress any further, so in resolving this matter 
fairly, it is of great importance that this is agreed first.
Mr and Mrs P have said that the damage has become more extensive as it has been a 
number of months since RSAs contractors visited the property. I agree this is a reasonable 
explanation for why there is such a difference between the scope of works. And I can see 
RSAs scope was originally put together in November 2018, so is likely water damage would 
have deteriorated further in this time. 
During this time RSA has offered to send a builder out to assess the damage further, it says 
that Mr and Mrs P has delayed this by not arranging this visit. However I dont think this is 
sufficient. The difference between the two scopes is more than £25,000. And Mr and Mrs P 
have provided photos that appear to show a significant increase in the damage to the 
property. I therefore think the whole scope needs to be considered again. And this would be 
most suitably done by an independent surveyor, who will have expertise at assessing 
damage and not just carrying out repairs. 
Mr and Mrs P have been requesting a visit by an independent surveyor for a number of 
months. And by not agreeing to this initially RSA has caused further delays to the progress 
of this claim.
So I think a fair and reasonable solution is for an independent surveyor to review the 
damage and put together a scope of works in order for the claim to progress. In order to 
ensure this process is agreed upon by both sides, I require RSA to select three options for 
an independent assessor that Mr and Mrs P can choose from.
Further as I think RSA caused avoidable delays which may have worsened the damage, I 
will require RSA to pay for the surveyor.
My final decisionFor the reasons I have given, I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay for an 
independent surveyor to review the damage caused by the escape of water and put together 
a scope of works. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc must suggest three independent 
surveyors for Mr and Mrs P to select from. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman