DRN-3572409
The complaint
Mr C complains that there was a delay in him receiving his American Express Services 
Europe Limited (AESEL) account card and that it incorrectly told him he had referral rights 
for a complaint.
What happened
Mr C says he applied for the AESEL account on 8 July 2020 but didnt receive his account 
card until 21 July 2020. He says the service he received was not of appropriate standard and 
so should receive his account fee of £195 refunded. Mr C says he made a complaint about a 
different matter and was told by AESEL he could refer his complaint to us, but we said it was 
a complaint that we couldnt look into. He says AESEL has wasted his time.
AESEL says it correctly charged Mr C the account fee in line with account terms and 
conditions. It says the fee was due the following month and doesnt accept making a mistake 
by giving Mr C referral rights to us.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought the terms and conditions made clear a fee of £195 was payable and 
didnt think AESEL made a mistake or acted unfairly.
Mr C doesnt accept that view and says he would like compensation for not being able to use 
his account card.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I make 
clear to Mr C that I am not able to look at previous complaints that he has made about 
related matters and that this complaint is about the referral rights issue, as well as the delay 
in being able to use the account.
I have looked carefully at AESELs account terms and conditions which Mr C would have 
agreed to when the account was opened. Im satisfied they say a fee of £195 is charged for 
the account and payable the following month after being opened. So, I dont think AESEL 
made a mistake by charging Mr C that fee and find it did so in line with agreed account terms 
and conditions.
I appreciate there was, what I think, a very slight delay in Mr C receiving the account card of 
some days. I cant fairly hold AESEL responsible for that as its not involved in the delivery of 
the mail and I dont think a delay of a few days would have had any real impact on Mr C or 
justify either compensation or a partial refund of the account fee. I think Mr C ought 
reasonably to have realised that the account card would have taken some days to arrive in 
any event.
I appreciate AESEL gave Mr C referral rights in respect of a complaint that we decided we 
couldnt look at. And I appreciate Mr C says he was given incorrect advice. But I dont think 
AESEL did make a mistake or act unfairly and it is for this service to decide if we can 
investigate a complaint not AESEL. Im satisfied that AESEL wouldnt know what our 
decision would be on such matters. I dont think any real impact or inconvenience was 
caused to Mr C in any event and the alternative would be for a business to decide if a 
complaint can be looked at, which clearly wouldnt be fair or appropriate.
As I dont think AESEL has acted unfairly or made a mistake then I cant fairly order it to 
either pay compensation or refund the account fee.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman