DRN-2303695
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy a claim made under his pet insurance has been declined by Red Sands 
Insurance Company (Europe) Limited.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr S was about to leave his home. When opening the front door, a family 
member asked him a question. When Mr S turned to respond, his dog squeezed out the 
partially opened front door, left his property and was unfortunately hit by a vehicle.
Mr S dog underwent medical treatment. Mr S subsequently made a claim to Red Sands for 
the cost of this under his dogs pet insurance policy.
Red Sands declined the claim. They referred to a term in the policy and said Mr Ss dog had 
escaped from an area which was unsecured. And they also said Mr S hadnt taken 
reasonable steps to prevent this. As Mr S was unhappy with this, he approached this 
service.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. He said he felt the property 
was secure as the front door had only momentarily been opened by Mr S and he was 
present. He also said that Mr S had taken reasonable steps based on the dogs previous 
behaviour, and that this was out of character. 
Therefore he didnt think it was fair to apply the exclusion. He said Red Sands should 
reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy. And he said 8% simple 
interest should be added to any settlement due under the policy.
Red Sands didnt agree. They said given Mr Ss dog was by his feet when he opened the 
door, he should have taken further precautions to prevent escape such as moving the dog to 
another room or holding the collar.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, an ombudsman was asked to review the complaint for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Red Sands relied on the following exclusion to decline the claim:
You must ensure your pet cannot escape or stray from your property and any area in which 
a dog is kept must be secure and appropriately fenced or otherwise secured and all 
reasonable steps must be taken to prevent escape.
Red Sands said that given Mr Ss dog managed to get out, the area wasnt secure. They 
also said Mr S hadnt taken reasonable steps to prevent escape such as moving the dog to 
another room or holding the collar.
Mr S has described the events that happened prior to the accident in detail. He said his dog 
was dancing around his feet excited as she thought she was going out. His family member 
called him and as he turned whilst opening the door, his dog squeezed out what he 
describes as a narrow gap in the door. 
Mr S also said immediately after this happened, he went outside to retrieve his dog who had 
stopped at the end of the driveway, but by the time he got to her she had darted into the 
road and was unfortunately hit by a car.
The policy covers accidents, and this is defined in the policy as a sudden, unforeseen, and 
unintended event. In my view what happened was sudden, unforeseen and unintended. 
Mr Ss dog did manage to get out. But given the circumstances, I dont think its fair or 
reasonable to apply the exclusion and use it to decline the claim. Ill explain why.
If Mr S had left his dog out in the open and unattended, then I might have taken the view that 
the dog was left in an unsecure area. But in these specific circumstances, I think the area 
was secured, it was inside Mr S home. And if it wasnt for Mr S opening the door, and being 
distracted momentarily, then I dont think his dog would have managed to get out.
So the question for me here is whether Mr S had taken all reasonable steps to prevent it 
happening. Red Sands has said that Mr S was aware the dog was by his feet, so he should 
have moved her to another room, or held her collar when opening the door.
If getting out in these circumstances was something which Mr S dog had done before then it 
may have been reasonable to expect him to take further measures before opening the door. 
But here it was the first time it had happened. Mr S is an experienced dog owner and has 
had this dog, and another, for a number of years. Mr S has also explained the normal routine 
when going for a walk, his dogs would sit and wait until they had their leads attached before 
leaving his property. 
So there was no reason for Mr S to expect his dog to try to get out when the door was 
partially opened. This was uncharacteristic and had never happened before, so in my view it 
was unforeseen. Mr S hadnt seen a risk of it happening and not done anything to prevent or 
reduce that, rather there was no reason for Mr S to expect his dog to do anything but remain 
in the property. So in these circumstances, I dont agree Mr S has failed to take reasonable 
steps.
So I dont think its fair or reasonable for Red Sands to apply the exclusion and use this to 
decline the claim. 
With the above in mind, Red Sands should reconsider the claim in line with the remaining 
terms of the policy. If Mr S has already paid the vets invoice, then 8% simple interest should 
be added to any settlement from the date of loss to the date of settlement.
My final decisionIts my final decision that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited should:
Reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms
Add 8% simple interest* to any settlement from date of payment to date of settlement 
(if Mr S has already paid the invoice)
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from any interest due to Mr S, it should tell him 
how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a certificate showing this if he asks for one, 
so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman