DRN-1103505
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) treated her unfairly by 
failing to provide a refund for faulty goods she bought with her credit card. 
What happened
In 2017 Mrs M bought a tablet from a third party (that Ill call B) on Amazon Marketplace. The 
tablet developed a fault in 2019, after the manufacturers warranty expired. Mrs M contacted 
Amazon who got in touch with the seller but Mrs M heard nothing more from B. 
Mrs M paid for the tablet using a credit card so she complained to Barclaycard, the card 
provider, and asked for a refund. Barclaycard told Mrs M it was too late to attempt a 
chargeback and section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 doesnt apply in these 
particular circumstances so it was unable to do anything further. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Hes satisfied a chargeback was out of time and 
he couldnt hold Barclaycard liable for a refund - because the debtor-creditor-supplier (D-C-
S) relationship required under section 75 wasnt present.  
Mrs M asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. In summary, she says she paid for the 
tablet on her credit card for added peace of mind and the manufacturer diagnosed a 
manufacturing fault so she should have five years to bring a claim for that. Shes also 
unhappy that Amazon tells purchasers not to contact the seller direct but doesnt explain that 
theyre not protected if the seller disappears. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M brings her complaint to our service because she paid for this tablet using credit 
provided by Barclaycard. I understand that she feels let down by what happened and she 
wants Barclaycard to provide a refund under section 75 or via chargeback. I should make it 
clear however that Im looking at Barclaycards response to Mrs Ms complaint in this 
decision  and its not within my remit here to require third parties, like B and Amazon, to do 
anything.   
chargeback
The chargeback scheme is voluntary process to resolve disputes between card issuers and 
merchants. Chargeback is not a legal right however - the operator of the scheme (Visa here) 
sets the rules and these must be followed strictly. 
Ive considered the relevant scheme rules and Im satisfied a chargeback must be brought 
within 120 calendar days of either the date of the transaction or the date the goods were 
received. Paperwork Ive seen shows this tablet was dispatched near the end of November 
2017 and the card transaction was made around the same time. Im satisfied the 120 days 
would have run out in 2018 and Mrs M didnt contact Barclaycard until June 2019. I realise 
thats because she didnt know the tablet had a fault until around that time but Im afraid this 
means it was too late to raise a chargeback under the scheme rules. I cant fairly find it was 
unreasonable of Barclaycard to decline the chargeback in this situation. 
section 75
Section 75 gives consumers an equal right to claim against a supplier of goods or services 
or the credit provider - subject to specific conditions. One of these conditions is that there 
must be an unbroken D-C-S chain - in other words, Mrs M must have used credit provided 
by Barclaycard to finance her agreement with B, the supplier thats let her down.  
Mrs M bought this tablet on Amazon Marketplace. Im satisfied the contract to buy the goods 
was made between Mrs M and B and Amazon acted as an intermediary facilitating the 
transaction between them. This included taking the relevant payment from Mrs M on her 
Barclaycard. I appreciate Amazon then passed that payment on to B, but Im satisfied the 
relevant payment was made to Amazon and this means the D-C-S link, that section 75 
requires, is broken. 
I dont apply the law but I am obliged to take relevant law into account when I make my 
decision. The requirements of section 75 are strict and I cant reasonably hold Barclaycard 
responsible for misrepresentation or breach of contract in these circumstances. I realise this 
is frustrating for Mrs M and I have sympathy for the situation she finds herself in. For the 
reasons Ive given however, Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable to require 
Barclaycard to do anything further. 
My final decision
My decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021. 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman