DRN-3197710
The complaint
Miss M complained about a loan provided to her by TFS Loans Limited which she 
said was unaffordable.
What happened
TFS Loans provided Miss M with a loan as follows:
Date loan 
takenLoan status Amount TermMonthly 
repayment
15/12/2014 Paid £5,000 36 months £240.00
When Miss M complained to TFS it didnt uphold her complaint. It said all appropriate checks 
were done and it could see no evidence that its loan wasnt affordable for her. TFS said that 
overall this loan was taken to repay Miss Ms current debt management plan so she could 
move forward and improve her financial position. TFS arranged things so all of the accounts 
being managed under the plan were repaid in full. 
Our investigator assessed the complaint and thought we should uphold it. He didnt think 
that the income and expenditure calculations TFS worked out left Miss M with enough 
spare cash each month to cover unexpected costs or changes in her circumstances. So he 
didnt think TFS shouldve provided the loan.
Whilst Miss M accepted our investigators assessment, TFS disagreed. The complaint came 
to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account things like the loan amount, the cost of 
the repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender 
should also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the 
borrowers overall financial situation.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
And Ive thought carefully about whether TFS took a borrower-focussed approach before 
agreeing to lend to Miss M as it was required to do and considered what this all means for 
Miss Ms complaint.
TFS asked Miss M about her income and expenditure. TFS looked at payslip details and 
used this to work out that Miss Ms income should be around £1,220 a month. Then, after 
asking her about her expenditure, including her spending on other credit commitments 
disclosed in the credit checks that TFS carried out and taking into account that the loan 
purpose was in part to pay other existing debts, it worked out that Miss M would have 
£29.22 in disposable income left to spend after paying her TFS loan. 
From what Ive seen from its checks, I think Miss Ms credit history did raise some questions 
about her use of payday loans. But bearing in mind that borrowers applying for loans of this 
type often have other credit on their record and sometimes an impaired credit history, there 
wasnt anything that Id expect a reasonable lender to be unduly concerned about. Also, it 
was early in the lending relationship and I think that setting up a debt management plan and 
applying to borrow in order to repay those loans signalled that Miss M was taking steps to 
take back control of her debt. So I think the checks it did were, broadly speaking, 
proportionate in these particular circumstances and enough for TFS to agree to lend.  
And even if I were to take a view that the checks TFS carried out didnt go far enough, 
I havent seen anything else to suggest that more or better checks wouldve resulted in 
additional information that would have led to a responsible lender deciding not to lend. So 
this doesnt affect the outcome of this complaint. 
I've carefully listened to the call recordings between TFS and Miss M. TFS asked 
Miss M about a long list of things she might reasonably have had to pay for and 
carefully recorded Miss Ms declared expenses.Based on the information TFS gathered about her income and expenditure, it looked 
like she had only a small surplus each month of around £29 or so. But I dont think TFS 
properly factored into its income and expenditure calculations the savings Miss M would 
make if she used the loan for the purposes she had told TFS she wanted it. Ill explain 
why I say this.
TFS paid £1,884 directly to Miss Ms debt manager to settle four payday loans that 
Miss M had been paying through a debt management plan. This meant she wouldnt 
any longer need to pay anything towards those loans. 
Miss M had told TFS she also planned to use the loan to clear her current account 
overdraft and she had allowed for that being around £1,000. The credit checks TFS did 
showed this was £578 at the time, so the balance of the loan money Miss M received 
from TFS (£3,156) was ample for Miss M to be able to do this. Miss M had told TFS she 
was paying £50 per month to clear the overdraft on her current account under an 
arrangement with the bank  so this was a £50 saving she would make in future. 
Miss M also planned to repay a family loan of around £1,000. I havent seen much 
information about this. I dont know what the payment arrangements were but using the 
TFS loan to repay this debt in full was obviously achievable with the loan money she 
had available  and I think its reasonable to take into account that this would potentially 
have relieved Miss M of some of the monthly debt burden she faced otherwise. 
I can see on the credit report TFS obtained that Miss M had an outstanding payday loan 
from 2014 with a balance of £75. It wasnt identified as one of the loans in her debt 
management plan  but this small amount could easily have been cleared out of the 
loan if necessary.  
Miss M said she was paying around £40 per month towards a credit card. The balance 
on her card was £959 at the time. So the TFS loan wouldve been enough for Miss M to 
repay this in full if she had wanted to prioritise clearing this debt as well. Of course, that 
was a matter for Miss M to decide. 
And it appears that she wanted to use around £2,000 of the loan to cover Christmas 
spending. But I think its fair to say that she couldve significantly reduced her card 
balance without impacting on her spending plans just using the balance of the £1,000 
she had originally thought she would need to use to clear her overdraft  taking the 
balance on her card down to £537. And if she had wanted to keep up the £40 per 
month repayments she told TFS she had been making towards her credit card balance, 
this would still have enabled her to make real inroads into reducing this balance within a 
reasonably foreseeable period.
So I think the TFS loan offered Miss M the real possibility of moving forward with her 
plan to manage her debt and spending more effectively  without leaving her short of 
the money she wanted for Christmas spending.
I think its important to bear in mind the following:
Miss M would save at least £50 per month by clearing her overdraft  that 
boosted her disposable income after paying for everything up to around £79 
each month
she could, if she wanted to, pay off her full card balance or, alternatively, make 
smaller monthly repayments on her credit card from time to time when she 
wished to boost the amount of monthly cash she would have available  freeing up some or all of the £40 per month this account had been costing her. So this 
was another way she could have increased her spending cash to more than 
£100 per month. 
TFS seems to have allowed for Miss M spending £161.50 on a loan each month 
but Im unclear what this relates to  it doesnt appear to be something thats 
shown in the credit checks TFS acquired or mentioned anywhere else.  
Miss M lived at home with her parents  she already made a reasonable 
contribution each month to rent and food costs, TFS had allowed for this and 
Miss M didnt expect her circumstances to change. So I think its fair to say that 
her financial situation in that respect seemed fairly secure  she wasnt at risk of 
having to cope on her own with unforeseen changes in rent or mortgage costs 
and there was shared responsibility for meeting all the usual household costs.
I think our investigator was right to consider the possibility that Miss M might at 
some point want to set up home independently. And I think the onus was on 
TFS to ensure that she had enough flexibility in her budget to allow for 
unforeseen costs or the need for emergency spending arising. But I dont think 
I can fairly say that TFS was wrong or mistaken not to factor into its affordability 
calculations the potential costs to Miss M of setting up home on her own during 
the loan term. Miss M had specifically confirmed, when asked, that she didnt 
envisage her living arrangements changing. 
And I think TFS is right to say that planned change could only happen if the 
budget allowed and it was affordable. 
How Miss M spent her money was entirely a matter for her. But its reasonable 
to mention that Miss M reported spending quite a significant amount on non-
essentials that I think she could probably have considered cutting back on if her 
priorities changed and she decided to save money to pay for other things.     
I mention all this because I think it is fair for me to take into account that the loan 
TFS provided could have usefully helped Miss M with her debt consolidation 
plans as well as providing her with some extra cash. 
To sum up, Id expect TFS to decide Miss Ms lending application based on the information it 
was reasonably entitled to rely on at the time. I think Miss M could have used the loan in 
ways that wouldve helped her to improve her overall financial situation. And I think she 
couldve had more spare cash than TFSs income and expenditure calculations suggested  
especially bearing in mind that her payslips for the two months running up to her taking out 
the loan showed she was actually paid approximately £60 more than the lower estimated 
amount TFS relied on October 2014 - and £30 or so more the following month. All in all, 
I think there was more flexibility in her finances than TFSs income and expenditure 
calculations initially suggested. Overall, I dont think the loan looked likely to be unaffordable 
for her  and using the loan in the way Miss M said she intended meant her finances could 
have improved over the loan term. 
I havent seen enough to say that TFS acted towards Miss M in any other way that was 
unfair or unreasonable so I havent identified any other reason to uphold Miss Ms complaint.
I appreciate that this outcome will be disappointing for Miss M, but I hope that setting things 
out as I've done helps explain how Ive reached this conclusion. What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
No substantive comments have been received from either party 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
As the deadline for responses has now passed I think its reasonable and fair that I should 
proceed with my review of this complaint. 
I didnt feel that I had seen enough overall safely to be able to say that TFS should have 
realised this loan was not sustainably affordable for Miss M. So I couldnt fairly conclude that 
it acted unfairly or unreasonably when it provided it. And as no further comments have been 
received in response to my provisional decision and I havent been sent any new information 
that changes what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for 
the reasons I explained in more detail in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 January 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman