DRN-3170289
The complaint
Mr C complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited, trading as Moneybarn, were unreasonable to 
terminate his finance agreement when he was experiencing financial difficulties.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr C, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C also complained about the quality of his car, but I note from our file that hes agreed we 
can close that complaint and focus on his concerns that Moneybarn were unreasonable to 
terminate his agreement and pursue the debt.
Mr C started to fall into arrears on his account as early as November 2017. He told 
Moneybarn about his financial difficulties at that point. When a consumer is experiencing 
financial difficulties, wed expect a business to be sympathetic and to show some 
forbearance.
I think Moneybarn were sympathetic and did show some forbearance as they agreed several 
repayment plans with Mr C during 2018 in an effort to help him to get back on track.
Unfortunately, Mr C failed to keep to those agreed repayment plans. Moneybarn kept him 
informed about the debt he still owed, and they warned him of the consequences if he didnt 
pay. It wasnt until May 2019 that they sent a Notice of Default to Mr C. I think that notice 
was sent at an appropriate time as the account was by then just over three months in 
arrears. That notice explained that unless the arrears were paid further action would be 
taken, the account would be terminated, and the car repossessed.
As Mr C didnt clear the arrears I think Moneybarn were reasonable when they terminated 
the agreement a month later.
I can see that Mr C was abroad in June 2019 and I was sorry to hear hed been ill whilst 
away and couldnt return to this country until October 2019. But I dont think it would be fair 
to suggest Mr Cs illness, or his trip abroad, meant he wasnt aware of the debt or the 
potential default. Hed been informed of the default before he left the country and could 
therefore have attended to it before he departed.
I can see that since the account has been terminated Moneybarn have continued to show 
some sensitivity to the issues Mr C is facing and have offered a further repayment plan to 
help him repay the debt he owes in a sustainable manner.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Moneybarn have done anything wrong here and Im not 
asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given below I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman