DRN-2853021
The complaint
Mr D complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) has unfairly cancelled his 
insurance and returned his premiums  meaning he cant make a claim for damage to his 
property.
What happened
Mr D is represented by a relative, Mrs D. For ease of reading Ill only refer to Mr D, as hes 
the owner of the property and bought the insurance.
In 2016 Mr D bought a policy to cover a property he owned that was let to tenants. The 
policy was renewed several times, the last time being September 2019. The policy covered 
the buildings only.
In 2020, it was discovered that the property had been damaged. Mr D made a claim, and 
Great Lakes agreed to look at it. During the course of investigating the claim, Great Lakes 
checked industry databases and found that Mr D had had two previous policies voided  
thats cancelled and treated as though they never existed.
Great Lakes said it had asked Mr D to say if anything like this had ever happened before 
when he first bought the policy  and he said no. It said this information was also sent to 
him to check each time the policy was renewed. Great Lakes went on to say that if it had 
known this information it would never have insured the property. It said it was cancelling the 
policy back to the date of the last renewal and treating him as if hed never had the cover. It 
also refunded the premium paid. It said it wouldnt meet the claim as Mr D had no valid 
cover.
Mr D complained, saying both that he didnt know about the earlier voids  and that in any 
case theyd been for a different property so werent relevant. Great Lakes didnt change its 
position so Mr D asked us to look at the complaint.
Our investigator thought about both Great Lakes responsibilities when selling insurance  
and Mr Ds. He concluded that Great Lakes had asked a clear question about previous 
policies being cancelled  and Mr D had answered this incorrectly. He said Mr D had a 
responsibility to inform Great Lakes about anything that might affect his insurance  and he 
hadnt done that. So he thought Great Lakes had acted fairly when it cancelled the policy 
and said it wouldnt meet the claim. 
Mr D doesnt think thats fair and says his broker told Great Lakes about the previous policy 
cancellations. And he says another insurer said having a cancelled policy wouldnt have 
affected Great Lakes decision to cancel his policy  so it shouldnt have done this.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. I realise this will disappointing for Mr D, so Ill explain 
how Ive reached my conclusions. 
Im not going to comment on everything Mr D and his representative have told us, although I 
have read all theyve sent us. Some of the points Mr D raised only become relevant if this 
complaint is upheld. That would include other information he provided when buying the 
policy and whether the policy covered the circumstances he claimed for. 
In this decision Im only looking at the circumstances and key issues relevant to Great Lakes 
decision to void Mr Ds policy. 
When an insurer sells a policy it needs to collect information that allows it to decide if it 
wishes to accept the risk associated with the property being insured and also the person 
who wants to buy the policy. So insurers ask a selection of questions about both. It has to 
make sure those questions are clear  and that a customer can answer them accurately.
In this complaint, the relevant question asks if Mr D has had any previous polices cancelled, 
turned down or special conditions imposed. The question itself is clear  and its in a list of 
questions about the proposer of the insurance, that is, Mr D. Theres a separate section 
headed property that asks about the building itself. 
Im satisfied Great Lakes asked Mr D a clear question he could answer accurately.
Mr D has told us several things:
He first bought the policy in 2016  by which time hed only had one other policy 
cancelled, and he didnt recall this. And he thought previous cancellations werent 
relevant anyway as they were for a different property. 
He said he didnt have access to his policy documents either initially or on renewal to 
check if the answers hed given to questions was still relevant when he renewed the 
policy in later years. 
He said his broker had known about the cancellation(s) and told Great Lakes about 
them.
Im not persuaded by these arguments. Ill explain why (in the same order).
I think Mr D might possibly have not remembered hed had a policy cancelled when 
he first bought his policy with Great Lakes  although I also think going through that 
process isnt something youd easily forget. But I think he must have known about 
both cancellations by the time he renewed the policy in 2017  especially as the 2017 
cancellation was because of the one in 2013.
Our investigator said Mr D had an obligation to share with an insurer anything he 
thought might affect his application for insurance, and I agree with that. The 
Insurance Act (2015) does say that Mr D needs to share such information. And even 
if hed been unsure, he could have checked at the time.
Mr D also says the cancellation(s) werent relevant as they were for other properties. 
Ive looked at the questions asked and the one about previous cancellations is in the 
section asking about Mr D and his insurance/financial history, not the property. And 
Ive already said I thought the question itself was clear.
Each time Mr D renewed his policy he was asked to check the answers he gave were 
still relevant. I think thats fair, as its Mr D, not the insurer, that knows his particular 
circumstances and how they change. By the date of the renewal in 2017 (and 
subsequent years), I think it most likely hed have been aware of both the 2013 and 
the 2017 cancellations. I cant see that he told Great Lakes about them.
Mr D says he didnt have his policy documents to check  but I think he did. Ive seen 
correspondence that says the documents are available online  or Mr D can have a 
hard copy if he wants. So I think he did have access to them. 
Mr D also says his broker told Great Lakes about the cancellation. And he gave us a copy of the letter the broker sent about the 2013 cancellation. Great Lakes says 
neither it  nor any of the other companies that work on its behalf  got this 
information. Great Lakes has shown us it would never have insured Mr D if it had 
known about the cancellation(s). I think it most likely that the letter from the broker 
wasnt received by Great Lakes, simply because if it had been then Mr D would never 
have got cover at all. I dont know why the letter wasnt received  or if it was sent, or 
to whom, as its not addressed to a particular insurer. Mr D would need to take that 
up with his broker.
Finally Mr D says he has a letter from another insurer saying it doesnt think the fact that it 
cancelled a policy would affect Great Lakes decision. He believes this means Great Lakes 
acted unfairly. The letter is somewhat unclear, but in essence its correct  in that every 
insurer decides on the level of risk its willing to take. So what insurer 2 decides wouldnt 
influence what Great Lakes does. That doesnt mean Great Lakes was unfair to Mr D. And I 
see it refers to something that happened in 2021  so after Great Lakes cancelled the policy 
he held with it. I dont think this is relevant to this decision.
Great Lakes voided Mr Ds policy because it thinks Mr D answered the questions about his 
insurance history incorrectly. Ive already said I think Mr D had a responsibility to share the 
information about the cancellations  or at least check if it would be relevant to the insurer. 
So I think Great Lakes conclusions are reasonable. Great Lakes seems to have concluded 
that Mr D answered the question incorrectly because he was careless  rather than he did it 
deliberately. So Great Lakes returned his premium, which is the appropriate thing for it to do.
Taking everything into account, I think Great Lakes has treated Mr D fairly.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman