DRN-3642986
The complaint
Mr G complains that Unum Ltd has unfairly turned down his income protection claim.
What happened
Mr G is covered under his employers group income protection scheme, which provides an 
income if he is unable to work due to an illness or injury. The scheme has a deferred period 
of 26 weeks. 
In March 2020, Mr G stopped work. A claim was submitted to Unum, however, it turned 
down the claim as it didnt think Mr G met the policy definition of incapacity.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr G brought a complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She found that 
Unums decision to decline the claim had been reasonable, based on the medical evidence 
provided.
Mr G disagreed with our investigators opinion. As no agreement could be reached, the 
matter was passed to me to decide.
On 18 July 2022, I issued my provisional decision. In it, I said the following:
Mr G has sent in detailed representations about the medical evidence and his incapacity. I 
have reviewed and considered everything he has sent in, even if I dont explicitly refer to it in 
my decision. Instead, I have focused on what I consider to be key.
Policy terms and conditions
The policy defines incapacity as:
Unable, by reason of their illness of injury, to perform the material and substantial
duties of the insured occupation
For a claim to be payable, Mr G needs to show that he was unable to perform the main
duties of his occupation due to illness throughout the deferred period (17 March 2020 to 16
September 2020). Ive therefore considered the medical evidence provided.
Medical evidence
Im aware that Mr G visited his GP in September 2019 and requested a private referral to a 
psychiatrist. The reason for the referral was given as issues at work, including bullying and 
harassment.
In October 2019, Mr G saw a clinical psychiatrist. The report from this meeting states that Mr 
G was suffering from anxiety with work as a main focus. The symptoms that were mentioned 
included low spirits, disrupted sleep, reduced attention and concentration, amongst others. 
In this report the psychiatrist says he is concerned that Mr Gs health will not improve under 
his current working conditions and that there needs to be negotiations with his employers 
regarding the situation that Mr G described. No medication was prescribed but a 
recommendation was made for Mr G to see a clinical psychologist.
In December 2019, Mr G attended a meeting with a clinical psychologist. She commented 
that Mr G had described a harmonious and settled home environment but expressed 
concerns about his current work situation which he said was significantly impacting his 
psychological wellbeing. Such difficulties as excessive workload and a lack of support from 
his employers were mentioned. The psychologist noted that, rather than psychological 
intervention, it would be more helpful for changes to be made in the workplace. She 
recommended assistance from an Occupational Health physician. She detailed four points 
for discussion, relating to areas of change within his workplace that could be explored.
In March 2020, Mr G consulted the clinical psychiatrist again. In the report issued after this 
meeting, it was stated that Mr Gs employers had not acted on all of the occupational 
recommendations made by the clinical psychologist and so there had been no significant 
release from his symptoms. The report says Mr G remained under considerable duress at 
work. Mr G was therefore advised to refrain from work for three months for respite and also 
to access some additional psychological assistance to aid his recovery. Mr G was signed off 
work from 18 March 2020.
Mr G consulted with his clinical psychiatrist again in May 2020. In the report it is noted that 
Mr G hadnt noticed any improvement in his depression or anxiety. The report says Mr G 
advised his work situation had not improved and an ongoing dispute with his employer was 
yet to be concluded. The report confirms that Mr G had received a few sessions of 
psychological support but that he hadnt found any benefit from these. The psychiatrist 
recommended that Mr G was signed off work for a further three months and if he received no 
support from either his employer or local NHS services, that he self-funded a course of 
psychological treatment. On 18 June 2020, Mr G was signed off work by his GP for three 
months as suffering from work related depression and stress.
In late June 2020, Mr G did consult with an occupational health professional and a 
management report was issued. The report identifies a number of issues that Mr G has 
mentioned about the situation in his workplace and it notes that Mr G explained that only one 
of these issues has been addressed by his employer. The report states that, whilst it would 
be beneficial for his employer to fund at least six counselling sessions for Mr G, the other 
significant issue is to address the matters which were outlined in the report from the clinical 
psychologist  which related to his feelings over lack of support and recognition at work, 
amongst others. The report states that if these issues could be addressed, the prognosis for 
Mr G to be able to return to his duties would be good.
Was the claim declined fairly?
Unum declined the claim as it said Mr G hadnt met the definition of incapacity as detailed in
the policy. It said that, while he had seen a private psychiatrist and a psychologist, there
hadnt been any treatment plans. Unum also noted that follow up sessions werent arranged
with these health professionals.
Unum also said that there isnt any information which supports any ongoing restrictions and
limitations and that the Occupational Health report confirms a full recovery is likely if the
work-related issue is removed. It concluded that the medical evidence does not suggest the
presence of a mental health condition of such severity that it would prevent him from
performing his insured occupation but rather this absence was caused as a result of issues
within his workplace.The medical information Ive seen, some of which Ive detailed above, makes it very clear
that Mr G was finding his workplace situation incredibly difficult and this led to the diagnosis
of work related anxiety and depression, as detailed by his clinical psychiatrist. And the lack
of improvement in the workplace, as per the recommendations by the relevant health
professionals, meant that Mr G hasnt felt able to return to his place of work.
In order to meet the definition of incapacity as detailed in the policy, the illness Mr G was
suffering from had to make him unable to perform the material and substantial duties of the
insured occupation, regardless of whether this was at his place of employment at that time,
or at any other company or organisation. And, having carefully considered the medical
evidence supplied, Im not persuaded that this shows he has met that definition.
In the reports from the psychiatrist, psychologist, and occupational health professional that
Mr G consulted with, there is an emphasis on the specific work-related issues. And it is
noted that the recommendations to improve the situation have been, in the main,
occupational, and specific to his workplace. Whilst Mr G was advised to seek additional
psychological assistance, this was limited during the deferred period. And I note that all of
these medical professionals agree in their reports that, if the workplace issues were
resolved, he could embark on a return to work.
Im therefore satisfied that the reports detailed above are insufficient to show that Mr G has
met the definition of incapacity as required by the policy. Based on this medical evidence, I
think it was reasonable for Unum to decline Mr Gs claim.
During my review of this complaint, I contacted Mr G to advise him of my current thinking
and invited him to provide further medical evidence to support his claim should he wish to do
so. Mr G subsequently provided an additional report from his psychiatrist. It states it was
their opinion that Mr G would not have been fit to complete the main duties of his insured
occupation, even with a different employer.
The psychiatrists report says Mr G experienced a deterioration of his mood and anxiety after 
being signed off work. The report mentions that Mr G continued to be embroiled in a 
grievance process with his employer during this period and that it is unlikely an individual 
would recover whilst such a complex and adversarial legal case is in process. The 
psychiatrist went on to say that working with another employer on a similar subject matter 
would lead to him being unable to carry out his occupation as it would cause painful 
resonance and would collude with the negative ruminatory processes underpinning his 
suboptimal psychological performance and occupational application.
I thank Mr G for providing this additional report and I would like to assure him that Ive 
thought about this new information very carefully. I appreciate why Mr G feels that, as his 
psychiatrist has now provided his opinion on why he wouldnt be able to perform his role 
elsewhere, his claim should be covered. However, Im not of the opinion that this new report 
provides clear evidence that Mr G has met the incapacity definition.
As with the previous reports provided, the psychiatrist has referred to issues within the 
workplace and how it was unlikely Mr G would recover unless those work-related concerns 
were resolved. Whilst Im in no doubt that the difficulties with his employer impacted on his 
health, there isnt sufficient medical evidence to show that it was illness, rather than the 
issue with his employer, that was the cause of Mr Gs absence from his occupation.
Ive noted that the psychiatrist has provided an opinion as to why he thinks Mr G wouldnt be 
able to perform the duties of his role if this was with another employer. He has said that 
working on similar subject matter would cause painful resonance for Mr G meaning he 
wouldnt be able to perform in the role even if this was elsewhere. I appreciate Mr Gs psychiatrist providing this opinion, however, this does seem to be at odds with his previous 
statement that it was the specific work-related concerns which were preventing his recovery. 
And I havent seen any previous notes in the reports provided to show that Mr G was 
suffering from such problems prior to his absence from work during the deferred period. Im 
therefore currently not persuaded that this report is sufficient evidence to support that Mr Gs 
claim should be reconsidered.
When I invited Mr G to provide additional evidence, he questioned why this information was 
not being requested from Unum directly if I didnt think there wasnt enough to support his 
claim already. It is the insured persons responsibility to show they have a valid claim under 
the policy  only once this has happened does it then fall to the insurer to either pay the 
claim or prove that there is a valid exclusion that applies. As I explained to Mr G at the time, I 
didnt think there was enough evidence to show that he met the definition of incapacity under 
the policy definition. And this is why I offered him the chance to provide further 
documentation if he wished to do so. However, as I have explained above, based on the 
evidence supplied both initially and during the time the complaint has been with this service, 
Im satisfied that Unum has fairly declined Mr Gs claim.
Unum responded to say it had no further comments to add. Mr G also replied, stating that he 
strongly disagreed with the contents of the provisional decision and felt that the findings 
were manifestly flawed, unreasonable, and unfair. He questioned whether our service 
accepted that he was suffering from an illness and referred to the psychiatrist reports in 
which his diagnosis was detailed. Mr G commented that the symptoms he was suffering from 
made it clear that his illness was severe enough to prevent him from undertaking his role 
and it was these symptoms that were the reason he didnt return to work, not the issues 
within his workplace. He also said that no other medical evidence to the contrary had been 
obtained and that Unum had turned down his offer to be seen by its psychiatrist if there was 
any doubt over the medical reports provided. Mr G therefore felt he met the requirements of 
the policy and that his claim should be met.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to thank Mr G for his very detailed response to the provisional decision. I think it 
is important to point out that we are an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free 
alternative to the courts for consumers. So, while I have taken into account everything Mr G 
has said in his reply, Ive focused on what I consider to be the heart of the matter rather than 
commenting on every point he has raised. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr G. 
Rather it reflects the informal nature of our service, its remit and my role in it. 
Mr G has disputed that he was referred to see a psychiatrist because of his issues at work. 
The referral letter from his GP from September 2019 states he is having some issues at 
work which is causing stress and affecting his mental healthhe complains of bullying and 
harassment at work which is getting worse. Based on this referral letter, Im satisfied that it 
was his work conditions which led to Mr Gs stress and this is what caused him to seek 
assistance from a psychiatrist.
Mr G says it isnt clear if it is accepted that he had an injury or illness. He says there is no 
mention of his psychiatrists formal diagnosis of clinical depression with moderate to severe 
levels of anxiety. 
As noted in the provisional decision, in the report from October 2019, the psychiatrist states 
Mr G has anxiety, with work being the main focus. And in May 2020, the psychiatrist comments that Mr G hasnt noticed improvement in his depression or anxiety. So, there is no 
dispute that Mr G was suffering from anxiety and depression, caused by his work conditions. 
But having a diagnosis of an illness or injury isnt enough to say that a claim under his 
income protection policy should be paid. There needs to be evidence to show that it was that 
illness which made him unable to perform the material and substantial duties of his insured 
occupation  and this is at any workplace, not just his employers at the time. So I would 
expect the medical evidence to specifically explain how Mr Gs illness was preventing him 
from performing the main duties of his role.
Mr G was suffering from a number of symptoms as a result of his condition, a point made 
clear in my provisional decision. I note that Mr G is unhappy that not all of his symptoms 
were detailed, however, as both Mr G and Unum have seen the reports from where this 
information was obtained, there was no need for the list to be provided in full.  But even 
though Mr G was suffering from a range of symptoms that are commonly associated with 
anxiety and depression, these alone dont persuade me he couldnt perform his insured 
occupation. 
Im not a medical professional and so, in order to reach any decision on Mr Gs condition at 
the time, it is necessary for me to rely on the information provided from those medical 
experts who he consulted with. And the medical evidence from Mr Gs psychiatrist, 
psychologist and occupational health professional all show that the main issues impacting 
his recovery were occupational, and that if these specific workplace issues were resolved it 
was likely Mr G would be able to return to work. Im aware that there was a recommendation 
made for Mr G to seek additional psychological assistance, and he did receive some 
Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) during this time, but the medical reports suggest that 
the main focus was resolving the problems at work.
I appreciate Mr G is unhappy that Unum didnt seek additional medical evidence, despite his 
offer to see its psychiatrist. And that he was asked to provide more medical information, 
rather than Unum. But as explained previously, it is for the insured person to show they have 
a valid claim under the policy in the first instance.
The information more recently provided by Mr Gs psychiatrist also confirms that he wouldnt 
be able to return to work as he continued to be embroiled in a grievance process with his 
employer and so it was unlikely he would recover whilst this was happening. 
All of the above suggests it was the problem with the employer which was the cause of Mr 
Gs absence and illness. But there is insufficient medical evidence to show that Mr Gs 
illness was preventing him from performing the main duties of his insured occupation 
throughout the deferred period. 
And therefore, I dont think there is enough evidence to show he has met the definition of 
incapacity as defined in the policy. Im still persuaded that Unums decision to reject his 
claim is fair and reasonable, based on the medical evidence currently provided. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Jenny GilesOmbudsman