DRN-2044075
The complaint
Ms P and Mr A complain on behalf of a charity, which I will call D. Briefly, they complain 
about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc closed Ds bank account. They say HSBC damaged Ds 
reputation and caused financial losses. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in June 2020. I explained that I wasnt 
certain what had happened, but based on the information I had at that point I thought:
At the beginning of 2019, Ms P and Mr A were both trustees of D. D had an existing 
community account with HSBC, which was operating without any difficulties.
In March 2019 HSBC wrote to D to say it had decided to conduct a Safeguard 
Review for Ds account. HSBC describes that process as a series of initiatives 
designed to better protect all our customers from fraud and financial crime. Amongst 
other things, it asks its customers to confirm that the information it has about them is 
both accurate and current.
HSBC asked D to provide it with an email address and mobile phone number for it to 
use in carrying out its review. Ms P provided those contact details by the end of 
March 2019.
Between May and August 2019, HSBC sent five texts to the mobile phone number 
Ms P had provided. Each of those texts asked D to log onto HSBCs website and 
complete the safeguarding review. HSBCs records suggest that one of Ds trustees 
attempted to log onto its website in early April 2019, but they did not complete the 
review. Ms P later explained that she could not complete the review using her phone, 
and did not have access to a laptop.
On 25 July 2019, HSBC wrote to D to say it had not yet received the information it 
required  so it would be closing Ds account on 3 September 2019. HSBC asked D 
to contact it urgently if it wished to retain its account. It does not appear that Ds 
trustees responded to HSBCs letter.
HSBC began its account closure process on 3 September 2019, and completed that 
process on 9 September 2019.
HSBC says it wrote to D on 10 September 2019 enclosing a cheque for nearly 
£2,000 (the remaining balance in Ds account). Ms P and Mr A say they did not 
receive that letter.
One of Ds staff members contacted Ms P to complain that the cheque he had 
received for his wages had bounced. On 12 September 2019, Ms P went to an HSBC 
branch to discuss that issue. She spoke to several members of HSBCs staff, both in 
branch and over the phone. HSBC accepts that she was told  wrongly  that HSBC 
would stop the closure process, and give D a 30 day extension to complete the 
review. After her 12 September 2019 conversations, Ms P appears to have been left 
with the understanding that Ds account was still open.
On 13 September 2019, Ms P spoke with somebody from HSBCs complaints team. 
That person explained that in fact Ds account had already been closed. HSBC wrote 
to her on 13 September 2019 to say that she needed to provide additional 
information by 17 September 2019 so HSBC could carry out its review. HSBC also 
offered £120 compensation for the misinformation it had given Ms P on 
12 September 2019.
Ms P told us that several other things happened after her 12 September 2019 
conversation with HSBC, but (as at the date I issued my provisional decision) I wasnt 
sure of the date of these events:
oTwo of Ds other staff members got in touch with Ms P to complain that the 
cheques theyd received for their wages had also bounced. D then had to use 
its overdraft with another bank in order to pay the staff. One member of Ds 
staff later left the charity, taking some clients with him. Ms P says that 
wouldnt have happened if shed known the account had been closed. 
oMs P went into an HSBC branch and attempted to bank three cheques from 
Ds clients. She believes HSBC then lost all trace of the payments, which 
totalled around £350. She said HSBC then told her it had sent the cheques 
back to the originators  but she believes that to be another lie, because the 
clients told her they had not had their cheques returned. She eventually 
received a cheque at her home address, for the amount of the three cheques, 
made out to D.
oD was late in paying its £8,086 quarterly rent. Ms P said that was because 
she didnt have access to the almost £2,000 in Ds HSBC bank account. Ds 
landlord sent bailiffs to its premises and D had to pay bailiffs fees. Ms P 
ending up having to pay Ds rent out of her own personal bank account. 
On 26 September 2019 HSBC wrote to Ms P to explain it had reopened [Ds] 
account to allow credits, but until the review has been fully completed, debits will 
remain restricted.
HSBC wrote to Ms P on 17 October 2019 to confirm that Ds banking facilities had 
been fully re-instated and would remain open.
HSBCs position was that the only error it made was on 12 September 2019, when it 
wrongly told Ms P that Ds account would remain open. HSBC considers that it 
corrected that error the following day, 13 September 2019, and it is still prepared to 
pay £120 for the confusion that misinformation caused.
On the assumption the above was correct, I explained why I didnt think it would be fair for 
me to order HSBC to pay any more than the £120 it had already offered. I said:Ms P and Mr A have already provided some evidence about the losses D has 
suffered, and about the damage to their health and to Ds reputation. But  whilst 
they have offered to provide anything further that we need  I cant see that they 
have given us much detail about why they believe HSBCs mistake(s) caused those 
problems. 
I might change my mind about any aspect of this complaint as a result of the 
responses I receive to this provisional decision. But once I have issued my final 
decision, the Financial Ombudsman Services involvement in this complaint will be 
over  and we will not consider any further evidence either party provides.
I want to make clear that whilst I can see that D suffered losses, and I can see that 
HSBC made at least one mistake, I will not consider ordering HSBC to reimburse 
those losses unless I see evidence to show that the banks mistake caused Ds loss. 
I understand that Ms P and Mr A now accept HSBC had the right to carry out the 
safeguarding review. I agree. I dont have any concerns about HSBCs decision to 
start the safeguarding process. Whilst there does appear to have been some 
confusion at one point about the appropriate safeguarding process for a charity, 
ultimately Ms P and Mr A did not respond in time to HSBCs requests for information 
about D. I think those requests were reasonable, and HSBC gave appropriate 
warning of its intentions  and so I see nothing wrong in HSBC closing Ds account. 
I accept that the closure of the account caused significant inconvenience to D, but I 
dont think the closure was a mistake on HSBCs part. Regardless of the impact of 
the closure, I dont intend to award any compensation for the losses D suffered 
because its bank account was closed on 9 September 2019.
Im satisfied HSBC did sent D a cheque on 10 September for the amount of the 
remaining balance in Ds account. Its very unfortunate that Ds trustees did not 
receive that cheque, but I dont think that non-receipt is HSBCs fault. Its obvious that 
not having access to the money caused D significant inconvenience, but unless I am 
satisfied that inconvenience was a result of HSBCs mistake it would not be fair for 
me to award compensation.
Similarly, I know that at least one of the staff cheques D sent out was given to the 
staff member before 12 September 2019 (because the staff members complaint that 
the cheque had bounced appears to have been the trigger for Ms Ps bank visit). I 
dont think HSBC made an error in not honouring that cheque; I think that was simply 
a natural consequence of the account being closed. So I dont intend to award any 
compensation in relation to that cheque.
Moving on to the events of 12 September 2019, everyone agrees that HSBC made 
an error. It appears that the bank staff Ms P spoke to didnt realise Ds account had 
already been closed. Ms P was left with the impression Ds account was still open. 
But Im satisfied that HSBC corrected its mistake the following day, 
13 September 2019. So Ms P only spent a very short period of time under the 
mistaken impression that Ds account was still open.
The issue for me is how much compensation D should receive because of HSBCs 
mistake. In deciding that, I think the key question is whether Ms P and Mr A would 
have done anything differently on 12 and 13 September 2019 if they had realised Ds 
account had already been closed.If they would not have done anything differently on 12 and 13 September if HSBC 
had given them the correct information, then that means HSBCs misinformation did 
not cause D to suffer a financial loss. In that case, I think HSBCs misinformation 
would have caused a relatively small amount of inconvenience  and the £120 HSBC 
has already offered represents fair compensation for that inconvenience.
If Ms P and Mr A would have acted differently if HSBC had not given Ms P the wrong 
information on 12 September 2019, I would then need to give more thought to 
whether HSBCs mistake caused D to suffer a financial loss. In particular:
If Ms P or Mr A sent cheques drawn on Ds HSBC account to Ds staff on 
12 September or early on 13 September, I would have to consider what 
impact that had on D. 
If Ms P or Mr A attempted to bank the three client cheques on 12 September 
or early on 13 September, then again I would have to consider what impact 
that had on D.
If HSBC gave Ms P or Mr A any information between 13 September 2019 and 
17 October 2019 that wrongly suggested they had full access to Ds account 
 and if they took any action as a result of that misinformation  I would need 
to consider that aspect of the complaint further.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think it is unlikely that the mistake HSBC made on 
12 September 2019 made a significant difference. That is because HSBC corrected 
its mistake very quickly, and I think it is unlikely that D suffered a loss because of 
anything that happened in the very short period before HSBC told Ms P the true 
position. But if that is not the case, I ask Ms P and Mr A to let me know  and to 
provide supporting evidence if possible.
HSBC confirmed that it had received my provisional decision, but it didnt have any further 
evidence for me to consider.
Ms P and Mr A responded to say that, in their view, the evidence here is absolutely clear  
HSBC lied about sending a cheque. They said they had no access to their own money, and 
from the beginning they have had nothing but untruths and incompetence from HSBC.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusions as I did in my provisional decision, for 
the same reasons.
I accept that the closure of Ds account caused significant inconvenience to D, as well as to 
Ms P and Mr A. But for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, I dont think HSBC 
made an error in closing Ds account. That means it wouldnt be fair for me to award 
compensation for the impact of the closure.
Ive carefully considered Ms P and Mr As further evidence, but having done so I dont think 
HSBCs mistake of 12 September 2019 caused D to suffer a financial loss. HSBC corrected 
its mistake quickly, and Ive seen nothing to suggest that the mistake caused Ms P and Mr A to do anything differently. In the circumstances, I remain satisfied that the offer HSBC has 
already made is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBCs offer to pay D £120 represents a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint. If it has not already done so, I therefore order HSBC UK Bank Plc 
to pay £120 to D.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman