DRN-2402415
The complaint
Mr K complains about problems he experienced when applying to switch his bank account to 
Nationwide Building Society. 
What happened
On 17 September 2019 Mr K applied online to switch his current account to Nationwide and 
says the application was initially approved. There was a problem so Mr K called Nationwide 
and was told to complete the application again. Mr K complained to Nationwide about the 
request to recomplete his application.  
Another application was completed and Mr K was told it had been approved. Mr K was 
subsequently sent a text message by Nationwide thanking him for providing identification. 
Mr K spoke with Nationwide and added to his complaint as he hadnt provided any 
identification. Nationwide later said it sent an automated text message after it had verified Mr 
Ks identity without needing to see any documents from him. Nationwide says the application 
didnt proceed because the terms and conditions werent accepted by Mr K. 
During the application process, Mr K visited two Nationwide branches. Mr K has explained 
that staff at the first branch he visited refused to apologise for the way his application had 
been handled. 
Mr K has told us there were delays receiving a response from Nationwide and that he was 
told his complaint had been resolved when it hadnt. The final response was sent by 
Nationwide on 17 October 2019 and, following further comments by Mr K, another was sent 
on 22 October 2019. Nationwide said that it could have handled Mr Ks application differently 
and offered to log the initial issue reported with its IT team. Nationwide noted Mr K had 
chosen not to proceed with the application and arranged to have its two credit searches 
removed from his credit file. 
Mr K referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. They upheld 
the complaint and said Nationwide could have handled Mr Ks applications better and asked 
it to pay him £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Mr K didnt accept and asked to 
appeal. In response to the investigator, Mr K forwarded a copy of the Current Account 
Switch Guarantee and has pointed out is says his application should have been handled in a 
simple, reliable and stress-free way. Mr K says Nationwide failed to fulfil the switch 
guarantee. As Mr K asked to appeal, his case has been passed to me to make a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr K for the level of detail hes given in his submissions to us and responses 
to the investigator. Ive read and considered all of the information provided and points made. 
Ive also reviewed Nationwides complaint file in full and listened to Mr Ks calls with it to see 
how they were handled. Whilst Ive considered all the information provided by both sides, 
Ive focused on what I feel are the key aspects of Mr Ks complaint  an approach that 
reflects the informal nature of this service. 
Mr K complains that his account switch didnt go through in the simple, reliable and stress-
free way set out in the Current Account Switch Guarantee. I agree that the way the 
application was handled fell short. Mr K had a technical issue that Nationwide could have 
referred to a specialist but didnt. Mr K, instead, had the inconvenience of completing 
another application. I can appreciate his frustration that the first application didnt go through. 
I agree that the initial call Mr K made could have been handled better. 
Mr K has forwarded a copy of the Current Account Switch Guarantee. The remedies for an 
error during the switching process, as set out in the guarantee, say the new current account 
provider will move all the consumers automatic payments, transfer funds from the old 
account to the new one and arrange for accidental payments to be automatically redirected. 
The guarantee also says the new current account provider will refund any interest and 
charges incurred as a result of a failure. 
The issue is that none of the remedies set out in the guarantee cover Mr Ks circumstances. 
His account switch didnt complete after he decided not to bank with Nationwide and none of 
the solutions given in the guarantee cover what happened to Mr K. So Ive considered how 
to fairly resolve Mr Ks complaint, taking into account the problems he experienced and that 
the switch didnt go through in a simple, reliable and stress-free way. 
Nationwide sent Mr K a text which he found to be confusing. Again, I understand Mr Ks 
point as he hadnt provided any identification documents for approval and it wasnt clear 
what had occurred. Nationwide later confirmed it was an automated text message sent 
following verification of Mr Ks identity. But, its clear the text message was confusing. 
I understand Mr K found the service provided by one of Nationwides branches to be poor 
and that a manager refused to apologise for the information given by the call centre. I can 
see Mr K was upset with Nationwides actions at this stage but without fully investigating the 
complaint its unclear how the manager he discussed the situation with would know whether 
an apology was required or not. Nationwide logged Mr Ks concerns and later issued two 
responses to Mr Ks complaint and Im satisfied thats a reasonable way for it to deal with the 
complaint raised.
Mr K has complained about delays and problems with the way he his complaint was 
handled. Ive listened to the calls Mr K had with Nationwide and I thought the call handlers 
were professional and helpful.
Nationwide has eight weeks to respond to a complaint and did so within that time limit. I 
understand there was some confusion during Mr Ks calls to Nationwide about whether his 
case was still open as several complaints were raised relating to the account switch 
application. Ive taken that into account. 
Mr K has asked me to consider the £100 incentive he wouldve received if the application 
had completed. I havent been persuaded to award the incentive because Mr K decided not 
to proceed with the application and open a current account. The incentive only pays 
following the completion of an application and action being activated. 
I understand Mr K found the service provided by Nationwide to be poor, and Ive considered 
that, but as he didnt proceed to open a current account he didnt qualify for the incentive. So 
Im not telling Nationwide to pay him the £100 incentive. Nationwide took steps to remove its searches from Mr Ks credit files which is what Id 
expect to see. 
Our investigator recommended Nationwide pays £75 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience Mr K experienced. I understand my decision may disappoint Mr K, but I think 
£75 fairly reflects the impact of all the issues he has raised. I agree that there were some 
service issues and I think the £75 award recommended is fair in all the circumstances. 
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society to pay     
Mr K £75.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman