DRN-2663425
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy about the timescales he was given by HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first 
direct bank when he wanted to port his mortgage to a new property.
What happened
Mr E had a mortgage with first direct which he held on a preferential rate product. As part of 
that he would incur an early repayment charge (ERC) if he repaid the mortgage before 
August 2024.
In July 2020 Mr E contacted first direct as he wanted to move home. He received an 
agreement in principle and it was left that hed come back to first direct when hed found a 
property to buy.
At the end of August Mr E had found a property and he uploaded the information that first 
direct needed so it could carry out the initial income verification. As Mr E passed that stage, 
on 4 September first direct phoned Mr E to book in an interview with a mortgage adviser. 
The earliest appointment available at that time was 9 October, which Mr E accepted, but he 
was also added to the cancellations list so would be notified if an earlier appointment 
became available.
Unhappy with that Mr E complained to first direct on 8 September. 
On 9 September first direct responded to say the timescales had been explained to Mr E 
when he received his agreement in principle and when he came back to first direct as hed 
found a house to buy. It said the ERC was set out in his mortgage contract and it wouldnt be 
waived. Mr E referred his complaint to us the same day.
On 11 September first direct called Mr E as an appointment was now available for the 
following day. However Mr E said he no longer was proceeding with first direct as he had 
started the process of arranging a mortgage with another lender through a mortgage broker 
a few days earlier.
Our investigator looked at things. Initially she thought first direct could have done more, but 
after she listened to the call of 11 September she didnt uphold the complaint as she felt 
Mr E could have proceeded with first direct at that point as an appointment was offered for 
the following day. Mr E didnt agree, saying hed already started the application with the 
other lender by then, so he shouldnt have been expected to cancel that and start an 
application with first direct.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Im satisfied the terms of the ERC were set out in the mortgage offer in a way that should 
have been readily understandable to Mr E; certainly, the information about the ERC was set 
out in a manner that met the regulators requirements at the time. So Im persuaded Mr E 
knew  or at least should have known  how much hed have to pay if he repaid the 
mortgage before the end of the fixed-rate period.
Lenders generally raise money to offer preferential rates for their mortgage customers (both 
new and existing) on the wholesale money markets. Theres a cost to that, and its generally 
fixed in advance. But the lender expects to receive a return to outweigh those costs in the 
form of interest on the mortgages it makes using the money its borrowed. If a mortgage 
ends early, it doesnt get that interest, and so doesnt make back the costs in raising the 
funds to offer that preferential rate.
It is unfortunate that first direct was experiencing delays in getting appointments booked in, 
but it was open and honest about this. It added Mr E to the cancellations list so it could notify 
him if an earlier appointment became available; thats all it could do.
In fact an appointment became available almost immediately, with Mr E being offered an 
appointment for 12 September, which was within first directs normal timeframe of 14 days 
from when an appointment is ready to be booked.
I understand Mr E had already applied elsewhere by then, but he did have the option to 
cancel that and proceed with first direct. I see no reason why, if Mr E had accepted the 
appointment on 12 September, that his mortgage couldnt have completed by 30 October in 
line with the intentions of his chain. Mr E made the choice to continue with that other lender, 
but that was his choice and he made it with the knowledge that hed incur an ERC with first 
direct. I cant hold first direct liable for Mr Es choice and so there are no grounds for me to 
order first direct to refund his ERC either in full or in part. Mr E had the option to not incur the 
ERC, and he chose not to take it.
Whilst I have a great deal of sympathy for the situation Mr E found himself in, I simply cant 
uphold this complaint however much he may want me to.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr E to accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman