DRN-3833481
The complaint
Mr C has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) will not refund him the money he 
says he lost falling victim to a scam.
Mr C is being represented by a third party. To keep things simple, I will refer to Mr C 
throughout my decision. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, Mr C has told us that he held an investment with a business specialising in 
cryptocurrency. Mr C told us that this business stopped operating in the UK and his money 
was returned to him.
Mr C tells us he then received a call from an ex-employee for the above company that had 
helped him with the above investment. He told Mr C that he had moved company and now 
worked in the UK for a business called Future500FX Web Trader (X). This person asked Mr 
C if he still wanted to invest and explained an investment opportunity to him. Mr C was also 
told that he would be assigned a dedicated account manager who would trade on his behalf.
Mr C tells us he sent identification documents to X to open his trading account and X helped 
him make trades via the desk sharing application AnyDesk.
Mr C was initially able to see he was making a profit on his investment and as his confidence 
increased, he agreed to invest more, but some of his trades started to make a loss and his 
request to make a withdrawal from his account were ignored. By the time Mr C received a 
response from X his account balance had fallen to zero.
X explained that they had friends that could help save the account, but this would require 
further payments from Mr C. 
At this point Mr C did some research of his own and found he had fallen victim to a scam.
When Mr C made his complaint, he said he had made the following payments from his 
HSBC account into the scam:
Date Payee Amount Payment Method
09 May 2021 Ezinvest.com £250.00 Debit Card
03 June 2021 Mpr2social.com £216.15 (£5.94 fee) Debit Card
15 June 2021 Morewebmarketing £1,290.91 (£35.50 fee) Debit Card
28 June 2021 Morewebmarketing £4,295.45 (£118.12 fee) Debit Card
06 July 2021 Morewebmarketing £4,304.10 (£118.36 fee) Debit Card
06 July 2021 Morewebmarketing £430.50 (£11.83 fee) Debit Card
13 September 2021 Ggcs1pay.com £28.00 (£0.79 fee) Debit Card
14 September 2021 Ematmarketingdigit £4,273.45 (£117.51 fee) Debit Card
Mr C has been unable to recover the payments he sent from his HSBC account.
Our Investigator considered Mr Cs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He said he 
didnt have enough to confirm Mr C had fallen victim to a cryptocurrency scam, and even if 
he did, he didnt think HSBC was responsible for Mr Cs loss.
Mr C disagreed so this complaint has been allocated to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment trading scam is in fact
a scam. 
Our Investigator said he couldnt be sure Mr C had fallen victim to a cryptocurrency scam. 
The payments Mr C had highlighted as being part of the scam were not what we would 
typically see from a cryptocurrency scam. I tend to agree with this view, and I will explain 
why.
The first payment Mr C made was to a business called Ezinvest. This business is regulated 
in Cyprus and not considered to be related with any cryptocurrency scams. I have also not 
been able to find anything scam related to the second payment Mr C made to 
Mpr2social.com.
While this complaint has been with our service Mr C has accepted the payment made to 
Ggcs1pay.com is also not scam related, which leaves the remaining payments to 
Morewebmarketing and Ematmarketingdigit. Both payees appear to specialise in marketing 
and show no sign of being related to cryptocurrency investment.
In addition to the above, Mr C has not been able to provide sufficient evidence that a third 
party was involved in helping him with a cryptocurrency investment.
Even if I was to conclude that Mr C had fallen victim to a cryptocurrency scam, I would have 
to find that HSBC should have prevented the payments Mr C made.
Mr C has accepted he authorised the payments he made from his HSBC account, so the 
starting point here is that Mr C is responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services 
Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud 
and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering.The values of the payments Mr C were making were below what I would have expected 
HSBCs fraud prevention systems to have been triggered by, and Mr C had previously made 
a high value payment in the months leading up to those he made listed above, so I dont 
think payments of a similar, or lower value, would have likely caused HSBC concern.
Although Mr C was making payments to new payees it would not be reasonable for me to 
say HSBC should stop payments every time one of its customers makes a payment to a new 
business.
Overall, I think it was reasonable that the payments Mr C made did not trigger HSBCs fraud 
prevention systems. 
So, even if I were to find that Mr C had fallen victim to a cryptocurrency scam in the way he 
has described, I dont think the payments he made would have reasonably triggered HSBCs 
fraud prevention systems, so HSBC did not miss an opportunity to prevent the payments 
being made, and it is not responsible for his loss.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman