DRN-4297851
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund money lost in relation to a 
scam.
What happened
In September 2022, Mr B was contacted by a family member. Ill refer to the family member 
as C. C said theyd been contacted by their bank and told their account was at risk and that 
they needed to move money to a safe account. They had difficulty setting up the new payee 
and making the payment from their account. So asked if they could move the money to      
Mr Bs account, and for him to send it onto the safe account details theyd been given. As a 
result, Mr B made a payment of £2,000 from his account on 24 September 2022.
C had been contacted by fraudsters who were posing as his bank, and hed fallen victim to a 
scam.
Mr B raised a fraud claim with Lloyds the same day as the payment was made. Lloyds 
considered his claim but declined to refund him saying hed completed no verification checks 
and didnt have a reasonable basis to believe C was talking to his genuine bank.
Mr B wasnt happy with Lloyds response, so he brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into his complaint and didnt uphold it. The investigator explained that 
while C was the victim of a scam, Mr B wasnt and hadnt suffered a financial loss.  The 
investigator told Mr B that C could raise a fraud claim with his bank regarding his loss.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion, saying C had tried to raise a fraud claim with 
his bank, but had been told that Mr Bs bank was liable for the loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, but Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator, and Ill 
explain why.
The starting position is that Lloyds are expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that its customers authorise, in accordance with the Payment Service 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. So, when 
Lloyds made the payment, it was complying with Mr Bs instructions.
I cant see that Mr B has suffered a financial loss. The money that Mr B transferred to 
the scammer, came from C. Its C who has suffered a financial loss as a result of the 
scam, so I cant fairly hold Lloyds liable or ask them to refund Mr B. C can raise a 
fraud claim with their own bank in relation to their loss.
From what Ive seen Lloyds contacted the receiving bank promptly on being made 
aware of the scam but hasnt recovered any funds. Its important to note that if any 
funds are recoverable, Mr B wont be entitled to them due to not experiencing the 
loss. It would be for Cs bank to contact the receiving bank and attempt recovery of 
funds.
Having carefully considered all of the evidence, I cant fairly ask Lloyds to refund Mr B.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman