DRN-3298252
The complaint
Mr R has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) acted unfairly by 
continuing to apply charges to his account when he was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr R complained to NatWest that the charges applied to his bank account caused him 
financial difficulty. NatWest said it applied all charges in line with the terms and conditions of 
the account. 
Mr R bought his complaint to this service. An adjudicator looked at this complaint and 
thought that we could only look at charges applied to his account from May 2014 and 
thought NatWest should have stopped charging overdraft fees from October 2017 as by this 
point it was clear Mr R was in financial difficulty as he hadnt seen or maintained a credit 
balance for an extended period of time. 
As a gesture of goodwill NatWest agreed to refund all interest, fees and charges applied to 
the account from May 2014 - a point earlier than suggested by our adjudicator. NatWest 
advised that the amount of the refund would be £499.17 and that if Mr R accepted the offer it 
would reduce his overdraft limit from £1,600 to £1,100 and that he should get in contact with 
its financial difficulties team to discuss the outstanding balance moving forward. 
Mr R didnt wish to accept this offer and wants to keep his overdraft limit of £1,600. He has 
asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what NatWest has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr R is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been charged the fees and given the 
credit they shouldnt have.
So where a business continues to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should 
have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position 
theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This 
means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit 
from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. 
And in this case after a detailed review of Mr Rs statements, our adjudicator thought that by 
October 2017 it was clear Mr Rs overdraft was unsustainable as his account hadnt seen or 
maintained a credit balance over a number of months and thought NatWest should refund 
the interest and charges added to the overdraft from this point. But NatWest agreed to go 
back further than this and refund charges from May 2014.
NatWest has told us that Mr R is left with an outstanding debt, once all adjustments have 
been made, and hes been refunded all of the interest, fees and charges caused by his 
overdraft from May 2014. So while Mr R has been left with a balance and he might be 
unhappy with this, NatWest has offered to do more than what Id normally expect it to do 
here. And I dont think it is unfair that NatWest reduces Mr Rs overdraft limit to £1,100 and 
looks at ways to reduce Mr Rs debt further as it is clear from Mr Rs statements that his 
current limit is unaffordable for him.
All the interest, fees and charges NatWest shouldnt have added will be removed from what 
Mr R now needs to pay. So what Mr R is left with to repay are the funds which he used and 
benefitted from and I dont agree that the interest, fees and charges have left him with a debt 
that he wouldnt otherwise have been left with. 
In these circumstances, and bearing in mind Mr R spent them, I think its perfectly fair and 
reasonable to expect Mr R to repay these funds. So Im satisfied that what NatWest has 
already agreed to do to put things right for Mr R is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this case and Im not requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, 
its up to Mr R to decide whether he wishes to accept NatWests offer.    
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what National Westminster Bank Plc has 
already agreed to do to put things right for Mr R is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this case. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman