DRN-2691136
The complaint
Classic Property Management Limiteds (C) complaint about Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) 
relates to Lloyds decision not to offer an Undesignated Client Account to C.
What happened
C is a property management company and in so far as it is relevant to this complaint it 
receives from owners of certain leasehold properties money in respect of charges raised by 
the freehold owner. Although it is not particularly relevant to this complaint such monies are 
then disbursed by C on behalf of the landlord, for example upon maintenance of the 
properties.
C is a relatively new company, its function previously being carried out by Mr B operating 
as an unincorporated business. Mr B also held a business account with Lloyds for the 
purposes of that business.
Upon incorporating his business to C, Mr B requested a new business account for that 
entity. Lloyds agreed to open an account but not in the same terms as Mr B had previously 
enjoyed. Previously Mr B had held an Undesignated Client Account, but Lloyds said that it 
could only offer a Designated Client Account to C. The distinction between the two 
accounts, as it applied to C, meant that Lloyds required C to open individual designated 
client accounts for each leasehold owner. Given that C had 102 of them, it said that was 
impracticable and would make its management function impossible. When operating on his 
own account, all the monies he had received from the various leaseholders had been 
deposited to one single bank account.
C make the point that Mr B was required to operate the original banking arrangement for 
six months longer than necessary thus complicating Cs accounting arrangements. Further, 
that emails went unanswered, necessitating Mr B in writing letters which was time 
consuming. Whilst acknowledging Lloyds had paid £50 in this respect he thought it to be 
arbitrary and dismissive, and thought a greater compensatory payment was due to reflect 
the waste of his time.
Lloyds have confirmed that it had failed to respond to a request for a written explanation, and 
for that it had apologised and paid the £50 compensation together with £3 in respect of 
costs. Lloyds also acknowledged that there had been delays occasioned in responding to 
other correspondence from C and paid a further £50 in compensation. It also explained that 
whilst historically it could have opened an Undesignated Client Account in these 
circumstances, its own eligibility criteria had since changed resulting in it not being able to 
offer such an account to C.
C was unhappy with Lloyds final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that Lloyds hadnt done 
anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly. C didnt agree and asked for the 
complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus however on what I think the key issues are as our rules allow me to do this 
and it reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
Ive taken account of both sides views when considering whether Lloyds acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
C Position 
Mr B, on behalf of C, urges me to take a common-sense view of his complaint. He argues 
that it would be impossible to operate his business if he had to have a separate designated 
client account for each leaseholder. He naturally questions why, if an undesignated client 
account can be operated by him as an individual, it cannot be operated by C. He 
challenges Lloyds assertion that each of the 102 leasehold owners are in fact his clients, 
instead emphasising that he is appointed by, and acts only for, the freehold owner, it being 
his client. This last factor he says has been misunderstood by Lloyds.
Lloyds Position 
Lloyds asserts that its policy for opening new business accounts results in it not being able 
to offer C an Undesignated Client Account. Lloyds have chosen not to share that policy 
with Mr B or C, and naturally Mr B feels frustrated by this. It has however confidentially 
shared it with this service meaning we as a service cannot disclose it to other parties. Lloyds 
are entitled to make this condition and this service does not have the power to order 
otherwise. That said Lloyds has explained what the policy says to Mr B and C in its final 
response letter. 
I have noted Mr Bs comment that in not being able to see the policy, it presents a degree of 
unfairness which would not be acceptable to a Court. But of course, this service is not a 
Court, our role being to help settle complaints between consumers and businesses that 
provide financial services. In other words, were are a form of alternative dispute resolution.
I am inclined to agree with Mr B that the individual leasehold owners are neither his, nor 
Cs clients. The balance of evidence, and common sense, seem to dictate that he is acting 
on behalf of the freeholder, and collecting monies due to the freeholder, on their behalf, 
under the contractual arrangements (through each lease) that it has with each leasehold 
owner. C could not act in such circumstances for both freeholder and leaseholder. It would 
seem to me that once the freeholder has raised a demand for a service charge and the 
leaseholder has paid it, ownership of the funds given to C passes to the freeholder in 
satisfaction of the debt, and in the event that C should become insolvent, ownership would 
pass to any appointed receiver. 
But who Mr B or C act for, or whom the funds belong to is not, in my view, material to the 
issue under complaint. The issue is whether Lloyds have acted towards C unfairly or 
unreasonably in applying its policy on account opening. This service doesnt have the power 
to make rules for financial businesses, assess or direct that they change their policy or 
procedures. What I can look at is what happened in the circumstances of the individual 
complaint and check that Lloyds followed its rules and procedures and is applying them fairly 
to all customers. So, in turning to Lloyds policy, what it does, essentially, is to ask two questions, the first 
being whether Lloyds customer, in this case C, is a Landlord or property manager. In my 
view C is a property manager. The policy states that in such an event only a designated 
client account can be applied for. 
The second question to be asked, if a customer was deemed not to be a Landlord or 
property manager is more complex. In my view this question does not arise in the 
circumstances of this complaint, since C is a property manager, but in the event I am 
wrong about that, the question is whether the customer is one of the following types of 
business; An independent legal professional, auditor, insolvency practitioner, external 
accountant, tax advisor, FCA regulated credit or financial institution (or equivalent), or an 
FCA regulated trust or company service provider (or equivalent). C is none of those types 
of business, and so, following the policy, once again the only account which may be applied 
for is a designated client account.
Mr B has raised other issues, such as the relevance of section 42 of the Landlord and 
Tenant Act 1987, but I do not think it is relevant here. Whilst I dont dispute what it says, 
such a legislative provision does not compel Lloyds to offer the bank account C seeks. 
Similarly, with respect to the references to the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, the 
FSCS and other banks, the same point applies.
So, although C will probably be disappointed with my decision, in relation to the issue of 
opening an undesignated client account for C, I cant say Lloyds has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here because it has followed its own policy which it put in place using its own 
commercial judgment. And that is not something I can interfere with. Whilst Lloyds policy 
may or may not be a departure from the conventional procedure followed by the property 
management industry and other banks, it remains Lloyds policy to make and adhere to.
Lloyds has accepted that it didnt get things right to some degree and because of that it 
compensated C on two occasions with £50.  I know C didnt think that was enough to put 
matters right, but I think it is. It reflects the frustration Mr B will no doubt have felt, on behalf 
of C, for the delay in replying to him and the failure to reply at all to his emails. So I cant 
say Lloyds has subsequently acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this 
complaint. 
My final decision
Lloyds Bank plc has already paid C £103 to settle this complaint, and I think that is fair and 
reasonable. So, my final decision is that I dont require it to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman