DRN-2016613
The complaint
Ms O complains that Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans agreed loans for her which 
were unaffordable.
What happened
Ms O took the following guarantor loans with Buddy Loans:
Date Amount Term Monthly 
RepaymentPurpose
Loan 1 20 June 2018 £5,000 5 years £197.62 Debt consolidation & 
home improvements
Loan 2 17 March 2019 £4,000 5 years £158.10 Debt consolidation
Ms O says the loans were unaffordable for her. She says if Buddy Loans had checked her 
credit file properly it would have seen a lot of missed payments and a lot of debt she was 
struggling to pay. She says if Buddy Loans had checked her bank statements it would have 
seen she had a gambling problem and couldnt afford the loans. 
Buddy Loans says it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks in line with its usual 
process based on the information Ms O provided, and it had no concerns about her ability to 
afford the loans. Ms O disagreed and referred her complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She said that given the amounts, duration 
and monthly repayments, she thought Buddy Loans should have carried out more thorough 
checks. She felt if it had done so, it would have refused to lend to Ms O. Our investigator 
asked Buddy Loans to put matters right.
Ms O accepted our investigators opinion, but Buddy Loans didnt. As there was no 
agreement, Ms Os complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit on our website  
including the key relevant rules, guidance good industry practice and law. Ive considered 
the approach when deciding the complaint.
Buddy Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend to Ms O 
irresponsibly by carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks. I think there are key 
questions I need to consider in order to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the complaint:
Did Buddy Loans carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Ms O was in a position to sustainably repay the loan?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time 
and did Buddy Loans make a fair lending decision?
Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms O in some other way?
Buddy Loans was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment. The assessment is 
sometimes referred to as an affordability check or affordability assessment. The purpose 
of the assessment is for Buddy Loans to think about whether repaying the loan sustainably 
would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for the customer. In other words, it wasnt 
about Buddy Loans assessing the likelihood of it being repaid, but it had to consider the 
impact of the loan repayments on Ms O. The fact that the loans were guaranteed by a third 
party and the potential of Buddy Loans to pursue the guarantor instead of Ms O doesnt alter 
or lessen the obligation.
Buddy Loans had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Ms O would be able to repay the loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that it 
had to do, but it could take into account several different things such as the amount and 
length of the loan, the amount of the monthly repayments and the overall circumstances of 
the borrower.
Taking all that into account, I think a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough where:
a customer as a low income (because it may make it more difficult to make loan 
payments of a set amount from a low level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (because it may be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment for a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (because the total cost of the credit is likely to be 
higher, and the customer is obliged to make payments for a longer period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (because of the risk of repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing has become or was becoming 
unsustainable).
Did Buddy Loans carry out reasonable and proportionate checks?
Loan 1
When she applied for loan 1, Ms O declared a monthly income of £1,200, expenses of £591 
and payments to creditors  including this loan  of £228. Buddy Loans asked Ms O for 
evidence of her income. She provided screen shots of her bank statements which showed 
only money paid in to the account and no withdrawals or debits. Having looked at those, 
Buddy Loans reduced her income on the application to £1,152. This left her with a monthly 
disposable income of £334, so I can understand why Buddy Loans felt the new loan would 
be affordable for her.
Buddy Loans gained Ms Os permission to check her credit file during a call in which it 
discussed her application with her. The adviser said he noted she had a few items of 
adverse [information] on her credit file and said, I just need to run through them and see 
whats happening and whether youve got any payments in place. He listed five defaulted 
accounts and asked if she was paying anything to them. Ms O said, theyre from a long time 
ago when I was with my husband so theyre nothing to do with me anymore.  The adviser 
correctly pointed out they are all in Ms Os name to which she replied oh, are they, right 
okas far as Im aware [my ex-husband] should be paying all them. Again, the adviser 
correctly said the debts would only be in her name if they were her debts, and the kind of debts they were, meant they couldnt be joint applications. Miss O said, yeah, Ill need to 
look into that, but Im not paying anything to them. 
The adviser went on to talk about two County Court Judgements (CCJs) in Ms Os name 
and asked if she had anything in place for them. Ms O said, thats all sorted nowit was 
due to separation and a council tax bill he didnt pay it for about a year. The adviser asked 
which CCJ she was referring to, but she wasnt clear. The adviser went on to ask about any 
other credit Ms O may have elsewhere; she didnt have any (apart from another guarantor 
loan she was repaying with this one) and the call moved on to other aspects of the 
application. 
It seems to me from this conversation, that Ms O didnt really know what debt she had 
outstanding and the advisers stated aim of running through the debts to see what was 
happening with them wasnt properly fulfilled. Ms O simply said the debts were nothing to do 
with her. The adviser clearly felt they must be as they were in her name, but there was no 
proper discussion about what was happening with them. 
Four of the defaults were from 2015  around three years before this application. But one 
account had been defaulted in November 2017  just a few months earlier. The CCJs had 
been logged in May 2017 and January 2016. 
The bank statement Ms O provided was filtered to show only credits. The adviser queried 
another credit which had gone into the account. But Id also have expected him to question 
why there were no debits showing on the account. The bank statement had led to 
Buddy Loans identifying Ms O had overstated her income, so it had reduced it on the 
application. I think that ought to have made it wonder if perhaps shed understated her 
expenditure and prompted further questions when the statement didnt show any debits. 
The rules lenders must follow are set out by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority, in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). At the time Buddy Loans agreed this 
loan, CONC 5.3.1 4(b) said it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its 
assessment of the customers income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters 
made by the customer. Ive seen no evidence that Buddy Loans asked further questions to 
satisfy itself that Ms O would be able to sustainably repay the loan before agreeing to lend.
Given the amount of information on her credit file and the vagueness of her answers 
regarding it, along with the absence of normal activity on her bank statements, I think 
Buddy Loans ought to have made further checks to properly understand her financial 
situation before agreeing to the loan. 
I dont think Buddy Loans carried out reasonable and proportionate checks for loan 1. 
Loan 2
When she applied for loan 2, Ms O declared a monthly income of £1,470 which Buddy Loans 
confirmed through a payslip. She declared expenses of £695 and payments to creditors  
including this loan  of £215.  Buddy Loans calculated she had a monthly disposable income 
of £560 so again, I can understand why it felt the loan was affordable for her. 
She told Buddy Loans she wanted to pay off another guarantor loan with another provider 
which had been taken in January 2019 (loan 1 had already been repaid), some credit card 
debt and some money shed borrowed from friends and family. 
Buddy Loans gained Ms Os permission to check her credit file. The adviser who did so, 
noted three accounts which had recently been marked as delinquent and asked Ms O about them. She explained that her partner had lost his job but was now back in work, so she was 
looking to tidy things up.
Two of the delinquent accounts had been taken out since loan 1 and the third just shortly 
before. They were credit card and mail order debts which had been used to their maximum 
straight away, and the balances hadnt dropped at all. This implies there had been no 
payments made to the accounts with the exception of one payment to one account in 
July 2018 (but that account had remained over its limit and no further payments made).
Ms Os credit file also shows a further home credit account which was taken in 
November 2018 which has received no payments so far  it was showing as two months in 
arrears at this point. Theres also a credit card taken in July 2018, used to its maximum and 
showing as two months in arrears.
The advisor noted that one of Ms Os utility accounts was in arrears and Ms O assured her 
that was resolved. But looking at her credit file, its clear that Ms O had been in arrears 
almost every month on one or both of her utility accounts over the last year. 
The adviser also noted there had been quite a few applications for credit on Ms Os file. 
She acknowledged that and explained she and her partner had been thinking about how to 
tide themselves over until he found a job, but theyd ended up borrowing from family rather 
than proceeding with the applications.
I think Buddy Loans ought to have carried out further checks to get a better understanding of 
Ms Os financial position. Let me explain why.
In the nine months between these applications, Ms O had taken on a number of other credit 
facilities but had not made any payments to the majority of them. Shed fallen into regular 
arrears on priority bills  her utilities  and was clearly reliant on credit. At the time of this 
application, CONC 5.2A.12 said, The firm must consider the customers ability to make 
repayments under the agreement: 
(3) without the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments;
(4) without failing to make any other payment the customer has a contractual or 
statutory obligation to make 
CONC 5.2A.22 said, The firm should also have regard to information of which it is aware at 
the time the creditworthiness assessment is carried out that may indicate that:
(1) the customer is in, has recently experienced, or is likely to experience, financial 
difficulties
Taking into account the information Ive highlighted above, Im not persuaded that 
Buddy Loans did enough to meet the above rules. Ms Os credit file shows numerous credit 
agreements under a year old which are at or near the maximum and in arrears. Some of 
those arrears had started in the within a couple of months of the application although shed 
said her partner was now back in work. It seems clear that she was reliant on credit to make 
ends meet and was in  or likely to experience  financial difficulties.
Ms Os declared monthly disposable income of £560 which  if accurate - would enable her 
to clear the arrears on these accounts in one month and reduce her contractual 
commitments substantially within a few months without having to take a sizable, costly long term loan. I think Buddy Loans ought to have made further checks to properly understand 
her financial situation before agreeing to the loan. 
I dont think Buddy Loans carried out reasonable and proportionate checks for Loan 2. 
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time and did Buddy 
Loans make a fair lending decision?
Ive outlined above some of the circumstances which I think ought to have led Buddy Loans 
to carry out further checks on Ms Os finances. I think it would have been reasonable for it to 
get a detailed understanding of her expenditure, for example by asking to see copies of her 
full bank statements, in light of what appears to be a reliance on credit.
Ms O has provided us with copies of her bank statements for periods shortly before each 
loan was taken. There are a significant number of gambling transactions showing on each 
statement. I think the size and frequency of these transactions, together with the reliance on 
credit and the information available on Ms Os credit file, mean its unlikely that Ms O would 
have been able to repay these loans on a sustainable basis. 
It follows that I dont think Buddy Loans reached a fair lending decision on either on these 
loans. 
Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms O in some other way?
Ive carefully read, listened to and thought about all the evidence provided by each party to 
this complaint. Having done so, I dont think Buddy Loans has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Ms O in some other way.
But I do think Buddy Loans should have refused to lend to Ms O, so I am upholding her 
complaint about the loans.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business to 
put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the mistake it made hadnt 
happened, as far as is reasonably practical. 
In this case, that would mean putting Ms O in the position she would be in now if she hadnt 
been given the loans. But she has been given the loans and has used the money. 
So, I think Buddy Loans should: 
calculate the total amount of money Ms O received as a result of having been given 
both loans and deduct the repayments shes made. 
oIf this results in Ms O having paid more than she received, the overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date 
the overpayments were made until the date of settlement).*
oIf any capital balance remains outstanding, then Buddy Loans should attempt 
to arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Ms O. 
remove any negative information recorded on Ms Os credit file regarding the loans.
*If Buddy Loans considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Ms O how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Os complaint. Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans 
should put things right as Ive described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman