DRN-4095257
The complaint
Mr B complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money had issues when he tried 
to open a savings account, meaning he lost out on interest.
 
What happened
In around June 2022, Mr B applied online for a Virgin Money M Plus savings account. 
However, due to an error he was unable to open it. Despite him raising a complaint about 
this, Virgin Money were unable to provide a meaningful response until February 2023. In 
their response, Virgin Money explained the savings account was a linked account which 
required an M Plus current account. They said that as Mr B had previously closed his linked 
M Plus savings account, and he was only able to have one savings account at a time, their 
system was unable to open the account online. In recognition of this issue they offered Mr B 
£200 compensation.
Mr B felt the customer service he had received from Virgin Money was poor and that they 
should take his lost interest into consideration. Our Investigator looked into the complaint 
and felt that overall, the offer made by Virgin Money was fair. And that Mr B still had access 
to his funds while he was waiting for a response to his complaint, so he did receive interest 
on the funds, and they did not feel he had lost out.
Mr B disagreed with this and said he had £10,000 available that he would have put into the 
M Plus savings account and earned higher interest on, so he felt he had missed out as a 
result.
The complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision which read as follows:
It is not in dispute that the declined savings account application was due to a systems 
complication on Virgin Moneys side which meant Mr B would have had to call them to 
arrange for one to be opened, which is outside of the normal process. And its also not in 
dispute that Virgin Money took around eight months to clearly explain this to Mr B. As all 
parties agree, I wont be looking into the details of what happened further.
Whats left to decide is whether or not the £200 compensation offered and paid is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and if Mr Bs claim of lost interest should be considered 
further.
Ive firstly considered the level of compensation for the initial error and the delay in providing 
Mr B with a response to his query. I acknowledge that Mr B had to chase Virgin Money for a 
response to his query and this caused him inconvenience. In addition, he was unable to 
open the savings account when he wanted to which meant he had to make alternative 
arrangements for his funds. On balance, I think the £200 offered and paid to Mr B is fair and 
is in line with what I would have recommended in the circumstances. So, I dont think Virgin 
Money needs to increase this. 
Ive gone on to consider Mr Bs claim for lost interest on his funds. And I agree this needs to 
be looked into in more detail. Mr B feels that he has missed out on almost a years worth of 
interest due to the time it took for Virgin Money to respond to him. While I can consider 
losses, these should be losses caused as a direct result of Virgin Moneys errors. While I 
agree the delay in responding to Mr B about his complaint meant there was a period of time 
in which he did not move his funds, I dont think it would be reasonable to conclude that 
Virgin Money is responsible for Mr B being unable to move his funds to a suitable account 
over the course of almost a year. 
Mr B has provided evidence that he had around £10,000 in savings that he says he would 
have put into the M Plus savings account. From the documents he has provided, it appears 
these funds were in a savings account with a third party, Ill call C, in July 2022 and were 
then moved to a fixed rate ISA in April 2023. 
Ive looked at the historic interest rates of both the account with C and the M Plus savings 
account, and focused on the first few months following the attempted account opening. 
While the account with C did initially have a slightly lower interest rate, from August 2022 
onwards it then had a higher interest rate when compared to the M Plus account. As a result, 
I think the fluctuating rates that are typical of easy access savings account means Mr B has 
not lost out financially as a result of him being unable to move his funds to the M plus 
account in July 2022.  
Based on the findings above, I currently intend to uphold Mr Bs complaint in part. I agree 
that Virgin Money had system issues which led to Mr B not being able to open a savings 
account and then caused delays in providing him a response to his complaint, and I think the 
£200 already offered and paid is in line with what I would have recommended. But I dont 
currently think Mr B has lost out financially in terms of lost interest as a whole following the 
issue.
Mr B acknowledged by provisional decision and did not provide any additional comments or 
evidence for me to consider. 
Virgin money did not provide a response to my provisional decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any additional comments or evidence for me to consider, I see 
no reason to depart form the findings set out in my provisional decision.
So, for the reasons outlined above, I agree that the £200 compensation already offered and 
paid is fair redress in the circumstances. But I do not agree that Virgin Money needs to pay 
Mr B for any lost interest on his funds. 
My final decision
Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money made an error when Mr B tried to open a 
savings account with them and I agree the £200 compensation already offered and paid is 
fair redress in the circumstances.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023. Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman