DRN-3331710
The complaint
Mr A complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A. hasnt settled a claim under his travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr A bought a single trip travel insurance policy on 27 January 2020 to cover a trip between 
10 and 18 February 2020. The insurer was Mapfre.
Mr A travelled abroad but he wasnt able to return to the UK as planned. Mr A made a claim 
to Mapfre for medical costs, and the costs for having to extend his stay due to medical 
reasons.
Mapfre declined the claim because it had concerns about the information Mr A had provided 
in support of his claim, including the authenticity of the medical certificate. For example, 
Mapfre said that a facility named on an invoice provided by Mr A had said that this wasnt 
provided by them, and they had no record of Mr A visiting since 2015. Overall, Mapfre said 
that no payment would be made under the policy without appropriate medical certification.
Unhappy with Mapfres response, Mr A brought a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In short, she said that it was for Mr A to show 
he had a valid claim, and to provide satisfactory evidence in support of it. And having 
considered everything, she didnt think it was unreasonable for Mapfre to consider that Mr A 
hadnt done so and decline his claim.
Mr A didnt agree with out investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr As complaint.
As our investigator explained, its for the policyholder to show they have a valid claim. 
Mapfre considered the information Mr A had provided in support of his claim, but it raised 
several concerns about the validity of the invoices and reports Mr A had provided. Based on 
the evidence Ive seen I dont think they were unreasonable concerns.
Mapfre said, amongst other things, that one facility had confirmed the invoice wasnt 
provided by them. Mapfre had also tried to clarify matters with a medical practitioner directly, 
who didnt provide his address or confirm a diagnosis for Mr A. I think Mapfre took 
reasonable steps to obtain more information about the circumstances of the claim. 
Overall, Mapfre said that there were valid and legitimate concerns about the authenticity of 
the medical certificate Mr A had provided. To date, Mr A hasnt provided any further 
evidence or information which demonstrates that the issues Mapfre raised were inaccurate 
or unreasonable. So, I dont think Mapfre acted unfairly when declining the claim, based on 
the evidence it had.
Having considered everything, I dont think Mapfre has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the 
circumstances. But if Mr A has new evidence or information in support of his claim, he can 
ask Mapfre to reconsider his claim in light of this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman