DRN-3457671
The complaint
Mr H complained about charges and interest on his business current account that were 
applied by Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays), which Mr H said arose as a consequence of 
payment protection insurance (PPI) premiums being debited to the account. 
What happened
Mr H had a PPI policy, with a monthly cost of £30 (with the premiums paid from his business 
current account), which started in 2004 and ended in 2011 after Mr H complained to 
Barclays about it. In September 2011 Barclays wrote to Mr H, saying that it was offering to 
settle the complaint as a gesture of goodwill, without any admission of liability. Barclays said 
it would refund all PPI premiums paid, plus interest, and credit the amount to Mr Hs account. 
I have copies of Mr Hs account statements and I can see that £3,421.61 was credited on 4 
October 2011. 
In 2019 Mr H made a further complaint to Barclays, concerning the additional costs he had 
incurred over the years as a direct result of the monthly premiums. In October 2019, 
Barclays wrote to Mr H, saying that it had calculated the additional debit interest that had 
been paid on the current account and it had credited the account with £1,828,91 as a further 
gesture of goodwill. It did not consider that other charges had been incorrectly applied, but 
offered Mr H a further amount of £100 in recognition of the length of time it took for the 
complaint to be reviewed and the calculations completed.
Mr H didnt think this was right, and he brought his complaint to this service, saying that the 
monthly cost of the PPI cumulatively caused him to go into an overdraft and then on 
occasions over it, and he was then penalised for this. 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. He didnt think 
there was a consequential loss that hadnt already been resolved by the previous payments 
made to Mr H by Barclays. Mr H didnt agree and asked that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why. 
As Ive explained above, Barclays has refunded the PPI premiums Mr H paid, plus interest, 
as well as an amount that it calculated as the difference in debit interest that accrued 
between February 2004 and October 2011 as a result of the PPI premiums. For the 
avoidance of doubt, I have not looked at the sale of the PPI or the calculation of the debit 
interest and I note them simply to set out the sequence of events - Mr Hs complaint relates 
only to the additional charges applied to his account.
Barclays sent in copies of Mr Hs business current account statements from March 2004 to 
January 2012, and I have looked at them in detail. As would be expected with a business 
current account, there are large numbers of credits and debits and the balance of the 
account fluctuated over time. In the earlier statements the account was mostly in credit, and 
later on mostly in overdraft. 
Our adjudicator noted in his assessment that at no point while the PPI policy was in force did 
the monthly premium of £30 take the account balance from being in credit to being 
overdrawn and/or over agreed overdraft limits. Having examined the statements I agree with 
our adjudicator on this point. 
Mr H argued that there were many times when, after the PPI premium was debited, another 
amount was then debited, causing him to go over the overdraft limit. He also said that, 
cumulatively, if he had not been paying the PPI premiums he would not have needed to 
extend an overdraft either.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr H said. However, current accounts are managed on a 
day to day basis and as I noted above, there were a large number of transactions on Mr Hs 
account and the balance fluctuated regularly. I can only look at consequential losses directly 
related to the monthly PPI premiums. Taking everything into account, I cant see that the PPI 
premiums were the sole cause of additional charges on the account, and I cant fairly say 
that the amount of the premiums would most likely have stayed in the account if Mr H hadnt 
had the PPI. And Ive also kept in mind that business account charges relate to a number of 
aspects of the account  not just the balance.
On the basis that Barclays has already refunded the PPI premiums plus interest, and also 
the additional debit interest it said was charged in relation to the PPI, I have concluded that I 
cant fairly direct Barclays to do more, other than to pay Mr H the amount of £100 it 
previously offered (if it has not already done so). This is because, as Ive explained above, 
Im not satisfied that the PPI premiums were the sole reason for additional charges being 
applied, or that there was a consequential loss that hasnt already been resolved by the 
payments made to Mr H by Barclays. So Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman