DRN-3884559
The complaint
Mr C complains that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA wont refund him for goods he said he 
never received.
What happened
At the beginning of February 2022, Mr C said he purchased trainers costing £980 from a 
seller using PayPals pay it 3 service. Mr C said as he was at work all day he asked for the 
item to be delivered to his partners address. Mr C said he never received the items. As the 
address was part of an apartment block, he said the courier company responsible for 
delivering the items probably left the goods in a communal area, but this wasnt a safe area 
as others had reported items going missing. Because Mr C didnt receive the item, he raised 
a dispute under PayPals Buyer Protection Program. He also reported the incident to the 
police.
PayPal looked into the dispute Mr C raised and found in the sellers favour. PayPal said that 
the seller had provided tracking information showing the item had been sent and delivered. 
So, PayPal didnt provide Mr C with a refund for the items hed said he didnt receive.
Mr C wasnt happy with PayPals response and referred his complaint to us. Mr C said hed 
door camera footage which showed the item hadnt been delivered to the delivery address.
Our investigator considered this complaint and said it should be upheld. She said Mr C had 
shown the item wasnt delivered to the actual address but left in an unsafe communal area.
PayPal didnt agree they said the seller had provided them with proof of delivery. As the 
information showed the item was delivered to the buyer, it satisfied their User Agreement. 
PayPal asked for an ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2022 that said:
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
know Mr C will be disappointed but having done so Im currently minded not to uphold this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
I can see why Mr C is upset as he feels strongly that as he hasnt received goods hes paid 
for. And provided evidence he says shows the item wasnt delivered to the actual delivery 
address, he should be reimbursed for his loss. While I empathise with the position Mr C finds
himself in, for me to say PayPal must do something different I must first be satisfied that
theyve done something wrong. I cant see that they have here which is why I wont be
asking them to do anything else.
When Mr C opened his account with PayPal he would have agreed to their User Agreement.
So Ive considered its terms and conditions when reaching my decision.
On looking at the User Agreement I can see that PayPal offer a Buyer Protection Program.
The terms and conditions of the Buyer Protection Program are included in this agreement,
and say that if a buyer purchases something from a seller who accepts PayPal, the buyer
may be eligible for a reimbursement of the full purchase price of an item under the PayPals
Buyer Protection Program.
The terms and conditions of this program go on to say that the program may apply where the
buyer hasnt received an item from the seller. But, for items not received claims, a buyer
wont qualify for a refund if the seller has provided proof of delivery to PayPal. The definition
of proof of delivery in the program includes PayPal being provided with online or physical
documentation from a shipping company which includes an online, verifiable tracking
number, date of delivery and shows a delivered status. As well as an address that matches
the shipping address on the transaction details, and a postcode for the recipient.
PayPal has shown the proof of delivery information given to them by the seller. The
seller provided as evidence of delivered status, the tracking number, weight of item, date
and time of delivery, the residential delivery address including postcode, and a signature for
acceptance of delivery.
Mr C has provided as evidence a screenshot from a neighbours door camera which is dated
and timed. This shows an empty corridor and I can understand why he says this shows there
wasnt any delivery activity at the address. But the proof sent by the seller shows the item
was delivered at 11.57, whereas the camera footage while dated the same day is timed at
12.29. Mr C also disputed the non delivery with the courier service. I can see the report he
made but I cant see that this says the item was left in a communal area, the courier says on
the report:
On 3/2/2022 I delivered a package to you..
And the report has the same address as that given on the sellers proof of delivery.
So, taking all of the above into account Im satisfied that PayPal acted in line with the terms
of the Buyer Protection Program when considering Mr Cs dispute, and I dont think they
acted unfairly or unreasonably in saying he didnt qualify for a refund.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr C that if the courier driver had left the parcel in the communal area and signed it himself, 
the item would look to have been delivered.
PayPal didnt ask for any further comments to be considered.
I can understand Mr Cs frustration as he says he hasnt received goods which he has paid 
for. Ive considered both parties version of events, where these differ as is the case here, I 
will reach an impartial decision based on the evidence.
its important to note that this service isnt a regulatory body or a Court of Law, but rather is 
an informal dispute resolution service. Our role is focussed on whether its reasonable and 
fair for PayPal to have acted as they have, given the information and evidence available. 
I havent seen anything that would persuade me to change my thinking, PayPal has shown 
the required documentation they accept from a seller as proof of delivery. And I think they 
have applied their terms and conditions fairly and reasonably.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman