DRN-2770266
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about Assurant General Insurance Limiteds decision to decline a claim 
under his mobile phone insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C says he visited a store which was closed to see his brother who was working on the 
site. During the visit, Mr C says he left his jacket on a bench which had his phone and wallet 
in. 
Mr C says the door of the store was unlocked, and someone came in and took his phone 
and wallet from the jacket. He made a claim on his mobile phone insurance, but it was 
turned down by Assurant.
Mr C wasnt happy about this and he complained to Assurant. He said the phone was zipped 
inside the jacket and in the same room as he was.
Assurant said it had turned down Mr Cs claim because the jacket was unattended and in a 
position of risk. And it said Mr C hadnt taken enough care of his phone in line with the policy 
terms and conditions. It said that CCTV would be required in order for it to reassess the 
claim.
Mr C didnt agree and brought his complaint to us.
After investigating, our investigator concluded the complaint should be upheld because it 
couldnt be shown that Mr C acted recklessly in leaving his phone in his jacket pocket. She 
couldnt find any evidence the jacket was clearly visible to the outside public and so Mr C 
didnt appreciate the risk that an unauthorised person might enter the building and steal his 
belongings. She also didnt think it was necessary to get the CCTV in order to progress the 
matter.
Assurant doesnt agree because it says Mr took a risk by leaving his phone unattended in his 
jacket pocket, when he could have kept it with him or safely locked it in his car. It said it was 
highly probable the jacket was visible from the outside in order to entice a thief to enter the 
property.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
The term Assurant has relied on to turn down the claim states: 
If you dont take care of your mobile phone then we may not pay your claim. Taking care of 
your mobile phone means:
Not knowingly leaving your phone somewhere it is likely to be lost, stolen or damaged, just 
think would you leave your wallet or purse there?
If you need to leave your mobile somewhere we expect you to lock it away out of sight if at 
all possible. If you cannot lock it away then you must leave it with someone you trust or 
concealed out of sight in a safe place
If you knowingly leave your mobile phone where others can see it but you cannot and your 
mobile phone is then lost or stolen we may not pay your claim
If we believe you have not taken care of your mobile phone, and have knowingly taken a 
risk with it, we may decline your claim.
In order for Assurant to rely on this reasonable care term, it needs to show that Mr C acted 
recklessly. And the test for this would be if Mr C identified a risk, but took it anyway with no 
steps, or steps he knew to be inadequate to avoid the risk.
I agree that as the circumstances of the theft arent in dispute here it isnt necessary to get 
CCTV to consider the claim further. So the question is did Mr C act recklessly by leaving his 
jacket on a bench in a store that was closed to the public?
I dont agree with Assurants position here because taking a risk is not the same as 
identifying a risk and then taking it anyway. So whilst it could be argued that Mr C took a risk 
by leaving his phone in his jacket pocket unattended, this would only count as reckless if    
Mr C identified that there was a real risk of someone coming in from outside to a closed 
store and stealing the phone.
I also dont agree that on balance it was likely Mr Cs jacket was visible from outside the 
store. The images which Ive seen show the store windows are tinted and reflect the outside 
environment. This is in contrast to the store next door which doesnt have tinted glass and 
can be seen into.
Therefore whilst I accept the store was unlocked, the evidence shows it was unlikely Mr Cs 
jacket could be seen from outside, and the store was closed to the general public. So I dont 
think Mr C could have identified at that point in time that there was a risk that someone from 
outside the store would enter it. And whilst Assurant has provided some examples of what 
Mr C could have done to keep his phone secure, that isnt enough to show me he acted 
recklessly.
So based on everything Ive seen, I dont think Assurant has shown that Mr C acted 
recklessly, so it cant rely on this term to turn down the claim.
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In order to resolve Mr Cs 
complaint, Assurant General Insurance Limited should:
Settle the claim, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy (such as 
an excess).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman