DRN-2243243
The complaint
Mr G complained (on behalf of Mr S) that Asset Collections and Investigations Limited (ACI) 
wouldnt deal with Mr G about Mr Ss loan but continued to send letters and messages 
directly to Mr S.  Because of this, the issues with Mr Ss loan are still going on.
What happened
In 2016 Mr S took out a loan with a business Ill call B.  Soon afterwards, Mr S lost his job 
and couldnt make the repayments.  Mr S found this difficult to deal with, so he asked his 
friend, Mr G, to help by dealing with B for him.  Mr S signed an authority allowing B to deal 
with Mr G.  The authority was addressed to B and to whom it may concern.
In 2017, B transferred Mr Ss loan to ACI.  Both companies wrote to Mr S to tell him this.    
Mr S gave ACIs letter to Mr G.  Mr G then started writing to ACI on Mr Ss behalf.  With his 
first letter, Mr G sent a copy of the authority Mr S had signed to allow B to deal with Mr G.
Mr G wrote a number of letters to ACI in late 2017.  Replies from ACI were addressed to 
Mr S at his address but the letters started Dear Mr S/Mr G.
No letters were exchanged between December 2017 and August 2018. In August, a letter 
was sent to Mr G at his address.  But the letter started Dear Mr S.  For the rest of 2018, 
Mr G wrote to ACI but had no replies.  
At the end of December, Mr G got a letter saying that ACI hadnt replied because they didnt 
have authority from Mr S to deal with him.  He replied, saying that he had sent ACI the 
authority in August 2017.  The only replies he got repeated that ACI couldnt deal with him 
without Mr Ss authority.
Mr G brought Mr Ss complaint to us.  He said he thinks Mr Ss loan should be written off.  
He also wants ACI to apologise to Mr S for the way the loan account has been handled.
Our investigator considered the evidence.  He decided that ACI were reasonable in not 
dealing with Mr G if they didnt feel they had authority from Mr S because the law requires 
them to keep Mr Ss information safe.  
When he looked at the question of writing off the debt, our investigator saw that ACI have 
frozen charges and interest, have said that they will accept repayment of just the capital and 
have reduced Mr Ss debt by £250.  ACI did this without getting any details of his financial or 
personal circumstances; they said they could consider other steps if they were given more 
information about that.
Our investigator didnt think ACI needed to do anything more to resolve the complaint.  I 
didnt agree  so I made a provisional decision.  I said in that decision that I thought the 
reduction in the debt didnt fully recognise the extent of the worry and upset ACI had caused 
Mr S by not by not saying quickly and clearly what they needed to allow them to deal with  
Mr G - and putting that into place.  Nor did it recognise the length of time that went on.  I 
thought ACI should pay Mr S a further £150 to reflect this  in addition to the other steps 
theyd taken.
ACI havent responded to my provisional decision.  Mr G has.  Hes acknowledged that Ive 
tried to be fair in my provisional decision.  But hes expressed concerns that Mr S would 
continue to suffer if the loan wasnt written off.  And hes said hed continued to write to ACI 
without getting any replies from them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding the complaint Mr Gs made on behalf of Mr S.  Ill explain 
why.
I noted in my provisional decision that ACI had accepted they shouldve told Mr G earlier 
than they did that they wanted Mr S to sign a new authority, specific to them, allowing them 
to deal with Mr G.  But I didnt think the steps theyd taken - reducing the debt by £250 and 
agreeing theyd accept repayment of the capital only  recognised the stress and worry that 
delay had caused Mr S.  So I decided ACI should also pay him £150 compensation for the 
impact that that delay had on him.  
Putting things right
ACI havent responded to my provisional decision. That means Ive no information from them 
that leads me to change my mind about them paying Mr S a further £150.  So thats the 
decision Im making.
Ive considered the comments Mr Gs made  both since I made my provisional decision and 
throughout the case.  I understand Mr Gs concern that Mr S needs an end to the worry this 
loan is causing him.  But  as I said in my provisional decision  ACI is entitled to try and 
recover what theyre owed.  And ACI have said theyll consider other options if Mr S engages 
with them to explore his financial situation.
I understand Mr Gs concern that ACI arent replying to him.  But Im looking at the complaint 
he brought it to us  not whats happened since.  So Im not changing my provisional 
decision about what the right outcome is to that complaint is.  
But Id urge ACI to deal with Mr Gs correspondence.  Theyve said that theyll consider 
repayment options with Mr S if he provides them with financial information.  I took that into 
account when making my decision.
But any information from Mr S is likely to be passed to ACI through Mr G.  So theyll need to 
deal with him to make any progress towards resolving the issues around Mr Ss complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint and directing Asset Collections 
and Investigations Limited to pay him £150 compensation, in addition to the £250 reduction 
theyve already made to his loan.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman