DRN-3893493
The complaint
Mr H says Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card account Vanquis provided. The account was opened in 
April 2014. Mr H was given an initial credit limit of £500. This limit was increased on 11 
August 2014 to £1,000, to £,2000 on 12 January 2015, to £3,000 on 11 June 2015, to 
£3,500 on 12 January 2016, and to £4,000 on 12 June 2017. 
After the complaint came to us, Vanquis offered to uphold the complaint based on the last 
credit limit increase in June 2017. Mr H did not accept that and so our adjudicator 
considered the merits of the complaint. 
Our adjudicator agreed with Vanquis and recommended Mr Hs complaint be partially 
upheld. Our adjudicator thought the early credit was not unreasonably provided, but that 
Vanquis ought to have realised Mr H simply wasnt in a position to sustainably repay any 
further credit by the time it offered the increase to him when it raised the credit limit to £4,000 
in June 2017. Mr H disagreed with our adjudicator, so the complaint has passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Vanquis needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Vanquis should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicator thought that the initial lending decision and the increases to the credit limit 
on the account were not examples of irresponsible lending until June 2017. I have reviewed 
the case in its entirety and have reached the same outcome as the adjudicator and for the 
same reasons. I havent seen anything to make me think Vanquis should have been 
concerned about Mr Hs ability to afford the limits given before the increase in June 2017. I 
explain why I say that. 
Mr Hs complaint is that Vanquis made credit available that was unaffordable. Vanquis has 
explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit agency to determine the amount of 
credit it was able to offer. Its possible that Vanquis failed to make adequate checks before 
providing Mr H with credit. But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have 
caused Vanquis to think the credit was unaffordable. 
I say this because Mr H told Vanquis that he earned a good salary. Mr Hs bank 
statements show that Mr Hs account enjoyed an income that was both regular and not 
modest. And the statements suggest that whatever other monthly commitments Mr H may 
have had, including other credit, the total income each month was roughly the same as his 
monthly expenditure and his account was managed with a largely positive balance. In 
other words, Mr Os current account shows evidence of someone managing their finances 
well. 
Vanquis told us that their checks suggested that until June 2017 Mr Hs other borrowings, 
outside of this credit card and his mortgage, were largely modest. And I have been shown 
no issues with Mr Hs credit history that would have alerted Vanquis that Mr H was not 
managing his other credit, such that further lending should be curtailed. And Vanquis also 
told us that Mr Hs management of his credit card account with them was largely 
unblemished by late or missing payments and stayed within the credit limits. So, I have 
seen insufficient evidence that better information would have put Vanquis off from 
providing the credit it did on Mr Hs credit card. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Mr H to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that a 
more thorough affordability check would have led Vanquis to think that the credit it 
provided Mr H was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that what Vanquis could see 
of his management of other credit ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than 
it did. 
Until the credit limit increase in June 2017 that is. 
At that time, Mr Hs other borrowings, outside of his mortgage and this credit card, had 
grown by over £10,000. And shortly before the credit limit increase, Mr H had doubled to 10 
the number of active credit accounts he had. So, considering the size of this credit at that 
time, Vanquis feel that they should have made more thorough checks on Mr Hs financial 
situation before making the credit limit increase from £3,500 to £4,000 on 12 June 2017. And 
I agree. It follows that Vanquis should put things right.
Putting things right
Vanquis should:
Rework Mr Hs account to ensure that from 12 June 2017 onwards interest is 
only charged on balances up to the total credit limit of £3,500, (being the credit 
limit in place before that date) to reflect the fact that no further credit limit 
increases should have been provided. All late payment and over limit fees should 
also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made Vanquis should contact Mr H to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan for this account. Once Mr H has repaid the outstanding balance, it 
should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file from 12 
June 2017 onwards. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr Hs IVA Practitioner, along with 8% simple interest per year on 
the overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. Vanquis should also remove any adverse information from Mr Hs 
credit file from 12 June 2017.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Vanquis to take off tax from this interest. Vanquis 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Mr Hs complaint. Vanquis Bank Limited 
should put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023. 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman