DRN-1905268
 
The complaint
Mr W complained about a number of loans he took out through a company called Western 
Circle Limited, trading as CASHFLOAT. Mr W says he was lent to irresponsibly and the 
loans caused him financial problems.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to CASHFLOAT.
What happened
We now know that Mr W took out 6 short-term loans from CASHFLOAT between January 
2018 and August 2018. Ive produced a summary of his borrowing with CASHFLOAT, based 
on the information it provided to us: 
Loan Taken Out Repaid Instalments AmountHighest Monthly 
Repayment
1 25/01/2018 28/02/2018 1 £200.00 £254.40
2 08/03/2018 03/04/2018 3 £350.00 £165.31
3 12/04/2018 19/05/2018 2 £450.00 £284.27
4 26/05/2018 29/06/2018 3 £400.00 £205.01
5 11/07/2018 02/08/2018 2 £200.00 £128.07
6 21/08/2018 28/02/2019 3 £300.00 £157.78
One of adjudicators recently re-looked into the complaint and said they thought it should be 
upheld in respect of all the loans. CASHFLOAT didnt agree, so the complaint has come to 
me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Mr Ws complaint.
CASHFLOAT needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
W could repay all the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain other factors might point to the fact 
that CASHFLOAT should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending 
was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history or pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So, CASHFLOAT was required to 
establish whether Mr W could sustainably repay the loans; not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Mr W could 
sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
CASHFLOAT told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to 
lend to Mr W. Ive thought about this and Ive also looked at the overall pattern of lending 
history with a view to seeing if there was a point at which CASHFLOAT should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
It seems to me that CASHFLOATs own credit checks clearly showed Mr W was already in a 
financially vulnerable situation when he took out these loans. For example, its credit 
searches, at the point of the first loan, showed Mr W had a substantial number of other loans 
already in place and outstanding with other lenders. The searches also showed Mr W had 3 
credit accounts currently in default and others where he had been experiencing difficulties 
with the payments. I think these things clearly indicated he was having substantial money 
problems and so lending to him wasnt a good thing to do.
Our adjudicator also pointed out that Mr Ws outgoings, when all his other debt repayments 
were taken into account, were so large that his income couldnt reasonably sustain more 
lending. CASHFLOAT disagreed and said that at certain points he was able to afford its loan 
repayments on a pound-for-pound basis.  
But Im afraid this misses the point. The financial searches carried out and returned to 
CASHFLOAT when it started to lend to Mr W quite obviously showed Mr W was having 
difficulty managing money. Even the most cursory and basic look at his situation would have 
obviously pointed strongly to that fact. The purpose of carrying out searches is to establish 
whether lending is appropriate and sustainable. But it seems to me that having carried them 
out, CASHFLOAT simply failed to take any notice of the information the searches returned. 
In short, having asked for important background information, I dont think its reasonable to 
then take no account of what it says.We also know that Mr Ws borrowing was relatively rapid; he was lent to 6 times in less than 
7 months by CASHFLOAT. So overall, Mr Ws financial situation didnt really change in this 
short period. At the beginning of the lending chain, any reasonable assessment of Mr Ws 
situation would have shown that lending these types of short-term and high interest loans 
wasnt sustainable for him because he was already in a financially vulnerable situation. 
We know that people who have difficulties in managing money in this way are much less 
likely to be able to sustainably pay off lending of this nature. The lending was irresponsible, 
and in my view contributed to the hardship Mr W says he endured. He appears to have been 
caught in a spiral of high cost short-term lending which was avoidable had CASHFLOAT 
exercised the basic diligence it ought to have done. Im therefore upholding the complaint.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr W paid on loans 1 - 6;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file in relation to loans 1 - 
6;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires CASHFLOAT to take off tax from this interest. CASHFLOAT must give Mr W a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Mr Ws complaint. Western Circle Limited, trading as 
CASHFLOAT. It should put things right for Mr W as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman