DRN-3665546
The complaint
Mr R complained that a car he took on finance from AutoMoney Limited was not of 
satisfactory quality. He says that he should be able to return it, or that AutoMoney should 
meet the cost of repairs.
What happened
In December 2020 Mr R entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement with AutoMoney 
for a used car. The cash price of the car was just over £13,000; it was over six years old and  
had covered some 51,000 miles.
Shortly after the car was delivered to Mr R he complained about faults with it. There were, he 
said, some scratches to the bodywork and wheels, the rear parcel shelf was missing, and  
the exhaust was rattling.
Repairs to the exhaust were arranged at no cost to Mr R. The parcel shelf was replaced. Mr 
R took the car to a specialist garage for inspection. It concluded that the car had been poorly 
repaired after a collision. The radiator grille had not been properly fitted and the front diffuser 
was missing. Mr R received a quote for repairs of just over £1,100, including VAT.
Mr R complained to AutoMoney that the car had not been of satisfactory quality at delivery. It 
said however that the issues that had not been resolved to his satisfaction were cosmetic 
only and would have been apparent when he collected the car. There was no record of the 
car having been involved in an accident. It did not believe that it was responsible for the 
bodywork issues which Mr R had identified.
Mr R referred the matter to this service, and one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. The investigator thought that AutoMoney should pay for the damage that  would 
not have been apparent at delivery. In summary, that meant the cost of removing and 
refitting the front bumper, replacing the front diffuser, and repairing and refitting the front 
grille.
Both AutoMoney and Mr R accepted the investigators conclusions. Mr R then obtained a 
further quote for the work, which amounted to some £5,000  significantly more than the first 
investigator had not said AutoMoney should pay for. The case was therefore passed to me 
for further consideration.
I considered what had happened and issued a provisional decision. In that decision, I said :
The hire purchase agreement was to be read as including a term that the car would be of 
satisfactory quality. That means the quality a reasonable person would expect in the 
circumstances. Those circumstances include the cars price, age and mileage. I think a 
reasonable person might expect a used car such as this one to have some imperfections 
and to need some work beyond normal servicing over the hire-purchase period.
The requirement that goods be of satisfactory quality does not apply to anything which 
makes the goods unsatisfactory and which the customers inspection of them (if any) before 
the contract was made ought to have revealed. Mr R says that he did not have a proper 
opportunity to inspect the car , because it was dark at the time. I understand his point here, 
but it was several weeks until Mr R raised any issue. That might suggest that the cosmetic 
issues with the car were not sufficiently serious as to be matters of satisfactory quality or 
that, even if he had noticed them sooner, Mr R would have accepted them in any event.
Further investigation of those issues did however indicate that the car had been poorly 
repaired. AutoMoney said that its checks did not reveal any insurance alerts for the car, but 
in my view those checks would not show all accident damage. I think it likely that the car had 
been involved in an accident and that it had not been properly repaired. That would not have 
been apparent to Mr R. I believe too that the poor repairs  rather than the fact of an 
accident  meant that the car was not of satisfactory quality.
For these reasons, I think it would be fair for AutoMoney to meet the costs of those repairs 
which are needed because the original repairs were unsatisfactory and which would not 
have been apparent to Mr R. That is, I do not believe that AutoMoney should have to pay for 
defective paintwork or scratches, but it should meet the costs of removing and refitting the e
AutoMoney and Mr R broadly agree on this  in the sense that they both accepted the 
investigators assessment. Mr Rs estimate of the cost of repairs, however, runs to some 
£5,000. I have considered the estimate carefully but have come to the conclusion that it does 
include a good deal of work over and above that which the investigator thought AutoMoney 
should cover.
I accept that the initial estimate provided by Mr R may be out of date by now. The newer 
estimate is more detailed, however, so I have tried to estimate the total cost of the work 
which the investigator recommended by funded by AutoMoney. It does not appear to be 
significantly more than the first estimate.
It would of course be preferable for the parties to agree a figure, based on the investigators 
assessment. If however that is not possible, I will make an award based on what I consider 
to be a reasonable estimate of the cost of repairs  having regard to the two estimates which 
have been provided. In my view, a fair award would be £1,400, to include parts, labour and 
VAT. I accept that may be slightly more or slightly less than the actual costs of repair, but I 
believe it will be a fair and clear resolution.
I gave the parties until 22 August 2022 to make further submissions and provide any further 
evidence they wanted me to consider. AutoMoney did not respond within that timescale. Mr 
R said however that he thought the evidence he had provided showed the car had been 
involved in an accident. He did not think that £1,400 was enough to cover the cost of repairs   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Mr Rs response to my provisional decision did not, in my view, make any new arguments 
that I had not already considered and discussed in that decision. Nor did Mr R (or 
AutoMoney for that matter) provide me with any further evidence. Mr R did not provide any 
explanation of the second quote that he had provided.
For these reasons, I do not believe there is any good reason to change my view from that 
set out in my provisional decision.   
My final decision
For these reasons, as well as those set out in my provisional decision, my final decision is 
that, to resolve Mr Rs complaint in full, AutoMoney Limited should pay him £1,400.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman