DRN-3711750
The complaint
Miss B complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) dealt with a 
claim on her home insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss B claimed on her policy with RSA for escape of water. RSA reviewed the claim and 
asked Miss B to get a quote to repair the damage. RSA then accepted the claim but didnt 
agree to all of the costs in the quote. RSA then dealt with the claim by using its approved 
repairers. 
During the course of assessing the claim and doing the repairs there were numerous issues 
with missed appointments, delays and late arrivals so Miss B complained. She said shed 
lost earnings because of the issues and wasnt happy with the quality of work completed. 
During the claim Miss B also noticed some jewellery had gone missing from her home and 
thought the painters RSA had appointed had stolen it, so complained to RSA. 
RSA reviewed the complaints and agreed there had been failings in how the claim had been 
handled. Because of this RSA agreed to pay Miss B £1,740 compensation and to cover 
some of her lost earnings plus £250 compensation. RSA, however, didnt agree there was 
sufficient evidence the jewellery had been stolen by its repairers but said it was working with 
the Police who were investigating the theft. RSA agreed to consider the theft of the jewellery 
but said it would be dealt with as a second claim. RSA agreed to waive the excess for the 
jewellery claim and offered Miss B £125 towards a new front door lock. 
Miss B didnt think this was good enough and referred her complaint to this service. She said 
it was clear the repairers sent by RSA had taken her jewellery and so didnt think it was fair 
to be dealt with as a separate claim as they were only in her home to fix the damage from 
the escape of water. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She found the 
police investigation into the lost jewellery was ongoing and it wasnt for this service to 
determine if a crime had been committed or who had committed it. She thought the total 
compensation RSA had offered was a fair and reasonable amount to compensate Miss B for 
the errors RSA made in dealing with her claim and that the amount paid for cash in lieu of 
the remaining repairs was fair and reasonable. 
Miss B didnt agree so the complaint has come to me to decide. Miss B had previously 
provided a detailed response but said there were three key points. These were that it was 
clear on the balance of probabilities that RSAs repairers had taken her jewellery, it wasnt 
fair that Miss B would have to declare two claims going forward and therefore have 
increased premiums and thirdly that she wanted RSA to pay a cash in lieu settlement for the 
remaining work at the amount shed been quoted for rather than what it would cost RSA. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my decision I will address the issues with the escape of water claim first and then address 
the theft of Miss Bs jewellery. 
Im sorry to hear of the issues Miss B has experienced during the repairs for part of her 
escape of water claim. It seems odd that RSA would ask Miss B to get a quote and then not 
accept it and appoint its own repairers. However, I dont think RSA has done anything wrong 
by using its own repairers. I say this because its normal for an insurer to use its appointed 
repairers when dealing with claims. 
The policy terms say RSA wont pay more than the amount it would have cost to put things 
right if it had used its own repairers. As RSA didnt agree with the amount quoted by Miss 
Bs chosen repairer, I dont think it was unreasonable for RSA to use its own repairers. 
However, its clear that there were several issues with RSAs repairers which meant the 
claim took longer than it should have and resulted in Miss B needing to take additional time 
out of work. There were also some items which were damaged during the course of the 
claim which again is disappointing to see. I can see though that RSA has paid £1,740 for lost 
earnings and £250 compensation for the poor claim handling. When taking into account Miss 
B had to take more time out of work than would be expected and the unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience shes had trying to get hold of RSA and its contractors to sort out the 
issues, Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable compensation. So, Im not going to make 
RSA pay any more.
Regarding the remaining repair work, I can see RSA has now paid Miss B a cash in lieu 
payment, as agreed by Miss B. I also understand that Miss B doesnt think the amount shes 
been paid is enough. Ive therefore looked at what RSA has paid. I can see RSA has 
provided a breakdown of the work needed along with costings to show how much it would 
cost to complete the remaining repairs. RSA, however, hasnt paid the VAT element of the 
repairs but has agreed to pay the VAT if Miss B needs to pay VAT on the work. From looking 
at what RSA has paid Im satisfied its a fair and reasonable amount. 
I understand Miss B has said RSA needs to pay more and provided a quote for the work. Ive 
reviewed the quote compared to RSAs breakdown of costs and Im more persuaded by 
RSAs quote. This is because it provides a detailed breakdown of what is needed along with 
the costs. Furthermore, as Miss B has chosen to not use RSAs repairers, Im not persuaded 
RSA has acted unfairly by paying what it would have cost it in cash in lieu of repairs. Im 
therefore not going to tell it to pay any more.  However, if the work does cost more than RSA 
has paid, and Miss B provides evidence of this along with a breakdown of the costs I would 
expect RSA to assess any additional costs to see whether its fair to cover them. 
Ive also considered the theft of Miss Bs jewellery. I understand Miss B has said that on the 
balance of probabilities it was RSAs repairers who stole her jewellery. However, it wouldnt 
be appropriate for me to make that finding. I say this because theft is a criminal matter and 
something to be decided by the Criminal Courts. I can also see that the theft has been 
reported to the Police and RSA has said its working with the Police with its investigations. 
As RSA has cooperated with the Police, Im not persuaded RSA has acted unreasonably 
when Miss B made them aware of the theft. 
RSA has also confirmed it will consider the theft claim separately and if accepted waive the 
£200 excess for a theft claim. If not accepted RSA has agreed to pay this £200 to Miss B as 
further compensation along with paying Miss B £125 for a new door lock. Im satisfied this is 
fair and reasonable for RSA to do. This is because the theft is a separate incident to the 
escape of water and so I dont think RSA is being unreasonable by dealing with it as a separate claim. 
I understand Miss B would like it dealt with under the escape of water claim but Im not 
persuaded that is fair and reasonable in these circumstances. I say that because the Police 
havent found that it was RSAs repairers who carried out the theft. Im therefore not satisfied 
it should be recorded under the escape of water claim. If the Police do conclude that it was 
RSAs repairers who committed the crime of stealing Miss Bs jewellery, then I think RSA 
should consider at that point whether its fair and reasonable to deal with it under the escape 
of water claim and if Miss B is unhappy with RSAs response, she could raise that as a 
separate issue. 
Miss B has said its not fair that she needs to declare two claims going forward because of 
the theft and therefore have increased premiums. As I dont think RSA have done anything 
wrong by declaring it as two claims it wouldnt be fair to tell RSA to compensate Miss B for 
the impact, shes had by needing to declare the two claims.   
My final decision
For the reasons explained above my final decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limiteds offer to waive the £200 excess for the theft claim, or pay it as compensation if the 
theft claim isnt accepted is fair and reasonable.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman