DRN-3301737
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Creation Financial Services Limited incorrectly told her that her debt 
had been cleared.
What happened
Mrs D says she spoke to Creation on 4 May 2020 about support for her credit card debt. She 
says she applied for and was given a three-month payment holiday but received a letter from 
Creation dated 5 May 2020 telling her that her account had been cleared and closed. Mrs D 
says as a result she didnt include the Creation debt in her plans. She says she found out 
some months later that the account hadnt been closed and the debt remained. Mrs D would 
like Creation to honour what it said and write off the debt.
Creation accepts it made a mistake by sending the letter. It has apologised and paid £30 for 
the inconvenience the mistake caused. It says the debt was over £7,614 and it didnt 
mention closing the account or writing the debt off during the 4 May 2020 telephone call.
Mrs D brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought there no evidence of Creation agreeing to close the account during the 4 May 2020 
telephone call and thought Mrs D ought to have realised a mistake may have been made as 
she continued to receive account statements showing the account balance.
Mrs D doesnt accept that view and says she thought the debt being written off was a viable 
option and says the mistake had a significant impact on her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mrs D will be disappointed by my decision. 
I have no doubt that Mrs D was caused frustration by being told the account was clear and 
would closed before later finding out that was incorrect. But I can see that Creation has fairly 
apologised and paid an appropriate compensation amount for that incorrect information. I 
dont think this complaint is about the level of compensation, as what Mrs D would like is the 
debt written off as the 5 May 2020 letter effectively said would happen.
Im satisfied that Creation made a mistake, but I also think Mrs D ought to have realised 
there may have been a mistake in circumstances where she was applying for a three-month 
payment holiday. I think it ought to have been reasonably clear that it unlikely any business 
would simply write off a debt of over £7,600 when a customer had only applied for a short 
payment holiday. I also think that Creation continued to send Mrs D account statements 
which clearly showed a balance of that amount.
Overall, I cant fairly order Creation write off a debt of this amount which I think was correctly 
owed by Mrs D just because it made a mistake.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman