DRN-4374589
The complaint
Mr B complains about the decision by Accelerant Insurance UK Limited to turn down a claim
made under an insurance backed guarantee.
What happened
Mr B holds an insurance backed guarantee with Accelerant. This provides cover for making
good a defect if a contractor has stopped trading and cant honour their written guarantee.
Mr B made a claim in 2021 as there had been various problems with windows that had been
installed at his property in August 2015. The company that had carried out the installation
(that Ill call D) stopped trading in November 2017.
Accelerant initially turned down the claim as Mr B had said the issues were noticed when the
windows were installed, and had been reported to D. It relied on an exclusion which said
Accelerant wouldnt be liable for any defect discovered or reported to the contractor more
than six months before they stopped trading.
Mr B said that new issues had been found with the windows after D had stopped trading.
Accelerant therefore agreed to consider whether these were covered. After arranging an
inspection, Accelerant concluded that the issues werent covered under the insurance
backed guarantee. It therefore continued to turn down the claim. Unhappy with this, Mr B
brought a complaint to this Service.
I issued a provisional decision on 15 September 2023. Heres what I said:
The terms and conditions exclude:
any Defect discovered or reported to the Contractor more than 6 months before the
Contractor Ceased Trading
Mr B has described several problems with the windows to this Service. He explains that he
noticed issues as soon as the windows had been installed in 2015, and raised these with D.
He says that D carried out a repair, but further problems then arose. Despite continuing to try
and contact D about the matter, D did not carry out any further repairs.
Im satisfied that any issues discovered or reported to D before May 2017 (six months before
they stopped trading) would fall under the above exclusion. Though I dont know for certain
what issues were noticed or reported to D before this time, and Mr B says that further issues
continued happening after D had stopped trading anyway.
Ive therefore considered the report that Accelerant obtained in April 2022. This found that
the majority of the issues were due to poor workmanship (bars falling off the windows,
windows with the wrong units in, and brush seals too small). The report also said that some
of the issues could be due to the design of the windows themselves (cracks to paintwork,
and small gaps allowing draughts to come through). Finally, the report said that locks were
of poor quality and one window had a broken hinge.
The insurance backed guarantees terms and conditions explain that a claim can only be
made for a defect caused by the defective workmanship of the contractor where this is
specifically covered by the written guarantee. It excludes any loss or damage that wouldnt
have been recoverable under the written guarantee.
Ds written guarantee doesnt cover poor workmanship. As the majority of issues were found
to be caused by Ds poor workmanship, that means they arent covered under the insurance
backed guarantee.
The other issues are with the hardware (locks and hinges). The insurance backed guarantee
doesnt provide cover for any loss or damage to these items if the damage becomes
apparent more than two years after the completion date, unless the written guarantee
explicitly states that an item of this nature is covered for a longer period.
Ds written guarantee says that locks, finger pulls, pulley wheels and all metallic moving
parts are guaranteed for one year. That means these also wouldnt be covered under the
insurance backed guarantee, as these would have only been covered until August 2017. I
havent seen any evidence to support that these were damaged before that date.
Finally, there were two issues that the report found were likely due to the design of the
windows themselves  cracks to paint, and sashes not aligning correctly with the frame,
thereby allowing draughts to come through. Even if these were found to be defects as
defined by the terms and conditions, again these werent specifically covered by Ds written
guarantee. Therefore, they also arent covered by the insurance backed guarantee.
I do sympathise with Mr B. He paid a lot of money for the windows to be installed, and hasnt
been able to have the windows repaired/replaced. However, insurance doesnt cover every
eventuality, and Im satisfied that Accelerants decision to turn down the claim was made in
line with the terms and conditions.
I asked both parties for any further comments they wished to make before I made a final 
decision.
Mr B responded and didnt accept my provisional decision. He thought Id missed various 
points, including that the windows lacked spacers. 
Accelerant didnt respond with any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B hasnt explained what points he thought Id missed in my provisional decision, apart 
from the windows lacking spacers. 
It may be helpful if I explain that I didnt consider it necessary to include the detail of every 
issue with the windows in my provisional findings. Though I mentioned that there were 
windows with the wrong units in  the report arranged by Accelerant said that was because 
they didnt have spacers, when the other windows did. 
In my provisional decision I addressed the hardware as well as two issues that the report 
found were likely due to the design of the windows themselves (cracks to paint and sashes 
not aligning correctly with the frame). To be clear, all the other reported issues highlighted in the report were considered to be due to poor workmanship. Ds written guarantee doesnt 
cover poor workmanship, so those issues arent covered under the insurance backed 
guarantee provided by Accelerant.
I recognise Mr B will be disappointed with my decision, but I remain satisfied that Accelerant 
turned down his claim fairly and in line with the terms of the cover he held. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman