DRN-3226011
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Countrywide Assured Plc (Countrywide) will not allow her to cash in 
her annuity with it.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint and my provisional findings in a provisional 
decision. This is included below and forms part of this decision:
Mrs D had a pension with Countrywide and in 2006 she took her pension benefits under the plan 
and she now receives an annuity of just over £120 a year.
More recently, Mrs D asked Countrywide if she could cash in her annuity as a lump sum would be 
of more use to her. But Countrywide declined to do so, it said it has discretion not to offer this.
Our investigator asked Countrywide if it could make an exception as he felt it was in Mrs Ds best 
interests. Initially, it indicated that it would but as it hadnt done this before it would take some time 
to sort out. Some time later Countrywide came back to us and said it wouldnt be making an offer 
after all. It explained that the situation was more complex than it thought and after a thorough 
investigation it concluded that it couldnt make an offer that was fair to both parties. And that any 
offer could have wider implications on its business.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D would like to cash-in her annuity, and so Ive considered whether this is something we can 
fairly tell Countrywide it should offer her..
Relevant considerations
DISP 3.6.4 R says that in considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case, I will take into account the relevant law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
What are the regulations about cashing-in or commutation?
Various bits of legislation have helped form the current legislation that allow annuities to be 
cashed in. These include:
The Finance Act 2004 Section 164
The Finance Act 2004 Section 273B
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171
- reg. 11 De minimis rule for pension schemes
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171 
reg. 11A (inserted on 6/4/12)
Finance Act 2014 Section 42 Pension flexibility: taking low-value pension rights as lump 
sum
As a result of the above, the legislation in regard to commutation payments now reads:
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171 .
PART 2 COMMUTATION PAYMENTS
reg. 11A
(1) A payment to a member by a pension scheme which is not a public service pension 
scheme or an occupational pension scheme in respect of an arrangement under that 
scheme if
(a)the member has reached normal minimum pension age or the ill-health condition is 
met (see paragraph 1 of Schedule 28) ;
(b)the payment does not exceed £10,000 ;
(c)the payment extinguishes the member's entitlement to benefits under the 
arrangement;
The Finance Act which allowed providers/schemes to over-ride the rules of the scheme and make 
payments that otherwise previously wouldnt have been allowed (which now includes cashing-in of 
annuities)  was a permissive over-ride. What this means is the schemes are allowed to make 
these payments if they wish to do so  it isnt mandatory legislation.
So in essence what the legislation says is a person in Mrs Ds position doesnt have a right to 
commute their pension pot to a cash lump sum. However, if a provider wants to offer this it can, but 
only up to a limit of £10,000.
What are the relevant regulatory rules and guidance? 
   COBS 2.1 Acting honestly, fairly and professionally 
The client's best interests rule
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
Principles for Businesses
PRIN 2.1.1R The Principles
6 Customers' interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
Guidance to firms:
FCA Alert to firms: Fair Treatment of Customers 12/05/2015
All firms must be able to show consistently that fair treatment of customers is at the heart of their 
business model.
Taken together, all of this means in essence that firms must take the best interests of their 
customers into account in the actions they take. However, this doesnt mean that it should act in 
the interest of a single (or a small group of) customer(s) which would be at the expense of other 
customers. Nor to act in a particular customers interest without consideration of other factors or 
wider implications.
Im aware of no other codes of practice that would apply here, other than the legislation and 
regulatory rules Ive referred to above. However Ive also considered:
-What would have been good industry practice at the relevant time? Im aware some providers have allowed commutation of small annuities in the past.
-Contractual and other legal matters. Im aware that in some annuity contracts, there 
may be ownership issues (it may be subject to a separate contractual/legal 
arrangement with another party) or other lives attached to the annuity that could cause 
issues with commutation.
-Practical matters. For example, an annuity is a life-long insurance contract that is not 
designed to be cashed in. For that reason, it is often backed by long-term less liquid 
investments that may be more difficult to value or sell; and doing so might negatively 
affect the pricing of annuities for other customers.
The key questions that I need to consider in deciding what is fair and reasonable in this 
case
1.Does Countrywide have discretion to commute Mrs Ds annuity as requested? For 
example:
-Is the value under £10,000?
-Is Mrs D the legal owner of the annuity?
-Is Countrywide the other contracting party or has it been re-insured?
2.If Countrywide is free to commute the annuity, would it have been in Mrs Ds best 
interests to allow commutation? For example:
-Would it expose her to the risk of financial difficulty in the future?
-Would it affect other income that she relies on - such as state benefits being 
reduced due to the commutation payment?
3.If Countrywide was free to grant Mrs Ds request to commute the annuity and doing so 
would have been in her best interest, was it fair and reasonable for Countrywide to 
refuse? In other words, did it exercise its discretion in a fair and reasonable way?
My findings in light of the above considerations
Countrywide hasnt made any specific arguments in relation to this case as to why it isnt free to 
allow Mrs D to cash-in the annuity. So I am proceeding on the basis that it does have discretion to 
commute her annuity.
Its also not provided any information specific to Mrs D to show that she would be worse off if she 
were to commute the annuity to a cash lump sum. Having considered what Mrs Ds told us and the 
value of her annuity, Im satisfied the annuity is so small it doesnt provide any meaningful income 
on which she relies. I accept her position that shed benefit more from a cash lump sum, even if 
small. For these reasons, and subject to the lump sum value (which hasnt been determined), Ive 
proceeded also on the basis that it would be in Mrs Ds personal interest to encash the annuity.
This case therefore comes down to whether Countrywide fairly took into account Mrs Ds 
interests when it chose not to exercise its discretion to allow Mrs D to cash-in her annuity.
Countrywide has told us it has looked into the matter at its highest level and it has decided it 
currently cannot offer this option to Mrs D. Essentially because the annuity product wasnt 
designed to be cashed in, so it would be difficult to offer that option now without incurring 
significant cost and inconvenience  and possibly to the detriment of its customers. Its told us:
-Annuities are not designed to be cashed in. So determining a basis for fair value is 
difficult  it would have to take into health and underwriting risks, the original price at 
outset and encashment.
-It would need to come to a price or cost per cashing in request that wouldnt burden it as 
a business  but how would this be balanced with fair value for the customer?-It is concerned about what would represent a fair value for customers and how would a 
customer know if it was fair.
-Would it have to put in place a process where customers are aware of the risk factors of 
cashing in  this would add to the cost of the exercise. It would expect that the regulator 
would require an assessment from it of these risks.
-There are ramifications for making an offer beyond just Mrs Ds case for it as a 
business if it were to make an offer here.
Having thought about this very carefully, I think Countrywides points are fair ones. I dont think 
Countrywide simply disregarded Mrs Ds interests in this case. Its position is based on its 
considerations of what allowing commutation could mean for its customers and business model 
more widely.
It seems to me that Countrywide could avoid many of the challenges it has raised if it were to agree 
a settlement with Mrs D. And with her agreement that any sum paid is in full and final settlement of 
the annuity. The cost and impact in this one case would be small for a business the size of 
Countrywide. However, I acknowledge Countrywides difficulty here. Im not persuaded there is 
reason in Mrs Ds case to treat her differently to other customers with small annuities. (Its my 
understanding that is a significant portion of customers.)
Ive kept in mind that Mrs D would probably be better off with a cash lump sum and the annuity isnt 
useful to her. Ive balanced this against the fact that commutation wasnt something Mrs D had a 
right to. And while Countrywide was free to allow her request, Im satisfied it did have other 
legitimate interests to weigh up, including the way the annuity product was designed, the impact on 
Countrywides processes, the interests of its customers more widely and the potential cost.
On balance, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Countrywide to decline Mrs Ds 
request. It acted in line with the contract and the rules and treated Mrs D in line with other 
customers.
However, we have seen that some providers are looking into their stance on cashing-in annuities 
and Im aware that some businesses have previously offered cash values to customers. If in the 
future Countrywide changes its position on cashing in annuities or legislation changes, its 
possible Mrs D may benefit from such a change. But in the present circumstances I dont think 
shes been treated unfairly.
I appreciate Mrs D will be disappointed with this but for the reasons explained I am not 
intending to uphold her complaint.
Mrs D hasnt added anything new or substantive following the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the findings reached in my provisional 
decision. And so my final decision remains the same and as set out above.
In summary, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Countrywide to decline Mrs Ds 
request. It acted in line with the contract and the rules and treated Mrs D in line with other 
customers.
My final decisionFor the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, I do not uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman