DRN-2345976
The complaint
Mr S complains that TSB Bank Plc loaded a marker against him on the Cifas National Fraud 
Database. And hed like this removed. 
What happened
Mr S had a current account with TSB. 
On the 14 December 2016 Mr S received £100 into his TSB bank account. On the 
15 December 2016 TSB received a report from a third party bank, Ill call B, stating that 
these funds were fraudulent. Mr S withdrew the funds in four transactions between the 
16 December 2019 and the 19 December 2019.
 
TSB contacted Mr S and asked him for Proof of Entitlement to the funds. Mr S explained that 
he sold gaming chips  worth £100  to an acquaintance via a social media site, Ill call F. 
TSB asked Mr S to provide evidence of the sale, but Mr S was unable to do so. TSB issued 
Mr S with an immediate notice to close and loaded a marker on his Cifas record. 
Mr S wasnt happy with TSBs decision so complained. But TSB didnt change their position. 
So Mr S brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint. But didnt uphold it. They asked Mr S 
to provide evidence of any conversations hed had about the sale of the gaming chips  but 
he was unable to provide this. So they concluded the marker was loaded fairly. 
Mr S responded to our investigators view with some evidence of conversations which took 
place on F with a third party. Our investigator reviewed the evidence and reached a different 
conclusion. After looking at the new evidence Mr S provided they were satisfied it wasnt 
clear Mr S had received fraudulent funds or was a witting beneficiary of them. And they 
asked for TSB to remove the Cifas marker. 
Mr S accepted our investigators view but TSB didnt. In summary the bank wasnt convinced 
the evidence showed Mr S wasnt a witting beneficiary of fraudulent funds. TSB asked for 
more time to review their decision. This was provided by our investigator, but TSB havent 
responded to confirm their position.  
Because an agreement hasnt been reached Mr Ss case has been moved to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And in doing so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, Ill explain why below. 
The marker that TSB have filed with Cifas is intended to record that theres been a misuse 
of facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, theyre not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr S is guilty of a fraud 
of financial crime, but they must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion 
or concern. Cifas says:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered Mr Ss account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. 
Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that Mr S was deliberately 
dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate 
payment. This can include allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker should not be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate complicity. 
Ive thought about whether TSB have provided evidence that fraudulent funds entered Mr Ss 
account and he knew they were, or might be, illegitimate payments. And I dont think they 
have  Ill explain why below:
TSB have provided evidence of a report they received on the 15 December 2016 stating that 
Mr S received fraudulent funds on the 14 December 2016. So I understand the banks 
concerns here. Mr S did provide TSB with an explanation for the origin of the funds  and 
hes been consistent throughout here  namely selling gaming coins. However, until recently, 
hes not provided any evidence to support his explanation  despite this being requested 
both by TSB and our service. Ive reviewed the evidence that Mr S has provided  and much 
as our investigator concluded Im satisfied that this does change things. Mr S has provided a 
number of screenshots showing conversations with a third party via F where hes discussing 
selling gaming coins. The first screenshot of the chat is dated the 14 December 2016, which 
is the date Mr S received the funds, and the third party Mr S is conversing with has the same 
surname as the account holder who sent Mr S the funds. 
TSB have raised a number of points regarding why they dont think this evidence 
demonstrates Mr S didnt receive fraudulent funds or wasnt complicit. These include that the 
F account isnt in Mr Ss name. Our investigator approached Mr S about this, he responded 
that he uses his middle name for his F account, and I find this explanation plausible. Overall, 
Ive no reason to doubt the authenticity of the conversation Mr S had with the third party  its 
fits the timeline, is specific about the amount of money Mr S will receive and Mr S is 
speaking to a third party with the same surname as the account holder.
Ive also thought about what Id expect Mr S to have done if hed knowingly received 
fraudulent funds. I accept that he withdrew the £100 over a five day period, but if someone 
knowingly receives fraudulent funds Id normally expect them to move the money on, or 
withdraw this, much more quickly. And this didnt happen in Mr Ss case.
Overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not satisfied that Mr S was deliberately 
dishonest in receiving fraudulent funds. And therefore Ill be asking TSB to remove the Cifas 
marker. Ive thought about whether any compensation should be paid to Mr S for the impact 
of the marker. Its clear, as Mr S has explained, that the marker has had a negative impact 
on him including causing him significant difficulties in opening another current account. But, I 
can understand TSBs reasons for loading the marker in the first place. Mr S was given the 
opportunity to give TSB supporting evidence, which hes only recently provided. Therefore Im satisfied when TSB loaded the Cifas marker it was fair for them to do so. And I wont be 
asking TSB to pay any compensation. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is I direct TSB Bank Plc to:
-Remove the Cifas marker loaded against Mr S in January 2017. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman