DRN-3235196
The complaint
Ms I complains that Tesco Personal Finance Plc (Tesco) wouldnt agree to further 
forbearance on her credit card account.
What happened
Ms I had a credit card with Tesco. In March 2019, she contacted Tesco to let them know 
shed lost her job and her next payment would be late. Tesco put a hold on the account.
In May, she called Tesco to say she still wasnt in stable work. Tesco agreed to hold the 
account for 30 days to give her some more time to arrange her finances. It also removed two 
late payment fees and gave her the details of a free debt advice service.
In July, Tesco called Ms I and, as things hadnt changed, it agreed a repayment plan of £25 
per month with no fees or interest added to the balance for six months. This meant that, by 
December 2019, after 10 months of support in the form of forbearance plans and reduced 
payments, Ms Is credit card repayments would need to return to normal and the arrears 
paid. In July, Ms I was in arrears of £357 and Tesco said shed need to call back before the 
plan ended in December to pay the arrears or discuss the next steps and whether any 
further support was available. A repayment plan letter was sent to Ms I setting this out and 
the likely consequences of failing to clear the arrears or make contact at the end of the plan.
When the plan ended, Tesco didnt hear from Ms I and so it sent her a default notice on 31 
December 2019 confirming shed need to clear the arrears on the account or itd take further 
action. This included reporting it to the credit reference agencies (CRAs) as being in default 
and terminating the account. When it didnt get a response to the notice, this was followed by 
another letter in January 2020 explaining the account had been terminated and the default 
registered against Ms Is credit file.
In February 2020, Ms I contacted Tesco to say she couldnt afford to pay back the amount
owed in full and a regular payment plan was set up in May to clear the balance.
In September 2020, Ms I complained to Tesco. She didnt feel Tesco had treated her fairly 
and asked it to remove the default from her credit file. Tesco didnt uphold her complaint. 
Ms I brought the matter to our service for an independent review. She said she tried to keep 
Tesco up to date and hadnt seen some of their letters because of her personal 
circumstances including living in a small flat with three children and moving home which 
made it hard to find things. In terms of the emails Tesco sent to her, she said she wasn't 
checking her emails but also that she had so many job sites sending her jobs on a daily 
basis that they were easily missed as she wasnt expecting communication in that way. Ms I 
questions why Tesco didnt try to phone her when she didnt respond to it. She also says 
now that the pandemic has started and other credit card providers have offered her three-
month breaks and reduced APRs so she wouldve expected more from Tesco.
Ms I says she paid the £25 a month until she got the default letter and then stopped. 
Our investigator didnt think Ms Is complaint should be upheld. This is because she thought 
Tesco had shown appropriate forbearance and didnt think it wouldve made a difference to 
the account being defaulted even if Ms I had spoken to Tesco in December 2019. This is 
because Ms I wasnt able to repay the arrears at the end of the plan and the investigator 
didnt think Tesco wouldve reasonably been required to offer her further forbearance. 
Ms I disagreed and says she couldnt have paid the arrears off and so wouldnt have agreed 
to this in July 2019 if the terms had been made clear. She said Tesco treated her differently 
to her other creditors and couldve emailed even if they couldnt get her on the phone.
Our investigator didnt change her mind but communicated with Ms I about the points raised. 
She explained the requirement six months after July 2019 was for Ms I to contact Tesco - 
either to pay the arrears or find another way forward. And she thought the responsibility to 
contact Tesco when the plan was ending was on Ms I. Further, it had sent emails to her 
which Ms I said she didnt see. Finally, the investigator confirmed the guidance on payment 
holidays during Covid-19 was for consumers experiencing temporary payment difficulties as 
a direct result of the pandemic. And this guidance wasn't brought in until early April 2020 - 
some time after Ms Is card had already been defaulted.
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of matters and points have been raised, this decision focuses on what I 
think are the main issues. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions 
made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I consider the investigator has reached a fair outcome here. So I dont 
uphold Ms Is complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
Lenders are expected to consider consumers who are experiencing financial difficulties with 
forbearance and due consideration. So, Id expect to see Tesco did this when Ms I told it of 
her financial difficulty in March and May 2019. And this is what I think it did when it agreed to 
hold the account from March and refund two months worth of late payment fees. It also did 
this again in July 2019 when Tesco agreed a reduce payment period with a freeze on 
interest and charges for a further six months. Overall, this is a total of 10 months of 
assistance from when Ms I first got in touch with it. I consider this to be fair and I dont 
consider Tesco acted unreasonably towards Ms I by offering her such a payment plan, given 
her circumstances at that time
To offer tailored support to a borrower, a lender would need to understand the borrowers 
circumstances. Thats because it needs to make sure the support it offers isnt detrimental to 
the borrower. To gain an understanding of a borrowers circumstances, I think its reasonable 
for the lender to expect the borrower to engage with it and provide relevant information so 
that those circumstances can be assessed. This is something which can only be done near 
to the time the deferral or other form of forbearance is needed because the support is based 
on the circumstances which exist at the time. So, I consider Tesco acted reasonably in 
agreeing to the measures it did for short periods initially and then six months. Further, it was 
reasonable for Tesco to ask Ms I to get in touch at the end of each period to discuss her 
circumstances rather than her expecting Tesco to chase her to get in touch. After all, the 
money is owed to the bank by Ms I and circumstances can change.   I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Tesco was unclear about what was agreed 
would happen when the six-month plan ended in December 2019. That is, Ms I needed to 
either clear the arrears or get in touch to see if further support was available. This is 
recorded in the contact notes and set out in the letter confirming the details of the agreed 
plan. Ms I didnt do either of these things. I consider that throughout the communications she 
had with Tesco, its been clear about the likely next steps and possible implications of what 
might happen if Ms I didnt do this. That is, this would lead to Ms Is account defaulting  with 
a default being placed on her credit file for six years - and the account being terminated. 
I note what Ms I says about why she missed the letters and emails from Tesco. Even so, 
keeping her address up to date, checking her emails and reading her post was Ms Is 
responsibility. She ran the risk of missing something important if she didnt do this. 
Particularly in circumstances where it related to contact from a bank that shed had various 
forms of support from at the time. 
Finally, I understand Ms I is unhappy that Tesco hasnt given her the same support that 
other lenders have considering the pandemic. However, Ms I fell into difficulties in early 2019 
and Tesco recorded the default against her credit file before the FCAs guidance came out. 
Even so, the guidance was to protect consumers who had until then been able to make the 
repayments required on their credit accounts without issue but who were in danger of having 
their credit file impacted as a result of financial difficulties caused by the pandemic. So, I 
dont consider the guidance issued in April 2020 by the FCA in relation to the pandemic to 
have been relevant to this matter and the steps Tesco took quite some time before it.
Having said all the above, I cant say Tesco did anything wrong when it defaulted Ms Is 
credit card account and recorded this on her credit file in February 2020 nor when it wouldnt 
agree to remove it. Credit providers have an obligation to make accurate reports to the 
CRAs. In this case, arrears accumulated on Ms Is account and were unpaid for quite some 
time. Further, Ms I has said she wasnt able to pay the arrears at the time the plan was 
agreed nor had things improved by the time the plan ended. This suggests there was a low 
probability of her being able to clear those arrears in the foreseeable future. So, its my view 
it was fair and reasonable for Tesco to consider her account as being in default and reported 
to the CRAs as such.
I note Ms I has a balance outstanding and Id encourage her to liaise with Tesco about 
repaying this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman