DRN-4369369
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) decided theyd made a 
qualifying misrepresentation when they renewed their horse insurance policy. 
Mrs B has acted as the main representative during the claim. So, for ease of reference, I will 
refer to any actions taken, or comments made, by either Mr B or Mrs B as Mrs B 
throughout the decision. 
What happened
Mrs B renewed her horse insurance policy in April 2021 and again in 2022. Mrs B then made 
a claim to Allianz in May 2022. Allianz declined the claim on the basis Mrs B made a 
careless misrepresentation when renewing her policy, so Mrs B complained. Allianz 
responded and explained, as part of their claim investigation, their underwriting team 
reviewed Mrs Bs horses clinical notes. They said this referred to two visits to the vet before 
Mrs Bs 2021 renewal which showed clinical signs of the condition for which a claim was now 
being made. Allianz said, had they been made aware of this at the 2021 renewal, they 
wouldve applied an exclusion to the policy  and this wouldve meant the claim wouldnt 
have been covered. 
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to   
Mrs B and Allianz on 4 September 2023. In my provisional decision I said as follows:  
    
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract 
(a policy). 
The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. And if a consumer fails to do 
this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what 
CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed 
to take reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA 
depends on whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or 
careless. 
Allianz thinks Mrs B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when, during the renewal process, she didnt disclose that her horse had shown 
signs of illness, injury or being unwell. Allianz say this prevented them from applying 
an exclusion. 
  
The first point Ive considered is whether Mrs B took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. Ive looked at the information Mrs B was presented with during 
renewal, and this shows the renewal invite included a document headed Important 
details we need to know. This sets out a series of questions and asks whether there 
is anything about Mrs Bs horse she hasnt claimed for or already told Allianz about. It 
says, If you answer YES to any of the following questions, you must contact us to let 
us know the full details before your renewal date. Otherwise, it could result in a claim 
not being paid or affect your cover. It goes further to say, We need to know about 
anything for which your horse has been seen by a vet or a veterinary professional, 
along with any issues you have discussed with them regarding your horses health, 
even if they didnt feel there was anything to be concerned about at the time, or the 
problem resolved quickly. 
One of the questions asks, Have your horses shown signs of illness or injury or been 
unwell, regardless of whether or not they saw a vet for the problem or you treated the 
problem yourself? The other question asks, Have your horses been seen by a vet 
or another veterinary professional for any reason other than routine vaccinations, 
teeth rasping or castration? Mrs B didnt provide a response to these questions. 
Allianz say had Mrs B answered these questions Yes  as they believe she 
shouldve done  then they wouldve applied an exclusion relating to Mrs Bs horses 
back/spine  which wouldnt have provided cover for the condition she is claiming for.  
So, Ive looked at Mrs Bs horses circumstances to see whether she could 
reasonably have been expected to answer the questions in the way Allianz have 
described. Ive looked at the clinical notes and theres an entry made on 27 January 
2021 which says, On palpation very reactive lumbar epaxial musculature and over 
sacro-iliac region2/10 left hind lamesuspect lameness related to injury left dorsal 
hockperiosteal reaction proximal dorso-medial aspect of the left hind canon 
bonethe TMT joint showed mild to moderate arthritic changes dorso-medial 
aspect  Theres a further entry in the clinical records dated 15 February 2021, 
which says, On palpation multiple areas of mild to moderate sensitivity, back of 
saddle, lumbar back and over pelvis/sacro-iliac region. Theres then an entry dated 1 
February 2022, which the claim form suggests is the date the condition was first 
noticed, which says Very reactive on palpation along back and over sacro-iliac 
region. 
I think the questions were clear  particularly because it asks about Mrs Bs horse 
showing any signs of illness or injury, or generally being unwell  and it does make it 
clear this is regardless of whether a vet was seen for this  or even if it was nothing 
to worry about. So, in the circumstances of this case, and having carefully considered 
the information, I think Allianzs suggestion for how Mrs B shouldve answered these 
questions is reasonable. So, given that I believe the question was clear and specific, 
I dont think Mrs B took reasonable care when answering it. 
 
Theres been a misrepresentation here, but an insurer will only be entitled to take 
action if its a qualifying misrepresentation in accordance with CIDRA. So, Ive now 
considered whether the information provided by Mrs B amounts to a qualifying 
misrepresentation. 
The next point Ive looked at is whether the misrepresentation actually made a 
difference to Allianz. In other words, if the information Allianz received had been 
accurate, would they have offered the insurance policy at all or only on different 
terms - including whether they wouldve charged more. In considering this point, I can 
see theres a dispute between the parties about whether there were any clinical signs 
of the condition in 2021. I should stress that I am not a vet and nor do I have 
specialist veterinary knowledge, so when considering such complaints, I take into 
account what the clinical notes show and the opinion of the experts. And thats what 
Ive done here. Under guidelines issued by their regulatory body, all vets are required to take the 
utmost care when writing records to ensure they are clear and accurate. It is 
therefore reasonable for an insurer to rely on the clinical notes as being a true and 
accurate representation of what was seen and heard at the time of each consultation. 
The clinical notes are a contemporaneous account of Mrs Bs horses clinical history. 
   
The claim form submitted to Allianz relates to treatment provided between 1 February 
to 14 February 2022. The vet has noted the affected area as Dorsal spinous process 
impingement diagnosed on bone scintigraphy and notes the condition first started on 
1 February 2022. Theres a question which asks about the clinical history and if Mrs 
Bs horse has been seen before for this condition or anything similar, and the vet 
notes, See clinical history. The next question asks if the condition being claimed for 
is related to this history and the vet has noted, Previous history of back soreness. A 
further question asks whether the vet recommended any complementary treatment 
and theyve noted, Physiotherapy. 
I can see Mrs Bs horse was receiving physiotherapy treatment and the 
physiotherapist provides an opinion which says theyve seen Mrs Bs horse over the 
last two years for regular routine physiotherapy appointments. The physiotherapist 
says, during this time, Mrs Bs horse has displayed muscular discomfort in the middle 
to low thoracic region and lumbosacral region. The physiotherapist also says Mrs Bs 
horse has also palpated tender through the pelvic musculature from time to time. 
They say, at no time has Mrs Bs horse displayed pain over the dorsal spinous 
processes in the thoracic region or shown reduced range of movement in this area. 
The physiotherapist says, In my opinion the muscular discomfort shown during this 
time has been consistent with his work load and expected in a big young horse as he 
develops and progresses in his training.
The treating vet has also provided an opinion which says Mrs Bs horse has recently 
undergone a poor performance investigation, including bone scintigraphy and 
subsequent radiography. They say a diagnosis of thoracic dorsal spinous process 
impingement has been made and this part of Mrs Bs horses back has been 
medicated. The vet says Mrs Bs horse has previously been examined by them in 
2021 and theyve recorded muscular pain in the lumbar part of the horses back in 
addition to over the sacro-iliac region. They say this muscular soreness resolved with 
physiotherapy. The vet says, the current diagnosis of dorsal spinous process 
impingement is for thoracic spinous processes T10 - T15, much more cranial than 
the previously recorded lumbar muscle soreness. The previous recorded lumbar 
muscle soreness is not related to the current diagnosis of kissing spine.  The vet 
asks Allianz to reconsider the claim as they dont consider dorsal spinous processes 
a pre-existing condition. 
Allianz then forward the clinical notes and the opinion from the treating vet and 
physiotherapist to a consultant vet and ask them to provide an opinion. Insurers often 
appoint experts experienced in this type of work to provide an opinion, and thats 
what Allianz did. I think its a fair thing to do  and its reasonable for Allianz to take 
their experts opinion into account. The consultant vet refers to the entry made in the 
clinical notes on 15 February 2021 which they say was after apparent inception on 27 
January 2021. They say sensitivity was found at the back of the saddle area 
(thoracolumbar junction). The consultant vet says the comments made during the 
visit on 1 February 2022 are very similar to that made during the February 2021 visit 
and, as such, the conditions could be directly or indirectly related. The consultant vet 
refers to the scintigraphy report which states, There is mild/moderate focal IRU 
within the summits of the dorsal spinous processes of the 11-13th thoracic vertebrae, and then milder focal IRU in the same location further caudally from the 17th thoracic 
to the 1st lumbar vertebrae. The consultant vet says, on the basis of the IRU 
extending into the lumbar area they would expect the associated/adjacent muscle 
groups to be reactive. The consultant vet says, in their opinion, the condition treated 
in 2022 is likely to be a related condition (directly or indirectly) to the condition 
identified in January 2021. 
The consultant vet then carries out a further review, but this time focusing more 
specifically on the treating vets opinion. They say its recognised that pain in one part 
of the back can always be indicative of problems elsewhere as the anatomical 
structures (muscles, bones and ligaments) are inter-related. The consultant vet notes 
that Mrs Bs horse was seen on multiple occasions by a physiotherapist, from 
December 2020 onwards, and on most occasions during that time they refer to both 
thoracic and lumbar areas. The consultant vet refers to the treating vets opinion 
about the diagnosis relating to the T10  T15, which the treating vet said was much 
more cranial than the previously recorded condition. The consultant vet says, the 
thoracic and lumbar areas are adjacent and T15 is still very close to the first lumbar 
vertebra The consultant vet has then provided two diagrams, one showing the 
position of the 18 thoracic vertebrae, and another showing the thoracic area and 
lumbar area  together with the lumbar vertebrae. 
The consultant vet then explains the back of the saddle extends to the back of the 
saddle area  and the back of the saddle support area is at the 18th thoracic 
vertebrae  the last one connected to the ribs. They say, The strength of the horses 
back allowing it to carry weight comes from all the muscles and ligaments intertwined 
in the ribs. After the last rib is the lumbar vertebrae. The lumbar vertebrae have long 
delicate horizontal transverse processesSince they cannot support any weight, the 
muscles tighten to protect them resulting in back pain and need for chiropractic and 
massage therapy. The consultant vet is of the opinion the condition being claimed 
for is linked to the condition recorded in January 2021 and the exclusion does apply 
in this case.    
Allianz have also provided physiotherapy records which show Mrs Bs horse was 
receiving physiotherapy at the time of the January 2021 visit to the vet  and through 
2021. And I agree with the consultant vets opinion that the records do, on a number 
of occasions, refer to both thoracic and lumbar areas. 
  
I accept there is conflicting expert opinion here, and where thats the case, I have to 
weigh up which is more persuasive. The clinical notes from the vet for the visits in 
January and February 2021 do refer to the areas which were mentioned during the 
visit in February 2022. And while I have taken into account the treating vets opinion 
about the condition in February 2022 being more cranial than the previously 
mentioned lumbar muscle soreness, the diagrams provided by the consultant vet 
shows the positioning of the thoracic and lumbar vertebrae  and they describe how 
any pain and discomfort would be linked. 
In addition to this, on the claim form, the treating vet also comments about there 
being a previous history of back soreness  and the physiotherapy records support 
this. So, having considered all expert opinions, Im persuaded, its more likely than 
not, the condition treated in February 2022 is linked to the issues identified in 
January 2021.
Mrs Bs policy covers a condition for 12 months starting from the date the clinical 
signs are first noticed or the date an injury happened. After the 12 months, or the 
maximum benefit being reached, the condition is no longer covered, and an 
exclusion is placed on the policy. Allianz have provided their underwriting criteria, and this shows the exclusion which wouldve been applied to the 2021 renewal. This 
relates to the back/spine, and associated soft tissue structures. Given what Ive 
mentioned above, I think its more likely than not, had Mrs B answered Yes to the 
questions Ive referred to above, the exclusion wouldve been applied - and the onset 
date taken as 27 January 2021. The underwriting criteria shows this wouldve been 
reviewable after 12 months. But there would need to be evidence Mrs Bs horse had 
been free of any related problems over the previous 12 months. As mentioned 
above, Im persuaded by the consultant vets opinion that the physiotherapy notes 
show Mrs Bs horse wasnt free from any related problems over the previous 12 
months  that means the exclusion wouldnt have been disapplied.        
So, taking this information into account, I think Mrs B has made a qualifying 
misrepresentation. I can see Allianz believe the qualifying misrepresentation was 
careless and Im minded to agree. Given thats the case, CIDRA allows Allianz to 
continue to provide the insurance but on the terms they wouldve offered had the 
misrepresentation not happened. Allianz have provided evidence which shows they 
wouldve placed an exclusion on Mrs Bs policy relating to her horses back/spine and 
associated soft tissue structures. This means they wouldnt cover any related 
problems after 12 months from 27 January 2021. The treatment Mrs Bs horse 
received, and is subject to the claim, is after 12 months, so the exclusion wouldve 
meant Allianz wouldnt cover this under the policy. And a review wouldnt have led to 
the exclusion being removed. So, I dont think Allianzs decision to decline the claim 
is unfair.  
So, subject to any further comments from Mrs B or Allianz, my provisional decision was that I 
was minded to not uphold this complaint. 
Following my provisional decision, Allianz have responded to confirm they have no further 
comments to make. Mrs B has responded and points out her horse had a very traumatic 
incident in 2019 involving his hind leg and, given the significance of this injury, 
back/pelvis/lameness related observations would be expected as he rehabilitates. Mrs B 
says this is what the treating vet has referred to in their entry of 27 January 2021. Mrs B 
says Allianz applied an exclusion for this injury, which included connected issues. And she 
explains she has followed this exclusion and covered all associated costs of treatment as 
she assumed they were connected. Mrs B says the condition being claimed for isnt 
connected to this, so there wasnt anything to disclose at renewal. Mrs B also refers to an 
injury sustained to her horses hock in 2020 and she says her vet relates the issues in 
January 2021 to this. 
Mrs B also says the diagnosis of an overriding dorsal spinous process is strongly associated 
with declining behaviour and performance related issues, which werent present in her horse 
until February 2022. Mrs B says her horse was in a stable condition and his performance 
improved during the period between 27 January 2021 and the point of claim. Mrs B says it 
would be highly unlikely to see a horse in a stable state with performance improvements for 
almost a year if this condition was present from January 2021. 
Mrs B also says she believes the onset date should be taken as February 2022 as this is 
when her horse started displaying key symptoms of pain and performance issues associated 
with a dorsal spinous process.  
I note Mrs B says the treating vet is of the opinion the observations made in January 2021 
are related to the hock  and therefore covered by the existing exclusion which was already 
in place. Mrs B therefore feels the points about reasonable care and misrepresentation 
should be reconsidered. Mrs B also feels Allianz should specifically comment on why they 
believe the observations in January 2021 are unrelated to the hock in order to justify why an 
additional spinal exclusion was added. Mrs B says this is particularly the case as the condition in January 2021 didnt meet the policy definition of pain. Mrs B says, when 
considering the extensiveness of the hock injury and related exclusion against a lack of 
clinical symptoms (such as behaviour and performance) for dorsal spinous process shown at 
the time, and then looking at the classic clinical symptoms for dorsal spinous process 
displayed in February 2022, this supports her argument that the condition identified in 
January 2021 is unrelated to the condition which forms the basis of her claim.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. So, Ive decided to 
not uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and copied 
above.
Ive looked again at the clinical notes, and I agree there is a record in relation to an injury 
sustained to Mrs Bs horses hind leg in 2019 which necessitated a number of visits to the 
vet for treatment. The notes suggest the injury involved a vertical scrape and cut to the 
horses right hind with some swelling. It appears a Radiography examination showed no 
signs of a fracture. Three of the records relating to the treatment for this injury refer to there 
being no lameness present. The notes refer to the wound being stitched, with the dressing 
being changed during visits to the vet. 
Theres also a record relating to an injury sustained in 2020 to Mrs Bs horses left hock. The 
vet describes the injury as a full thickness skin wound to the dorsal aspect of the mid-left 
hock region. The vet had concerns about the potential joint involvement of the wound, so 
they made a referral to a veterinary hospital for further investigation and treatment. Theres a 
note which says Mrs Bs horse was discharged, and a follow-up appointment with the vet 
notes the wound was granulating well. The vet notes stiffness improved with movement and 
the physiotherapist would release tightness in left back which was likely caused by the initial 
injury and surgery. I can see an exclusion was then added to the policy relating to Mrs Bs 
horses injured hock.        
The entry relating to the January 2021 visit does then refer to an examination of Mrs Bs 
horses hock, and the vet notes this has scarred over well and there being no lameness 
while walking in a straight line. There was some lameness noted on lunge, which the vet 
suspected relates to the injury to the hock. As mentioned above, the notes for this visit also 
refer to Mrs Bs horses back, but Im not persuaded the injury to the hock is related to this. 
Theres a number of visits to the vet during 2019 and 2020 for treatment for the two injuries, 
but the notes for these visits dont refer specifically to Mrs Bs horse, on palpation, being very 
reactive around the lumbar epaxial musculature and over sacro-iliac region. The notes 
relating to the visit on 15 February then refer to the same area  and this then follows 
through to the visit in February 2022 for which the claim is being made. 
So, while I agree with Mrs Bs points about her horse sustaining other injuries, it doesnt 
change what I believe was the onset date for the condition. 
I acknowledge Mrs Bs point about her horses performance over the year following the 
January 2021 visit and how this wouldve been unlikely if her horse was showing signs of 
dorsal spinous processes at that point. I also acknowledge Mrs Bs points about her horse 
showing the more typical signs of dorsal spinous process in February 2022  and how 
behaviour and performance are key identifiers for this condition. As Ive mentioned, Im not 
an expert in this area, and it may well be that a condition develops over time and starts to 
have a greater impact later. But, in assessing an onset date  and in order to determine 
when the 12-month period should start, Allianz take this from the date the clinical signs are first noticed.  And, as Ive already mentioned above, specifically in relation to my comments 
about the consultant vets opinion, Im persuaded the first clinical signs of the condition being 
claimed for were identified during the visit in January 2021. 
I acknowledge the consultant vet hasnt specifically commented on whether there is any 
possibility the lumbar epaxial musculature issue noted during the January 2021 visit was 
connected to the hock injury, but they have described how this is linked to the dorsal spinous 
process condition. Theres a link here in the observations made by the treating vet during the 
visits in January and February 2021 when compared to the areas which were mentioned 
during the visit in February 2022. And, as mentioned above, Im persuaded by the consultant 
vets opinion as they describe how any pain and discomfort would be linked. In addition to 
this, and as mentioned above, its not just the consultant vets opinion that Ive taken into 
account. The claim form, and specifically the section completed by the treating vet, refers to 
there being a previous history of back soreness  and the physiotherapy records support 
this. So, having considered all expert opinions, Im persuaded, its more likely than not, the 
condition treated in February 2022 is linked to the issues identified in January 2021.
I understand Mrs B will be disappointed, and I do acknowledge it has been a difficult time for 
her. But my role here is to decide whether Allianz have acted fairly and reasonably in 
declining the claim  and from the information Ive seen, I think they have. I wish to reassure 
Mrs B Ive read and carefully considered everything she has sent in, but if I havent 
mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman