DRN-1818714
 
The complaint
Mr H complains about how Aspray Limited, an insurance loss assessor, handled a property 
insurance claim on his behalf. 
What happened
Mr H made a claim on his buildings insurance policy. He instructed Aspray to act on his 
behalf while his insurer dealt with the claim. It seems Mr H had some issues with the insurer 
and he made a separate complaint to us about it. He was also unhappy with how Aspray had 
handled the claim on his behalf and he complained to it. In particular, he was unhappy 
about the following issues:
Comments the loss assessor had made about Mr H and his wife which had been 
recorded on CCTV;
The plumber Aspray appointed didnt notice that pipes they were putting in were 
dented;
The plumber had caused a leak in the pipes, which led to damage to the living room 
ceiling and walls;
Aspray was responsible for his boiler being deemed as beyond economic repair;
A bathroom which Mr H had arranged privately with Aspray hadnt been installed 
correctly;
The toilet in the bathroom had taken a long time to stop leaking and Mr H 
had concerns about Asprays contractors works.
 
Aspray looked into Mr Hs concerns. It acknowledged that its assessors comments had 
been unprofessional and shouldnt have been made. It also accepted that Mr H had had to 
point out the dented pipework to the assessor, whod then put it right. But it didnt think it was 
responsible for the other issues Mr H had raised. It offered to deduct £250 from its final bill 
as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr H wasnt happy with Asprays offer and asked us to look into his complaint. He said he 
believed that issues with drying his floor mightve been raised by Aspray so it could make 
more money from the claim. He also said that Aspray had been unhappy with cracks in the 
walls and had got a contractor in to deal with it. But he said the insurer had disagreed with 
Aspray and so theyd had to pay out money to get a survey done to check this potential 
issue. He said the stress of dealing with the claim had led to both he and his wife becoming 
ill and his wifes mental health being impacted.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. She said we couldnt look 
into some of the issues Mr H had raised. While she agreed the assessors comments werent 
professional, she thought Asprays apology was enough to put this right. She felt Aspray had 
handled the other parts of Mr Hs complaint fairly.I issued a provisional decision on Mr Hs complaint on 26 March 2020. In my provisional 
decision, I explained the reasons why I wasnt able to look at some of the issues Mr H had 
raised and why I didnt plan to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I said:
Which parts of Mr Hs complaint am I able to look at?
The Financial Ombudsman Service isn't free to consider every complaint that's brought to it. 
We're governed by rules set by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority
(FCA). They're called the DISP rules and can be found in the FCA's handbook. They set out 
the complaints that we can (and can't) investigate.
One of those rules  DISP 2.3.1(1) says we can consider complaints that are about an act or 
omission by a financial business when its carrying out a regulated activity. When we look at 
complaints about loss assessors, the relevant regulated activity were able to consider is 
assisting in the administration and performance of a contract of insurance. So we can only 
look at complaints that are brought about work a loss assessor has done for a consumer in 
connection with an ongoing insurance claim.
Im persuaded that Mr Hs complaints about the comments made about himself and his wife; 
the dented pipework and the leak in the living room do form part of Mr Hs insurance claim. 
These were all works connected to the escape of water claim he made. So I think I can look 
at these issues within my decision.
But having considered everything, I dont think I can look into Mr Hs complaint points about 
his boiler; the installation of the bathroom suite and the leaking toilet. Thats because these 
issues werent connected to the insurance claim. It appears that Mr H and Aspray privately 
arranged for the bathroom works to be done. And the boiler didnt form part of Mr Hs claim 
with his insurer. So I dont think these complaint points are regulated activities.
Ive also thought about Mr Hs complaints about the drying issues he encountered and 
Aspray pointing out cracks in the walls and ceiling. These issues dont appear to have been 
raised or considered previously by Aspray within its final response. So I dont think it would 
be appropriate for me to comment on them within this decision. Mr H is free to raise these 
separately with Aspray as a new complaint if he wishes to do so.
This means that I will be looking into the comments the assessor made; the dented pipework 
and the leak in the living room.
Asprays assessors comments about Mr and Mrs H
Ive listened to the recording Mr H sent in, taken from his CCTV. I dont doubt how upsetting 
it was for Mr and Mrs H to hear the comments the assessor made. And I think the comments 
were unprofessional. Im pleased to see that Aspray has acknowledged this and apologised 
for its assessors comments.
Issues with the claim
Ive thought about what Mr H has told us about the dented pipework and Ive looked at 
Asprays own notes. I can see Mr H did have issues with the state of the pipes that were 
going to be laid. The notes suggest sections of pipework were replaced at this point, so the 
system had to be drained down and re-pressurised.It mustve been frustrating for Mr and Mrs H to have to point out potential issues with the 
works to Aspray, given it was acting on their behalf. But from what Ive seen, the dented 
pipework was promptly replaced. So it seems Aspray dealt with this issue quickly and fairly.
The notes also show that Mr H experienced a leak in his living room. I can understand how 
worrying this mustve been for Mr H and his wife when they were already in the middle of a 
large escape of water claim. It appears that Aspray went straight to their home with a 
plumber to investigate the leak. The notes from the assessor say:
The leak had come from a pipe in the loft that was covered in insulation. This pipe had been 
welded by someone else who had failed to remove the flux which has corroded the pipe 
causing a pin hole leak.
Aspray didnt think this leak had been down to anything its contractor had done. And based 
on what these notes say, it seems most likely that the leak wasnt Asprays fault. So I dont 
think I can fairly hold Aspray responsible for the leak or any additional inconvenience it 
caused.
Overall, I currently think Aspray has caused Mr and Mrs H some trouble and upset by its 
handling of their claim. Thats because I think the assessors comments were unnecessary 
and unprofessional. And it looks like they had to step in when the pipework was dented, 
when they shouldnt have had to. So I need to think about what fair compensation should be.
I can tell financial businesses to pay compensation for the trouble and upset its caused a 
consumer if I think its the right thing to do. But my role isnt to fine or punish a financial 
business. Were not the industry regulator. So I look at what I think fair compensation should 
be in the individual circumstances of a complaint.
In this case, Aspray deducted £250 from its final bill as a gesture of goodwill. And I think this 
was a fair response to Mr Hs complaint. Taken together with Asprays apology, I think this is 
fair compensation for the assessors comments and the issues with the dented pipework. So 
I dont plan to tell Aspray to pay anything more.
I asked both parties to send me any more evidence or information they wanted me to look at 
before 25 April 2020.
Aspray had nothing more to add,
Mr H disagreed with my provisional decision. He provided detailed additional comments to 
support his complaint and Ive summarised his main points:
The loss assessor had unnecessarily caused the appointment of several drying 
companies because he maintained the sub-base was still wet.
The dented pipework should never have been laid and wasnt replaced promptly.
The leaking toilet referred to a toilet in the main bathroom, not the privately replaced 
en-suite, so I should consider this issue.
Mr Hs boiler was working fine before the claim.
The leak from the loft shouldve been on Asprays insurance.
Mr H has paid the full final balance, but Aspray hasnt paid him £250.
 
 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Hs complaint.
I thank Mr H for his detailed submissions in response to my provisional decision. While Ive 
summarised them above, Id like to reassure him that Ive read and considered them in 
detail.
I appreciate Mr H feels strongly that I should consider the issues relating to his boiler and the 
leak from Mr Hs loft. But as I explained in my provisional decision, these simply arent 
issues Im able to look at under our rules. The fault with Mr Hs boiler wasnt covered by his 
home insurance policy. So any work the loss assessor did in connection with Mr Hs boiler 
simply wasnt part of his insurance claim.  The leak from the loft took place as part of the 
fitting of new pipework for the privately arranged ensuite. Again, this simply isnt something 
that formed part of Mr Hs home insurance claim  it was a separate, contractual 
arrangement with Aspray. So I have no power to look into this issue.
Mr H has clarified that the leaking toilet refers to the toilet in the main bathroom, rather than 
the ensuite bathroom. Ive thought carefully about this. While I can see the insurer was 
copied into an email between Aspray and Mr H which referred to the toilet leaking, it isnt 
clear that repairs to the main toilet formed part of the main insurance claim. The photos Ive 
seen from the insurer only show a strip-out to the ensuite bathroom. Its possible this was 
part of the main claim. But even if it was, I think the £250 gesture of goodwill Asprays 
already offered would also take into account this issue.
Its clear a number of drying tests took place at Mr Hs property, where different contractors 
made different conclusions about the wetness or otherwise of the property. But as I havent 
considered this issue within my provisional decision, it isnt something Im able to comment 
further on. It also seems whether this testing was necessary forms a part of Mr Hs complaint 
about his insurer, which another ombudsman will be considering.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I dont doubt that the comments the loss assessor 
made about Mr H and his wife were upsetting. I think the comments were unnecessary and 
unprofessional and it was right and appropriate for Aspray to apologise for these.
Ive also acknowledged how frustrating it mustve been for Mr H when dented pipework was 
laid. Ive looked at the emails hes sent us and I can see he let Aspray know about this 
around a week before the issue was put right. While there was a short delay in fixing the 
issue, I do think overall, it was put right reasonably promptly. 
All in all, I think £250 is fair compensation for the issues Mr H experienced. All insurance 
claims bring a degree of inconvenience and it seems this was a large claim which caused a 
lot of disruption to Mr H and his wifes lives. Aspray told us it would deduct £250 from Mr Hs 
final bill. Mr H says he paid the final bill in full and hasnt got £250 back. If Mr H has paid the 
full bill, it seems Aspray should now send Mr H £250 in recognition of the trouble and upset 
its handling of his claim caused him.
 
 
 My final decision
For the reasons I've given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
don't uphold Mr H's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman