DRN-3487795
The complaint
Mr H complains that Financial Administration Services Limited, trading as Fidelity 
International (Fidelity) sent him unwanted emails, even after he asked it to stop sending 
spam. To put things right, he would like to be compensated for the distress this caused 
him and all unwanted emails stopped.
What happened
Mr H held an individual savings account (ISA) which was transferred to Fidelity on 
5 September 2021. This generated a welcome letter from Fidelity followed by further 
automatically generated service emails which introduced new clients to the way Fidelitys 
platform worked. 
Fidelity told Mr H the emails were a part of its procedure following his transfer from another 
financial business to inform him about the services it provided. It said it was sorry for the 
concern this caused him and confirmed that Mr H had been removed from the mailing list 
and his marketing preferences changed so he would not receive any more unwanted service 
emails or marketing contact.
.
Mr H didn't feel this went far enough to resolve things so he brought the complaint to us and 
one of our investigators looked into what happened.   
Our investigator didnt feel he had seen enough to be able to uphold Mr Hs complaint. He 
mainly said that when Mr H had registered for Fidelitys online platform hed consented to 
Fidelity having his email address so he didnt miss out on key service updates. Our 
investigator didnt consider Fidelity had done anything wrong when it sent the emails hed 
complained about as they provided information about Fidelitys platform. And as Fidelity had 
sent only three service emails and confirmed it would stop all future emails our investigator 
felt that no further action was needed.
.
Mr H disagreed with our investigator. He felt that the investigator had failed to appreciate his 
complaint and didnt properly understand privacy or what constitutes spam email. In brief 
summary, Mr H said that: 
he never gave Fidelity consent to send the sort of emails which were sent
he never wanted to be a Fidelity customer and had no choice
Fidelity harvested his email to send him marketing.
Mr H asked for an ombudsmans decision and so his complaint comes to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain my 
approach and how I've reached my decision.
Its clear how strongly Mr H feels about his complaint and I want to assure him that Ive 
carried out an independent review and considered everything that both parties have 
submitted. We provide an informal complaints handling service as a free alternative to the 
courts and this is reflected in the way Ive approached the complaint. Its part of my role to 
identify and concentrate on the core issues I need to address in order to reach a fair 
outcome  this means I might not mention everything Mr H has said, but I will comment on 
everything that makes a difference to the outcome of the complaint. 
Its my understanding that the crux of Mr Hs complaint concerns unwanted emails from 
Fidelity. Mr H put his concerns to me this way: The only person who can judge whether (an 
email) is spam or not is the recipient. I told you I was receiving unwanted email messages 
from the company after I had told them to stop. I consider these spam. The company 
continued to abuse my details to continue sending me these emails after I told them to stop 
and the emails contained more than just information about my account and were trying to 
sell me more of their products. . The Financial Ombudsman did not care what I thought 
and allowed the company to continue abusing my confidential data for its gain and without 
my permission.
Ive carefully considered the emails Fidelity sent Mr H. I dont find these were an abuse of 
Mr Hs confidential data or otherwise improper, unfair or unreasonable. 
When Mr H registered for the online platform he consented to the following statement: its 
important to provide your email address so you dont miss out on key service updates. So 
I think he would have understood he was signing up to receive email communications about 
service updates. And it seems reasonable to me that Fidelity wanted to make Mr H aware of 
information he would have needed to know about its platform in order to be able to manage 
his ISA and/or make other investment decisions. 
On 2 November 2021, Fidelity emailed Mr H explaining it would be sending a short series of 
emails with useful tips to help new customers make the most of its service. A second email 
sent to Mr H on 11 November explained popular account features and included a link to 
register his online account. A week or so later, on 19 November 2021 Fidelitys third email to 
Mr H included details about information, tools and guidance available to access via its 
platform. 
I am satisfied that these introductory emails sent by Fidelity to Mr H can all properly be 
described as service emails as they conveyed essential information about account and 
platform features that could reasonably have been of interest to Mr H as a new investor on 
the platform.  
In coming to my decision, I've taken into account that, on registration, Mr H had left unticked 
the optional box which would have given Fidelity permission to email carefully selected 
investment and retirement related articles and guides. 
But Mr H did also sign up to receive other marketing information by phone and email. 
After Mr H complained, and Fidelity understood that Mr H didnt want to receive any 
marketing emails or future service emails, on 30 November 2021 it amended the marketing 
preferences he had set up to exclude phone and email contact.   
When Mr H complained to Fidelity after receiving its service email on 19 November, he 
specifically requested a reply by email. Fidelity responded with an automated generic email acknowledgement. This was followed up with an email confirming that his comments had 
been forwarded to a complaint handler. 
On 24 November 2021, Fidelity sent a letter confirming receipt of Mr Hs complaint and 
posted its response to his complaint on 1 December 2021. It looks like that letter may have 
gone astray in the post  but thats not something I can hold Fidelity responsible for. Clients 
can set up and use a secure messaging system instead of relying on post but Mr H hadnt 
registered for this. He might want to think about doing this in order to avoid postal problems 
arising in future as Fidelity doesnt consider emails are sufficiently secure to include personal 
information or private details that might compromise clients data security or privacy. 
Mr H sent further emails which Fidelity says would have received automated generic email 
acknowledgement.
As far as I can see, this explains why Mr H continued to receive some emails after his 
communication preferences were updated  none of these emails involved marketing 
material and I dont consider they can properly be described as spam. They were sent in 
response to emails from Mr H, which seems fair and reasonable to me as they gave him the 
reassurance of knowing that his emails had been safely received and he could expect them 
to be acted on.
In order to be able to uphold Mr Hs complaint I have to be able to fairly say that Fidelity has 
done something wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably  and I havent seen enough here 
to do so. This means I am not upholding his complaint and I cant award the compensation 
Mr H would like me to. Whilst I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed, I hope that setting things out as I've done 
explains how I've reached my conclusions and even though this isnt the outcome Mr H 
hoped for, he will at least feel that his complaint has been fully considered by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman