DRN-2857511
The complaint
Mr W complains that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender was irresponsible to lend 
him money he couldnt afford to pay back.
What happened
Mr Lender provided loans to Mr W as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalmentsLoan 
AmountMaximum 
Monthly 
Repayment
128/11/2017 08/12/2017 3 £300.00 £148.00
213/12/2017 16/01/2018 6 £750.00 £341.00
317/01/2018 20/03/2018 12 £1,000.00 £236.33
423/05/2018 29/05/2018 12 £1,000.00 £213.83
506/11/2018 21/03/2019 12 £1,500.00 £422.00
630/03/2019 03/04/2019 6 £800.00 £309.22
707/04/2019 18/04/2019 6 £1,000.00 £510.66
803/06/2019 09/10/2019 12 £1,500.00 £310.46
920/10/2019 20/10/2019 £1,000.00Not known
10 24/10/2019 04/11/2019 12 £1,000.00 £204.83
11 15/12/2019 Not known 12 £1,000.00 £245.33
When Mr W complained to Mr Lender it said it had carried out thorough affordability checks, 
employment checks and credit checks before lending  but after retrospectively reviewing 
his account Mr Lender offered to uphold Mr Ws complaint in respect of loans 6, 7 and 9.
Mr W didnt feel this offer was good enough so he brought his complaint to us.  
Mr W told us that he was borrowing from different lenders to pay for loans hed taken out 
with other lenders. He said he had become dependent on the loans and used all his wages 
to cover the repayment. He told us he fell behind on bills and on loan repayments which led 
to further charges being added and increasing the total cost he repaid.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint. She thought that Mr Lenders offer to 
uphold loans 6, 7 and 9 was in line with what wed expect a lender to do in these 
circumstances so she concentrated on the other loans. Overall, she partly upheld Mr Ws 
complaint. She felt that she hadnt seen enough to say that loans 1  5 had been provided 
unfairly. But our adjudicator felt that in addition to upholding the loans Mr Lender had offered 
on, it was fair and reasonable also to uphold loans 8, 10 and 11.Our adjudicator set out the 
steps she said Mr Lender should do to put things right for Mr W.  
Mr Lender has asked for the case to be passed to an ombudsman for further review. So this 
complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.  I've followed this 
approach here  and having done so, I've come to the same conclusions as our adjudicator. 
Ill explain my reasons. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr W could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
Mr Lender told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr W. It asked Mr W to provide 
details of his income and to tell Mr Lender what he normally spent each month  including 
what he paid towards any other credit arrangements he had set up. Mr Lender carried out 
checks on Mr Ws credit file and made adjustments where it thought it was reasonable to do 
so to make sure the loans were affordable for Mr W. 
Ive seen a summary of the results of those checks and they dont show anything that I think 
should reasonably have made Mr Lender think loans 1 and 2 werent affordable for Mr W.
Looking at the repayments that Mr W needed to make on these loans the amounts wouldve 
seemed relatively affordable compared with the disposable income hed declared. Given 
these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ws circumstances at the time, and 
his borrowing history with Mr Lender, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for 
Mr Lender to ask Mr W for the amount of information that would be needed to show the 
lending was unsustainable before agreeing the first two loans. 
I do think Mr Lender should have looked further into Mr Ws circumstances by the time he 
took out loans 3,4 and 5. Even allowing for the fact that Mr W had a well-paid job and a large 
amount of disposable income these were substantial loans and he was signing up to pay 
them over the course of a year. So I think Mr Lender shouldve done more to ensure that it 
had a proper understanding of Mr Ws financial situation before agreeing to provide these 
loans. But, I havent seen anything in the information available to me which shows Mr Lender 
would have decided not to agree these loans had it done so. 
So I agree with our adjudicator about loans 1 - 5. And as it seems Mr W hasnt objected to 
what our adjudicator has said, then I don't think I need say more about these loans. 
As Mr Lender has already confirmed it is willing to pay fair redress for loans 6, 7 and 9 
I havent considered these loans further. 
But I have looked at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders lending history with Mr W, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Mr Lender should have realised 
that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ws case, like the adjudicator, I think that this point 
had been reached by loan 8. I say this because:
by now, Mr Lender ought to have realised Mr W was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Mr W had taken out loan 8 around six weeks after paying loan 7  and 
borrowed half as much again as the loan hed repaid
hed now been borrowing from Mr Lender for around 18 months  with no significant 
gaps between loans. So, when Mr W asked for loan 8, I think Mr Lender ought to 
have known that he wasnt likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in his 
income but to meet an ongoing need 
Mr Ws indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. Loan 8 was for significantly more 
than Mr Ws first Mr Lender loan  five times the amount hed first borrowed. And 
although the loan amounts had varied (and continued to do so) his overall pattern of 
lending suggests that Mr W was asking to borrow because his financial 
circumstances hadnt improved and he was now reliant on this sort of borrowing. 
Our adjudicator thought that it was clear by loan 8 that borrowing and repaying these loans 
was now unsustainable and I agree. So it follows that I dont think Mr Lender should have 
provided any loans to Mr W from loan 8 onwards.
I think that Mr W lost out when Mr Lender continued to provide borrowing from (and 
including) loan 8 onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ws indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr W borrowed were both 
factors likely to have negative implications on Mr Ws ability to access mainstream 
credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 8, 10 and 11 in addition to the loans that 
Mr Lender has already agreed it will uphold (loans 6, 7 and 9).
In coming to my decision I've taken into account that Mr W also complained that the loan 
costs werent clear. Our adjudicator explained why she didnt uphold that part of his 
complaint. Mr W hasnt said whether he agrees with her opinion  so I've also thought about 
this. 
I think its fair to say that the loan agreements set out reasonably clearly both what the 
interest rate was and how much he would have to pay if the loans ran to term. Taking 
everything into account, I think Mr W was aware he was taking high cost loans on terms he 
seemed happy to agree to at the time. So what hes said about this isnt a reason for me to 
uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr W to repay the principal amount that he borrowed 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has had to pay interest (and possibly 
charges) on loans that shouldnt have been provided to him  so thats unfair. 
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mr W, as Im satisfied it ought to have.Clearly there are a great many possible and all hypothetical answers to that question. For 
example, having been declined this lending Mr W may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship developed 
between Mr W and Mr Lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable 
option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was 
even possible. Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same 
application, or indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). 
But even if he had done that, the information that would have been available to such a 
lender and how they would (or ought to) have treated an application which may or may not 
have been the same is now impossible to reconstruct accurately. From what Ive seen in this 
case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new 
lender would have been able to lend to Mr W in a compliant way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr W would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Its not clear to me whether Mr W has repaid all the loans so Ive drafted my redress 
directions accordingly. 
If Mr Lender has sold any outstanding debts it should buy these back before doing what 
I have set out below. 
If Mr Lender isnt able to buy back any debts it sold then Mr Lender should liaise with the 
new debt owner to achieve the results set out below. In addition to taking the steps that Mr 
Lender has already agreed in relation to loans 6, 7 and 9, for loans 8, 10 and 11 it should 
also do the following: 
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr W towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it 
has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr W which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr W originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr W as though they had been 
repayments of the principal. If this results in Mr W having made overpayments then 
these should be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled. Mr Lender should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and 
move to step "E".
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results 
in a surplus then that surplus should be paid to Mr W. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Mr Lender should try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr W.E. The overall pattern of Mr Ws borrowing from the point of loan 8 means any 
information recorded about these loans is adverse. So all entries about loans 8, 10 
and 11 (as well as loans 6, 7 and 9 as Mr Lender said it would do) should be 
removed from Mr Ws credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding Mr Ws complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
trading as Mr Lender should pay Mr W as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman