DRN-1312489
 
The complaint
Mrs G says Santander UK Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mrs G bought the policy in April 2008 during a telephone call with a Santander 
representative. The policy cost 79p per £100 that Mrs G owed on her credit card and it 
wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding balance on the card each month for up to 12 months if 
Mrs G couldnt work because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander says Mrs G purchased PPI during a telephone conversation with it. Its not been 
able to give us a recording of the call, but I dont think thats unusual given how long its been 
since the PPI was sold. But that means I dont know exactly what was said about the PPI on 
that day in April 2008.
So Ive looked at everything I do have to decide what I think is more likely to have happened. 
Ive also taken into account what I know about how Santander sold policies in telephone 
calls around the time this policy was sold. And based on what Ive seen I think its more likely 
that during the call Mrs G wouldve been made aware that the PPI was optional. I also think 
she wouldve been asked to agree to it being added to her credit card account. I say this 
because Ive been provided with a copy of a telephone script that Santander says was used 
by its representatives at this time. And Im satisfied that the PPI was presented as being 
optional.
Furthermore, as the PPI wouldve appeared on Mrs Gs monthly credit card statements, I 
think that if the policy had been added to her account without either her knowledge or her 
consent, she wouldve queried it or complained about it in the first few months after this 
happened in 2008. So, taking everything in to consideration, I m satisfied that the policy was 
optional and that Mrs G agreed to take it.
Santander didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs G  this means it didnt have to take adequate 
steps to ensure the policy was suitable for her. But it still had to give Mrs G information in a 
clear, fair and non-misleading way so that she could make a proper choice about whether or 
not to take the policy out.Its possible the information Santander gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But its unlikely Mrs G wouldve been affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover  she told us she was employed and in good health. And based on what I 
know about her circumstances and what shes told us - it looks like the policy couldve been 
useful to her. She did tell us she had some sick pay from her employer  but this policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to this and allowed her to use any savings she may have had 
for other important things at what wouldve been a stressful time. So, I dont think better 
information wouldve stopped her buying it.
Ive thought about everything Mrs G has said about  but these points dont change my 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman