DRN-2940887
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy Santander UK Plc (Santander) blocked, and then subsequently closed, his 
bank account.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator. As such, the facts are 
well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length here. 
In summary:
Mr T held a bank account with Santander.
In April 2021, Mr T added two new registered devices for mobile banking.
Santander had concerns about the mobile devices registered. The device 
identification numbers for the two mobiles Mr T registered had previously been used 
and were associated with the compromise of other Santander accounts.
As a result, Santander blocked Mr Ts account as it felt there was a risk posed to it 
and its customers. 
Santander investigated the matter. Mr T advised Santander he had been given the 
mobile devices by his sons friend and had owned the phones for around two months.
Santander ultimately took the decision to withdraw Mr Ts banking facilities.
On 21 May 2021, Santander wrote out to Mr T informing him of its intentions to close 
his account and let him know that the account would be closed in 60 days.
 
Mr T complained to Santander. Santander didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint, as it remained of 
the opinion that it had taken the appropriate steps in blocking/restricting the account given 
the concerns it had regarding the mobile devices being used. But Santander did credit Mr Ts 
account with £75. It said this was for the delay in his case being reviewed and to take into 
account when Mr T went into branch, he wasnt able to withdraw all of the available funds.
Unhappy with Santanders response. Mr T referred the matter to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. In short, they 
considered, as the mobile devices Mr T registered and used, had been used previously, and 
were associated with the compromise of other Santander accounts it was fair for Santander 
to block/restrict the account  given the risk posed to it and its customers. 
They also considered Santander could choose to end its banking relationship with Mr T. And 
it had acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account by informing Mr T of 
its intentions to close the account and by providing him with 60 days notice.
Mr T disagreed with the investigators opinion and requested the complaint be looked at by 
an ombudsman.
 
As the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
First, I would like to make it clear that businesses are entitled to make commercial decisions 
about how they operate. I dont have the power to tell a business how it should operate  
thats not my role. 
But I can look to see first, whether Santander acted fairly when it applied a block and 
restricted Mr Ts account and second; whether it acted, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions, when it decided to close the account he held.
Was it fair for Santander to block/restrict Mr Ts account?
The mobile devices Mr T registered to use his online banking flagged on Santanders 
internal systems. This is because the identification number of the devices were associated 
with the compromise of other Santander accounts. 
It is important to note that Santander isnt saying that Mr T is connected to the compromise 
of the other Santander accounts, just that the devices Mr T registered had been. 
I appreciate Mr Ts strength of feeling on the matter and that he obtained the mobile devices 
through his sons friend and doesnt consider he has done anything wrong. But it is important 
to remember, I have to look at whether it was fair for Santander to take the actions it did 
once the devices used flagged on its internal systems. And having done so, I think it was fair 
for Santander to block/restrict Mr Ts account. 
I say this because Santander has a duty of care to its customers and has an obligation to 
ensure it protects its customers from the risk of potential financial harm. The devices Mr T 
used had been used previously and were associated with the compromise of other 
Santander accounts. So it was right that when the devices were registered and then used, 
that they were flagged and identified on Santanders internal systems. And once identified I 
think it was fair and reasonable for Santander to step in and restrict the account, as it had a 
genuine concern about the risk posed to it and its customers. 
So Im satisfied Santander acted fairly and reasonably in blocking/restricting Mr Ts account 
to prevent the risk it considered was posed to it and its customers.
I note that while Mr Ts account was blocked during the investigation, Mr T was still able to 
access the funds in his account. Santander lifted and then replaced the block as and when 
Mr T needed access to his funds.
Santanders decision to exit its banking relationship with Mr T
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Ts account and it states:
17.2 
You or we may close your account at any time by giving the other notice without 
giving any reason. We may also close or suspend your current account if it has been 
inactive for some time. If we decide to do this well give you at least two months 
noticeSo its clear from the terms and conditions that Santander can choose to close a customers 
account. But, and importantly, the terms and conditions require it to give a customer two 
months notice. 
In this case, Santander chose to close Mr Ts account, and having reviewed its 
correspondence with Mr T, I can see it provided him with the required two months notice. It 
advised Mr T on 21 May 2021 of its intentions to close the account and that his account 
would be closed in 60 days. 
Overall, taking everything into account, I am satisfied that Santander acted fairly and 
reasonably in blocking/restricting Mr Ts account given the mobile devices being used had 
been previously associated with the compromise of other Santander accounts. 
And I am also satisfied that the terms and conditions of the account allowed for Santander to 
choose to close Mr Ts account  and it provided him with the required two months notice 
period informing him of the closure.
Santander offered and credited Mr Ts account with £75 for the delay in its investigation and 
the inconvenience this caused as a result, and to take into account that when Mr T went into 
branch, he wasnt able to access all of his recent credits. This seems fair  given the delay 
and the inconvenience caused to Mr T. So I dont direct Santander to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021. 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman