DRN-4070229
The complaint
Miss M has complained about Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltds 
(Casualty & Generals) decision to decline a claim she made on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Miss M took out a pet insurance policy with Casualty & General on 9 November 2021, which 
commenced on 13 November 2021. 
On 9 October 2022, Miss M made a claim on the policy for veterinary treatment for her dog.  
Casualty & General declined the claim on the basis that the symptoms of the condition 
Miss Ms dog was suffering from had first been noticed on 27 November 2021, which in its 
view, was during the 14-day waiting period.
Miss M complained to Casualty & General and received their final response letter not 
upholding her complaint on 21 February 2023. Casualty & General said that it maintained its 
view that Miss Ms dog had shown symptoms of her condition within the 14-day waiting 
period of the policy. 
Unhappy with Casualty & Generals response, Miss M brought her complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and issued a view upholding the 
complaint. 
Casualty & General didnt agree with our investigators view and requested an ombudsmans 
decision on the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. I will explain why by 
first making reference to the relevant policy terms and conditions.
In Section 1 of the policy terms, Veterinary Fees, under the heading: What is not insured? it 
lists: Any Claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that showed Clinical Signs or Symptoms 
before your Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period;.
In the definitions section of the policy document, Waiting Period is described as: a period 
of: 14 days from the Policy Start Date for an illness that occurs or shows Clinical Signs or 
Symptoms; or 5 days from the Policy Start Date for Accidental Injury, or 14 days from the 
Policy Start Date for all other sections of covers.
The insurance schedule shows a start date of 13 November 2021. Having considered all of 
the available evidence, including the policy terms, I agree with our investigator that the 14th 
day is 26 November 2021. Miss M therefore first noticed her pets symptoms after the 14-day 
waiting period had expired.
Casualty & General have provided a number of screen shots from different websites which 
calculate 14 days from the date of commencement of the policy to be 27 November 2021. 
However, in deciding whether or not Casualty & General has fairly declined Miss Ms claim, 
Ive first had regard to what the policy terms actually say.
For the 14-day period to expire on 27 November 2021, as Casualty & General argue it does, 
the policy terms and conditions would need to specify that the waiting period begins the day 
after the policy start date. However, the policy doesnt say that. It simply says 14 days from 
the policy start date. 
The welcome letter sent to Miss M also says: Your policy commences on 13 November 
2021, please be aware that illnesses that first occur or show symptoms will not be covered 
for the first 14 days. 
Having considered everything afresh, its my decision that Casualty & Generals decision to 
decline Miss Ms claim was neither in line with the policy terms and conditions, nor was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. I think the fair and reasonable outcome for Miss M is 
for Casualty & General to promptly reconsider her claim subject to the remaining policy 
terms. Due to the time Miss M has been without the money, in the event that Casualty & 
General accepts the claim, it should add interest to any amount it pays in settlement of the 
claim, at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date Miss M paid the money to the date it 
makes payment. Should Miss M be unhappy about Casualty & Generals further claim 
decision, she can make a new complaint about that. 
Given Im not persuaded the claim was fairly declined, and Ive seen the matter has caused 
Miss M a degree of upset and inconvenience, Im also awarding her £100 compensation.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Casualty & General 
Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to: 
Promptly reconsider the claim subject to the remaining policy terms; 
In the event that Casualty and General accepts the claim, add interest to the 
settlement sum at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement (If Casualty & General thinks its required by HM Revenue and 
Customs to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Miss M how much it 
has taken off and provide a tax deduction certificate if required); and 
Pay Miss M £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes been 
caused by the way it has handled the claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Casualty & General Insurance 
Company (Europe) Ltd to take the actions and pay the awards detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman