DRN-4401288
The complaint
Mr A complained because Lloyds Bank plc refused to refund him for transactions which he 
said he didnt make.
What happened
Mr A opened a basic account with Lloyds on 31 January 2023. 
On 23 February, Mr A contacted Lloyds. He disputed a payment for £23.78. The adviser 
checked his account, and asked him whether hed made other recent payments. These 
included two payments to a social media organisation, one for £97 and one for £100.09. Mr 
A twice said that these two social media payments were genuine. He said he still had his 
card. Mr A said that a few days earlier hed added the app to his tablet, and his daughter had 
been round, so she could have made the transaction. The adviser told him that it had been 
carried out at Mr As IP address (a unique computer identifier) so it didnt look as if it was 
fraud. Mr A said his children had access to his phone and tablet. The adviser blocked the 
£23.78 company, and asked Mr A to have a word with his daughter, saying it was easy to 
click onto things. 
On 10 March 2023, Mr A contacted Lloyds again. He said he hadnt made multiple 
transactions on his account. The payments had started on 3 February and were to the social 
media organisation which had previously been discussed on 23 February. There were over 
30 payments, of varying amounts. Mr A said he had never downloaded the app for that 
social media organisation. In the phone call, Mr A said that his children had access to his 
account through his tablet. Lloyds credited his account with the disputed transactions, and 
investigated.
On 14 March, Lloyds decided to re-debit the credits for the disputed transactions. It also 
suspended Mr As account and sent him a text. Mr A contacted Lloyds, which had decided to 
close Mr As account. 
Mr A complained. He complained about the disputed transactions being re-debited, and his 
account being closed. He also complained because when hed contacted Lloyds through the 
mobile messaging system to report the fraud, hed said he hadnt been able to phone 
because he had a disability.
In its final response letter, Lloyds declined Mr As complaint about the disputed transactions 
being re-debited. But it said it was sorry it hadnt given Mr A better service when hed 
contacted Lloyds through mobile messaging. It said it should have given him different 
options about how to contact Lloyds, so it sent Mr A a cheque for £40.
Mr A wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. But Mr A remained unhappy. He said he 
hadnt made the disputed transactions. He said he wasnt happy that Lloyds hadnt even 
offered him 50% back. He said he was disabled and it was unfair. Mr A asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations here are 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer 
didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. So Ive 
considered whether its more likely than not that Mr A authorised the payments himself.
Ive listened to the recordings of phone calls between Mr A and Lloyds. Ive taken into 
account the fact that the 23 February phone call recording clearly shows that Mr A twice 
confirmed as genuine, two payments to the social media organisation, for £97 and £100.09. 
These were payments which were among those which a few weeks later he disputed. And 
when he later disputed all the payments to this social media organisation, he said hed never 
used that organisation. So Mr As evidence has been contradictory.
Ive also looked at the record of when Mr A checked his online banking. He did so several 
times while the disputed transactions were taking place. If he hadnt authorised them, its 
surprising that he didnt report them then, and instead didnt do so until 10 March.
Mr A told Lloyds that his children had access to his tablet and phone, and at another point he 
also said a carer would have had access. By allowing these people to have access to his 
account, Mr A was breaching the terms and conditions of his account, which required 
account holders to take care of their security credentials. By allowing his children to use his 
tablet and phone to access his Lloyds account, Mr A gave consent to the transactions. This 
means that hes liable for them.
The pattern of these transactions doesnt match that of any third party fraudster unknown to 
Mr A.  Thats because a third party fraudster typically would take out as much money as 
possible, very quickly. Thats not what happened here. The transactions are to one specific 
well-known organisation only, not to a fraudsters account elsewhere. And they occur over a 
period of several weeks, often with a gap of several days between the disputed transactions. 
Thats very unlikely to have been the pattern if the transactions had been carried out by a 
third party fraudster unknown to Mr A. 
So I consider that its more likely than not that Mr A carried out the disputed transactions 
himself  which is what he said about the first two transactions on the 23 February call. If he 
didnt, its likely that he permitted others to do so, using his tablet and phone. As Mr A 
authorised the transactions, Lloyds doesnt have to refund him and was entitled to re-debit 
the credits it made to his account.
Ive also considered Lloyds closure of Mr As account. The terms and conditions of Mr As 
account set out the circumstances in which the bank can close an account without giving the 
customer notice. Ive considered the circumstances in this case, and I find that Lloyds acted 
in line with the terms and conditions when it decided to close Mr As account. It paid Mr As 
remaining balance of £116.33 to him on 17 March, and it didnt need to do more.
Finally, Ive considered whether Lloyds payment of £40 was fair and reasonable for not 
having given Mr A options for different contact methods.  I find that it was.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman