DRN-2287348
The complaint
Mr W complains Ageas Insurance Limited didnt complete appropriate repairs when 
attending his car under his roadside assistance policy.
A number of other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Ageas are 
responsible for it, Ive just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
In March 2020 Mr Ws car unfortunately broke down. He says a warning light came on, he 
referred to the handbook which said he needed assistance, so he called Ageas.
The technician who came out diagnosed a mass airflow sensor problem, disconnected it, put 
it back and said it could have just come loose. Mr W was advised to go to a garage to get it 
checked out  he did, and the garage diagnosed the same issue. Mr W says the garage 
cleaned the sensor of gunk, replaced it and charged him £133.44 for this. Mr W felt Ageas 
technician should have been able to diagnose this issue and, if they had, he wouldnt have 
been charged £133.44. So, he complained to Ageas and asked them to refund it.
Ageas said their notes recorded the mass airflow sensor was removed and then replaced to 
see if it fixed the problem. Ageas say theyve recorded it did, and theyve then advised Mr W 
to take his car to a garage to get it checked out. Ageas said their technician acted correctly 
by attempting a temporary repair and recommending Mr W then take his car to the garage 
for assessment before any permanent repairs are made.
Mr W didnt accept this, so asked us to look into things. While doing so, he explained the 
technician had left Mr Ws car running while trying to complete repairs. He says he now 
believes this means the technician didnt mean to spend much time trying to resolve the 
issue.
One of our investigators considered things, but overall didnt think Ageas had acted unfairly 
 explaining under this kind of policy any repairs would only be temporary, so Mr W would 
have needed to go to a garage anyway.
Mr W didnt accept this. He said that the technician should have inspected the sensor and 
cleaned it before refitting it just as the garage did. He added that this should have been a 
permanent fix rather than a temporary fix. He also thought the technician should be more 
proficient than just guessing at what the problem was. And the technician didnt get him back 
on the road, as the problems started up again quite shortly afterwards. Mr W also said if the 
problem was more serious safety wise and the technician had failed to diagnose the problem 
then he dreads to think of what could have happened.
As Mr W didnt agree with our investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr W thinks Ageas technician should have done more 
which would have prevented a bill of £133.44 with a garage. I can understand why because, 
at face value, had the technician done so then based on what Mr Ws said hed not be in the 
position hes in. But, for reasons Ill go on to explain, I cant agree with Mr W which I realise 
will come as a disappointment to him.
Roadside assistance operators will often say members need to take their vehicle to a garage 
after any repairs have been carried out at the roadside. This seems like a sensible safety 
precaution to me, as repairs carried out at the roadside are unlikely, most of the time, to be 
as thorough as repairs and a diagnosis given by a garage. Mr Ws terms say for Emergency 
Repairs that repairs undertaken at the roadside cant always be guaranteed, wont always 
be attempted, and due to the nature of roadside assistance its not always possible for 
technicians to diagnose the problem.
So, those are the terms of the policy Mr W purchased  and I think Ageas have acted fairly 
in how theyve applied the term when turning down Mr Ws claim.
I note Mr Ws key argument though, is that the technician wasnt proficient, was in a rush, 
and just didnt do his job properly. And the garage diagnosing the same issue as the 
technician is why Mr W believes an error has been made.
But, as per the policy terms theres no guarantee any repairs attempted will work. And 
despite the same issue being diagnosed, I dont think Ageas technician could be certain that 
was the only issue  so Mr W would have needed to take his car to a garage anyway. As Ive 
said above, I think this is a sensible safety precaution.
Overall then, I think Ageas have applied the policy terms and conditions fairly, and dont 
require them to meet the claim Mr W has made.
I also understand Mr Ws concerns about what could have happened. And I can understand 
this worry. But thankfully for all concerned Mr W wasnt involved in an accident, so I dont 
require Ageas to do anything further here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman