DRN-3588669
The complaint
Mr A complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited delayed paying the tax-free cash 
(TFC) from his pension. Mr A says the delay caused him a financial loss. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Aviva gave Mr A a timeframe of when they thought the TFC would be paid. While 
they didnt meet that in reality, its unreasonable to hold them responsible for Mr A 
committing to a property purchase before the money was actually paid to him.   
The purchase of the property wasnt guaranteed, and neither were any future 
investment returns. There are many reasons why it may not have gone through or 
the property may not have been available to rent out immediately. So, while I 
appreciate it will be disappointing to Mr A, it wouldnt be fair to say the delays 
caused by Aviva were directly responsible for his perceived or actual losses relating 
to the purchase of a property.
Avivas delay caused Mr A significant inconvenience as he had to make several calls 
and send several emails to Aviva to try and progress the payment of his TFC. He 
was also told incorrect information by Aviva. 
Its clear Mr A was relying on his TFC to make future plans so I can appreciate that 
he was caused considerable distress, upset and worry when the money didnt arrive 
when Aviva said it would. Although Aviva gave some reassurances that the 
transaction was still being processed. 
The delay lasted several weeks, prolonging Mr As distress and inconvenience. So, I 
think the investigators suggested award of £400 is fair in the full circumstances of 
this complaint. 
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
To resolve Mr As complaint, Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay Mr A a total of 
£400 (which includes any compensation already paid) for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
My final decision
My Final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman