DRN-3595056
The complaint
Mrs I is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited declined a claim she made under her travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs I has explained that she needed to travel abroad, on 6 March 2021, due to a family 
emergency. She booked flights for the trip, with her outbound flight departing on 6 March 
2021, and with the return flight booked for 19 April 2021. 
However, whilst Mrs I was abroad, her return flight for 19 April 2021 was cancelled by the 
airline provider. So, she was no longer able to return home on this pre-booked flight. Instead, 
Mrs I had to source an alternative flight home. There were some complications with this  
with Mrs I booking an alternative return flight, only for it then to be cancelled by the airline. 
However, Mrs I was eventually able to source a return flight to the UK, on 20 April 2021. And 
so, she returned home on this.
When Mrs I returned to the UK, she had to quarantine. When she was abroad, government 
guidance in the UK had changed, putting the country Mrs I was visiting on the red list. This 
meant that due to concerns around the coronavirus pandemic, Mrs I had to stay in a 
quarantine hotel until 2 May 2021. Mrs I did this. But incurred costs for having to complete 
this quarantine.
Because Mrs I incurred quarantine costs, she contacted Aviva and made a claim under her 
travel insurance policy.
Aviva considered the claim but declined it. Aviva said that Mrs Is policy only provided cover 
to her for trips that were a maximum of 31 days in duration. It said Mrs Is trip, and her 
planned return to the UK, were outside of the 31-day limit. The trip was booked for 44 days. 
And she hadnt purchased a trip extension to cover her for a longer period than that. So, 
Aviva said it wasnt able to settle the costs Mrs I incurred.
Mrs I didnt feel this was fair. She said she understood the above, but that whilst she was 
abroad, shed contacted Aviva, and told it the relevant trip dates, and was told shed be 
covered for quarantining. Mrs I said this call was on 26 March 2021. 
Aviva considered Mrs Is concerns but maintained its position on the matter. It reiterated that 
the Mrs Is trip duration was longer than 31 days, and so wasnt covered. Aviva hadnt been 
able to locate a call in which Mrs I was told she was covered under her policy. But Aviva said 
that whilst it may have given incorrect advice, Mrs I was already abroad when she spoke to 
it, and therefore wouldnt have been able to purchase a trip extension, as it needed to be 
purchased before departure.
Mrs I didnt agree. She said when shed planned her trip she wasnt aware of the 31 day trip 
limit on her policy. And Mrs I said that if Aviva had given the correct information when she 
phoned on 26 March 2021, she would have changed the duration of her trip, by booking 
return flights within the 31-day trip limit. So, she felt Aviva had caused her to lose out. 
Because Mrs I didnt agree, she referred her complaint to this service for an independent 
review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They said 
that Mrs Is policy only covered her for a trip duration of 31 days. And Mrs Is intended trip 
was for longer than this. The investigator said that the original flight home that was 
cancelled, and gave rise to the claim, was outside of the 31-day limit. And so, it was fair and 
reasonable for Aviva to decline the claim. 
In terms of any conversation Mrs I had with Aviva whilst she was abroad  our investigator 
said a recording of those calls couldnt be found. So, they couldnt say Aviva had done 
anything wrong here. Instead, the investigator suggested the calls may have been with Mrs 
Is bank, who Mrs I took the policy out through.
Lastly, the investigator said that looking at Mrs Is policy anyway, there was no cover for 
quarantine costs, even if Mrs I had returned to the UK within 31 days. 
Mrs I didnt agree. She highlighted that if Aviva had told her that her cover didnt extend past 
31 days, she would have ensured she returned home within the time limit. And she said if it 
was her bank shed spoken to, it should know all the terms and condition of the policy and 
told her the correct information.
As Mrs I disagreed with out investigators outcome, this complaint has been referred to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below. 
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly, fairly and not unreasonably decline it. So, Ive 
thought about whether Aviva, in declining this claim, acted in line with these requirements. 
And Im satisfied it did.
Ive reviewed Mrs Is policy documentation, to see what cover her policy provided. And on 
having done so, I can see the policy provides cover for a trip  up to a maximum limit of 31 
days. For a trip to be covered for longer than this, a trip extension upgrade needs to be 
purchased. Neither party disputes that Mrs I didnt purchase a trip extension upgrade. So, 
Im aware that the 31-day limit in Mrs Is policy applies in this case.
Mrs I has said she wasnt aware of the 31 day limit on her policy. But, as this is clear within 
the policy documentation, Im satisfied this was made clear to her by Aviva before she 
travelled. 
Ive seen the booking information for Mrs Is planned trip. These show departure from the UK 
on 6 March 2021, and a planned return date of 19 April 2021. This trip duration is in excess 
of 31 days  it is 45 days long. Given this, and that the policy is clear there wont be cover for 
a longer trip without an extension to cover, Im satisfied that Mrs Is original trip, over the 31 
covered days, wasnt covered by the policy. And so, Aviva acted fairly in noting this.The reason for Mrs Is claim is that her flights, booked for her 45th day abroad, were 
cancelled. It meant she needed to reschedule her return flight, and quarantine when she 
returned to the UK. But as the policy is clear that it doesnt provide cover over 31 days. And 
the cancellation was for outside of this timeframe  it was 19 April 2021  Im satisfied it was 
fair, and in line with the policy, for Aviva to decline the claim here. The reason for Mrs Is loss 
was outside of the policy terms.
Mrs I has said she called Aviva whilst she was abroad, and told she would be covered for 
her quarantine costs. Mrs I said this was on 26 March 2021. Mrs I hasnt been able to 
provide further details of the number she called to seek information. And Aviva hasnt been 
able to locate a call. So, it isnt possible to know what was said during this conversation. So, 
Ive no firm evidence that shows Mrs I gave Aviva the relevant details and was given wrong 
information. So, I dont find Aviva did anything wrong here.
And, even if Mrs I had given the relevant details, and been provided with incorrect 
information during the above conversation, Im satisfied it doesnt make a difference to the 
outcome of this claim. I say this because Mrs I was already abroad when she said she 
contacted Aviva, and already had booked her intended trip duration. Her claim arose from 
complications in returning home in that duration, and as above, wasnt covered. It wouldnt 
have been possible for Mrs I to book a trip extension update at that point she said she 
contacted Aviva, because her trip had already started. So, Mrs I wouldnt have been able to 
ensure she had cover for longer than 31 days at this point. 
And, even if Mrs I became aware when speaking to Aviva that her trip duration was too long 
 there is no firm evidence that Mrs I would have been able to secure an earlier flight home 
and avoid quarantine. Mrs I had attempted to book earlier flights, and these had also been 
cancelled. So, theres nothing to show that Mrs I would have been able to avoid quarantine 
costs, had she been given the right information. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Aviva Insurance Limited to do anything more. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman