DRN-1818531
 
The complaint
Mr R complained that APFIN LTD (trading as cashasap.co.uk) acted irresponsibly when it 
gave him unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr R took out four cashasap loans during April and May 2017.
Heres a table showing more information:
 
Loan 
Date Taken 
Date Repaid 
Instalments 
AmountMaximum
Repayment
121/04/2017 29/04/2017 1 £50.00 53.18
230/04/2017 01/05/2017 1 £50.00 51.99
306/05/2017 08/05/2017 1 £50.00 52.78
408/05/2017 09/05/2017 1 £100.00 £103.97
 
Mr R said that cashasap had failed to carry out necessary affordability checks and he told us 
he was in a spiral of debt and the loans werent affordable for him.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr R and cashasap told us about these loans. 
Overall, she thought that she hadnt seen enough to say it was unfair for cashasap to 
provide loans 1 to 3 to Mr R. But she said that by loan 4 cashasap could see that Mr R had 
repeatedly taken out loans shortly after paying the previous loan and the amounts borrowed 
didnt significantly decrease. By the time Mr R took out loan 4, the amount he borrowed had 
doubled in comparison to the three previous loans. In these circumstances, our adjudicator 
felt there was a significant risk Mr R wouldve been unable to sustainably meet his 
repayments for this loan. So she set out some detailed instructions about what cashasap 
should do to put things right. 
Cashasap disagreed with our adjudicators view. It mainly said that it did carry out 
proportionate checks each time Mr R asked to borrow, and allowing him to repay his loans 
early gave him flexibility  and it meant hed only paid £4.48 overall in total interest on his 
cashasap loans (including just 11p in interest on loan 4).Our adjudicator passed this information on to Mr R but as the complaint isnt yet settled, it 
comes to me for a decision.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Cashasap provided Mr R with high-interest loans intended for short-term use. So it needed 
to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Cashasap was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
any lending was sustainable for Mr R before providing it. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early stages of a 
lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers 
income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Cashasap says it agreed to Mr Rs applications after carrying out proportionate checks and it 
relied on information Mr R provided about his monthly income spending. 
It says the information it had about Mr R showed that repaying the loans shouldnt become 
difficult for him - and in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. 
I've thought about each loan in turn.
loan 1
I dont think cashasap was wrong to lend Mr R loan 1. As this was his first loan with 
cashasap, at this early stage, Mr R didn't have any track record with the lender that 
shouldve alerted cashasap to any underlying money problems. The information cashasap 
had gathered about Mr Rs finances suggested that he was well able to afford this borrowing 
and he repaid this loan on time. 
I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr R provided or the other information 
cashasap had recorded, which meant that cashasap shouldve taken steps to check the 
information Mr R had declared. So I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
I can see that Mr R took out the second loan the day after he paid loan 1  and he borrowed 
the same amount again. But I dont think that was enough on its own to make cashasap 
think that it shouldnt have kept lending to Mr R. 
There was no material change in his financial circumstances as far as I can see and hed 
paid loan 1 without showing any signs this was difficult for him. So I don't think there was anything to make cashasap think that Mr R would find it hard to 
manage the loan repayments on loan 2. And I dont feel I've seen enough to be able to 
uphold Mr Rs complaint about loan 2.
loan 3
Mr R repaid loan 2 early and within a week applied to cashasap for loan 3. This was his third 
loan in around two weeks and each time Mr R borrowed the same amount as the loan hed 
just paid. 
Ive thought about whether this ought to have made cashasap question Mr Rs need for this 
loan. But overall, given that the loan amounts were just £50 each time, this small amount 
shouldve been easily affordable for Mr R based on the information hed told cashasap  and 
as far as cashasap couldve seen, it looked like Mr R was able to make the loan repayments 
without any evident difficulty.  So Im not planning on upholding Mr Rs complaint about loan 
3.
loan 4
Ive thought carefully about the fact that Mr R applied for loan 4 the same day that he paid 
loan 3  and this time he was borrowing twice the amount hed previously taken out in one 
go. And this was his fourth loan application to cashasap in just 17 days.
But unlike our adjudicator, in the particular circumstances of this case, I dont think Mr Rs 
loan history and his track record of repaying loans and borrowing again soon after is enough 
for me to be able to say that cashasap shouldve realised that Mr R was struggling with 
being over stretched financially. 
Had the loans amounts been bigger I mightve come to a different view. But I think its fair to 
take into account that the first three loans were each for a relatively small amount  and 
even loan 4 still looked like it shouldve been very comfortably affordable for Mr R on the 
figures hed given.
Im sorry that Mr R found repaying these loans difficult. And I accept that in reality it looks 
likely that Mr Rs financial situation wasnt fully reflected either in the information he 
provided, or the other information cashasap obtained. 
Mr R feels that cashasap didn't do all the checks he thinks it shouldve done before agreeing 
to lend to him. And I do think that the credit information cashasap recorded for Mr R appears 
to be at odds with his borrowing history. So cashasap shouldve made further enquiries to 
get a better understanding of Mr Rs financial situation  in particular, I think it should at least 
have asked Mr R about any other short term loans he mightve been borrowing elsewhere. 
And had it done so, I think cashasap wouldve likely seen that Mr R was already paying for 
other high cost borrowing elsewhere when he applied to cashasap for loan 4. But the 
combined repayments that Mr R agreed to make on his outstanding loans still looked 
affordable compared to the income that cashasap had worked out he had available to spend 
on paying for borrowing. 
So overall, I dont think Ive seen enough to say that cashasap was wrong to lend loan 4 to 
Mr R  and Im not planning to uphold Mr Rs complaint about this loan. 
I appreciate that my decision is going to disappoint Mr R and Im sorry to have to do that  
but I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my 
decision. What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr R hasnt said anything in response to my provisional decision or sent me any further 
information. 
Cashasap has confirmed that it has nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.  
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold 
this complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman