DRN-3353331
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to allow him to port his mortgage 
because it said the property he wanted to buy had combustible cladding. This meant that he 
incurred an early repayment charge (ERC) in moving his mortgage to another lender.
What happened
Mr G had a mortgage with Barclays. He took a ten year fixed rate in 2017, with a 5% ERC if 
the mortgage ended within that time.
Following a change of employment, Mr G needed to move to a new property so he applied to 
Barclays to port his mortgage from his previous property  which he would sell  to a new 
one he wanted to buy.
Mr G sold his existing property without difficulty. Barclays allows a 90 day window between 
sale and purchase during which it will refund an ERC if a new mortgage completes in time.
Mr G found a property and started the application process. Barclays instructed a valuation of 
the new property. The valuer said that the property required an EWS1 form before a 
valuation for lending purposes could be produced.
An EWS1  external wall system  form is a standard form completed by an accredited fire 
safety expert to assess the risk to the building from combustible cladding or other fire safety 
defects. There is guidance from the government and the Royal Institute of Chartered 
Surveyors (RICS) around the sorts of buildings where an EWS1 may be required. An EWS1 
will set out either that the property does not have potentially combustible cladding, that there 
is a low risk, or that there is a higher risk that requires remediation works. In general, it is 
multi-storey buildings such as blocks of flats that are affected.
In England, the EWS1 is commissioned by the building owner  either the freeholder or the 
management company  rather than by the individual flat owner or a prospective purchaser.
In this case, the valuer said an EWS1 was required. But the building owner had not 
commissioned one, and so no EWS1 was in fact available.
That meant that the valuer felt he was unable to say that the property was an acceptable 
lending risk to Barclays. And so Barclays refused to offer Mr G a mortgage on the property  
meaning that he couldnt go ahead with the purchase, at least not through Barclays.
Mr G didnt agree with this. He said that where  as here  the building was under six 
storeys an EWS1 wouldnt generally be needed under RICS guidance unless the valuer had 
a clear rationale for requesting one related to the specific risks presented by the building. 
Mr G said the flat he wanted to buy was in a four storey brick built building. He doesnt 
believe there is cladding on the building, apart from on two flats at roof level on one part of 
the building.
Mr G obtained details of the buildings construction, and a fire risk assessment carried out by 
the building owner, which he said showed that no EWS1 was required and that the absence 
of one shouldnt be used to refuse his application. 
Barclays put this to the valuer. The valuer said that there remained concerns about the roof-
level flats, and in addition that it wasnt clear whether or not adequate cavity wall insulation 
had been used in the construction of the building. The valuer didnt change his mind that an 
EWS1 was required before the property could be said to be an acceptable lending risk. 
Mr G asked Barclays to either reconsider the valuation and allow him to port to this property, 
or extend the 90 day window to give him time to find another property. But Barclays refused 
to do so.
Mr G complained. He said that hed clearly shown that an EWS1 wasnt necessary. And in 
any case, Barclays had changed its policy since he took out his mortgage  it was supposed 
to be portable, but Barclays had introduced a new requirement that prevented him porting. 
He said that the property he sold was of a similar construction, yet his buyer had obtained a 
mortgage without problems  showing that Barclays was not applying the EWS1 guidance 
properly.
Mr G says that this situation cost him an ERC of around £10,500. In addition, he has wasted 
around £1,000 in legal fees. He also had to pay a fee to a new lender for a new mortgage. 
He said that the delay in being able to move had also resulted in more expenditure in staying 
in hotels near his new workplace. And all this has reduced the amount available he has to 
fund a new purchase.
Barclays said that it had acted reasonably. It had been advised by the valuer that an EWS1 
was required to determine whether the building was an acceptable risk. It had to rely on the 
valuers opinion. So it wasnt able to offer Mr G a mortgage on this property. However it 
offered him £50 compensation for delays in dealing with his complaint.
When Mr G brought his complaint to us, Barclays offered a further £200 compensation for 
delays in dealing with his mortgage application. But it still maintained it had reached a fair 
outcome. And it didnt agree to refund the ERC or Mr Gs other costs.
Our investigator thought that was a fair offer, so Mr G asked for his complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman. He said that Barclays shouldnt have required an EWS1 for that property 
 or alternatively should have given him more time to find another.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Gs frustration at what happened and the position he found himself in. 
Im pleased to hear hes now been able to find and move to a suitable property.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive considered the evidence both he and Barclays have 
provided. As our investigator explained, its not for us to decide whether or not the valuation 
was accurate or whether the surveyor reached the right outcome. Our powers are limited to 
considering the actions of Barclays.
As all lenders do when considering an application for a mortgage, Barclays appointed an 
independent qualified surveyor, accredited by RICS, to value the property. The purpose of 
this is to make sure the property is valued appropriately, and doesnt present any other risks, 
so that Barclays can be sure it is good security for the loan its being asked to lend. This is standard practice. And its reasonable for a lender to rely on the surveyors opinion to 
decide whether or not the property is good security  though where theres a reasonable 
objection or further comments from the mortgage applicant, I would expect the lender to ask 
the surveyor to reconsider things to see whether their opinion has changed.
In this case, Mr G had had some difficulties with other properties he had tried to buy while 
his own sale was proceeding  so time was important to him. He had already exchanged on 
his own sale; he needed to find a property and complete his new mortgage within the 90 day 
window that would entitle him to a refund of the ERC.
When hed decided on this property, Mr G made an application to Barclays and Barclays 
instructed a surveyor. The surveyors report said that the property couldnt be adequately 
valued for lending purposes without an EWS1.
When he was first told an EWS1 was required, Mr G not only contacted the building owner, 
he also carried out his own research, including making enquiries of the local authority 
planning department. He said that the plans from the buildings construction showed that no 
flammable material was used. 
Barclays relayed Mr Gs concerns to the surveyor, who considered what he had said. The 
surveyor said that although Mr Gs researches showed what material was intended to be 
used when the building was designed, in fact different material had been used in 
construction. Thats not uncommon. But it meant that the surveyor felt they needed an 
EWS1 form to confirm that the material actually used didnt present a risk. The surveyor also 
said that in their experience even limited amounts of cladding had led to significant remedial 
costs being passed on to a buildings leaseholders. And without an EWS1 they couldnt 
confirm that combustible internal material hadnt been used, which wouldnt be visible on an 
external inspection.
I appreciate Mr G feels strongly about this. Hes carried out his own research, and doesnt 
agree with the surveyors conclusions. His view is that RICS guidelines say that an EWS1 
wouldnt be necessary on this property since there isnt a clear risk of combustible cladding. 
And he compares the position of this property with the one he was selling  when this wasnt 
an issue.
Ive taken that into account. But ultimately the surveyor was the qualified professional here, 
and it was reasonable for Barclays to ask the surveyor to comment on Mr Gs points  but 
ultimately to rely on the surveyors opinion that the property wasnt a suitable lending risk.
Mr Gs mortgage offer from 2017 says
If you buy another property to move to, you can transfer (port) the mortgage interest 
rate to a new mortgage for the purchased property in relation to an amount no 
greater than your outstanding mortgage balance provided that you meet the lending 
criteria in force at the time you ask to transfer the mortgage rate to your new 
property. Please note that Barclays reserves the right to amend its lending criteria 
from time to time without notice to you.
What this means is not that Mr G had the right to port his mortgage to a new property; rather, 
he had the right to apply to do so  but that any application would be subject to Barclays 
lending criteria, which may have changed since the mortgage was first taken out.
Since 2017, when Mr G took this mortgage, the fallout from the Grenfell Tower tragedy had 
resulted in significant changes in mortgage lending. A new awareness of the risks of combustible cladding and other fire safety issues led to new procedures  such as the EWS1 
process  and to lenders factoring these issues into lending risk assessments. In other 
words, Barclays lending criteria had changed since 2017.
Mr G was making two applications to Barclays  firstly, for a new mortgage on a new 
property. And secondly, if the first was granted, to port his interest rate to the new mortgage 
and refund the ERC. The second is conditional on the first. 
That means that Mr G would only be entitled to a refund of the ERC if Barclays was willing to 
grant him a new mortgage. It considered his application. But it  reasonably  relied on the 
advice of a qualified surveyor that the property he wanted to buy presented too much of a 
risk. It therefore wasnt willing to offer him a new mortgage. 
Theres always a broad discretion open to a lender when considering an application for a 
new mortgage. No lender has to lend to any customer. Im satisfied that the decision 
Barclays made in this case was within the range of reasonable decisions open to it.
That meant that Mr G had no new mortgage to port his interest rate to  and no prospect of 
having the ERC refunded.
He asked Barclays to extend the 90 day window. But it wasnt willing to do so. This meant 
that there was no time for him to find a new property and complete a mortgage application  
and meant he lost the ERC.
I understand why hes unhappy about this. But I dont think Barclays acted unfairly. Ive said 
that it was reasonable for it to have refused this application. And it was always clear that 
Mr G would only have 90 days to complete on a new mortgage; Barclays didnt mislead him 
about that.
Buying and selling property is a risky business. Sales and purchases fall through all the time, 
and there are delays for all sorts of reasons. Mr G had already tried to purchase two other 
properties but had to withdraw when problems with them came to light. 
Mr G was very unlucky. But Barclays didnt mislead him about the timescales, and the risk of 
losing the ERC if he couldnt meet them. Its consistent with all its customers that theres a 
90 day window. Unfortunately Mr G couldnt meet that timescale in this case  but that 
doesnt mean the existence of the window was unfair, or that it was unfair that Barclays 
didnt make an exception for him and extend the window.
Putting things right
Im satisfied that Barclays didnt unfairly refuse Mr Gs porting application. So its not 
responsible for the costs he incurred because it didnt go through. And its not unfair that it 
didnt agree to extend the porting window  so I cant fairly ask it to refund the ERC either. 
Its offered £250 compensation for delays in responding to him about the valuation and in 
dealing with his complaint, and Im satisfied thats a fair offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im satisfied that Barclays Bank UK PLC has made a fair and 
reasonable offer to settle this complaint, and it should pay Mr G £250 compensation if it 
hasnt done so already.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman