DRN-2743277
The complaint
Mr M complains about invoices hes received from Taylor Edwards Financial Management 
Ltd (Taylor Edwards) for work theyve carried out on claims for mis-sold Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI). He says he never instructed them and wants them to refund fees 
hes already paid and to cancel the remaining invoice. 
  
What happened
Mr M says he made an initial enquiry with Taylor Edwards about a PPI complaint but then 
decided against pursuing this. He then received a settlement and paid Taylor Edwards a fee 
of £57. He then received a further invoice in relation to a separate complaint about mis-sold 
PPI. Mr M asked Taylor Edwards for all signed documents relating to his claims. Taylor 
Edwards replied and sent Mr M a copy of signed letters of authority. They also referred to a 
previous complaint for which the fee had been settled. Mr M complained and said the 
signature wasnt his.     
Our service contacted Taylor Edwards with details of Mr Ms complaint. This led to Taylor 
Edwards writing to Mr M with an acknowledgment letter. They set out their understanding of 
the complaint as, Mr M claiming Taylor Edwards signed the letters of authority on his behalf 
and that he believes he shouldnt pay a fee as he hasnt entered into a contract with them. 
Taylor Edwards havent provided a final response to Mr Ms complaint.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M. He thought that Taylor Edwards acted 
unreasonably and should cancel their invoice and refund £57. Taylor Edwards havent 
responded so the matter has come to me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. 
I think its important to stress Ive made my decision based on the information I have. I can 
see our investigator has provided Taylor Edwards with details of the complaint being made 
against them and allowed them a number of opportunities to provide information. And, the 
investigator has also brought to Taylor Edwards attention that, in the absence of any 
response, our service will consider the complaint based on the information we have. Its 
important that we get an account from all parties in order to consider the complaint fully. In 
this case, while Taylor Edwards havent provided any information to our service, Im satisfied 
weve taken sufficient steps, and given sufficient time, to enable them to respond. I must be 
fair to both parties and dont feel its reasonable, in this case, for Mr M to have to continue 
waiting for an answer to his complaint.   
I can see Taylor Edwards got in touch with our investigator to say they havent treated Mr 
Ms correspondence as a complaint and wanted to review his case internally before 
providing a response. They informed our investigator that if he would like the file before they 
have concluded their own investigation then they will forward this to our service. I can see 
our investigator does ask for the file on the basis that it had been more than eight weeks 
since Mr M has complained. I cant see Taylor Edwards have responded to our investigator 
any further or replied to Mr Ms concern about the signature on the letters of authority not 
being his. 
  
Mr M accepts he got in touch with Taylor Edwards but says this was limited to making an 
enquiry. He says he decided against pursuing a complaint for mis-sold PPI. Following his 
request for documents, Taylor Edwards send Mr M a copy of letters of authority which 
contain a signature. Mr M tells Taylor Edwards the signature isnt his, and his testimony on 
this point has been consistent throughout our investigation. 
There are three letters of authority, one for Lender H, and the other two being for Lender C 
and Lender S. A signature appears on all three letters of authority and, not only are all three 
signatures completely identical, but the signature is in the exact same area of the signature 
box. When a customer writes their signature three times, I dont think its unreasonable to 
expect there to be very subtle differences between the signatures. In this case, theres no 
such differences which leads me to believe Mr M might not have signed all three letters of 
authority. That, in itself, isnt unusual as some Claims Management Companies have a 
process where a customer provides a digital signature which they then use to sign all letters 
of authority. And, that usually leads to the signature and the placement being identical. 
However, in the absence of any information from Taylor Edwards showing they received Mr 
Ms signature and how they obtained it, I cant say they have letters of authority signed by Mr 
M. And, it follows that I dont believe they have instructions to act for Mr M. 
In addition to this, I can see Mr M has signed our services complaint form and the signature 
is completely different to the one shown on the letters of authority. I can only go on the basis 
of the information in front of me and Im therefore persuaded the signature on the letters of 
authority isnt Mr Ms.  
I can see Taylor Edwards have sent the letters of authority to Mr M but, in view of Mr Ms 
testimony, this alone doesnt persuade me they had authority to act. Taylor Edwards havent 
provided any evidence in the form of correspondence and updates sent to Mr M  this would 
help prove that Mr M had instructed them and was fully aware of their involvement. I can see 
Lender H send a final decision letter to Mr M and send a copy to Taylor Edwards. This letter 
upholds Mr Ms complaint and sets out an offer for compensation. I think this shows that 
Lender H are aware of Taylor Edwards involvement in Mr Ms complaint. So, I dont doubt 
Taylor Edwards have communicated with Lender H about Mr Ms complaint. And, while this 
might well suggest Taylor Edwards involvement has led to the offer of compensation, it does 
still leave the question whether they had authority to act in the first place. And, for the 
reasons set out above, this is something Taylor Edwards havent proved to the point Im able 
to say, on the balance of probabilities, that Im satisfied they did have instructions from Mr M. 
It therefore follows that I uphold this complaint and dont agree Taylor Edwards are entitled 
to a fee for this complaint.   
I understand Mr M paid one invoice relating to Lender H but he says he was intimidated by 
Taylor Edwards threatening letter so decided to pay £57. He says it didnt occur to him to 
check their authority to act until he received the second invoice. In the absence of any 
information from Taylor Edwards showing they had instructions, I cant say they are entitled 
to their fees for this complaint.   
Putting things rightIve taken the view that Taylor Edwards didnt have instructions to handle Mr Ms complaints 
against Lender H. So, they should cancel the outstanding invoice sent to Mr M and also 
refund the fees hes paid for the complaint against Lender H which has been settled. They 
should also stop working on any complaints they may be pursuing against Lender C and 
Lender S without any charge to Mr M.  
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Taylor Edwards Financial Management Ltd 
must:
Cancel the outstanding invoice sent to Mr M for the complaint against Lender H;
Refund the fees paid by Mr M for the complaint against Lender H; and
Stop working on any complaints against Lender C and Lender S with no charge to Mr 
M.  
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman