DRN-3700276
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the cancellation of two Over 50s Life Cover policies held with The 
Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited.
What happened
Mrs H was out of the country from December 2020 to March 2022. Upon her return Mrs H 
found some letters saying that the two policies had been cancelled in October 2021 due to 
non-payment of premiums. 
Mrs H complained to the administrator of the policies who didnt uphold the complaint 
referring to the terms and conditions which explained about non-payment and cancellation. 
They asked Royal London if there was anything that could be done but this wasnt possible 
as the cancellation had happened more than six months before.
Remaining unhappy Mrs H brought her complaint to our service where one of our 
Investigators looked into what happened. They thought Royal London had acted inline with 
the terms and conditions by sending two letters for each policy before cancelling them.
Mrs H said that she couldnt access her account as she was out of the country and wasnt at 
home when the letters were sent. Our investigator considered what Mrs H said but still 
thought the policy was cancelled inline with the terms and conditions. Because an 
agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To start Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policies which say:
If you miss a payment, youll have 60 days starting from the date of the missed payment to 
pay it. If you pay the full amount within this period your policy wont be affected  
They go on to say:
If you miss a payment and it is not paid within 60 days, you cant start making payments 
again, or make up the missed payments. Well cancel your policy. You wont get any 
payments back and youll no longer qualify for a Payout when you die. 
Here the two policies werent paid for a much longer period than 60 days so Im satisfied the 
cancellation was done according to the terms and conditions.
Ive also seen copies of letters which were sent to Mrs H in September 2021 and October 
2021. These said that payments had been missed and explained what would happen next. 
Ive also seen copies of letters sent in November 2021 advising the policies had been 
cancelled. So Im happy the administrator of the policies acted fairly and gave notice as they 
should have about the missed payments.  
Mrs H says she was out of the country at the time of the missed payments and Im sure that 
was the case. And Im also sure that Mrs H didnt let the policies lapse on purpose. When 
dealing with our Investigator Mrs H said Who will have a policy and after months stop 
payments to lose your money and benefits. And I agree with this point of view. But that 
doesnt mean that Royal London made any mistakes by cancelling the policies.  
Businesses such as Royal London and the policy administrator deal with a very large 
number of customers. It wouldnt be practical for them to individually investigate each time 
policy payments were missed. This is why they send letters such as those sent to Mrs H. 
Royal London werent to know that Mrs H was out of the country and therefore not able to 
deal with her financial affairs in the usual way. Mrs H has said that this issue should be dealt 
with outside their policy. However I cant agree thats the case. Im satisfied the letters were 
sent and the terms and conditions were applied correctly. 
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied Royal London acted fairly 
and reasonably when cancelling the policies so wont be asking them to take any further 
action. Thats not to say that Mrs H hasnt been affected by what happened; its clear she 
has. But thats not because of any errors made by Royal London.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman