DRN-3502042
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited declined a claim he made under his private 
medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W took out a private medical insurance policy with Aviva. The cover was provided on a 
moratorium basis. This meant that the policy didnt provide cover for any pre-existing 
conditions or related conditions  if there had been symptoms, medication, diagnostics tests, 
treatment, or advice for this in the five years since Mr W had joined the policy.
The only exception to this was where Mr W had a pre-existing or related condition but didnt 
have any medication, diagnostic tests, treatment or advice for it, for two continuous years 
after joining the policy. The date Mr W joined the policy, and the moratorium terms began, 
was 1 January 2019. 
In August 2019, around seven months after the policy began, Mr W contacted Aviva to make 
a claim. He had been experiencing pain in his left knee. And his GP had referred him to an 
orthopaedic surgeon. So, he wanted to make a claim for this referral, and any treatment 
needed.
Aviva declined this claim. It said Mr W didnt meet the terms of the moratorium. And so no 
there was no cover for the knee issue Mr W was experiencing. This was because in the five 
years prior to the policys start Mr W had suffered left knee pain. And in February 2017 had 
received surgery after being diagnosed with degeneration in the knee, and a medical 
meniscus tear. So, Mr Ws claim for a pre-existing issue with is left knee wasnt covered.
In addition to this, Aviva highlighted that there hadnt been a two-year period since the policy 
started without medication, diagnostic tests, treatment, or advice for the knee issue, given 
the policy had only started seven months before. So, it said at that point, there was no cover 
to respond. 
Around ten months later, in June 2021, Mr W contacted Aviva again  about problems with 
his left knee, and the need for treatment. Aviva again noted that it couldnt cover this  
because of the above moratorium. 
Mr W has said that at this point a representative from Aviva told him hed be able to make a 
claim for medical costs for left knee treatment, following August 2021. Because the two-year 
period for any tests, treatment or advice would have elapsed.
Given this, Mr W contacted Aviva in September 2021, to make a claim for left knee treatment 
costs. Mr W needed a partial left knee replacement at this stage. Aviva wrote to Mr Ws GP 
for his medical notes. And then later declined the claim. It said that the moratorium still 
applied to this situation. 
Mr W was unhappy with this  noting hed been told in June 2021 that he would be covered 
following August 2021. So, he raised a complaint. Aviva responded and said it could see it 
had caused confusion by settling an invoice Mr W had provided for a consultation. And it 
apologised for the conversation Mr W had in June 2021. Aviva said that whilst the advisor 
didnt confirm Mr W would have cover during that call  the advisor should have been clearer 
about Mr Ws particular circumstances, and when the two-year period would end. So, Aviva 
offered Mr W £200 compensation.
But Aviva maintained its position on the claim. Aviva said Mr W had received treatment on 
his left knee in the five years before he joined the policy  including surgery. And it said 
Mr W had symptoms of a problem with his left knee since joining the policy  without a two-
year period free of symptoms. So, it said the moratorium applied  and Mr W didnt have 
cover.
Mr W remained dissatisfied, and so referred his complaint to this service for an independent 
review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She noted 
the moratorium underwriting on the policy and said this hadnt been satisfied. So, there was 
no cover under the policy. 
In addition, our investigator said she had listened to calls Mr W had with Aviva, and she 
didnt think it had given misleading information about cover  although it could have taken 
more time to understand Mr Ws particular situation. But she felt the £200 compensation 
offered by Aviva was fair and reasonable to recognise this.
Mr W disagreed and felt more compensation should be paid to him, particularly as hed had 
to pay for the surgery privately himself. So, this complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Im satisfied the £200 Aviva 
already offered is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, Im not requiring it to do 
anything more.
I appreciate Mr W will be disappointed by this  its clear he feels strongly about the matter. 
But Id like to reassure him, and Aviva, that Ive considered all submissions when coming to 
my decision. However, in this decision Ive only referred to what I consider necessary to 
illustrate my reasoning.
Decline of claim
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. In this case, the relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct 
Authority, say that an insurer mustnt unreasonably decline a claim. So, Ive thought about 
whether Aviva, in declining Mr Ws claim did so unreasonably. And I dont think it did.
I say this because Im satisfied Aviva acted in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ws 
policy. Ive seen Mr Ws policy documents, which details the cover the policy provides. And 
Im aware these clearly explain the moratorium on the policy.
The moratorium explains that cover wont be provided for any pre-existing conditions  if 
there had been symptoms, medication, diagnostics tests, treatment, or advice for the 
condition in the five years since Mr W had joined the policy. Ive seen medical information for Mr W, including letters from medical professionals involved 
in Mr Ws care. And from reviewing these, I can see that in the five years prior to the policy 
starting, Mr W did have treatment for pain in his left knee. This included referrals to an 
orthopaedic surgeon, and surgery on the knee in February 2017. So, on this basis, Mr W 
doesnt have cover under the policy for his left knee.
The only exception to the above is where a pre-existing condition didnt have any 
medication, diagnostic tests, treatment or advice for it, for two continuous years after joining 
the policy. The date Mr W joined the policy, and the moratorium terms began, was 1 January 
2019. 
Im satisfied Mr W didnt have a continuous two-year period following the start of the policy, 
where he wasnt receiving treatment, diagnostic tests or advice for his left knee. Mr W clearly 
was having trouble with his knee in August 2019, and he was referred to a specialist for 
diagnostic tests and advice. As well as in June 2021 when he was again referred to the 
orthopaedic surgery department. Given there was no two-year period following the policy 
start was free from treatment, diagnostic tests or advice for the knee, Im satisfied Aviva 
acted fairly in declining Mr Ws claim. There was no cover, based on the moratorium 
underwriting in the policy. 
Customer service
Mr W has also raised concerns with the customer service he received from Aviva. Mr W says 
he wasnt told of the moratorium terms when he took the policy out. 
And Mr W has said that when he contacted Aviva June 2021 he was provided with 
misleading information about the cover under the policy. Mr W says he was told he would be 
able to claim for his left knee problems, after August 2021, and this wasnt true. 
Ive listened to the calls between Mr W and Aviva in June 2021. Having listened to these, I 
dont think Aviva gave misleading advice. Im aware that during one of the calls in June 
2021, the advisor noted that the two years would start from when Mr W contacted them in 
August 2019. 
But the advisor did highlight this was providing no medical advice, medication or treatment 
had been sought in that time. So, whilst this may have been a little confusing  Mr W was 
given the right information. And he did know that following August 2019 he had sought 
advice and treatment prior to the two years being up. So, should have been aware the two 
years didnt start from August 2019.
And, there were numerous occasions during the calls where Aviva did make it clear that 
Mr W would need go to two years from the date, he last received medical advice, medication 
or treatment before a claim would be eligible. So, whilst there may have been some 
confusion, I dont think Aviva did anything wrong here. This information was correct. And I 
think it was clear that if Mr W proceeded with surgery, it was at his own financial risk.
Aviva has offered £200 compensation for the above confusion, as well as confusion it 
caused by it settling an invoice. So, Ive thought about whether this was fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. I do appreciate Mr W feels more compensation should be provided. 
But Im satisfied the £200 offered here was reasonable. I say this Im satisfied it fairly 
recognised the confusion caused, and reasonably apologised for this.  
In terms of the sale of the policy, this isnt something Ive considered under this complaint. If 
Mr W is unhappy about the way the policy was sold to him, hell need to raise this with the 
party that sold the policy to him, in the first instance.My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that Im satisfied the £200 compensation offered is fair 
in the circumstances. So, Aviva Insurance Limited should pay this to Mr W if it hasnt 
already. I dont require Aviva Insurance Limited to do anything more than this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman