DRN-2217149
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund multiple card 
payments made online, to different retailers, that Mrs H says she didnt authorise.  
What happened
Mrs H says her card was fraudulently used over a period spanning December 2016 through 
to January 2019.
As a result, multiple fraud claims were logged with NatWest. Some transactions were 
refunded, and some were declined. Each time there was a claim that Mrs Hs card was used 
fraudulently, Mrs H was sent a new card.
In February 2019, after discussions with NatWest about her claims and some recent online 
payments that had been made using her card, Mrs H was sent her account statements to 
review and highlight any transactions that she didnt recognise. 
Mrs H reviewed her statements and disputed all online payments made to retailers. The 
outstanding online payments made to retailers that Mrs H disputes, covers a period between 
December 2017 up to the end of January 2019. There were multiple transactions made 
which Mrs H says she didnt consent to or authorise.
The reason Mrs H disputes the transactions is because she says she does not buy anything 
online, so the payments werent carried out by her.
Mrs H doesnt know how the transactions occurred. Mrs H says for the period when the 
disputed transactions took place she lived alone, and no-one had access to her card or knew 
her card details.
Mrs H also suspected an ex-partner, as she said he had previously committed fraud on her 
account back in 2013. Mrs H also referenced another ex-partner committing fraud on an 
account in 2005.
NatWest said while it made the decision to refund some of the transactions (for a claim 
made in December 2016 and for four transactions that occurred in February 2017 and 
February and April 2018), upon reviewing Mrs Hs overall claim in relation to the outstanding 
disputed online payments made, it declined to refund the transactions and considered Mrs H 
was liable for the payments made.
NatWest in reaching its outcome said it had contacted one of the online retailers where 
several purchases had been made. The retailer had responded providing information that 
confirmed the goods had been delivered to Mrs Hs home address.
NatWest were also concerned, as Mrs H had logged several claims in a short period of time 
under different cards, that Mrs H wasnt keeping her card details secure as per the terms 
and conditions of the account. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. Broadly summarised, 
they werent persuaded there was enough evidence to clearly show the transactions were 
carried out by an unauthorised third party and they considered it was more likely than not 
that Mrs H was aware of, and had knowledge of, the transactions. 
Mrs H responded disagreeing with the investigators opinion. Mrs H said an ex-partner was 
responsible for the transactions as he had previously committed fraud on her credit cards 
and was in and out of the house.
As the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
First, and from looking at this complaint, I wanted to clarify what I will be looking at within this 
decision.
Mrs H has, within her submissions, raised a concern about fraudulent activity that occurred 
on her NatWest account in 2013. From looking at the information NatWest had provided to 
this service, I cant see that NatWest has formally responded to Mrs H on that part of her 
complaint. I can see within its final response letter to Mrs H that it mentions it is unable to 
produce the statements for 2013 and that Mrs H needs to attend a branch to see if the 
statements are available. 
NatWest in its response to this service about Mrs Hs concerns about the activity in 2013 has 
said that it considers any concerns Mrs H had about fraudulent transactions that happened 
in 2013 have been brought too late. It explained the regulator  the Financial Conduct 
Authority  state a refund can be refused if the transactions are not reported within 13 
months of the transactions debiting. 
In light of the above and as a formal response hasnt been issued by NatWest to Mrs H, in 
relation to whether it considers the fraudulent claim in 2013 can be looked into or not, I dont 
consider it appropriate for the fraudulent claim in 2013 to be looked at within this decision. 
NatWest should formally respond to Mrs H setting out its reasons why it considers the claim 
has been made out of time. And if Mrs H remains unhappy  it can be referred to our 
service.
So, to be clear, this decision relates only to the online transactions made between 
6 December 2017 and 27 January 2019 that Mrs H is disputing and which she says she 
didnt authorise or consent to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator reached. Ill explain why.
When considering whats fair and reasonable I am required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations; the regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and where 
appropriate what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.The relevant regulations in place at the time are the Payment Services Regulations 2009 
(PSR 2009) which covered payment services from 1 November 2009 to 12 January 2018; 
and the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSR 2017) which replaced PSR 2009 on 
13 January 2018. For ease Ill refer to both PSR 2009 and PSR 2017 simply as PSR. 
The PSR say a payment transaction is regarded as authorised if the payer has given 
consent to the execution of the payment transaction. And if a payment service user 
(customer) denied having authorised an executed payment  the payment service provider 
(in this case NatWest) has to prove the payment transaction was authenticated.  
If it is deemed that a payment transaction hasnt been consented to, it isnt authorised. PSR 
goes on to say a payment service provider is required to refund the amount of an 
unauthorised transaction to the payer.
Mrs H says she didnt consent to or authorise the use of her card for any online payments 
made to various retailers between 6 December 2017 and 27 January 2019 and is seeking a 
refund of the transactions made from her account.
NatWest declined Mrs Hs request for a refund. It says Mrs Hs correct card details were 
used to make the payments and when it contacted one of the retailers, where several 
transactions had been made, the retailer responded advising the goods had been delivered 
to Mrs Hs address. Because of this NatWest consider Mrs H is therefore liable for the 
payments made from her account, which has now been closed. 
So, I need to think about whether the evidence I have suggests that its more likely than not 
Mrs H, or somebody with her knowledge or authority, carried out the transactions, or whether 
I think they were carried out without her knowledge and consent. 
From what Ive seen and having considered everything carefully, I think it more likely than 
not, Mrs H, or somebody with her knowledge and authority, carried out the transactions. Ill 
explain my reasoning.
The transactions Mrs H is disputing were all online transactions. This means they were all 
made using Mrs Hs correct card details. So Im satisfied that the payments in question were 
authenticated i.e. they were executed by NatWest as Mrs Hs correct card details were 
entered, authorising the payments. 
Ive looked at whether an unknown or known party to Mrs H could have carried out the 
disputed transactions without Mrs Hs consent.
Could an unknown party have carried out the disputed transactions without Mrs Hs 
consent?
In short, Im not persuaded the disputed activity was carried out by an unknown party. Ill 
explain why.
The disputed transactions were carried out online, with Mrs Hs correct card details being 
entered to authenticate or execute the payment request each time.
It is highly unlikely that an unknown third party managed to obtain Mrs Hs card details on 
multiple occasions over the course of a year and carry out the online purchases.If an unknown third party had managed to obtain Mrs Hs card details, it is reasonable to 
assume that they would have tried to gain as much from the account as possible, and as 
quickly as they could, maximising the spending. This didnt happen here, and the disputed 
transactions were made over the course of a year.
Im also mindful that NatWest has said when it investigated the disputed transactions it 
contacted one of the retailers where multiple purchases were made to. The retailer 
confirmed to NatWest that the goods had been delivered to Mrs Hs home address. I cant 
see a plausible scenario where an unknown third party obtained Mrs Hs card details and 
then chose to have the goods delivered to her home address also. 
Overall, I havent seen enough to suggest an unknown party carried out the disputed 
transactions.
Could a known party have carried out the disputed transactions without Mrs Bs consent?
Mrs H has said that she lived alone at the time of the disputed transactions, and no one had 
access to her card or card details. Given what Mrs H has said, it seems unlikely that a 
known person would have had access to her card details on multiple occasions in order to 
make the online purchases over the course of a year. 
But I am mindful that Mrs H has also said that she considers her ex-partner conducted the 
transactions as he had access to her property and had committed fraud on her accounts in 
the past.
Ive given this careful thought. Having done so, and for much the same reasons Ive set out 
earlier, I dont find it likely that a known party to Mrs H obtained her card details on multiple 
occasions and made the disputed transactions without Mrs Hs knowledge or consent. 
The card details (bearing in mind Mrs H had replacement cards issued throughout the period 
in question), would have to be obtained on multiple occasions, over the course of over a 
year, and without Mrs H realising each time. 
I also find it unlikely that a known person to Mrs H would then make multiple online 
purchases and have the goods delivered to Mrs Hs home address all without Mrs Hs 
knowledge given she said she lived alone.
  
Mrs H says that no goods were ever delivered  and typically any parcels are left in the bins 
or could have been delivered to a neighbour or to anywhere. And Mrs H says her ex-partner 
knew this. But Im mindful the retailer of several of the transactions has confirmed to 
NatWest the address the goods were sent to was Mrs Hs home address. So I find it unlikely 
that Mrs H was unaware of the disputed transactions given the amount of online purchases 
that occurred over the course of a year. It doesnt seem reasonable to suggest that no 
delivery attempts were made at the address resulting in all deliveries being left either in the 
bins or with a neighbour. As Mrs H says she lived alone then despite an ex-partner having 
access to her property as she has said, I would still question why they would seek to get 
anything they have fraudulently ordered delivered to Mrs Hs property when they could 
simply choose another address.
It also seems unlikely that someone who was using her card or card details  without her 
authority  would have done so in such sporadic intervals knowing that once Mrs H 
discovered the payments, the card would be blocked. The pattern of behaviour here, with the 
type of online transactions made, and that goods were delivered to Mrs Hs address, 
reasonably suggests to me that if a known third-party was doing this, they likely had Mrs Hs 
permission.Taking into consideration the above, I agree with our investigator  Im not satisfied there is 
enough evidence to clearly show the transactions were carried out by an unauthorised third 
party. 
Based on the balance of probabilities, I find it more likely than not, the disputed transactions 
were carried out by Mrs H or were carried out by someone with her knowledge and consent; 
given the amount of purchases made, the duration over which the transactions occurred, the 
type of retailers where payments were made to and that NatWest obtained evidence that 
goods were delivered to Mrs Hs home address.
As I am not persuaded that the online transactions were carried out without Mrs Hs 
knowledge or consent, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask NatWest to 
reimburse her.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman