DRN-3400889
The complaint
Mr F complains about the advice given by an appointed representative of Quilter Financial 
Limited (Quilter) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme to a personal pension with a drawdown facility. He says the advice was unsuitable 
for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr F approached Quilter in the Summer of 2019 having been introduced to them by a third-
party, to discuss his pension and retirement needs and whether he could utilise his pension 
to help towards repaying debt. The third-party had already helped Mr F to encash a separate 
workplace pension for the purpose of debt repayment.
Quilter completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Fs circumstances and 
objectives. Quilter also carried out an assessment of Mr Fs attitude to risk, which it deemed 
to be moderate. 
On 4 November 2019, Quilter advised Mr F to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension with a drawdown facility and invest the proceeds with a major insurer in a 
with-profits based growth fund and a cash fund. In summary the suitability report said the 
reasons for this recommendation were:
To provide Mr F with a tax-free cash lump sum to go towards repaying debt, which 
couldnt be achieved by remaining in the DB scheme.
To provide increased flexibility in retirement.
For health reasons and to potentially improve death benefits.
To provide the opportunity for long-term investment growth.
In 2021 Mr F complained to Quilter, through a representative, about the suitability of the 
transfer advice because he says he wasnt given a clear explanation between his 
guaranteed DB scheme and the expensive drawdown pension option. He said he wasnt told 
about the alternatives available to him to sort of his debts and went ahead with the advice to 
transfer believing this was the only way to achieve things. He said he was an 
unsophisticated inexperienced investor, which contradicts the moderate assessment carried 
out of his attitude to risk. Mr F also shared his concerns about the conduct of the third-party 
introducer upon hearing about his complaint and suggested Quilter had inappropriately 
shared information with them.
Quilter didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. It summary it said Mr F had built up significant debt 
while he was off work due to ill health, which he was looking to repay. Hed already released 
funds from one pension to go towards them, but he needed further funds to repay the debts 
in full. It said Mr F was off work due to ill health and was in receipt of Statutory Sick 
Pay(SSP) and Personal Independence Payment (PIP)  he was also receiving benefit 
from a mortgage protection policy. It said Mr F intended to return to work around June 2020. 
It said its advice was clearly set out and that its recommendation Mr F transfer out of his DB 
scheme was the only suitable option to enable him to meet his objective. It said Mr Fs DB 
scheme had declined him taking his benefits early, including through ill health grounds, and 
other options such as re-mortgaging or debt restructuring had already been discounted by 
Mr F as hed already approached his mortgage lender and the Citizens Advice Bureau 
(CAB) to discuss things. 
Finally it said that it forwarded the complaint to the third-party introducer on the 
understanding that another respondent may have been jointly responsible for the complaint. 
But it said it had no relationship with them and so it wouldnt consider any complaint about 
their conduct or comment on any fee arrangement Mr F might have agreed with them.
Mr F, through his representative referred his complaint to our service. An investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. In summary they said that it wasnt unreasonable for Quilter to have 
passed the details of Mr Fs complaint to the introducer given whats set out in the regulators 
rules. But they said the actions of the third-party introducer wasnt something theyd 
considered as part of the complaint because the complaint was against Quilter. 
Overall they thought the recommendation that Mr F transfer out of his DB scheme was 
suitable  they didnt think there was another viable option to enable Mr F to repay his debts, 
which they thought was something he had to do given the circumstances and despite his 
limited investment knowledge and capacity for loss. They said the suitability report was clear 
that other options were considered and discounted  Mr F couldnt borrow further money and 
his DB scheme had declined him taking his benefits early. They said that, while Mr F was 
optimistic about returning to work this wasnt guaranteed and his mortgage protection policy 
was due to stop a few months after the advice. They said that on speaking to Mr Fs wife, 
she said that had they not taken the lump sum from Mr Fs pension they wouldve had to cut 
back on essentials and wouldve experienced financial hardship. 
Mr F, through his representative, disagreed. In summary Mr F said:
Despite Quilter referring to the debts as being in his name, this is factually incorrect  
every item of credit was in his wifes name. To suggest they were in his name is 
deceitful.
Quilter shouldve referred him and his wife to an insolvency practitioner  entering a 
Debt Arrangement Scheme (DAS) wouldve allowed the interest on the debt to be 
written off and a repayment programme established in line with their budget. Quilter 
chose to ignore this option.
He has email proof that his DB scheme did allow ill-health retirement for deferred 
members with no actuarial deduction, which was effective from March 2019. Quilter 
failed to carry out its own research to explore this option.
No advice was given to him about the options available for his jointly held mortgage, 
including the option of reduced payments.
Quilter failed to treat him fairly  he was a vulnerable consumer due to his ill health.
Mr Fs representative later added that despite what the advice paperwork said, neither Mr F 
nor his wife spoke to the CAB  this was a figment of the introducers imagination, which 
Quilter then relied on. And despite repeated requests, Quilter had failed to provide a copy of 
the agreement between it and the introducer or where the fee was paid.
 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion  they said they thought it was 
reasonable for Quilter to have relied on a letter from Mr Fs scheme administrator of 5 August 2019, which said ill health early retirement wasnt available to deferred members. 
And they said that, while they acknowledged what Mr F is now saying, he confirmed in an 
email at the time that hed read and fully understood the suitability report and this said hed 
discussed the option of a debt management plan with the CAB.
The complaint was therefore referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given 
by the investigator. My reasons are set out below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, Quilter should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Fs best interests (COBS 19.1.6).
Firstly, and for the sake of completeness, Mr Fs representative has repeatedly referred to 
the actions of the third-party introducer including their conduct when they heard about the 
complaint as well as commenting about their regulatory status and what they might or might 
not have done wrong. Quilter has said the introducer did not have a relationship with it  they 
werent an appointed representative or in any other way connected to it. And Ive not seen 
anything to suggest otherwise. This complaint is about Quilter and theyve accepted they 
gave advice to Mr F about his DB pension. So my consideration here is whether Mr F has 
lost out as a result of anything Quilter did or didnt do in giving its advice to Mr F to transfer 
out of his DB pension scheme and nothing more. Any concern or complaint about another 
party is a separate matter. 
Financial viability 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17 /9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case.
 
The closest discount rate to the time of this transfer, which I'm able to refer to was published 
for the period before 1 October 2017 and is 3.7% per year for nine years to retirement. The 
share returns that were used to compile this discount rate wouldnt have been significantly 
different by the time of transfer and, if anything, the bond returns would have got lower. 
So I think it still gives an approximate guide to the upper end of potential future returns.
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.Looking at the transfer value comparator Quilter produced, this shows that Mr F would need 
a sum of around £100,000 to invest at a risk-free return to provide the same benefits as the 
DB scheme at age 65 (the schemes normal retirement age) assuming a full pension was 
taken. Mr Fs transfer value was around £52,000. So the critical yield, or growth rate required 
to match Mr Fs benefits at age 65 was 10.1%. If Mr F took a reduced pension and a tax-free 
cash lump sum the critical yield was 9.58%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Fs 
moderate attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr F 
giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, 
the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield was 
9.58% I think Mr F was likely to receive benefits of a materially lower overall value than the 
occupational scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. 
The return needed was more than two and a half times the discount rate and was above 
both the regulators middle and upper projection rates.
So based solely on this reason, it doesnt appear the transfer out of the DB scheme was in 
Mr Fs best interests. But financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer 
advice. And in this case Quilter didnt recommend the transfer on the basis Mr F would be 
better off in retirement. As it set out in its suitability report, there were other considerations 
which it believed meant a transfer was suitable for Mr F despite providing overall lower 
benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and access to tax-free cash
It is not disputed that Mr Fs main objective and the reason he sought advice from Quilter 
was because he was looking to repay some debts. I can see that Mr Fs representative has 
made much of the fact that the debts were in Mr Fs wifes name and not his and says to 
suggest otherwise is deceitful. But the advice paperwork is clear that the debts were all in 
Mr Fs wifes name  this isnt in dispute. Mr F was the person receiving advice and I think 
this is why reference was made to your debt in the advice paperwork  not because Quilter 
believed the debts were in Mr Fs name. I think all parties, including Mr Fs wife understood 
the position and the reason why advice was being sought  so I dont think this is important 
to the outcome of the complaint.
Looking at the advice paperwork completed at the time, this records that Mr F was off work 
due to ill health  hed suffered a serious medical condition earlier in 2019 and was due to be 
off work for at least 12 months. Mr F was currently in receipt of SSP and PIP  his joint 
mortgage was also being paid by an accident, sickness and unemployment insurance policy 
which was due to end in around six months time. Mr F and his wife had built up what I 
consider was a not inconsiderable amount of unsecured debt, which carried a combined 
monthly repayment of around £460 a month. The budget planner they completed with Quilter 
suggests they had a surplus income  but this clearly wasnt the case. Quilter recorded that 
Mr F and his wife were in fact spending it (I understand theyd built up the debt while Mr F 
was off work) and they had no savings to speak of  so I think it was causing them some 
financial pressure and in reality it wasnt really affordable.
Im mindful that while Mr F intended to return to work in around six months time, because of 
the nature of his condition I dont think this was guaranteed. So I think his financial position 
had the potential to worsen significantly if he didnt return to work as he planned in late 
Spring / early Summer 2020  his SPP and PIP were due to stop at this point and his 
mortgage protection policy, which was paying around £1,200 month wouldve paid out its 
maximum 12 monthly payments.Mr F had already taken steps to repay some of the debt by cashing in a small pot pension  
something hed done prior to seeking advice from Quilter. But this wasnt enough to repay all 
of the debts in full  he needed around £13,000 extra to come closer to full repayment. 
So taking everything into account, it seems to me that Mr Fs objective was reasonable in the 
circumstances and in my view it was somewhat pressing. And because Mr F didnt have any 
savings or other assets he couldve used to meet his objective, I think Mr F had a need to 
access a lump sum. And in this case a need to access his tax-free cash earlier than the 
normal scheme retirement age and leave his funds invested until a later date when he 
planned to retire  recorded as being at age 67. By accessing his tax-free cash, which was 
around £13,000, it appears that Mr F wouldve been able to meet his objective and repay 
most, if not all of the remaining debt.
Although this likely meant that Mr F wouldnt be able to take as much income from his 
pension as he wouldve been entitled to through the DB scheme, I think this was necessary 
in the circumstances. I think Mr Fs current health meant that he couldnt be certain about 
when hed be fit enough to return to work or how it might impact his ability to return to work 
full-time until his intended retirement age of 67. By transferring his pension to a personal 
arrangement, it would give him the flexibility to draw an income as necessary according to 
his circumstances at any given time.
But on the basis that Mr F was able to return to work and meet his intended retirement age 
of 67, I dont think his overall pension provision would have been far off being able to meet 
his personal target retirement income. I say this because Mr Fs state pension would provide 
the majority of what he said he needed. But he also had another deferred DB pension 
scheme, which would provide around £1,200 a year. So with this along with the income he 
could reasonably sustainably draw from his new personal pension  and if he re-joined his 
employers scheme as he said he intended to do - this would also be a useful way of 
boosting his income in retirement. So I think Mr Fs retirement target income could be 
broadly met this way.
Ive thought carefully about whether Mr Fs objective couldve reasonably been met by other 
ways, which according to the advice paperwork Quilter considered at the time. 
The first of these is whether Mr F couldve stayed in his DB scheme and taken early 
retirement. But Im satisfied this wasnt an option. Quilter has provided a letter Mr F received 
from the DB scheme administrators dated August 2019, which says that his calculated 
annual pension benefit was below the revalued Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) at 
age 65, which meant it wasnt possible for him to take his benefits at this time. 
The other option was early retirement on ill-health grounds. But the same letter said that this 
option wasnt available for deferred members. It also appears Mr Fs circumstances didnt 
meet the serious ill-health criteria  this option was only available if Mr Fs life expectancy 
was less than a year.
But I can see that Mr Fs representative has produced copies of an exchange of emails it 
had with the pensions officer at Mr Fs DB scheme after the investigators assessment of Mr 
Fs complaint. 
This says that ill-health retirement for deferred members came into effect from 1 March 2019 
 so before Quilters advice to Mr F. Mr Fs representative says Quilter shouldnt have relied 
on the information in the letter of August 2019 and it shouldve carried out its own research.
 
But I dont think it was unreasonable for Quilter to have relied on this information. I say this 
because it was provided by the scheme administrator and appears to have been in response 
to specific questions asked about Mr Fs options for possible early retirement. It was also in my view up to date. So I dont think Quilter had any reason to question the information 
provided or to believe it was incorrect. 
Id add here that I note from the email correspondence Mr Fs representative has provided it 
was not a given that ill-health retirement wouldve been granted. It was ultimately at the 
Trustees discretion having received medical reports, and other assessments and information 
including from the deferred members employer about the job they were doing.  But this 
doesnt alter my view that I think it was reasonable for Quilter to have relied on the 
information provided by the scheme administrator at the time of giving its advice and that this 
option wasnt available for Mr F.
Mr F had a mortgage and its recorded that he had equity in his property  so perhaps a re-
mortgage was possible consolidating the debts? But I can see from the advice paperwork 
that it says this was discounted on the grounds of affordability. I also understand that Quilter 
has an email from Mr F prior to the fact-find meeting in 2019, which says that his mortgage 
lender had declined his application for additional lending. And this was referred to in its final 
response letter to Mr F in 2021. While I havent seen a copy of this email, I note that neither 
Mr F nor his representative have disputed this fact - so I think its reasonable to assume this 
was the case. Mr Fs representative has said that the option of a payment break or other 
option should have been considered. But I disagree. Mr Fs mortgage at this stage wasnt 
unaffordable  it was being fully met by a protection policy and so was up to date. I consider 
there was no reason for a lender to grant concessions to Mr F at this stage.
The remaining practical option was to consider and direct Mr F to seek debt advice and the 
possibility of coming to some kind of informal arrangement with the creditors. The advice 
paperwork records that this option was discounted after Mr F had discussed things with the 
CAB as he wanted to maintain his credit score. Quilter told us that Mr F confirmed hed been 
in contact with the CAB prior to its involvement who had talked him through debt 
management plans, but that he was clear he didnt want to consider this option particularly 
given the impact it would have on his credit score. It says Mr Fs feelings on this were strong, 
which is why it was discounted. But Mr Fs representative says that neither Mr F nor his wife 
ever spoke to the CAB - this was the figment of the imagination of the introducer, which 
Quilter then relied on. 
Its clear there is a dispute about this, so Ive thought about this carefully. Having done so, I 
think, on balance that Mr F and/or his wife did likely discuss things with the CAB as the 
paperwork from the time records. I say this because I think the evidence paints a picture of 
Mr F having made some proactive enquires to understand his options  for example hed 
contacted his mortgage lender to see if theyd consider additional borrowing / a re-mortgage. 
And given the letter from his DB scheme administrator of August 2019 was addressed to him 
personally, it seems likely Mr F had enquired about the early retirement options available to 
him through his DB scheme. It therefore seems entirely plausible that hed discussed 
matters with the CAB too.
Furthermore the advice paperwork records that two further alternatives were apparently 
discussed with Mr F at the time  asking his mother for help as well as downsizing and 
repaying the debts from the sale proceeds. There is commentary against both as to why 
these were discounted. 
Neither Mr F nor his representative has disputed that these options were discussed. This 
suggests to me that there was more likely a discussion with Mr F about the range of other 
options available and that this included a discussion about the CAB. Im mindful too that this 
was all recorded in a document which Mr F acknowledged that hed read and received. So if 
there was anything here which didnt accord with his understanding of the discussion hed 
had with Quilter or there was something which was factually incorrect, I wouldve expected 
Mr F to have queried things at the time.In any event, Im not persuaded that in Mr Fs particular circumstances at the time, entering 
into some kind of debt management or informal creditor arrangement was a more suitable 
option. By transferring his pension to a personal pension arrangement, Mr F could gain 
access to a lump sum to clear most if not all of the household unsecured debt while at the 
same time giving him the flexibility of how much income he took and when from his pension 
depending on his health and his capacity both to return to and remain in work. In my view 
Mr Fs financial problems were set to worsen if his plans to return to work in the near term 
didnt materialise (I note Mr F was off work for two years in the end). So I think the 
recommendation to transfer out of his DB pension scheme met Mr Fs objectives and in the 
circumstances was suitable.
Summary
While looking at the financial viability of the transfer of Mr Fs DB scheme to a personal 
pension in isolation doesnt appear suitable, I think there were other compelling reasons 
which I think in Mr Fs particular circumstances at the time mean it was in his best interests 
to transfer out. Mr Fs primary objective was to ease the financial pressure he was under 
through accumulating a not insignificant amount of unsecured debt while he was off work 
and not earning. Given Mr F didnt have any other assets available to him to meet his 
objective, I think he had a genuine need to access his tax-free cash earlier than his normal 
scheme retirement age. And based on the evidence and information at the time, only a 
transfer to a personal arrangement would provide what Mr F needed.
By transferring Mr F was giving up a guaranteed and increasing income in retirement and his 
pension income was likely to be lower than he wouldve otherwise have been entitled to. But 
taking everything into account, I think that in the circumstances this was necessary. Mr Fs 
wife told us, on his behalf that Mr F was off work for two years and had they not taken the 
lump sum from Mr Fs pension, they wouldve had to cut back on essentials, such as food 
and petrol and wouldve experienced financial hardship. 
So taking everything into account Im not persuaded that Quilters recommendation was 
unsuitable or that it didnt act in Mr Fs best interests.
 
In closing Id like to deal with two other matters. Firstly, I can see that Mr Fs representative 
has questioned the assessment of Mr Fs attitude to risk as moderate and says this is at 
odds with him being an inexperienced investor. But I can see that Quilter acknowledged and 
documented Mr Fs inexperience and took account of this in making its recommendation. 
The investment recommendation was for Mr Fs pension monies to be invested in a with-
profits growth fund to provide for Mr Fs desire for a lower volatility style of investment. I can 
also see that the overall recommendation included around 30% of Mr Fs monies to be 
invested in a cash fund. In my view not only did this reduce the overall level of investment 
risk, given the uncertainty around Mr Fs health and his return to work I think this was 
appropriate in the circumstances - particularly as its recorded Quilter was going to carry out 
annual reviews to assess the ongoing suitability. Overall I dont think Mr Fs pension fund 
was exposed to a greater level of risk than I think hed indicated and accepted he was willing 
to take.
And secondly Mr Fs representative has said Mr F was a vulnerable client and Quilter failed 
to treat him fairly. While I accept Mr F was likely vulnerable due to his health, this didnt 
mean Quilter had to refrain from advising Mr F what was in his best interests. And for the 
reasons Ive given above, I think Quilter did act in his best interests  I think the 
recommendation to transfer out of his DB scheme was suitable for him in the circumstances. 
So I dont think Quilter acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr F in giving its advice.My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman