DRN-3029259
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1988. Mr and Mrs C say Bradford and Bingley Plc mis-sold them the PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Cs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Cs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Cs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think Bradford and Bingley made it clear that Mr and Mrs C didnt have to take out the 
PPI and they chose to take it out. Ill explain why. 
Bradford and Bingley has provided a copy of the application form that was completed at 
the time Mr and Mrs C arranged their mortgage and were sold the PPI. Within this 
application form I can see there is a separate section for the PPI and in Mr and Mrs Cs 
case its been decided the policy will just cover Mr C. The option for accident, sickness 
and redundancy has also been selected and the level of benefit has been set at £200.
I dont know what was discussed during the meeting but looking at this form it seems 
there was a discussion about the PPI. I wouldve expected Mr and Mrs C to read over 
the form and to have had an opportunity to raise any questions they had at the time 
before signing it. So, taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mr and 
Mrs C knew the policy was optional and they agreed to take it out without undue 
pressure.
Bradford and Bingley didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs C - so it didnt have to 
check that the PPI was right or suitable for them. However, it did have to give Mr and 
Mrs C enough clear and timely information so they could decide for themselves if it was 
right for them.
Its possible the information Bradford and Bingley gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it 
looks like they wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr 
and Mrs C  for example Mr C wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to 
the cover. It also wasnt too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying 
from the information they were given. There were also no additional restrictions on cover 
for mental health or back problems. 
Mr and Mrs C have said they had savings they could have relied on which means they 
didnt need the PPI. However, the policy wouldve allowed them to keep these savings 
intact or allowed them to use them for other expenses and commitments. It also looks 
like the PPI was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for them if 
something went wrong. 
I can also see that Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage was a significant and long-term financial 
commitment, which was secured on their home. The effects of not keeping up with the 
repayments couldve been serious for them. I think having the security that the 
repayments wouldve been made if Mr C was unable to work wouldve been important to 
them. Because of this I dont think Mr and Mrs C would have declined the cover had 
Bradford and Bingley done anything more
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs C would have still taken out PPI. The policy was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting, and I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Cs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Braford and Bingley should have disclosed the 
poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it 
had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Cs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Cs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Cs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint. This means Bradford and Bingley doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman