DRN-3119043
The complaint
Mr N and Miss W complain that Miss Ws motor insurance provider Tesco Underwriting 
Limited (Tesco) poorly managed a claim they made under her policy, and after the car was 
written off, made unreasonable offers for the value of Miss Ws car.
What happened
Miss Ws car was vandalised, and a claim was made under her policy on 13 April 2021. 
Tesco advised over the phone that the car would be declared a write off. Tesco valued the 
car over the phone at £3,320. After the policy excess of £200 was deducted Miss W would 
receive £3,120.
Mr N and Miss W were unhappy with the valuation Tesco had arrived at. So, later that day 
Tesco agreed that an engineer would assess and value the car.
On 15 April 2021, following the assessment of the car, Tesco increased its valuation to 
£4,260, and after the policy excess of £200 was deducted Miss W was offered £4,060. 
Tesco made a payment to Miss W.
As Mr N and Miss W remained unhappy with the valuation, they continued to dispute the 
amount, and on 9 June 2021 Tesco increased the valuation by £629. Tesco also waived the 
£200 excess applicable to the claim.
Mr N and Miss W have explained they were not happy with the process Tesco followed 
when arriving at unfair values for the car. They have also told us that their credit file has 
been affected while trying to prove the car was worth more, so requested compensation. 
Tesco didnt agree, it said the processes it had followed were fair, and it didnt think it should 
have to do anything more.
Our Investigator considered Mr N and Miss Ws complaint. He thought the process Tesco 
had followed was fair and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr N and Miss W 
disagreed, so this complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service doesnt value cars, instead we look to see that the insurer has made a fair and
reasonable offer to settle the claim, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Like the majority of motor insurance, Miss Ws motor insurance policy covered her for the 
cars market value if it was declared a total loss, subject to the policy excess.
When the claim was first reported to Tesco it decided that based on the description given of 
the damage, the car would be declared a total loss. Tesco explained that Miss W had two 
options; to accept a valuation over the phone of £3,320 that was based on limited 
information or, a second option of having the car assessed by an engineer. If the second 
option was taken the opinion of the engineer would supersede that initial offer. Mr N 
requested some time to consider the offer.
Later the same day Mr N called Tesco to discuss the options again and explained he was 
unhappy with the way Tesco had explained the two options. Tesco again explained that the 
initial offer was based on limited information and designed to speed up the process. This 
allowed policy holders to receive a pay-out sooner. But that there was also the second 
option, an engineer could assess the car and offer a more accurate valuation. Mr N agreed 
to have the car assessed.
The car was assessed and within two days Tesco increased the valuation of the car to 
£4,260. Tesco has told us that its engineer had used motor trade guides to value the car. 
We consider the use of trade guides to value cars to be good industry practice, and 
generally find their values to be persuasive.
The increased valuation was within the figures we have obtained from the guides when 
valuing the same car. So, at this point I think Tesco had reached a fair valuation and had 
made the offer to Miss W within a reasonable time.
It is not unusual for policy holders to dispute the amount an insurer offers them in settlement 
of their claim, although as this process takes the form of a negotiation, and usually requires 
more evidence for an increased value outside of the trade guides to be agreed, I dont think 
it is unreasonable that this process took some time. 
I am pleased to see that Tesco later increased the offer and waive the policy excess, 
essentially paying a further £200 to Miss W. 
I think this claim followed a fair process. The two options were given from the outset and 
after some initial thought the option to have the car assessed was agreed. Tesco then 
offered a valuation for the car based on the trade guides within a reasonable time. After 
further negotiation Tesco increased its offer significantly, above the trade values, and waived 
the policy excess.
If Mr N and Miss Ws credit file was affected during the claim process, I dont think it would 
be fair to hold Tesco responsible for this. I think Tesco has done enough, and I dont think it 
needs to do anything further.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman