DRN-3910502
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank plc (trading as First Direct Bank) didnt do enough to 
protect him when he was the victim of a crypto investment scam. 
Mr S is being supported by a representative, but for ease, Ill refer to Mr S throughout this 
decision. 
What happened
In November 2020, Mr S was telephoned by someone (the scammer) about investing in 
crypto. The scammer told Mr S they were from an investment company (who Ill refer to here 
as P). Because Mr S had seen crypto investments were doing well and was impressed by 
the professional approach used by the scammer, he decided to start trading with P. Hed 
also carried out some online checks about P and was reassured by the professional look of 
its website. 
The scammer set up a trading account with P and an account with a well-known crypto 
exchange (which Ill refer to here as K). Both accounts were in Mr Ss name. The scammer 
used remote access software to make the trades on Mr Ss behalf. 
Between 21 November 2020 and 27 January 2021 Mr S made nine payments to K from his 
current account with First Direct via his online banking App. The payments ranged from 
£4,000 to £9,950 (a total of £57,374). 
First Direct declined the first payment for £5,000 made to K on 21 November 2020. After 
speaking to Mr S, First Direct released the payment, and allowed the subsequent eight 
payments to be processed without further interaction with Mr S. 
Mr S initially had access to his trading account with P which reassured him of its legitimacy, 
and he could see his investment was doing well. But Mr S was then unable to access the 
account and was told by the scammer it was being updated.
Mr S continued to communicate with the scammer over the telephone and was reassured 
his investment was doing well. He decided to withdraw some of his profits and was 
convinced by the scammer that to do this  he needed to pay a fee for the money to be 
released. When the withdrawal wasnt forthcoming, Mr S realised hed been the victim of a 
scam. He reported the scam to First Direct in July 2021. 
Unhappy with how First Direct was handling his case, Mr S complained. First Direct said it 
had contacted the beneficiary to try and recover the funds - but as Mr S paid the funds to an 
account in his own name with K and it was unable to see where the money went after that  
First Direct suggested Mr S contact K to see if it could recover the funds for him. And 
because Mr S still had control of the funds after they left his First Direct account, First Direct 
said it couldnt take any further action. 
First Direct also said it had spoken to Mr S about the first payment in November 2020 and 
hed received online fraud alerts in respect of the subsequent payments. 
Mr S remained unhappy and so referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. He 
thought First Direct shouldve done more to protect him, irrespective of where the funds were 
paid to. And that it shouldve asked more questions specific to crypto investment scams 
when theyd spoken. Mr S said had First Direct asked appropriate questions when the first 
payment was made, then the scam wouldve been uncovered, and the loss prevented. 
One of our Investigators considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She was satisfied, 
given Mr Ss appetite for risk, that he wouldve continued with the payments  regardless of 
any warnings First Direct gave. And she accepted First Direct was unable to recover the lost 
funds. 
Mr S didnt agree and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said he didnt remember 
speaking to First Direct about the first payment  nor did he remember being asked any 
probing questions. He said had First Direct asked more questions, he wouldve said how he 
was contacted by the scammer and how the scam had unfolded. Mr S said First Direct 
shouldve recognised this as clear signs of a scam  and stopped the payment going 
through. 
On 13 January 2023, I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint in part. For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
I should first point out that First Direct had an obligation to protect Mr S from financial harm, 
irrespective of what happened to the money after if left his First Direct account. And so, Im 
considering Mr Ss complaint about First Direct on that basis. 
I accept the transactions Mr S made were authorised payments, even though he was the 
victim of a sophisticated crypto investment scam. So, although he didnt intend the money to 
go to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms and 
conditions of her account, Mr S is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time, I consider First Direct should fairly and reasonably: 
 Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
 Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
 In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Did First Direct do enough when it identified the risk? 
First Direct identified the first transaction of £5,000 as suspicious. It tried to contact Mr S  
but was unable to do so, so the transaction was reversed. Mr S telephoned First Direct on 
21 November 2020 to ask why the payment hadnt gone through. Where there is interaction between a bank and its customer in relation to a payment, wed expect the bank to take this 
opportunity to find out more about the nature of the payment it declined. 
Mr S doesnt recall the telephone call he had with First Direct  but also thinks First Direct 
shouldve asked more probing questions when they spoke to fully understand what was 
going on. I can confirm a telephone call did take place between Mr S and First Direct on 
21 November 2020. And as part of my review, Ive listened to that telephone call. 
The telephone call starts by Mr S explaining that hed tried to make an online payment, but it 
hadnt gone through. First Direct asked where the payment was going to, and Mr S 
confirmed it was going to K  which he said was a Bitcoin wallet. 
Having checked its fraud records, First Direct confirmed it had reversed the payment as it 
hadnt been able to contact Mr S to confirm if the payment was genuine. Mr S confirmed the 
payment was genuine and the payee details were correct. 
First Direct asked Mr S how hed got the details of K. Mr S said he already had a trading 
account with K and was happy it wasnt fraudulent  saying hed been dealing with this guy 
for quite some time. 
Mr S told First direct that K was a well-known online company and was used by many 
people as Bitcoin is going through the roof at the moment. He said hed set the account up 
with K specifically to trade  and that every time he tries to move money he gets this 
problem with First Direct. 
First Direct said K didnt offer a confirmation of payee check  and asked Mr S if he was 
happy to proceed or whether he wanted to do any more checks. It said if the payee was 
incorrect, Mr S might not be able to recover the money. Mr S said he was happy to go ahead 
with the payment to K without further checks. 
First Direct processed the payment and said it would contact the fraud team to ensure no 
further payments to K would be declined. 
Ive thought carefully about whether First Direct asked the right questions during its 
interaction with Mr S to fully understand the nature of the transaction he was trying to make. 
And I do think it couldve done more. 
First Direct knew Mr S was trying to pay K  a crypto exchange platform. But no questions 
specific to crypto investment scams were asked. By January 2019 we think firms had or 
ought to have had a good enough understanding of how these scams work. Theres often no 
dispute that the payee (the crypto exchange) is legitimate and in the business of providing 
crypto because of a genuine payment. But the heart of the scam is understanding whether 
anyone is in the background assisting the customer and whether anyone has access to his 
crypto, and explaining the risks involved with that. 
Whilst its not up to us to dictate which questions firms should ask, First Direct couldve, for 
example, asked how Mr S had been contacted, whether there was a broker or account 
manager helping him in the background, what checks hed done, whether he had a trading 
account, whether hed been able to successfully withdraw requested amounts from his 
trading account, whether the investment opportunity was linked to a prominent individual, 
advertised on social media etc. These are all typical features of crypto investment scams. 
First Direct asked Mr S how he got the details for K  but it didnt refer to trading accounts 
or contact he might have had from a broker. Nor did it ask whether anyone had taken control of his computer or ask what checks hed done  there was no reference to the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). 
First Directs focus was very much on whether Mr S was making the payment himself, and 
whether he had the right details for K. I dont consider these to be relevant to potential 
crypto investment scams. First Direct are the experts here  and so shouldve known that it 
is often the case a legitimate crypto exchange is used in the scam process to make it look 
more convincing and harder to detect. Ultimately K was a legitimate company. But despite 
Mr S referring to his dealings with this guy, the line of questioning used by First Direct didnt 
draw out the involvement of P  the scammer  or other common hallmarks of crypto 
investment scams. 
So, I think First Direct didnt do enough once it identified the risk to Mr S.
Would appropriate intervention have made a difference? 
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr S wouldve said in response if First Direct had 
asked more detailed questions when they spoke. Of course, I cant know for sure, so Ive 
thought about what I think is more likely than not to have happened, taking into account the 
particular circumstances of this case. 
Mr S wasnt given a cover story by the scammer. And I think if First Direct had quizzed him 
more deeply on the investment itself - rather than purely focusing on K - the presence of P, 
the fact hed been cold called and the use of remote access software would more than likely 
have all come to light. I also think Mr S wouldve divulged that hed been the victim of a 
crypto scam before. Even if it was used as a way of him trying to convince himself (and First 
Direct) that this time everything was above board. 
But Mr S being scammed before and the involvement of P ought to have been a great 
concern to First Direct, and Id have expected it to have questioned Mr S more deeply before 
being satisfied hed carried out robust enough checks. Mr S is likely then to have explained 
that hed checked information online about P, including its website, and had no cause for 
concern. And that he was able to access his account with P and see how his investment 
was doing. But given how sophisticated crypto scams can be, and how they can involve 
cloned companies, cloned websites, and fake trading accounts, Id still expect First Direct to 
have strongly reiterated to Mr S the need to check that P was legitimate and whether there 
were any FCA, or other industry warnings, in place. 
I must now think about whether this wouldve made a difference and prevented Mr Ss loss. 
Given the number of scam hallmarks relevant to Mr Ss investment that First Direct shouldve 
alerted him to, coupled with the fact he had already lost money in a crypto investment scam - 
I think it more likely than not that Mr S wouldve done more checks before proceeding with 
the £5,000 payment. 
Its a common tactic of scammers to clone companies to make the scam appear genuine  
and I can see theres a warning on the FCA website from December 2019 about this 
applying to P, and how an investor should be particularly weary if theyve been cold called 
 as was the case here. And because Mr S had already lost money through a scam  I think 
he wouldve followed the FCA guidance to check with the real P  to make sure that was 
who he was dealing with. At which point the scam wouldve been uncovered, and the 
£5,000, together with all the subsequent payments (totalling £57,374), wouldnt have been 
lost.
 Should Mr S bear some responsibility for his loss? 
I have thought carefully about whether Mr S should bear some responsibility for his loss by 
way of contributory negligence (which might justify a reduction in compensation). And I think 
he should. 
Its clear the material cause of Mr Ss loss came from being tricked by sophisticated 
scammers. But his loss could also have been prevented had First Direct taken appropriate 
steps to intervene when his first transaction to K appeared unusual. 
But I think its fair to say Mr S wasnt as careful as I reasonably think he ought to have been 
before choosing to invest with P, given hed lost circa £50,000 six months previously 
through what he knew to be a crypto investment scam. Despite this, he was happy to invest 
again, albeit through a different trading company and crypto exchange, fully aware of the 
risks involved. He also didnt warn First Direct that hed been the victim of scam when he lost 
the money in June 2020, instead waiting until the summer of 2021 to report either scam to 
First Direct. This all suggests to me that Mr S wasnt afraid of taking financial risks and 
accepted the consequences of doing so. 
The investment with P also had hallmarks that were very similar to the scam hed fallen 
victim to six months before. While the method of contact was different between the two 
scams  with the first Mr S was contacted in response to an enquiry he made, whereas with 
the second scam Mr S received a cold call  it seems the scams were otherwise operated in 
a very similar way. 
In both scams, a broker was involved who said they would trade on Mr Ss behalf, and 
remote access software was used. And Mr S was given access to his trading accounts which 
appeared to show his investments making good returns. 
When asked what had convinced Mr S to invest on each occasion, he explained that in both 
cases he thought the scammer was highly personable. In relation to P, Mr S  had found 
the website to be flawlessly professional. 
Mr S doesnt appear to have done any checks on the broker in relation to the first scam  but 
did do some online checks in respect of P. I appreciate Mr S could reasonably have been 
convinced by the professional presentation of the initial scam and the personable nature of 
the scammer. But I wouldve expected him to be more cautious before attempting to invest 
with P given he now had knowledge and experience of how a crypto investment scam could 
operate and had lost a considerable sum of money as a result. 
As such, I think a reasonable person in the same position as Mr S wouldve carried out more 
thorough research into P and wouldnt simply have relied on its professional online 
presentation before attempting to enter into a new risky investment opportunity. While I 
appreciate Mr S carried out some rudimentary checks online before investing in P, had he 
carried out further research or sought guidance before investing, I think it wouldve come to 
light that there was an FCA warning against P and that the investment opportunity once 
again bore the hallmarks of a scam. 
Overall, while I appreciate Mr S carried out some checks before investing with P, I dont 
think he carried out sufficiently thorough checks to enable him to establish the legitimacy of 
the company he was dealing with before investing very large sums in high-risk trading. I 
think he ought reasonably to have done more. 
So, in the circumstances, I think its fair that he bears 50% of the responsibility of the losses 
he incurred because of the second scam. For the reasons given above, I currently intend to uphold this complaint in part and direct 
HSBC UK Bank plc (trading as First Direct Bank) to refund Mr S all his disputed payments, 
less 50%. The total disputed payments are £57,374, that would amount to an award of 
£28,687. 
This was a current account and so First Direct should add interest to that sum (less any tax 
properly deductible) at 8% simple per year, from the respective dates of loss to the date of 
refund. 
I invited Mr S and First Direct to provide me with any additional evidence or information they 
wanted me to consider before issuing my final decision. 
First Direct accepted my provisional decision but disputed the level of interest I was 
awarding. It said the funds had originated from Mr Ss savings account (Bonus Saver)  and 
so interest applicable to that account should be awarded. 
Mr S also accepted my provisional decision and confirmed that the funds originated from his 
savings account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accept my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from what I said. 
But having now had confirmation from Mr S that the funds originated from his savings 
account  I agree with First Direct that an award of 8% interest isnt appropriate. 
Putting things right
First Direct shouldve done more to protect Mr S from the risk of financial harm from fraud. 
But Mr S shouldve taken more action to mitigate the risk. So, First direct should refund Mr S 
all his disputed payments, less 50%, and pay interest at the rate he was receiving on the 
savings account the funds originated from - from the respective dates of loss to the date of 
settlement.  
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint is partly upheld. HSBC UK Bank plc (trading as First 
Direct Bank should:
 Refund £28,687 of the £57,374 Mr S transferred to the scammer.
 Pay simple interest at the rate applicable to the originating savings accounts on this 
amount, per year (less any tax properly deductible) from the respective dates of loss to 
the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman