DRN-4039567
The complaint
Miss P complains that Atom Bank PLC provided incorrect information to HRMC which 
resulted in Miss P being asked to pay income tax on her savings.
What happened
In late 2022 Miss P received a letter from HMRC telling her that she owed income tax for the 
previous tax year. Miss P told HMRC that the information sent by Atom Bank was incorrect 
and then complained to Atom Bank that it had sent incorrect information to HMRC about 
interest it had paid on her account. 
Atom Bank upheld Miss Ps complaint and initially offered Miss P £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience the error had caused. Atom Bank confirmed there had been an error on a 
number of its accounts and that it asked HMRC to update its records earlier in the year. 
Atom Bank suggested that Miss P should share its final response letter with HMRC.
Miss P didnt accept the offer made by Atom Bank and thought the £50 didnt provide a 
reasonable remedy for the stress and anxiety the matter had caused her. Miss P brought the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where one of our Investigators looked into 
things. Atom Bank increased its offer £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
Miss P, but the Investigator didnt think this was fair. The Investigator thought it would be fair 
and reasonable for Atom Bank to pay Miss P £250 as the error caused Miss P more distress, 
inconvenience, and anxiety than the levels she might reasonably expect from day-to-day life.
Miss P asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss P will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons as the 
Investigator, Ive decided that Atom Bank should pay Miss P £250. I consider this is a fair 
and reasonable remedy in the circumstances of this complaint. I will now explain why.
Theres no dispute that Atom Bank provided incorrect information to HMRC about the 
interest Miss P earned on her account, nor that Miss P received a tax bill based on the 
incorrect information. Atom Bank initially corrected this error promptly, but unfortunately it 
seems HMRC used the incorrect figures Atom Bank had previously provided to calculate 
Miss Ps tax for the year. With this in mind, I dont need to make a decision on whether Atom 
Bank did something wrong. Instead, I only have to decide whether the offer made by Atom 
Bank was fair and reasonable.
Im satisfied that Atom Bank provided HMRC with the correct figures in March 2022 and that 
it did so relatively quickly after its error had been identified. I think it would have been better 
service if Atom Bank had informed Miss P that it had previously reported incorrect figures to 
HMRC, rather than Miss P only becoming aware of this much later in the year. So, when 
Miss P received the tax bill from HMRC, based on incorrect information, it would have come 
as a shock to her at the time. Miss P says she had to spend a tremendous amount of time 
trying to resolve this with HMRC and this shouldnt have been an issue in the first place. 
Miss P says Atom Banks error caused her a tremendous amount of anxiety and stress and 
had a detrimental effect on her mental and physical health. Miss P asked me to consider that 
it was unreasonable that Atom Bank asked her to send its final response letter to HMRC. 
Atom Bank did send the correct information to HMRC, and it could have re-sent the 
information or written to HMRC again when HMRC issued the tax bill. However, Miss P was 
already in contact with HMRC around this time, so I dont think it was unreasonable for Atom 
Bank to suggest Miss P send a copy of its final response letter to HMRC to support this had 
been done  particularly as Atom Bank had already provided the correct information to 
HMRC some months earlier. I appreciate this meant Miss P had to do some more work to 
resolve the issue with HRMC, but in the circumstances of this complaint Im satisfied it would 
be fair and reasonable for Atom Bank to pay Miss P £250. I think this fairly reflects the work 
Miss P had to do to put things right, including making a number of telephone calls and some 
administration work, and it reflects the distress, inconvenience and anxiety caused to her 
when she received an unexpected tax bill. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive detailed above, Ive decided that Atom Bank PLC should pay Miss P 
£250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman