DRN-3794578
The complaint
Ms P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund all the money she lost 
when she fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
I understand that, as part of the scam, an unauthorised loan was taken out in Ms Ps 
name. But Ive seen this has since been closed. Barclays says it has been recovered, 
leaving the disputed transactions as the loss. 
I therefore dont need to make a finding about the loan; that has been resolved. I just 
need to consider Ms Ps outstanding loss. Meaning I need to consider whether 
Barclays ought to refund any of the transactions she is disputing.
Ms P made fourteen payments to one cryptocurrency exchange, and four to another. 
I understand the funds were converted to cryptocurrency and moved onto a trading 
platform with a merchant Ill refer to as S. Unfortunately, rather than genuinely 
investing this money on Ms Ps behalf, S were acting fraudulently.
Even though Ms P was tricked, its not in dispute that she authorised these 
transactions. So the starting position is that shes liable for them  as Barclays is 
expected to act on her authorised payment instructions without undue delay.
There are some situations where we believe that bankstaking into account relevant 
rules, codes and best practiceought to have identified a fraud risk, so should have 
looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before making the 
payment. If Barclays failed to do so here, and that failure led to a fraudulent loss, it 
might be fair to hold it liable.
I agree with the investigator that Barclays ought to have identified some of these 
payments as risky and performed further checks  as we know it did. Im not satisfied 
these checks always went far enough.
For example, one call simply checked it was Ms P making the payment. That 
persuades me she authorised it. But I think Barclays should have asked more about 
the circumstances in which she was making it, to assess whether she was the victim 
of scam. 
But this alone doesnt mean Barclays is liable. That depends on whether it would 
have prevented the loss if it had intervened appropriately. In the circumstances, Im 
not persuaded it would have done.
This is largely because of the contact Ms P had with Barclays about the scam. During 
a call predominantly about another payment, they discussed her cryptocurrency 
trading. She told Barclays she was dealing with S and asked whether they were 
legitimate. 
The call handler told Ms P she didnt know whether S were a scammer. It would be 
expecting too much to think she ought to have recognised the name and immediately 
realised they were acting fraudulently. Its ultimately down to the individual making 
the payment to do their own due diligence and decide whether they want to trade 
with the merchant. 
Additionally, as none of the payments went directly from Barclays to S, the merchant 
wouldnt have triggered any watch list it has in place to detect payments to potentially 
fraudulent firms. So this wouldnt have flagged up to Barclays as a concern. 
However, the call handler advised Ms P about what she could do to check whether S 
were legitimate. Specifically, she told her to look them on up the website of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA  the UK financial services regulator) to see if they 
were properly regulated. And Ms P told Barclays she would do so.
If you look up Ss name on the FCA website, or if you search for their name 
alongside FCA on Google, it shows that S arent listed on the FCAs register of 
authorised firms. Instead, the FCA has issued a warning about S operating in the UK 
without authorisation. This warning was live at the time of the call. 
This call happened after two out of the eighteen scam payments were made, with the 
second payment having already been identified as suspicious  although, as above, 
the intervention wasnt very detailed. But even if that earlier intervention had gone 
further, Im not persuaded it would have stopped Ms P from proceeding, given that 
the later call didnt.
Thats not to say there wasnt more Barclays could have done which may have 
uncovered the scam. Nor do I mean to cast blame on Ms P, who I understand and 
appreciate was the victim of a cruel and sophisticated scam. Ultimately, Im 
considering what its reasonable to expect from Barclays in the circumstances. 
I think the intervention call in which S was discussed did a reasonable job of setting 
out to Ms P what she should do to check Ss legitimacy  bearing in mind this is 
something a bank will have better knowledge of than the average consumer. As that 
didnt stop the scam, Im not inclined to think Barclays ought to have done more 
which would have stopped any further losses. 
Ive also considered whether Barclays acted fairly when Ms P reported the scam. 
Despite the payments going via legitimate cryptocurrency exchanges, it did attempt 
to raise claims under the chargeback scheme. This is a voluntary scheme whereby 
payment disputes can be decided by the card-scheme provider (in this case, VISA).
As its a voluntary scheme, Barclays isnt obliged to raise chargeback claims for all 
card payment disputes. But Id consider it good practice to do so if a claim was likely 
to succeed under VISAs rules. 
Such claims can only be raised against the merchant the consumer paid directly. In 
this case, that means the claims would be against the cryptocurrency exchanges 
rather than S.Unless these merchants refunded Ms P during the first stage of the chargeback 
claim, I wouldnt reasonably have expected Barclays to pursue the matter further. Im 
not persuaded the claims would have succeeded under the scheme rules, given that 
the dispute was really about the merchant who the funds were transferred on to. 
As is common practice, whilst the chargeback claims were being considered, the 
disputed payments (totalling £76,823.47) were credited to Ms P pending the outcome 
of the claims. One of the merchants refunded three payments totalling £12,758.44 
during the initial stage of the claim. The reason for this is unclear; it could simply be 
that it failed to respond in time. 
That means £64,065.03 should have been re-debited from Ms P, to reflect those 
claims which hadnt succeeded. As set out above, I wouldnt have expected Barclays 
to pursue these further. The records Ive seen for some of the declined claims show 
the exchange loaded the funds to the account as requested  which Im satisfied 
means the claims wouldnt have successfully under VISAs rules.   
Barclays re-debited these funds on two different days, taking £65,815.66 in total. But 
thats more than it should have taken, given the value of the three successful claims. 
I therefore agree with our investigator that Barclays should pay Ms P £1,750.63 for 
the additional amount it took back  as it has agreed to do following the investigators 
view. 
While I appreciate why Ms P feels strongly about this matter, having carefully 
considered all the circumstances, Im not persuaded it would be fair to hold Barclays 
liable for more of her loss. 
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC must refund Ms P for the £1,750.63 which shouldnt have been 
removed from her account. It should pay 8% simple interest on this amount, running from the 
day it removed the funds from her account, following the responses to the chargeback 
claims, to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to put things 
right in line with what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman