DRN-3310579
The complaint
Mr M complains Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds unfairly seeking 
reimbursement of its costs from him for a third-party motor claim.  
What happened
In June 2020 Advantage told Mr M a third-party drivers insurer had made a claim against 
him. He denied being involved. It asked him to provide evidence to support that. In 
November 2020 Advantage settled the third-partys hire car cost claim. In February 2021, 
following a court judgement in the third-partys favour, Advantage settled its repair costs. 
Advantage then decided to recover its claim costs from Mr M. It said his policy terms allowed 
it to do so  as he had failed to cooperate with its attempts to defend the claim. 
Mr M wasnt happy with that, so he complained to Advantage. In response it said it had 
made numerous attempts to contact him about the claim. As he didnt respond or provide 
any evidence to show he wasnt involved in the incident it had to settle the third-partys 
claim. It explained that Mr Ms policy terms gives it the right to recover costs from 
policyholders when they dont assist with investigations. 
Mr M didnt accept that response. Hes unhappy Advantage accepted him as being involved 
in the incident, at fault and for settling the third partys claim. He says it falsely claimed to 
have tried to contact him. He claims it ignored evidence he provided confirming he wasnt 
involved in the incident. He wants Advantage to stop trying to recover the claim costs from 
him.
Our investigator considered the complaint. He felt Advantages decision to pursue Mr M for 
the claim costs was fair. The investigator said it had provided him with reasonable 
opportunity to cooperate on the claim  but he had failed to do so. He recommended 
Advantage pay Mr M £100 compensation to recognise the impact of some unclear 
information it had provided. Advantage accepted that assessment. Mr M didnt, so the 
complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to interfere with Advantages decision to try to recover its 
claim costs from Mr M. 
Mr M and Advantage have provided a lot of information for this complaint, making a number 
of points and arguments. As this is an informal service, I'm not going to respond to 
everything here. Instead I'll just focus on what I consider to be the key issues and evidence. 
But I'd like to reassure Mr M and Advantage that Ive considered everything provided.  
Im satisfied that, after initially informing Mr M of the claim, Advantage tried numerous times 
to contact him by phone and post. Ive seen copies of the letters and heard call recordings. It 
was trying to gather evidence to defend the claim. Im not persuaded by his claim he thought 
he was being scammed. 
Mr M says Advantage ignored his supporting evidence, including from the police and his 
employer, confirming he wasnt involved in the incident. But Im satisfied he failed to respond 
to, or cooperate with, Advantage. I havent seen anything to persuade me he provided 
evidence to show he wasnt involved in the incident. 
Mr Ms policy terms allow Advantage to conduct the defence or settlement of any claim. That 
means it might make a decision he disagrees with, but the policy allows it to do so. 
Advantage was required to respond to the third-partys claim. The third-party had provided 
Mr Ms name, address, mobile number, car make and model. It was said these had been 
exchanged at the incident.  As Ive said Mr M didnt respond or engage. He didnt provide 
anything to assist Advantage in its attempts to defend the claim. In those circumstances, its 
decision to settle the third-partys car hire costs was reasonable.
Advantage also tried to voluntarily settle the third-partys repair costs. That was a reasonable 
decision, considering the lack of supporting evidence to defend the claim. As Mr M didn't 
respond to its attempts to gain his consent that didnt happen. Eventually a court judgement 
was made in the third-partys favour. That was settled by Advantage.  I cant say that was 
unfair or unreasonable either. 
Mr M isnt happy Advantage is trying to recover the claim costs from him. Its said his policy 
terms allow it to seek to recover claim costs from policyholders where they fail to provide it 
with information and help with a claim. 
It's reasonable for an insurer to expect a policy holder to assist it with claims. Where a 
policyholder doesnt it might undermine the insurers ability to successfully defend a claim 
and minimise its liability. In this case Advantage says it would have been able to defend the 
claim had Mr M provided the evidence he initially said he had. Having considered the policy 
terms, and Mr Ms failure to respond or cooperate with Advantage during the claim, I cant 
say its decision to recover costs from him is unfair or unreasonable. So Im not going to 
interfere.
Advantage agreed to our investigators recommendation it pay Mr M £100 compensation. 
That was to recognise the impact of it giving him inconsistent information. Having considered 
everything I dont see any reason to award any further compensation.My final decision
For the reasons given above, Advantage Insurance Company Limited needs to pay Mr M 
£100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman