DRN-2821186
The complaint
Mrs G complains AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly settled her travel insurance claim.
What happened
Mrs G travelled abroad in April 2019. She said she was unwell on the day she was due to fly 
home, so she missed the first part of her connecting flight. She re-booked her flights, and 
completed the first part of the connecting journey. But then missed the second flight. Mrs G 
made a claim for the medical costs she occurred abroad, and the cost of her missed flights. 
She also claimed for the loss of some cash, a mobile phone and her passport, as well as 
other costs she incurred while she remained abroad. 
AXA agreed to pay the costs of the flight Mrs G ultimately used to return home. However it 
declined some other elements of her claim. 
Mrs G complained to AXA. There were delays in AXA responding to the complaint, and it 
said that was because it was still investigating. It let Mrs G know she could bring her 
complaint to this service. Subsequently AXA apologised to Mrs G for the delays, and paid 
her £300 in compensation.   
Mrs G brought her complaint to this service, and an investigator here looked into what had 
happened. She said she thought AXA should have met the claim for the medical costs and 
the loss of cash, mobile phone and passport, in line with the policy terms and limits. But she 
didnt think it was unreasonable that AXA hadnt covered the cost of Mrs Gs missed flights 
and the food, clothing and telephone call costs she claimed for.
AXA accepted the view and settled the claim in the way the investigator had suggested. Mrs 
G didnt accept the investigators view, as she still thought AXA should pay the remainder of 
her claim for the missed flights. And because Mrs G didnt agree, the case has been passed 
to me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following the investigators view, AXA settled the majority of Mrs Gs claim. Mrs G said she 
remains dissatisfied that AXA has not paid the costs of her missed flights. As the matters of 
the compensation for delays, medical bills and other costs, seem no longer to be in dispute, I 
wont comment on those further in this decision. Instead I will focus on the claim for the 
missed flights. 
Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say AXA has a responsibility 
to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
AXA declined to pay for the missed flights Mrs G had booked - one of which was a 
connecting flight. But it covered the cost of the new flight Mrs G subsequently used to return 
home. 
Within the emergency medical section of the policy, the following is stated as being 
excluded: 
The cost of Your unused original tickets where AXA Assistance or We have 
arranged and paid for You to return to Home, if you cannot use the return ticket.
Mrs G would always have had to pay the cost of her return home to the UK, as part of her 
original booked trip. And in line with the above term, as AXA covered the cost of the flight 
she ultimately used to return, the costs of her unused missed flights are not covered by her 
policy. 
Mrs G missed her original connecting flight, which was an internal flight within the country 
shed visited. And she booked another flight for the same day, which she went on to use. 
This didnt form part of the later return journey to the UK that AXA paid for. So Ive 
considered whether it would be fair and reasonable for AXA to pay for that missed internal 
flight. 
Mrs G has said the reason she missed flights was because she was tired and unwell, and 
also because she lost her passport at some point while at the airports. 
Ive reviewed the medical evidence that has been provided, and Im aware Mrs G was 
admitted to hospital for treatment. However, this was around a week after the flights she 
missed. So Im not persuaded by this evidence that Mrs G was too unwell to fly on 3 May. 
And Ive not been provided with any further medical evidence about Mrs Gs state of health 
on the day she missed her flights. Mrs Gs policy also doesnt provide any cover for missing 
a flight due to a lost passport. So considering all of the above, Im satisfied AXA isnt 
responsible for covering the costs of any of the missed flights. 
AXA has already paid Mrs G compensation for delays in handling her claim. And following 
the investigators view, it paid other elements of her claim as recommended. Mrs G has 
accepted this, confirming the remaining unresolved matter was that of her missed flights. So 
as Ive found AXA isnt responsible for the costs of Mrs Gs missed flights in these 
circumstances, I dont think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part. As AXA 
Insurance UK Plc has already settled the claim in the way this service recommended, Im not 
directing it to do anything further.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman