DRN-2966929
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of a phone supplied through credit with Shop Direct 
Finance Company Limited, trading as Very. Hes also concerned about the delays in getting 
his complaint resolved.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr M, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the phone should have been of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Very are responsible. The relevant law 
also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the 
price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
The relevant legislation says that if there is a fault with the goods that is reported after the 
first 30 days, as was the case here, the business must be given an opportunity to repair it, if 
they wish.
In order for Very to establish if there was a fault with the phone I think it was reasonable for 
them, in the first instance to direct Mr M to the supplier who would run through checks with 
Mr M to see if they could identify a manufacturing fault. 
If the supplier had identified any inherent faults with the phone they would have given Mr M a 
reference number he could subsequently provide to Very. But as Mr M didnt provide that 
reference number Very asked him to return the goods so they could inspect and, if 
necessary repair them.
I dont think Very did anything wrong when they proposed that action as at that point they 
didnt have proof of any fault with the phone.
Subsequently Mr M has managed to secure a replacement phone from the manufacturer. 
So, I think his complaint about the quality of goods has been remedied.
But Mr M says that he was messed around by Very. He says they passed him back and 
forwards to the supplier and that he had to spend many weeks before a resolution was 
provided.
I understand that this must have been a frustrating experience for Mr M. He simply wanted 
someone to replace his broken phone and wouldnt have wanted to spend so much time 
talking through the same issues with the supplier and Very. But its not for this service to 
decide how Very operate their business. I can understand they would need clarification that 
there was a fault with the phone before agreeing any action. As the phone wasnt returned to 
them, and a supplier reference number wasnt provided, I cant say they had proof the phone 
was faulty. I dont therefore, think it would be fair to suggest theyve done anything wrong 
that they should compensate Mr M for.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman