DRN-2545991
The complaint
Mrs F has complained about the advice she was given by Financial Options (Selby) Ltd in 
2017. Financial Options advised her to purchase an annuity. Mrs F thinks a Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP) would have been more appropriate.
What happened
 In September 2017 Mrs F met with Financial Options. A fact-find was completed and a 
suitability report drawn up. At the time Mrs F was 55, had a personal pension worth 
approximately £260,000 and earned rental income from a property portfolio. She also had a 
stocks and shares ISA worth approximately £80,000 and around £70,000 in cash. The 
suitability report recorded Mrs F as having given up paid employment with a view to moving 
to her new home and earning enough to live on through her investments and property 
portfolio. It should also be noted that Mrs F was an existing client of Financial Options and 
had met with it on a number of occasions previously.
Financial Options advised Mrs F to use her personal pension to buy an annuity with Canada 
Life. Mrs F accepted the advice. The annuity was set up on a non-escalating, single life 
basis with a 10-year guarantee period. It pays Mrs F just under £900 per month before tax. 
The first payment was made in October 2017.
Mrs F says she would have been better advised to transfer her personal pension to a SIPP. 
She says this would have allowed her to use her pension to invest in property and would 
have given her more flexibility. She says Financial Options didnt explore any of this with her. 
Mrs F complained to Financial Options in 2018. Financial Options didnt think it had done 
anything wrong so she referred her complaint to us. Our investigator upheld her complaint. 
She said, in brief, that Mrs F shouldnt have been advised to purchase an annuity because 
she didnt need the income at that point. She thought Mrs F would have been better advised 
to have delayed such a decision which would have allowed her to benefit from further 
investment growth in her personal pension and, potentially, better annuity rates given she 
would have been older when buying an annuity. 
Financial Options disagreed. It says a flexible drawdown arrangement was discussed but 
dismissed as a suitable option because Mrs F had a low attitude-to-risk and limited 
investment experience. And it says Mrs Fs rental income wasnt enough and needed to be 
supplemented by withdrawals from her ISA. Given this, it thought the relatively large, 
predictable, income stream provided by the annuity was suitable.
  
The complaint is therefore with me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Fs September 2017 suitability report records her as having a Profile 0 attitude to risk 
in relation to her retirement which meant she was categorised as risk averse. This was 
based on a previous risk assessment, completed with Mrs F in 2015. Mrs F has written on 
her version of the suitability report to say she was low risk not no risk. Her point being that 
she was less risk averse than Financial Options made out. Even so, it still seems to me from 
all this that she was relatively cautious with regards her retirement. 
Mrs F also appears to have been relatively inexperienced in the type of investments typically 
held in a pension. Her personal pension was created just two years earlier following a 
Pension Sharing Order after her divorce. Similarly, her stocks and shares ISA was set up by 
her ex-husband and Mrs F appears to have been relatively hands-off with regards to its 
management. Someone with a low attitude to risk and a limited track record in investments 
wouldnt, ordinarily, be an ideal candidate for a SIPP which requires an individual to be 
comfortable managing their investments and income needs so that their pension doesnt get 
depleted too quickly. I see no reason why Mrs F would have been an exception to this 
general principle. 
Its possible Mrs F wanted to use a SIPP to hold a commercial property. She alluded to this 
when she complained to Financial Options:
You recommended that I switchto a Canada Life Annuity in October 2017 when you were 
aware that I owned a commercial property that could have been used within my SIPP
Whilst its true that commercial property can be held within a SIPP, it doesnt automatically 
follow that it would be suitable to do so. It can be an expensive process and restrictions 
apply  for instance, in relation to tenants who are connected parties which could have been 
an issue in Mrs Fs case. There are also restrictions in using SIPPs to hold residential 
property (including holiday lets) which, again, could have impacted on Mrs F. It should also 
be pointed out that holding too much of ones retirement savings in a single asset class  
property in Mrs Fs case  wouldnt normally be advisable. 
Mrs F also makes the point that a SIPP would have given her flexibility. This is undoubtedly 
true. It would have given her the flexibility to manage her investments as she saw fit and to 
manage how much, and when, she took income. But its not clear to me why Mrs Fs need to 
do this was such that it would have been advisable for her to take on the risks of managing 
her pension in this way and, most likely, paying more to do so. Theres little detail about why 
Mrs F needed the flexibility in her complaint submission. And, more importantly, theres little 
along these lines in her fact-find or suitability report either. Of course, this goes to the heart 
of the complaint because Mrs F says this wasnt discussed in any detail so, in this light, its 
not surprising theres little to show why flexibility was so important for her. But I dont think it 
was necessarily incumbent on Financial Options to have explored this in much more detail 
given Mrs Fs relative inexperience in investments and low attitude to risk already made a 
SIPP unsuitable for her. 
So, given all the available evidence, Im not persuaded the SIPP would have been suitable 
here. That said, I do have concerns about Mrs F being advised to buy an annuity. Financial 
Options included in its suitability report a shortfall analysis section which was essentially a 
comparison of Mrs Fs income and expenditure. Mrs Fs income was recorded as being 
approximately £1,291 per month after tax. This was derived solely from property and was 
based on Mrs Fs 2015/16 tax return. Her various outgoings were added up and in total 
came to £1,185 per month. The report also said Mrs F was expecting an increase in her 
rental income. So it appears as though Mrs F had enough income to cover her living 
expenses  a position that was expected to improve  plus a relatively sizeable buffer 
through her ISA and cash investments.With this in mind, I dont think it was suitable for Financial Options to have advised Mrs F to 
lock herself into an annuity at this point. The shortfall analysis didnt show her needing the 
additional income the annuity provided. And in being able to delay the annuity purchase, 
Mrs F would have had the opportunity to increase the value of her pension fund and, 
potentially, benefit from better annuity rates as she got older. At the very least, an annuity is 
irreversible so there would often be merit in delaying a decision if possible. 
The reasons given by Financial Options for recommending the annuity were explained in the 
suitability report as follows:
To summarise you want to achieve a guaranteed annual income which is the maximum 
available from your pension benefits.
As part of our discussions we reviewed the various options available and you confirmed the 
following factors were either very important or essential when considering these pension 
benefits:
 A known, secure and predictable income in retirement.
 In the event of your early death some benefits would go to grown up children 
Of course, a known, secure income would have been achieved by purchasing the annuity. 
But, as outlined above, I dont think there was a pressing need for this  and Mrs F should 
have been advised of this. As for passing death benefits on to her children, its not clear to 
me why Mrs Fs annuity was better in this regard than keeping her personal pension. 
Financial Options says Mrs Fs rental income wasnt particularly reliable. It points to her tax 
returns which show lower income from property in the two years prior to the 2015/16 figure 
referred to above. It also points to the fact that Mrs F was withdrawing £500 per month from 
her ISA. It says this is evidence of Mrs F living beyond her means. And it says continued 
withdrawals along the same lines wouldnt have been sustainable. It says all this shows the 
annuity was suitable because it would have allowed Mrs F to continue to enjoy her standard 
of living without depleting her ISA. It would also allow her to better absorb any periods of 
lower rental income.
Its certainly true that Mrs Fs income from property in 2013/14 and 2014/15 was significantly 
lower than in 2015/16. However, the report doesnt record why Mrs Fs property income was 
so much lower previously and whether those years were anomalous or a good guide to the 
future. Instead the suitability report just bases its assumptions on the 2015/16 figure without 
any further examination of those earlier years. I can only surmise from this that the 2015/16 
figure was seen as a reasonable starting point for assessing Mrs Fs income and that 
Financial Options decided to discount earlier years from its deliberations. Thats not to say 
Mrs Fs rental income wouldnt have fluctuated. But the assumption in the suitability report 
was that it would fluctuate around a higher level than Financial Options is now suggesting. 
With regards to Mrs Fs use of her ISA funds, I come back to the suitability report once again 
which says the following:
you are using income from your ISA savings on day to day living costs, you are hoping to 
stop the income from the ISA and give it time to grow, you have had to take the income from 
the isa as your final financial settlement (the sale of the family home ) has taken 
considerably longer than expected.
So theres a disconnect here. The shortfall analysis in the suitability report shows Mrs F as 
having enough income to cover her living costs without needing to rely on her ISA. And yet elsewhere in the same report, Mrs F is recorded as needing her ISA because the financial 
settlement following her divorce had been delayed. So Mrs Fs exact financial position at the 
time isnt clear. Even so, its evident Mrs F was withdrawing funds from her ISA and this 
does suggest her income did need to be supplemented somehow. 
However, this doesnt change my view that locking Mrs F into an annuity at this point was 
unsuitable. Either the shortfall analysis was a fair reflection of her situation  in which case 
she did have enough income and the statement about needing her ISA for day to day 
expenses was erroneous or exaggerated (for instance, maybe Mrs F was using it for more 
discretionary expenditure). Or the statement about using the ISA was a fair reflection of 
Mrs Fs situation. In which case, the problem was only temporary whilst she waited for her 
financial settlement. Either way, there doesnt seem to me to have been a pressing need to 
purchase an annuity at that point. In the circumstances, it would seem more prudent to have 
waited for Mrs Fs financial situation to have become clearer following her financial 
settlement, and imminent house move, before making any irreversible decisions. 
This isnt to say an annuity wouldnt have been suitable at some point. I think Financial 
Options makes some valid points about the security and predictability of an annuity providing 
a counterbalance to Mrs Fs more uncertain rental income. And, for the reasons given 
above, I dont think Mrs F was an ideal candidate for a SIPP and drawdown arrangement. 
Its just that I dont think there was a pressing need for an annuity when she met with 
Financial Options in 2017. I think she would have been better advised to wait for a period 
before being advised along those lines.
Its notable that Financial Options appears to be in broad agreement with the above. In its 
response to our investigators assessment it said the following:
Shortly before and after [Mrs Fs] 55th birthdayshe phoned a number of times asking to 
take her pension. I suggested she wait until the old family house was sold in the hope that 
there would be more, spare cash that would change the need [to] take the pension. 
Before taking the pension income we had 2 meetings a month apartIn these two meetings 
I tried to get her to delay taking benefits
So it seems Financial Options had its own doubts about Mrs F committing to a particular 
course of action in 2017. However, it put those doubts to one side because, in its view, 
Mrs F had an overriding need for income. For the reasons given above, I think this was the 
wrong approach. And in advising Mrs F to take the annuity  and seemingly going against its 
initial instincts to delay taking benefits  Financial Options is now responsible for its 
recommendation.
Its not possible to say when Mrs F should have, or would have, taken her annuity if she 
hadnt been advised to take it when she did. However, I think its fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances to assume she would have taken it around about now once her financial 
situation had become clearer following her divorce settlement and house move. My 
approach to compensation reflects this. Its also not possible to say what type of annuity 
Mrs F would have, or should have, purchased either. However, in the absence of any 
compelling evidence as to why a different type of annuity would have been more suitable 
(one with a shorter guarantee period, say, or with inflation protection), I will use the suitability 
report as my guide to this and will base my compensation on Mrs F taking the same type of 
annuity. 
Putting things right In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mrs F as close as possible 
in the position she would probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice. I dont 
think Mrs F should have been advised to take the annuity when she did, but I think an 
annuity would have been suitable at a later date. It is not possible to say precisely when. But 
Im satisfied that what I have set out below is a fair and reasonable approach to putting 
things right for Mrs F. 
Financial Options should:
A. Confirm what the value of Mrs Fs personal pension would have been if it had 
remained invested in the same funds until the date of this compensation calculation. 
Financial Options will need to contact Mrs Fs previous personal pension provider to 
do this.
B. Recalculate the gross annuity Mrs F would have received per annum if the revised 
pension fund value had been used to purchase an equivalent annuity to the one she 
did purchase using the Open Market Option as at the date of calculation (and taking 
into account Mrs Fs age and circumstances as at the date of calculation). Financial 
Options will need to refer to published annuity rate tables and get a quote from a 
competitive provider to do this.
C. Calculate the difference between the gross annuity Mrs F would have received per 
annum and the gross annuity she is currently receiving. 
D. If the figure in C is positive, calculate the lump sum required to purchase an annuity 
which would pay a gross annual amount equivalent to the value calculated in C. This 
figure should then be reduced to allow for income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid at Mrs Fs assumed rate of 20%. If the figure in C is negative, no 
compensation is payable. 
E. Deduct the combined net annuity payments already paid to Mrs F from the figure 
calculated in D. The remaining amount should then be paid to Mrs F directly as a 
lump sum. 
Mrs F should note that the above may not result in a compensation payment (because her 
pension fund might have fallen if it had stayed invested or because annuity rates have 
worsened considerably since 2017). However, given Financial Options advice wasnt 
suitable, I think its fair and reasonable for it to pay Mrs F £200 for the trouble and upset it 
caused. This should be paid to Mrs F regardless of whether there has been a financial loss. 
Financial Options should also provide the details of its calculations to Mrs F in a clear, 
simple format.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mrs Fs complaint. Financial Options (Selby) Ltd 
should pay Mrs F compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021. 
Christian Wood
Ombudsman