DRN-1294546
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc has turned down a curtailment claim they 
made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P had booked a fly cruise holiday. Their trip was made up of two separate weeks 
on board a cruise ship.  They were scheduled to fly to the cruise departure point on 31 
January 2019 and then board the ship on 2 February 2019.
Unfortunately, a couple of weeks before they were due to travel, Mrs P began to suffer with 
dental pain. She sought advice from her usual dentist, who referred her to an endodontist. 
He diagnosed an abscess following a failed root canal. The endodontist prescribed Mrs P 
antibiotics and treatment was planned for after their return home.
On 29 January 2019, Mr P called up AXA to ask about making a cancellation claim. The 
claims handler told Mr P that based on what hed said, they had a valid claim. But she said 
hed need to get something from a medical practitioner which said Mrs P wasnt fit to travel. 
Mr and Mrs P visited their usual dentist again that day. They say the dentist told them AXA 
wasnt likely to pay out the claim, so he provided Mrs P with treatment to see her through the 
holiday. They decided against cancelling their trip.
Mr and Mrs P travelled to their destination as planned and boarded the cruise ship. Mrs P 
continued to feel unwell and suffer from dental pain. Mr P called AXA to ask about curtailing 
the holiday and was told Mrs P would need to see a medical practitioner first to confirm that 
curtailing the trip was medically necessary.
Due to Mrs Ps pain and symptoms, Mr and Mrs P decided to cut their trip short. They 
disembarked at the end of the first week of the cruise and rescheduled their flight home. 
They returned around a week earlier than planned. They made a curtailment claim on their 
policy. 
AXA investigated the claim. It noted the medical certificate on the claim form said Mrs P 
hadnt been fit to travel on 29 January 2019. So it appeared shed been travelling against 
medical advice. This was specifically excluded by the policy terms. AXA then considered 
whether by going on the first part of the trip, Mr and Mrs P had sought to mitigate the losses 
it wouldve incurred had they cancelled the trip at the outset. 
So it wrote to the endodontist to ask whether, in his opinion, it had been medically necessary 
for Mrs P to cancel the trip. He replied that he wasnt a medical practitioner and so couldnt 
and hadnt given an opinion on whether Mrs P should do so. He did say that hed suggested 
to Mr and Mrs P that they should see a GP about getting a medical certificate if they were 
considering cancelling the trip. And hed provided them with a letter explaining the treatment 
Mrs P was receiving for Mrs P to show a doctor.
Based on all itd seen, AXA turned down Mr and Mrs Ps claim. It said the assistance 
company had told Mr P that Mrs P would need to see a medical practitioner to confirm it was 
medically necessary to cut short the trip. This was also explained in the policy terms. But 
they hadnt seen a medical practitioner before returning home.  The endodontist also hadnt 
confirmed itd been medically necessary for Mrs P to cancel or cut short her trip. So AXA 
said there was no evidence itd been medically necessary for them to cut their holiday short.
Mr and Mrs P werent happy with AXAs decision and they complained. They felt the policy 
didnt really explain what medical evidence would be required in cases where dental issues 
were the cause of a cancellation or curtailment claim. They felt their situation was 
exceptional and so they felt AXA should apply a fair and reasonable approach to considering 
their claim. They asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
policy terms made it clear that a policyholder needed to see a medical practitioner before 
returning home. He also thought AXA had made this clear to Mr and Mrs P. He felt AXA had 
acted reasonably by writing to the endodontist to get his opinion. He noted the endodontist 
hadnt said Mrs P wasnt fit to travel and that hed suggested she see a GP to get their 
opinion. Overall, he didnt think there was enough medical information to show itd been 
necessary to curtail the trip.
Mr and Mrs P disagreed. They said thered been a three-month delay between AXA turning 
down the claim and it writing to the endodontist. They felt this mightve affected his memory 
about whatd been said, as they didnt think hed suggested seeing a GP. They said theyd 
have done so if he had. Mrs P got treatment for side-effects caused by the antibiotics on her 
return and upon seeing the endodontist a couple of weeks later, her tooth was still infected. 
They said their own research suggested that patients shouldnt visit a GP with dental issues. 
And they also said that due to strict immigration rules while they were on their trip, they had 
no time between disembarking and getting a flight home to see a medical practitioner. But in 
any event, they felt a GP abroad wouldnt have been able to help Mrs P with her dental 
issues, as this required specialist treatment.
The investigator agreed to get in touch with AXA to ask its medical team to review the notes. 
AXA reconsidered everything. It said if Mr and Mrs P had called back, it wouldnt have 
authorised them returning home for an abscess. It also said a GP abroad wouldve likely 
prescribed the same antibiotics Mrs Ps GP did once they got back from the trip. So it 
maintained its decision. 
On this basis, Mr and Mrs P asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think AXA has treated Mr and Mrs P fairly. Ill explain why.
First, while Ive summarised the complaint and the detailed submissions both parties have 
sent us; Id like to reassure both parties that Ive read and considered everything carefully. I 
appreciate how strongly Mr and Mrs P feel about their complaint. And I sympathise with their 
position, because I understand Mrs P was in a lot of pain.
But in making my decision, I need to consider whether AXAs acted in line with its policy 
terms when considering Mr and Mrs Ps claim and whether I think its acted fairly and 
reasonably. I appreciate Mr and Mrs P feel the policy doesnt really provide much information 
about dental claims. Or explain what type of medical evidence might be acceptable to AXA 
in the case of a dental claim. My role isnt to tell AXA what it should and shouldnt include in 
its policy wording though  thats the role of a regulator. So Ive focused on the policy terms 
that applied to Mr and Mrs Ps claim and whether AXA applied them fairly.The policy sets out whats covered under the Cancellation or curtailment charges and early 
return section. This says:
What is covered
We will pay You up to 5,000 (inclusive of any valid claim payable under Section K-Ski 
pack and Section Q -Travel disruption cover) for any irrecoverable unused travel and 
accommodation costs (including excursions up to 250) and other pre-paid charges  
(including green fees of up to 75 per day, up to a maximum of 300) which You have paid 
or are contracted to pay together with any reasonable additional travel expenses incurred if:
a. cancellation of the Trip is necessary and unavoidable or
b. the Trip is Curtailed before completion
c. You have to make an Early Return as a result of any of the following events occurring:
1. The death, Bodily Injury or illness of:
a. You
b. any person with whom You are travelling or have arranged to travel with.
The policy also sets out a further requirement if a policyholder plans or needs to cut short 
their trip. This says:
You must obtain prior approval of AXA Assistance to confirm the necessity to return home 
prior to the curtailment of the trip due to death, bodily injury or illness. We will ask you to 
supply a certificate from a Medical Practitioner to support your claim.
Initially, Mr P looked into cancelling the trip given Mrs Ps ongoing infection and pain. He 
called AXA on 29 January 2019 to start the process. Ive looked at the transcript too and I 
think the claims handler couldve been clearer. Based on what Mr P told her, she told Mr P 
Im pleased to confirm your claim will be covered. We just need documentation from you 
basically. But she did also explain to Mr P that Mrs P would need to see a medical 
practitioner to confirm that she wasnt fit to travel and then provide this evidence to AXA.
I dont think this call makes much difference to the outcome of the complaint though. Thats 
because Mr and Mrs P decided not to cancel their trip. If theyd done so, I think they mightve 
had a reasonable belief their claim would be covered. But they didnt rely on this information 
to cancel the trip. And they didnt see a GP to get a medical certificate. Instead, they visited 
their dentist who they say suggested they shouldnt cancel; that the flight wouldnt affect Mrs 
Ps tooth; said that hed go himself; and who then offered Mrs P more treatment to help her 
get through the holiday.
The dentist did fill out a medical certificate on that day though, which said Mrs P had been 
advised to cancel her trip. The dentist himself didnt tick a box to confirm whether he thought 
Mrs P was fit to travel or not. He simply stated that AXA should refer to the endodontists 
letter which was attached. The attached letter also didnt give an opinion on whether it was 
medically necessary for Mrs P to cancel the trip. 
Because Mr and Mrs P chose to go ahead with their trip, I dont think AXA has any liability 
for the cancellation costs of the holiday. So Ive thought about whether it shouldve paid the 
claim under the curtailment and early return section of the policy.
I appreciate Mrs P remained in a lot of pain and was suffering from side effects from the 
strong antibiotics she was taking. Mr and Mrs P have told us at times, she remained in bed 
with a cold compress on her face. But theyve also said that they were able to go for meals 
and it doesnt seem as if they were confined to their cabin. Theyve told us Mrs Ps dental 
pain meant they werent really able to enjoy their trip and I dont doubt how disappointing this was for them. Travel policies arent designed to cover loss of enjoyment though and Im not 
persuaded Mr and Mrs P couldnt have had any benefit from the second week of their trip.
Mr P called AXA Assistance during the first week of the trip to ask about potentially cutting 
short the trip. This suggests to me that he was at least aware of the policy terms. He was 
told Mrs P would need to see a medical practitioner to confirm she needed to curtail the trip. 
This information was in line with the policy terms. 
But Mrs P didnt see a medical practitioner. Instead, Mr and Mrs P chose not to go ahead 
with the second week of the cruise and rearranged their flights home. I understand Mr and 
Mrs P say they dont know what kind of medical care they were expected to get and that they 
wouldnt have felt comfortable with anyone other than the endodontist treating Mrs Ps tooth. 
The evidence suggests though that when they returned home, Mrs P saw a GP who 
prescribed oral antibiotics to counteract an infection brought on by the side effects of the 
dental antibiotics treatment. She didnt see the endodontist until 22 February 2019  which 
was around a week after they were scheduled to return. This doesnt imply the dental work 
was urgent. Theres nothing to suggest a medical practitioner abroad couldnt have 
prescribed Mrs P similar antibiotics to tide her over until she could return home.
Given Mr and Mrs P didnt get a medical certificate to say Mrs P needed to cut short the trip, 
I think it was fair for AXA to conclude there wasnt evidence of medical necessity to curtail.
Based on Mr and Mrs Ps later complaint, AXA considered whether it might be reasonable to 
meet the curtailment claim based on Mr and Mrs P potentially mitigating their loss by not 
cancelling. I think this was a reasonable and appropriate course of action to take. If AXA 
could be satisfied that Mrs P wasnt really fit to have travelled at all, I think, given the 
evidence Ive seen, its likely to have agreed to settle the claim.
So AXA wrote to the endodontist to ask him some further questions about what hed advised 
Mrs P. The endodontist didnt say whether he thinks Mrs P was fit to travel when he saw her 
on 29 January 2019. He said he didnt think it was in his remit to offer such an opinion or 
medical advice, so he hadnt. He also said hed noted (and remembered) telling Mr and Mrs 
P that if they planned to cancel the trip, they should see a general medical practitioner to get 
a certificate.
I think, given the endodontist told AXA hed made a note of this conversation, its more likely 
than not to be accurate. Its clear the endodontist hasnt made a finding that Mrs P needed to 
cancel the trip. I dont think the medical certificate from the dentist supports that he thought 
cancellation was necessary either. Mr and Mrs P are likely to have had the opportunity to 
talk to a GP on 29 or 30 January 2019 to explain the treatment she was receiving and the 
medication shed been prescribed, so the GP could make a general finding on her fitness to 
travel. But they didnt follow the endodontists advice. And theres no evidence from the GP 
Mrs P saw the day after their return to show returning home had been necessary.
Taking all of this together, I simply dont think theres enough medical evidence available to 
show AXA that it was necessary for Mr and Mrs P to cut short their trip. 
AXA did agree to our investigators request to review the evidence again and it asked its 
medical assistance team what it wouldve done had Mr and Mrs P called up again before 
cutting short the trip. The assistance team said it wouldnt have authorised the costs of Mr 
and Mrs P curtailing their trip for an abscess. It also said Mrs P wouldve been able to get the 
same antibiotics abroad as she was prescribed by her own GP. While Im told there wasnt 
an onboard doctor, Im satisfied it wouldve been possible for Mrs P to see a GP during the 
offshore parts of the trip. So even if Mr P had called back, hed have been told AXA wouldnt 
cover the costs of cutting short the trip.I think it was fair and reasonable for AXA to review the evidence and Ive seen nothing to 
indicate that it didnt do so fully. I hope that reassures Mr and Mrs P. 
Overall, I dont find that theres enough evidence to show that the curtailment of Mr and Mrs 
Ps trip was medically necessary. So I think it was fair and reasonable for AXA to turn down 
their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman