DRN-3703917
The complaint
Mr W complains that TSB Bank plc closed his account and registered information against 
him with the national fraud database Cifas.
What happened
Mr W had two accounts with TSB. In September 2021, TSB received a report that a payment 
into Mr Ws account may have been fraudulent. TSB contacted Mr W to ask him about this, 
but inadvertently asked him for details about another payment for the same amount. TSB 
said the information Mr W had provided was insufficient and closed his accounts. As one of 
these accounts was overdrawn, it sent that account to its collections department. 
Dissatisfied, Mr W complained to TSB.
TSB looked at this. It admitted it had asked Mr W for details of the wrong payment  and 
offered £50 to put things right. It said it would consider any information Mr W sent them 
about the correct payment. Mr W then referred the complaint to us.
Our investigator looked at the complaint  but didnt think TSBs decision to close the 
account was unfair. It appeared that Mr W had allowed his daughter to use his account  
and it seemed the disputed payment had been intended for her. The investigator 
acknowledged that TSB had given some incorrect information about what had happened but 
didnt think Mr W had shown this had a material impact on him.
Mr W didnt agree.
Subsequently, Mr Ws account with another bank was closed. He learned that TSB had 
registered information about the closure of his accounts with the national fraud database, 
Cifas. Weve approached TSB to see if it would remove the marker. TSB has said it will. 
Mr W remained unhappy with TSB actions. The complaint was referred to me to decide.
I issued provisional findings on this complaint on 17 August 2022. 
In my provisional decision, I first considered TSBs decision to restrict the account. In this 
case, TSB had received a report that a payment into the account was fraudulent. So I 
couldnt say it was wrong for TSB to restrict the account and ask Mr W for further information 
about that payment.
Turning to TSBs decision to close the account, I noted that TSB initially asked Mr W for 
details of the wrong payment. But wed asked for details of the correct payment. Mr W had 
told us hed allowed his daughter to use the account  and that the payment in question was 
for her. He hasnt been able to give a clear explanation of what the payment was for - he 
suggests his daughter may have been selling clothes online or may have received payments 
from friends to help with living expenses. I didnt think it was necessarily surprising that he 
wasnt able to say exactly what had happened if he was letting someone else use the 
account. That said, the terms and conditions of Mr Ws account said he shouldnt let other 
people use it. The terms and conditions allowed TSB to close accounts immediately if the 
customer had seriously breached the terms and conditions. In the circumstances, I didnt 
think it was unfair for TSB to have closed Mr Ws accounts immediately.
Finally, I looked at TSBs decision to register information with Cifas. I said that the bar to 
register a marker was a high one  and I wasnt satisfied that TSB had satisfied this here. 
Based on what Id seen, I wasnt persuaded Mr W would have known that the funds were 
illegitimate. I acknowledged he was allowing a third party to use his account. But while this 
was unwise, thats not the same as saying Mr W would have been aware that the payments 
into the account might be fraudulent, especially bearing in mind that only one payment 
appears to have been reported by the third-party bank.
TSB had said that Mr W hadnt been able to prove what is daughter got the funds for. And it 
says that if Mr W hadnt allowed his daughter to use the account, none of this would have 
happened. But while I acknowledged TSBs concerns about the payment, I dont have power 
to require Mr Ws daughter to give evidence, and so I couldnt make a firm conclusion either 
way about the nature of the transaction. But I thought that to register the marker with Cifas, 
TSB needed to be satisfied Mr W was personally involved in any fraud.
With that in mind, I thought the complaint should be upheld in part and TSB should pay Mr W 
an additional £100 for the trouble and upset it caused, or £150 in total.
TSB has agreed to this. Mr W doesnt agree. He feels that just because TSB had the right to 
do something doesnt mean that it should have done this. He feels TSB didnt show any care 
or consideration for him as a customer. He says that Cifas only removed the marker after he 
contacted Cifas himself. Hes also mentioned his neurologist that says the stress this all 
caused brought on seizures. Hes also raised a number of further points about the incorrect 
payment TSB asked him for details of, and that he wasnt given reasons at the time.
Ive therefore reviewed the complaint again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I reach the same conclusions as in my provisional decision for the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
For the reasons Ive already explained, I find that TSB was justified in closing Mr Ws 
accounts. So while I acknowledge what Mr W has said about the stress he experienced and 
the impact this had on his health, this isnt something I can award compensation for. 
I also recognise that Mr W feels that TSBs actions were harsh given the amounts concerned 
 and Mr W has also said that another bank gave him two months notice before closing the 
account. But as Ive found that TSB was justified in closing his account this doesnt affect my 
conclusions.
Ive also considered Mr Ws comments about the information recorded with Cifas, and that 
TSB initially asked him for details of the wrong payment. But Ive agreed that TSB shouldnt 
have registered the information with Cifas  and TSB accepts it asked Mr W about the wrong 
payment. Both of this are taken into account in the compensation I proposed to award. I 
appreciate Mr W wants more. But much of the impact of what happened was caused by 
TSBs decision to close the account, and it appears, based on what Ive seen, that this would 
still have happened even if it had initially asked about the correct payments.Ive carefully considered the other points Mr W has raised, but these dont change my 
conclusions.
Putting things right
TSB has already offered to pay Mr W £50 for the inconvenience it caused. I think TSB 
should pay Mr W a further £100  or £150 in total.
My final decision
For the reasons above and in my provisional decision I uphold Mr Ws complaint in part. TSB 
Bank plc should pay Mr W £150 for the trouble and upset it caused. I make no further 
award..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman