DRN-2547580
The complaint
Mr S complains that the loans provided to him by Evergreen Finance London Limited trading 
as MoneyBoat.co.uk (MoneyBoat) were unaffordable.  
What happened
Based on the information provided, Mr S entered four loans with MoneyBoat between 
September and December 2019.
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 25/09/2019 09/10/2019 4 £300.00
2 11/11/2019 04/12/2019 4 £200.00
3 05/12/2019 06/12/2019 4 £400.00
4 10/12/2019 11/12/2019 2 £200.00
Mr S says that he took out more loans than he could afford to repay and that by repaying 
these loans he missed making payments on his priority bills. He says the loans caused him 
stress resulting in him needing time off work.
MoneyBoat issued a final response letter dated 5 February 2020. It said that before 
providing the loans it carried out credit checks and affordability assessments. It said that 
based on the income and expenditure information provided Mr S had enough disposable 
income to make the loan repayments. It said that Mr S repaid the loans early and that he 
didnt raise any issues regarding financial difficulties at the time. It noted the information 
Mr S had provided regarding his mental health but said it wasnt aware of these issues at the 
time the loans were provided.
Mr S didnt accept MoneyBoats final response and referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr S complaint. He didnt think that further verification of the 
information provided was required and didnt think that Mr S pattern of borrowing was such 
that MoneyBoat shouldve been aware he was experiencing financial difficulties. 
Mr S didnt accept our investigators view. He said that his pattern of borrowing - taking out 
loans within such a short timeframe  showed he was struggling financially.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr S could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish 
whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr S complaint.
Mr S took out the first loan with MoneyBoat in September 2019. The loan was for £300 
repayable over four monthly instalments. Before this loan was provided information was 
gathered on Mr S income and expenditure and a credit check was carried out. Given this 
was Mr S first loan and considering the size of the repayments compared to Mr S income I 
find the checks were proportionate. I do not find the checks raised any concerns that meant 
further verification was needed and as the checks suggested the loan was affordable I do 
not find I can say this loan shouldnt have been provided.
Mr S repaid the first loan early and took out a second loan a month later for a lower amount 
(£200). As Mr S hadnt shown any issues repaying the previous loan and considering the 
repayments due for this loan compared to Mr S declared monthly income I find the checks 
were proportionate. As these didnt raise concerns about the affordability of the loan I do not 
find I can say this loan shouldnt have been provided.
Mr S repaid the second loan and then immediately took out a third for a higher amount 
(£400). He repaid this loan the next day and then took out a smaller loan (£200) a few days 
later. While I note Mr S had now taken out four loans in a short period, I do not find his pattern of borrowing was enough to say that MoneyBoat should have been aware the loans 
were unsustainable. Mr S was repaying his loans early and the loan amounts werent 
consistently increasing. He repaid the fourth loan the day after taking it out.
Overall, having considered the number of loans Mr S took out, his borrowing history and the 
repayment amounts compared to his monthly income I find the checks carried out before the 
loans were provided were proportionate. As these didnt raise concerns about the 
affordability of the loans I do not find I can say that MoneyBoat did anything wrong by 
providing these loans to Mr S. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Evergreen Finance London 
Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman