DRN-2882209
The complaint
Mr R complains UK Insurance Limited (UKI) initially incorrectly told him his car wasnt 
covered under his motor insurance policy when he was involved in an accident abroad. As a 
result, he suffered distress and inconvenience. He also doesnt think his car has been fully 
repaired and hes unhappy he wasnt given a suitable hire car whilst it was being repaired.
Any reference to UKI includes its agents.
I know UKI doesnt think we should deal with all of the issues above as part of this complaint 
as its dealt with them separately. But Im satisfied Mr Rs complaint to us is about all of 
these points so Ill be dealing with them together.  
What happened
Mr R has a comprehensive motor insurance policy which started in July 2020. When he took 
out the insurance, he says he was reassured it would provide the same cover for his car 
abroad as it does in the United Kingdom (UK). So he and his family took a trip abroad.
A few days later, Mr R was involved in an accident with a third party whilst driving in another 
country. And when he called UKI, he was told he wasnt covered. Mr R says he spent the 
rest of his holiday worried and afraid to drive his car in case there were further problems. He 
also says he spent much of his holiday chasing UKI. Hes explained he was kept on hold a 
lot of the time and his calls werent returned as promised.
Around four days after the accident, Mr R and his family returned to the UK in their car, not 
knowing if it was safe to drive. Shortly after their return, UKI agreed to cover Mr Rs claim in 
full as it accepted he was led to believe it would be during the sales call.
In August 2020, UKI arranged for Mr Rs car to be taken for repairs. He says he wasnt given 
a hire car  and he only received a suitable seven-seater hire car four days later. He says 
under the policy terms, he was entitled to a similar sized car. UKI says it did arrange a hire 
car for Mr R but following a phone conversation with him, its normal supplier refused to 
provide one to him. So it arranged for another company to supply a car. Its internal notes 
show it also suggested Mr R could source his own hire car and it would cover the cost but he 
declined this. On 8 August 2020, UKIs said a seven-seater hire car was delivered to Mr R.
Mr R wants UKI to write off his car as it failed to repair all of the damage caused by the 
accident. He doesnt agree with the garage who carried out the repairs or the engineer who 
inspected it that the only damage was to his bumper as he says his car has made noises 
and vibrated since the accident. He arranged for an independent dealership to give a second 
opinion but UKI dont agree the damage highlighted by the dealership was caused by the 
accident as it thinks it was caused by wear and tear.
UKI offered Mr R a total of around £225 to make up for what happened while he was out of 
the country and comments made about the condition of his car. But as it didnt agree to the 
rest of his complaint, Mr R asked us to look into things. Our investigator thought UKI should 
pay Mr R further compensation for what happened while he was outside the UK and for not 
arranging a suitable hire car quickly. But he didnt think it had done anything else wrong.
Neither party agreed with our investigator so the complaint was passed to me to decide. I 
issued my provisional decision in May 2021. I was thinking of coming to a different outcome 
to our investigator but still upholding the complaint in part. In summary I thought:
Mr R was given the impression hed be covered overseas when he took out the policy.
Even if UKI had accepted the claim while Mr R was abroad, it likely wouldnt have carried 
out the repairs he thought were necessary. So I didnt think he wouldve felt comfortable 
driving the car anyway but he wouldve felt let down. This together with needing to chase 
for updates wouldve affected the overall enjoyment of his holiday. 
The amount of time it took for UKI to provide a suitable hire car wasnt unreasonable as it 
needed to find a second supplier at short notice and Mr R had alternative transport. I 
also questioned whether Mr R was entitled to a hire car under the terms of the policy. 
There was nothing to show Mr R had travel expenses while he didnt have a hire car. 
The evidence Mr R had given wasnt enough to show there was outstanding damage 
caused by the accident which hadnt been repaired. And he hadnt given us any 
evidence to show the information UKI had given about the cars mileage was incorrect or 
that hed had his car checked before he went away. So I didnt think UKI needed to do 
anything more in relation to the repairs. 
The offer UKI had made to make up for comments made by the engineer about Mr Rs 
car was fair. 
To put things right in this case, I thought UKI should pay Mr R a further £150 to make up for 
the distress and worry he mustve experienced. That is in addition to the £150 it already paid 
him and the £75 it offered him. And, it should cover Mr Rs travel expenses up to £50 per 
day if he provided clear and acceptable evidence to show he did have travel expenses after 
UKI accepted his claim and before it provided a seven-seater car.
UKI said it agreed with my provisional decision. In summary, Mr R didnt agree the amount 
Id recommended UKI pay in compensation made up for what he and his family had been 
through  and instead, found it insulting. He highlighted they hadnt slept for five days; felt 
stressed and worried throughout their holiday and spent the week on the phone. He also 
commented on our professionalism. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about the comments Mr R made in response to my provisional decision. But Ive 
decided to uphold this complaint in part  and Im satisfied UKI paying a total of £375 in 
compensation to him is fair in this case. I know this will be disappointing to Mr R. I appreciate Mr Rs said he and his family were caused significant upset whilst on holiday 
because of what happened. But as Mr Rs the policyholder, I can only direct UKI to 
compensate him for the trouble and upset hes been through. I have however considered the 
distress he mustve felt knowing his family were worried. 
Mr Rs explained the impact the incorrect information he was given had on him whilst on 
holiday. And I can understand this wouldve caused him stress and worry  as he was told 
the repairs to his car werent covered when he thought they were. But based on whats 
happened since UKI accepted the claim, I cant say all of the upset and worry he 
experienced was as a result of what it did wrong. 
I say this because Mr Rs said a lot of the distress he experienced was thinking his car had 
been damaged and might not be safe to drive. But even if UKI had accepted his claim while 
he was abroad, I dont think its likely it wouldve repaired the car in the way Mr R wouldve 
thought necessary as it hasnt agreed to now. So I think he wouldve still felt worried about 
driving it. And Im not satisfied all of the distress and inconvenience Mr R experienced was 
only as a result of the incorrect information UKI gave him. 
I know Mr Rs disappointed with what Ive recommended UKI do to put things right. But my 
role is to put him in the position he wouldve been in had things not gone wrong. And in this 
case, I consider the compensation Ive suggested fairly does this. We consider each case 
based on its own merits but if M R would like more information on the things our service 
considers when awarding compensation, or examples of awards we make, he can find more 
information on our website. 
Putting things right
To put things right in this case, I think UKI should pay Mr R a further £150 to make up for the 
distress and worry he mustve experienced while he was meant to be enjoying some time 
away with his family. That is in addition to the £150 it already paid him and the £75 it offered 
him. That means in total it would have paid Mr R £375 to put things right in this case.
If Mr R can provide clear and acceptable evidence to show he did have travel expenses he 
wouldnt otherwise have had after UKI accepted his claim and before it provided a seven- 
seater car, I also think UKI should cover these up to £50 per day subject to its remaining 
terms and conditions. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Rs complaint in 
part and direct UK Insurance Limited to put things right by doing what Ive said above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman