DRN-3500177
The complaint
Mr B complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) recorded adverse 
information on his credit file.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill focus on the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator. I know Mr B 
will be disappointed as he found himself in financial difficulty due to an unprecedented event. 
And Im genuinely sorry to hear what has happened will now impact him for several years to 
come. But I can only uphold this complaint if I concluded M&S had done something wrong or 
treated Mr B unfairly, and I dont think it did. Ill explain why.
M&S provided Mr B with six months payment deferrals from around April 2020 to                 
October 2020, when his income was impacted by the Covid 19 pandemic. This was in line 
with the temporary Covid relief guidance issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) at 
the time. So, Im satisfied that M&S did what it was expected to do at this point.
During the time the Covid payment deferral was in place, lenders were also told not to record 
any adverse information about missed payments with the credit reference agencies (CRA). 
And I havent seen anything to suggest any adverse data was recorded on Mr Bs credit file 
by M&S during this period. So, I dont think M&S did anything wrong here.
In November 2020, M&S records show that when the Covid payment deferrals ended,                 
Mr Bs circumstances hadnt improved. Ive seen that he told M&S that he couldnt meet his 
November payment and, ultimately, an income and expenditure breakdown showed that his 
monthly outgoings exceeded his income. So, Im persuaded that Mr B wasnt in a position to 
recommence his monthly repayments to his loan based on the information he provided to 
M&S at the time.      
The FCA guidance said the maximum number of monthly payment deferrals under the Covid 
relief scheme was limited to six. So, by November 2020, Mr B had exhausted the temporary 
Covid relief. But lenders still had a duty to treat consumers positively and sympathetically in 
line with the usual regulations which apply when a consumer is experiencing financial 
difficulties. But these regulations also require accurate information about the conduct of an 
account to be passed to the CRA. 
In Mr Bs case, M&S offered him an unaffordability hold (the arrangement)  otherwise 
known as a payment break or breathing space. This meant that interest wouldnt be added to 
the outstanding loan balance and Mr B wasnt required to make a payment for a further six 
months. Im satisfied that in offering such an arrangement to Mr B, M&S was meeting its 
obligations as he was still experiencing financial problems. I appreciate Mr B was hoping to 
reschedule the loan to reduce his payments, but the income and expenditure breakdown 
provided showed he had no disposable income to make any loan repayments. And its not in 
dispute that Mr B ultimately accepted the arrangement that was offered.
In December 2020, M&S issued a default notice to Mr B which was later registered in 
February 2021 and recorded on Mr Bs credit file. Mr B says M&S didnt tell him that 
accepting the arrangement in November 2020 would result in a default being issued or that 
this and the additional arrangement would negatively impact his credit file. 
M&S has provided several call recordings for the period the Covid relief payment deferrals 
were put in place until the default notice was sent. I have listened to the calls which relate to 
the arrangement agreed in November 2020. Having done so, Im satisfied that Mr B was 
made aware that taking the arrangement would have an impact on his credit file. And that 
ultimately a default could be recorded on his credit file.
M&S offered Mr B the unaffordability hold as mentioned above during a call on                   
13 November 2020. Its not in dispute that M&S set out how the arrangement would work 
and that it would last for six months. But Im satisfied that that it was also explained to Mr B 
that the arrangement would be recorded with the CRA and that during the six months a 
default notice could be issued and the default registered with the CRA if he was unable to 
bring the account up to date. 
At this point, Mr B didnt agree to the arrangement  he wanted time to think about it 
because he was concerned about the impact on his credit file. But Mr B called M&S on       
21 November 2020 to set up the arrangement. During this call, Im satisfied that, when 
talking about the arrangement, the M&S representative reconfirmed that the arrangement 
would show up as an arrangement on his credit file. And Mr B responded with Yes, Ive 
got that. So, Im satisfied Mr B knew the arrangement would impact his credit file. 
I accept that in this call M&S did provide Mr B with some contradictory information about a 
default notice. The M&S representative said during this time you will receive a default 
notice and then later said during this time you wont be issued with a default notice. M&S 
has acknowledged this, and it has since offered £75 compensation for any inconvenience 
this caused. So, Ive thought about this carefully to decide if I think the contradictory 
information impacted on Mr Bs decision on whether to go ahead with the arrangement. 
Having done so, I dont think it did. 
In addition to what Mr B was told during the phone calls, Im satisfied that the 
correspondence issued to Mr B at the time made it clear what that the arrangement he 
entered would impact his credit file and his ability to borrow in the future. So, if there had 
been any confusion following the calls, I would have expected Mr B to contact M&S to query 
the information provided in the follow up correspondence. But I havent seen anything to 
suggest he did.  
So, notwithstanding the contradictory information given on 21 November, overall Im satisfied   
M&S did enough to let Mr B know that the assistance it was offering could lead to his 
account being defaulted and the impact this and the arrangement would have on his credit 
file.M&S issued a default notice in December 2020. By this time Mr B was just over six months 
in arrears  when considering the earlier Covid payment deferrals. This timescale is in line 
with the guidance set out by the Information Commissionaires Office (ICO) which says an 
account can be defaulted when three to six months payments have been missed. So, I dont 
think M&S did anything wrong when it registered the default as Mr B wasnt able to bring his 
account up to date.
Mr B has suggested that he didnt receive the default notice. But M&S records show that      
he phoned M&S having received the default notice. So, Im satisfied that he did receive the 
default notice and would have known what he needed to do to avoid the default from being 
registered.  
M&S has offered £75 compensation in recognition of the contradictory information provided. 
Given Im satisfied Mr B was given enough information overall, I think this is fair.  Im not 
going to tell M&S to take any further action in respect of this complaint. So, Im not going to 
tell M&S to take any further action or increase its offer of compensation in respect of this 
complaint.
         
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint in part.
Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc should now pay Mr B  if it hasnt already done so, 
£75 in recognition of the contradictory information provided in a phone call as detailed 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman