DRN-2328980
The complaint
Mrs H has complained about advice she received from Portal Financial Services LLP 
(Portafina) to transfer a defined benefit occupational pension scheme (OPS) she held with 
her former employer to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
 
Mrs H is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading the decision Ill refer to all 
representations as being made by Mrs H.
What happened
Mrs H was introduced to Portafina in 2014 after shed been in contact with another business, 
from here on referred to as Firm C. At the time, Firm C was an appointed representative 
(AR) of a regulated business, Firm S. Firm S was authorised by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) to provide investment advice, but neither it, nor Firm C were permitted to 
provide pension transfer advice. Portafina had an established business arrangement with 
Firm C, whereby Portafina would provide the pension transfer advice before referring the 
client back to Firm C for investment advice on the transferred funds, and this arrangement 
was followed for Mrs H. 
At the time of the transfer Mrs H was aged 52, married and employed. She had cash savings 
of £4,000 and no investments. She owned her own home, which had an outstanding 
mortgage of £15,000. Mrs H had a preserved final salary pension, which was projected to 
pay a pension of £7,638 from age 65. Prior to transfer it had a cash equivalent transfer value 
(CETV) of £73,808.64. Her desired retirement age was 67.
In February 2015 Portafina recommended Mrs H transfer her OPS to a SIPP. It was 
recorded that she had a balanced ATR and transferring would meet her objectives of giving 
her more flexibility and better death benefits. Portafina recommended the pension benefits 
should be invested in a portfolio of assets which it believed were appropriate for her 
balanced ATR, but said that the funds would be held in cash and Firm C would provide 
advice on how the funds would be invested. 
The SIPP was established in February 2015 and the CETV, which had increased to 
£98,326.97 was transferred on 7 May 2015 and invested as follows:
UCIS
Brisa Investments  £4,700
Biomass Investments  £6,500 
Lakeview UK Holdings  £6,500
Real Estate Investments USA plc  £6,500 
Motion Picture Global  £6,500 
Strategic Residential  £6,500
Tambaba Investments  £4,700
The remainder was allocated to standard investment portfolios. Various funds were bought 
and sold in the early years. By the time of the complaint, all other assets were held in the 
Newscape 5alpha Conservative fund.
In 2018, with the assistance of a representative, Mrs H complained to Portafina about the 
advice she received to transfer her OPS benefits. She said the advice exposed her to 
significant risk, both through the loss of guarantees and the market risk within the fund. It 
had been noted that she wanted to withdraw tax-free cash (TFC) at age 55, but she was yet 
to withdraw any money from her pension. She said she was only 52 at the time and the best 
advice would have been to wait until she was 55 and assess her situation then.
Portafina didnt agree. It said Firm C was responsible for any investment advice and had 
forwarded the complaint to them. Portafina said that as it isnt the servicing agent for the 
pension, it doesnt know what the current situation with her investments are. Portafina also 
said that as well as the objective of taking TFC at 55, Mrs H favoured the way death benefits 
worked within a Defined Contribution scheme as opposed to Defined Benefit schemes. She 
also wanted control over her pension, rather than the trustees of the ceding scheme.
Following this, Mrs H referred her complaint to our service.
An investigator reviewed the complaint and recommended it should be upheld. He said the 
critical yield required to match the benefits being given up of 10.5% demonstrates Mrs H was 
likely to be worse off in retirement. He also said the hurdle rate of 6.7% was also higher than 
Portafinas own portfolio projection of 6.69% and that growth rate was before any charges 
were deducted, so was likely to be lower. He noted that transferring did provide higher death 
benefits, but he did not believe that these outweighed the loss of guaranteed income in 
retirement. The investigator recommended that Mrs H should be put back into the position 
she wouldve been in but for the unsuitable advice and that Portafina should pay her £300 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Portafina disagreed, it said Mrs H was not looking to purchase an annuity at retirement, so it 
relied on the hurdle rate as a more accurate means of measuring the scheme benefits. It 
also said Mrs H preferred the flexibility of changing her retirement age to later than 65 and 
was keen to gain control of the funds. It added she wanted the enhanced death benefits and 
to be able to access TFC at 55. Portafina said Mrs Hs investments were recommended by 
Firm C and are not the responsibility of Portafina. It said it had undertaken due diligence on 
Firm C and provided a copy of the Compliance Health Check completed in 2012.
Portafina also said that the regulators alert of 2013 did not apply to this case, as it only 
covered instances where the other firm was unregulated. As Firm C was regulated, it said 
Mrs H has recourse to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) and our 
service. It also believed that the redress methodology was unfair, as it did not take into 
account the fact that Mrs H could claim compensation from the FSCS.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Portafina advised Mrs H to transfer her OPS to a SIPP but says it didnt provide any 
recommendation regarding the investments held within the SIPP as Firm C was meant to 
provide this. Although the intention was for another regulated firm to advise on and arrange 
Mrs Hs underlying SIPP investments, I dont think that meant Portafinas responsibilities 
ended once the SIPP was set up, the funds transferred, and the money then made available 
for investment. I believe that as Mrs Hs financial adviser, Portafina still had a duty to ensure 
the overall transaction was suitable, notwithstanding that another regulated firm was going to 
be involved. Suitable advice couldnt, in my view, be given without thinking about the intended 
investment. Portafina appeared to recognise this in its suitability report when, despite saying 
Firm C would provide specific investment advice, it set out recommendations for the fund 
asset classes Mrs H should invest in and to what extent. The recommendations made up a 
model portfolio for a balanced investor, which Portafina satisfied itself Mrs H was. And its 
partly on the basis that Mrs H invested in line with a suitable model portfolio and achieved 
the relevant targeted returns that Portafina concluded transferring could increase her overall 
pension benefits and could therefore be worthwhile.
The regulators position
Having thought carefully about what happened here, I dont think Portafinas advice to 
transfer was suitable. And I dont think it was right to try to limit its advice in the way it sought 
to. At the time of the advice, the regulator had made its view clear that it considered in order 
to suitably advise on pension transfers, a firm needed to consider the suitability of the 
underlying investments to be held in it. 
The regulators position was evident in its 2013 alert where it said:
Financial advisers () are under the mistaken impression () they do not have to consider 
the unregulated investment as part of their advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only 
need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect. 
The [regulators] view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration 
of the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is 
a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers), 
consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the 
expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes. It should be particularly clear to 
financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in 
implementing a wider investment strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take 
account of the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating ()
If you give regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in unregulated 
items, you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements.
A further alert from the regulator in April 2014 stated: 
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will () transfer 
() to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then the suitability of the underlying 
investment must form part of the advice given to the customer. If the underlying investment 
is not suitable (), then the overall advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer () at all as it will not 
be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
The failings outlined in this alert are unacceptable and amount to conduct that falls well short
of firms obligations under our Principles for Businesses and Conduct of Business rules. In
particular, we are reminding firms that they must conduct their business with integrity
(Principle 1), due skill, care and diligence (Principle 2) and must pay due regard to the
interests of their customers and treat them fairly (Principle 6).
Portafina says that the 2013 alert was specific to situations where the other firm that made 
the investment recommendations for the underlying assets of the SIPP was an unregulated
introducer. It believes this distinguishes the circumstances of Mrs Hs transaction from thescenario that the alert was aimed at, and as a result absolved it from its duty to assess the
overall suitability of the proposed investments. Whilst Ive given that possibility careful
thought, I dont agree that the alert was limited to those very specific circumstances.
I can see that the alert makes it clear that suitable investment advice generally requires
consideration of the other investments held by the customer, as well as the suitability of the
overall proposition when advice is given on a product that is a vehicle for investment in other
products (such as the SIPP in Mrs Hs case). It further refers to the broadly applicable rules
and guidance that ensure that in all instances of advice, a firm must first take time to
familiarise itself with the wider investment and financial circumstances. In saying that, I dont
think the FCA intended that in pension switch and transfer cases, regard to the overall
proposition was only required where the introducing firm was unregulated, or where the
assets contemplated included unregulated investments.
In my view, the regulator was indicating that these are standards that have broad application
to pension switch and transfer advice, but pointing out that it had particular concern about
cases in which unregulated firms and unregulated products put the consumer at risk. And 
I think the 2014 alert makes it clear that this applies to all firms when providing pension 
switch or transfer advice. So, I think these alerts are relevant to firms in the position of 
Portafina in this case.
Portafina appears to have been under the impression that, as it told Mrs H it wasnt providing 
any advice on the underlying investments, this enabled it to provide advice on a restricted 
basis. But this wasnt right. It couldnt separate out the two elements. Its advice on the 
suitability of the transfer had to include the suitability of the underlying investments. I dont 
think there was any ambiguity regarding the regulators position on the matter.
Both alerts specifically referred to the regulators overarching Principles for Businesses 
(PRIN) and Conduct of Business Rules (COBS), which Portafina was subject to. And with 
reference to PRIN and COBS the alerts said a firm would fall short of its obligations under 
these precepts if it didnt familiarise itself with the intended investment strategy and that it 
wouldnt be able to recommend a new product, like a SIPP, without doing so.
Under COBS 2.1.2 Portafina also couldnt seek to exclude or restrict its duty or liability to 
Mrs H under the regulatory system. So, saying it was operating under a limited retainer didnt 
absolve it of its duty of care to ensure the advice it was providing was suitable  again, this 
had to include consideration of how Mrs Hs funds would be invested.
COBS 9.2 required Portafina to take reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was 
suitable for Mrs H. To achieve this, COBS 9.2.2R said Portafina had to obtain enough 
information from Mrs H to ensure its recommendation met her objectives, that she could bear 
the related investment risks consistent with these objectives and that she had the necessary 
experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the transaction. COBS 9.2.2R 
included the following wording:
() The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include, where 
relevant, information on the length of time for which he wishes to hold the investment, his 
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes of the investment.
So as part of the fact-finding process Portafina had to understand Mrs Hs objectives  two 
of which were recorded as being willing to take more risk and wanting more control  and the 
related risks. It wasnt free to ignore how Mrs Hs funds were going to be invested 
irrespective of Firm Cs involvement. I consider the underlying investments in the SIPP to be 
inextricably linked to the risks relating to the SIPP, so assessing the risk and suitability of a transfer without knowing what Mrs H would invest in within the wrapper, doesnt in my mind 
seem reasonably possible.
Like COBS, PRIN formed part of the regulatory framework that existed at the time of 
Portafinas advice and had to be complied with. Principles 1 (conducting business with 
integrity); 2 (exercising due skill, care and diligence); 6 (having regard for customers 
interests and treating them fairly); 7 (communicating information in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way) and 9 (ensuring the suitability of advice for a customer entitled to rely on the 
firms judgement) are of particular relevance to this case. In addition to what Ive outlined 
above, Ive considered Portafinas advice with these in mind. 
As Portafina didnt consider itself responsible for any advice regarding the underlying assets 
of the SIPP it recommended, it says it was unaware of where, further to Firm Cs 
involvement, Mrs Hs transferred funds would ultimately be invested. As Firm C was 
regulated and able to provide investment advice with a duty to ensure this was suitable, it 
says it saw no issue with this.
I accept that as a result of its AR agreement with Firm S, Firm C was required to give 
suitable advice. However, I dont agree that this negated Portafinas duty to do the same. As 
Mrs Hs appointed financial adviser, it had a significant responsibility to provide suitable 
advice and act in her best interests. And as Ive said, this had to include an awareness of 
where Mrs Hs funds would be invested. 
Portafina has stated that they undertook due diligence on Firm S and provided a copy of the 
Compliance Health Check for Firm S completed by a third party on 12 May 2012. 
Notwithstanding the statement on page 19 that Firm S did not intend to promote UCIS funds 
in the future, this document was almost three years old by the time the transfer actually took 
place. So, I dont think it should have been relied on in perpetuity. 
Furthermore, Portafina chose to rely on a general statement, given over two years 
previously, that said recommendations of broad categories of investments, with potentially 
broad gradings of risk, might or might not be made in any given case and that UCIS would 
not be recommended. I dont think that was a reasonable basis on which Portafina should 
have assessed the suitability of the pension transfer for Mrs H. In my opinion, Portafina 
needed to understand the nature of the investments envisaged for Mrs H specifically, rather 
than rely on a general statement about Firm Cs investment philosophy.
It is worth noting that Portafinas own model portfolio included an allocation of 18% of 
Mrs Hs assets into Secured Structured Bonds. The suitability report issued to Ms H stated 
that these were asset backed debt securities, issued for a fixed term with a fixed interest 
rate. They were not regulated collective investments and could only be recommended by 
authorised and regulated IFAs. It said they were not covered by the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS), although any recommendation to invest was. Portafina was 
effectively recommending UCIS-like funds as part of its own portfolio and it is unclear why it 
would do so if it did not expect Firm C to make a similar recommendation.Mrs H was one of many clients that Firm C referred to Portafina for pension transfer advice. 
Portafina indicates that roughly two to three cases a month were intended to be referred to it 
by Firm C over the course of a year. There were multiple dealings with Firm C throughout 
2014 and 2015, during which time Firm C repeatedly invested consumers pensions in UCIS 
and Portafina continued to recommend pension transfers where the funds would be invested 
at Firm Cs discretion. Ive not been provided with any information to demonstrate that 
Portafina checked it was still Firm Cs position not to recommend UCIS when it was making 
other enquiries with Firm C. I think it was important that this was confirmed. But in any event, 
as Ive explained above, because Portafina needed to consider the proposed investment for 
Mrs H  and it didnt do this  I dont think it did enough to assess the overall suitability of the 
advice given to Mrs H. 
This doesnt mean that Im holding Portafina responsible for the failings of another regulated 
firm. Ive focused on Portafinas own responsibilities as the business involved with the 
capacity to unlock the funds held in Mrs Hs OPS. Theres no dispute that Portafina gave 
that advice and in my view it incorrectly thought it could limit its advice to the transfer without 
seeking information about the investments Firm C intended and eventually arranged for 
Mrs H. 
It is clear to me that Firm C and Portafina had come to an agreement about their working 
relationship. Firm C did not have the required regulatory authorisations to give pension 
transfer advice whereas Portafina did, and an agreement to work together for pension-
release clients came about. Portafina has stressed it had never before agreed to work with 
another authorised firm, as the processes and controls required to set up the relationship 
would be disproportionate to the level of business it might bring about. However, an 
exception was made for Firm C, as it had proposed to send significant levels of business to 
Portafina.  
In those circumstances it seems to me that Portafina needed to do more to ensure that the 
two firms worked together to give suitable pension transfer advice to clients.  Aside from the 
initial due diligence checks carried out at the outset of the relationship, I have not seen any 
evidence that further checks were made by Portafina to satisfy itself that the pension transfer 
advice it was giving to clients was aligned with the investment advice they were receiving 
from Firm C.  The need to do so was, as I say, a necessary part of the suitability assessment 
carried out by Portafina on a case by case basis for individual clients. But it was also, in my 
view, a reasonable due diligence requirement brought about by the ongoing relationship 
itself, so that any patterns of unsuitable or unaligned advice could be identified and 
addressed.  
I dont agree that this required Portafina to police the activities of Firm C, but it did require 
Portafina to take reasonable steps to ensure that both firms were acting, together, in their 
clients best interests.  For Mrs H Portafina set out in the suitability report what spread of 
investments it thought would be suitable for her, as follows:
Cash 10%
Equities 60%
Other Fixed Interest 12%
Secured Structured Bonds 18%
But with what Ive said above in mind, I dont agree that it was sufficient for Portafina simply 
to recommend a broad spread of investments in the expectation that that would bring about 
the necessary alignment with Firm Cs investment recommendations. As things transpired 
for Mrs H, and in the absence of any further checks by Portafina, the investments she was 
eventually advised to purchase were significantly removed from the investments Portafina 
contemplated when it advised her to transfer away from her OPS in the first place.  The reality is that having followed Portafinas transfer advice, almost 50% of Mrs Hs SIPP, 
£48,400, was invested in UCIS funds. I think the regulators 2010 UCIS findings are relevant 
here. Here it said that as well as UCIS only being eligible for promotion to certain customers 
(generally sophisticated, high net worth investors), as an example, even when a customer 
was deemed eligible for the promotion of UCIS, suitable advice involved limiting a client's 
exposure to these investments to 3% to 5% of their retirement provision. I dont think UCIS 
was suitable for Mrs H at all, let alone in the proportion invested. Theres nothing to indicate 
Mrs H had the requisite knowledge or experience to accept or understand the risks 
associated with these types of investments.
In my view, had Portafina requested information about the proposed investments and been 
advised that Firm C intended to invest almost 50% of Mrs Hs funds in UCIS, it couldve 
queried this, given how at odds it was with what it determined an appropriate asset allocation 
for Mrs H was. For the avoidance of any doubt, had Firm Cs recommendation mirrored 
Portafinas own model portfolios allocation of 18% of assets into UCIS funds, I still think the 
portfolio wouldve been unsuitable for the reasons noted above.
Overall, I think Portafina needed to satisfy itself that its recommendation was based on the 
investment proposition that Firm C intended for Mrs H. It shouldve asked Firm C for the 
specifics of this or, as a minimum, an outline of the proposition. Had it done so, and Firm C 
had given it a clear framework of the proposition, then I wouldve expected Portafina to have 
advised Mrs H that it couldnt recommend she transfer away from his OPS in those 
circumstances. If Portafina had warned Mrs H against investing in line with Firm Cs 
proposal, I think its more likely than not that Mrs H wouldve listened to it and not gone 
ahead with the transfer. 
In my view, the fact that Portafina didnt take sufficient steps to consider the investment 
proposal for Mrs H when assessing the suitability of the proposed transfer, meant that it 
couldnt reasonably conclude the course of action it recommended was being made on a 
sound basis. And as a result of these shortcomings, it seems to me that Firm C was in effect 
given the freedom and opportunity to do as it wished with how Mrs Hs SIPP was invested.
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, I dont think the suitability of Portafinas advice turns 
solely on where Mrs Hs funds were ultimately invested. Portafinas recommendation that 
she transfer to a SIPP in the first place is an important consideration. And were it not for the 
transfer and Portafinas incomplete and, in my view, flawed advice regarding this, Im not 
persuaded Mrs H wouldve ultimately gone on to invest as she did.
Was the advice to transfer suitable?
OPS typically have significant benefits and guarantees. Giving up the benefits and 
guarantees available under an OPS and subjecting future pension income to the risks 
associated with unpredictable investment returns should only be done where it can be 
shown that it was clearly in the best interests of the consumer. The COBS guidance 
(COBS19.1.6) at the time of the advice, stated:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by 
assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, 
that the transfer or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
Given what the regulator says, my starting point is that a transfer wont usually be suitable. 
Therell need to be good reasons why a transfer will be in the consumers best interests. And generally, a transfer will only be in the consumers best interests if theres a reasonable 
prospect that the new arrangement will provide better retirement benefits. The transfer will 
also need to be suitable, taking into account the individuals particular circumstances.
At the time of Portafinas advice, Mrs H was 52 years old, employed and in good health. She 
was a standard retail investor with 15 years until she expected to retire and 13 years until 
her OPS benefits became payable. Aside from her state pension entitlement, this OPS 
represented her sole retirement provision. She did not have any significant savings and held 
no investments. Although she was a homeowner, she had an outstanding amount on her 
mortgage. It seems to me Mrs Hs OPS was her most valuable asset. It provided a 
guaranteed income at retirement with increases, along with a spouses pension. Based on 
this I think Portafina should have recognised the significance of Mrs Hs OPS and proceeded 
with caution.
Based on a risk profile Mrs H completed, Portafina said it believed she had a balanced ATR, 
and this has not been challenged by Mrs H. Although Mrs H had no investment experience, 
she was 15 years from her desired retirement age and therefore had a long enough 
investment time horizon to expose her funds to a medium or balanced level of risk. As Mrs H 
appears to accept the classification, I see no reason to disagree with the balanced ATR 
recorded. 
Portafinas advice was given at a time when there were no industry standard projection rates 
to assess the likelihood of the critical yield being achieved. But at the time, the regulators 
assumed future growth rates for personal pension illustrations were 2% (low); 5% 
(intermediate); and 8% (high). Whilst advisers weren't required to refer to these rates when 
giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth 
rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this 
case. However, in the suitability report, Portafina estimated that based on Mrs Hs balanced 
ATR, her personal pension would grow at a rate of 6.69%, which didnt take account of 
advice fees or plan charges. In my opinion, that level of growth with a balanced ATR was 
very optimistic.
In terms of the investment risk Mrs H would be taking on by transferring, Portafina produced 
a Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) report. This showed the critical yield required to match 
benefits from the OPS was 10.5% and 9.3% if she took her full TFC entitlement. So, the 
transfer value needed to consistently grow at this rate for her not to be financially worse off 
by transferring. This was very high. But if the transfer was only going to match the benefits 
given up thered be little point in transferring  there needed to be a reasonable prospect 
Mrs H would be better off. 
I am aware that the TVAS was based on a CETV of £73,808.64, whereas the final transfer 
value had increased to £98,326.97 in May 2015. This would likely have the effect of the 
reducing the level of the critical yield needed to match the same benefits, but the 
recommendation was based on the figures at the time and it was not known that the value 
would increase. Even with the higher CETV, a critical yield which took account of all charges 
would still likely be above the mid-range projection of 5% and Portafinas own estimate of 
6.69%. So, Im not persuaded that there was any realistic chance of Mrs H improving on the 
benefits being given up.
The guidance under COBS 19.1.3 states that the comparison undertaken by Portafina
should:
1) take into account all of the retail client's relevant circumstances;2) have regard to the benefits and options available under the ceding scheme and 
the effect of replacing them with the benefits and options under the proposed 
scheme;
3) explain the assumptions on which it is based and the rates of return that would 
have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up; and
4) be illustrated on rates of return which take into account the likely expected 
returns of the assets in which the retail client's funds will be invested.
Portafinas own model projected returns of 6.69% a year before charges, so would be less 
than 6% a year after the SIPP providers charge of 0.5% and whatever fee Firm C applied. 
Portafina stated it relied on the hurdle rate of 6.7%, as Mrs H did not intend to take an 
annuity, but this was still higher than the model portfolio returns after charges so it was most 
likely that she would be worse off after transferring. The report did not make this clear and 
even went as far to say on page 16 that it believed a transfer could be able to increase the 
overall pension and tax free cash benefits available. There was no evidence to support this 
assertion and in my opinion, Portafina should have been recommending against Mrs H 
transferring her OPS benefits as she would be financially disadvantaged as a result.
As per COBS 19.1.7:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer or pension opt-out, it should 
consider the clients attitude to risk in relation to the rate of investment growth that would 
have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up.
Portafina have argued that they used the hurdle rate, as Mrs H was not going to take an 
annuity at retirement, because she would qualify for a full state pension and her husband 
had his own pension arrangements. I do not accept this argument, as it ignores the 
importance of the critical yield in demonstrating the value of the benefits being given up and 
is essentially saying that it was suitable to give up a guaranteed income without gaining 
anything, because she could get by without it. 
I am not satisfied that using the hurdle rate was appropriate when it is used to determine the 
growth required to match the starting pension of the OPS, without increases and without a 
spouses pension being included. Mrs Hs OPS provided a 34.3% spouses pension and it 
escalated in retirement. So the hurdle rate doesnt replicate the benefits Mrs H was giving 
up, which, as can be seen from the above guidance, was what the regulator wanted 
businesses to do when comparing schemes. Furthermore, using the hurdle rate is not 
supported by the customers own responses to the risk questions, as she stated that she 
could only afford to lose 10% of her fund before it affected her standard of living significantly 
and losses of over 20% of her pension would make her uncomfortable. Neither of these 
indicate that the consumer was happy to give up a secure income in retirement. I am 
therefore satisfied that it is appropriate to use the critical yield to measure the value of the 
benefits being given up and not the hurdle rate.
A consumer may still have wanted to transfer from an OPS to a personal pension if doing so 
offered opportunities or alternatives which were not available within the ceding scheme and 
fulfilled a genuine need. The Key Financial Objectives on page nine of the suitability report 
listed several objectives which would be met by transferring her pension plans to the SIPP. 
But having considered these carefully, I do not believe that any of these objectives justified 
Portafinas recommendation to transfer.
The suitability report states that Mrs H had expressed the opinion that being able to draw 
income from 55 onwards would be a useful benefit and that the flexibility to do so was 
important to you. When Mrs H complained in 2018, she was 56 and had not taken any 
funds from her pension. Her complaint pointed out that taking TFC was listed as an objective, but she hadnt taken any cash from her pension. Portafina interpreted this as 
being due to the fact that she could not access her funds.
Mrs H did not make a point about not taking her TFC after age 55 because she was unable 
to access it, but rather to explain that she has not needed to access it. In other words, Mrs H 
says that one of Portafinas main justifications for the transfer was not accurate. Although 
over 49% of her pension was invested in illiquid UCIS funds, the remainder is in standard 
investments and could be withdrawn if needed. In my view, the fact that Mrs H has not 
accessed her benefits at all demonstrates that she had no need to at the time of the advice 
(or in the following years). So, she should not have been recommended to transfer just to 
make the funds available. No reason was given as to why she might want these funds in the 
suitability report. And in any event, she wouldve needed to wait another three years to 
access the funds. If Portafina was basing its recommendation on this objective, it should 
have been able to demonstrate why it was necessary to take cash at age 55, rather than at 
the scheme age. It may have been considered useful to be able to take TFC earlier. But 
without any identified need for the money, I dont think it was necessary and so this objective 
should not have been used to justify the transfer.
Furthermore, even if Mrs H did expect to access her pension from 55, she wasnt able to do 
so at the time of the advice. Due to her age, 52, I dont think it was appropriate to 
recommend a transfer at that time. Suitable advice would have been to wait until she was 
actually able to take her benefits and avoid exposing her funds to investment risk over the 
intervening period, which was relatively short and ran the risk of seeing a significant drop in 
the value of any investments in the subsequent years.
The report said that Portafina had discussed taking TFC and Mrs H, stated that maximising 
the amount available to you was a significant benefit. You agreed that you would be 
prepared to suffer a reduced pension to maximise tax free cash, provided the reduction was 
reasonable.
However, Mrs H would not receive a higher level of TFC by transferring. The TVAS shows 
that, if the fund grew at the lower rate within her personal pension, she could get TFC of 
£19,092 at age 65. If it grew at the higher rate, she could get £41,302. As she had a 
balanced ATR, a level of return somewhere between these two figures could reasonably be 
expected, which would suggest an amount of approximately £30,000. Conversely, page five 
of the same TVAS estimated that if Mrs H remained in her OPS, she could take TFC of 
£35,253 at age 65. Based on these figures, as a balanced risk investor, the best way for 
Mrs H to maximise her TFC wouldve been for her to remain in her OPS. I cannot see that 
this was explained to her by Portafina.
The suitability report also said that, enhanced death benefits were a significant priority for 
you as you wish to provide your husband with the best possible widows pension should 
you predecease him in retirement.
I agree that transferring did provide a higher lump sum death benefit for Mrs H, but in my 
view, this did not outweigh the loss of guaranteed income in retirement while she was living. 
While I can appreciate Mrs H may have wanted to pass on as much money as possible to 
her husband in the event of her death, Im conscious that the main purpose for a pension is 
to provide an income in retirement. Other considerations, like death benefits, are secondary 
to that, particularly where there was nothing to suggest Mrs H was in ill health, such that it 
wasnt expected that her pension fund would need to support her for a long time.
Furthermore, any additional benefit only exists whilst the funds are not being accessed. 
Once the consumer retires and draws upon the cash for income, the value starts to reduce. 
Conversely, any spouses benefit will only increase in retirement, as the pension in payment increases over time. I cannot see that this consideration was discussed with Mrs H. 
Furthermore, I wouldve expected the adviser to explore the possibility of taking out life 
assurance if providing a legacy for her family was genuinely important to her.
It was noted in the suitability report that Mrs H would prefer to have ownership and personal 
control of your pension benefits, but this reason by itself is not sufficient justification to 
recommend the transfer. Mrs H had no recorded investment experience and it is unclear why 
she wanted personal control over her funds, when she would be relying on a third party, 
Firm C, for investment advice. 
Regarding the risks associated with its recommendation, I do accept that Portafina covered 
some of these. However, disclosure isnt the same as suitability and in my view Portafina 
shouldnt have gone on to recommend the transfer at all. 
Ive thought about whether, if shed been correctly advised by Portafina not to transfer, 
Mrs H would have gone ahead with the transfer anyway. Having carefully considered all the 
circumstances in this case, I dont believe she would have. Theres nothing to suggest that 
she was seriously considering transferring out of her OPS prior to being referred to Portafina 
for a pension review. And she didnt appear to be proactively seeking transfer advice, as 
evidenced by the lack of any concrete objectives noted in the suitability report.
Had she been appropriately advised, I think its more likely that Mrs H would have chosen to 
stay with her OPS, as she had no reason not to leave her pension where it was.
As a professional adviser which, unlike Firm C, was authorised to provide transfer advice, 
Portafinas recommendation wouldve carried significant weight and could, I believe, have 
dissuaded Mrs H from proceeding with the transfer and subsequent investments. I accept its 
possible Mrs H may still have wanted to go ahead anyway  as Ive said above, I think thats 
very unlikely as Mrs H had no clear need at the time to access her pension. But I think, at 
the very least, if Portafina had advised against this, that would have made her think about 
things. Alternatively, had Mrs H proceeded against such advice, Portafina couldve 
discharged its professional responsibility to her appropriately. For example, it couldve 
treated her as an insistent client. However, theres nothing to indicate Mrs H wouldve acted 
against the advice shed been given.
Overall, I consider that the losses suffered by Mrs H are as a result of the inappropriate 
advice provided by Portafina. And had it not been for this unsuitable advice, I dont believe 
she would have gone ahead with the transfer of her OPS or invested half of her fund in 
UCIS. So, I think Portafina is responsible for Mrs Hs loss.
I recognise that it can be argued Firm C may have also separately caused some of Mrs Hs 
losses. So, Ive considered whether I should apportion only part of the responsibility for 
compensating the loss to Portafina. In the circumstances, though, I think apportioning 
responsibility to Portafina for the whole of the loss represents fair compensation. I dont 
accept that anything Firm C did was an intervening act which absolves Portafina of its 
responsibility for Mrs Hs losses. 
I think its important to emphasise that Firm C and Portafina were in a business relationship 
in which each firm agreed to provide services that were designed to bring about a single 
outcome for clients  pension-release advice and investment. Because Firm C wasnt 
authorised to provide pension transfer advice, it referred Mrs H to Portafina. Portafina 
advised Mrs H to transfer to a SIPP, it set up the SIPP and arranged for her existing pension 
benefits to be transferred. Portafinas understanding that it could reasonably limit its advice 
to just the transfer and the SIPP was wrong; it needed to consider the proposed investments 
too, even if Firm C was advising Mrs H on them. It was only as a result of Portafinas involvement that Mrs H transferred the funds held in her OPS to the SIPP. Portafinas role 
was pivotal, since the eventual investments were fully reliant on the funds being transferred 
first; if that hadnt happened, Mrs H couldnt have invested as she did. So, in my view, the 
entirety of her loss stems from Portafinas unsuitable advice to transfer away from her OPS.
Portafina argues that any redress awarded to Mrs H should take account of the 
compensation Mrs H could obtain from the FSCS by complaining about Firm Cs investment 
recommendations. It doesnt appear Mrs H has approached the FSCS. But I am aware that, 
as a fund of last resort, the FSCS wont pay out on claims where it is aware that another firm 
was involved in the transaction, and it considers that firm might also be responsible for a 
consumers losses. This means that apportionment of only part of the loss to Portafina could 
risk leaving Mrs H out of pocket. But I think its important to point out that Im not saying 
Portafina is wholly responsible for the losses simply because Firm S and Firm C are now in 
liquidation. My starting point as to causation is that Portafina gave unsuitable advice and it is 
responsible for the losses Mrs H suffered in transferring her existing benefits to the SIPP and 
investing as she did. That isnt, to my mind, wrong in law or irrational but reflects the facts of 
the case and my view of the fair and reasonable position. So, overall, I think apportioning 
responsibility to Portafina for the whole of the loss represents fair compensation in this case.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs H, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for Portafinas unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs H  
would have remained in the occupational scheme. Portafina must therefore undertake a  
redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the 
FCA in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Hs acceptance of the decision.
 
Portafina may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mrs Hs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or 
S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, 
which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Hs 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this. 
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mrs H within 90 days of the date 
Portafina receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must  
be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes  
Portafina to pay Mrs H.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
In addition, Portafina should pay Mrs H £300 for the disruption to her retirement planning.
My aim is to return Mrs H to the position she wouldve been in but for the actions of 
Portafina. This is complicated where investments are illiquid (meaning they cannot be readily 
sold on the open market) as their value cant be determined, which appears to be the case 
here.
To calculate the compensation, Portafina should agree an amount with the SIPP provider as 
a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs, and take 
ownership of the investment. If Portafina is unable to buy the investment, it should give it a 
nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the 
calculations should include anything Portafina has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding 
charges yet to be applied to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, Portafina may ask Mrs H to provide an undertaking to account to it for the 
net amount of any payment she may receive from the investment. That undertaking should 
allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what she receives. Portafina will need to meet 
any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Portafina asks Mrs H to provide an undertaking,
payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of that 
undertaking.
The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment. In order for the SIPP to be closed 
(should Mrs H wish to move her investment portfolio) and further SIPP fees to be prevented, 
the investment needs to be removed from the SIPP. Ive set out above how this might be 
achieved by Portafina taking over the investment, or this is something that Mrs H can  
discuss with her SIPP provider directly. But I dont know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. To provide 
certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Portafina pay Mrs H an upfront lump sum  
equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This 
should provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £150,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mrs H the 
compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £150,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £150,000, I additionally require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mrs H any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £150,000, I only require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mrs H any interest as set out above on the sum of £150,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £150,000, I also recommend that 
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mrs H the balance. I additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mrs H.
If Mrs H accepts my final decision, the money award is binding on Portal Financial Services 
LLP. My recommendation is not binding on Portal Financial Services LLP.
Further, its unlikely that Mrs H can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the 
balance. Mrs H may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept this decision. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Portal Financial Services LLP to pay compensation as set 
out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman