DRN-3189354
The complaint
Mr B has complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as More Th>n 
(RSA). He isnt happy about the way it valued his car after a claim under his motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr B made a claim under his car insurance policy and his car was deemed a total loss. And 
when RSA looked to settle the claim Mr B wasnt happy with the valuation of his car. 
So, Mr B complained to RSA. It looked to value Mr Bs car by looking at the various trade 
valuation guides in order to gauge the market value of his car. It offered Mr B around £9,000 
for his car but he felt it was worth around £10,500. And as Mr B remained unhappy with 
RSAs offer he complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. She looked at the 
various motor trade guides alongside the valuations provided by RSA but as the valuations 
she found were similar to RSAs she didnt think it had done anything wrong.
As Mr B didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr B, but Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Bs position, as he clearly feels his car is worth more than RSA have 
offered. And he feels that the valuation RSA made of his car has left him around £1,500 out 
of pocket.
But as our investigator explained this service has an established approach to valuation 
cases like Mr Bs. When looking at the valuation placed on a car by an insurance company I 
consider the approach they have adopted. And decide whether the valuation is fair in all the 
circumstances. It isnt the role of this service to come to an exact valuation of a consumers 
car. But we do look to see if insurers have acted reasonably in looking to offer a fair market 
value of the car. 
I pay attention to the various trade guides used for valuing cars. And I look at any other 
evidence provided by both sides. This evidence might include advertisements for the sale of 
similar cars. But I place less weight on these than on the trade guides, as cars dont normally 
sell for the price at which they are advertised, and the trade guides give an up to date guide 
of the value of the car in question. The condition of the car at the time of the incident is also 
an important factor to consider. And I must emphasise that I will only order a business to 
increase its valuation if I consider it is unfair.
I know Mr B doesnt agree with this approach and feels his car is worth about £1,500 more 
than RSA has offered. And while I understand his position, and the fact that the second-hand 
market is buoyant at the minute, Im satisfied RSA has acted fairly. 
I say this as Ive looked at the various trade guide valuations of Mr Bs car and they are 
consistent and in line with RSAs offer. Ive also looked at the advert Mr B has provided, but 
that car has done a lot less miles than Mr Bs which would affect the car in the adverts 
valuation and make it more expensive. Ive also considered Mr Bs point that he put the 
valuation of his car down as £10,500 when he took out the policy. But this is just a guide of 
the valuation at that time, not the actual market value. Indeed, if the market value was more 
than the amount he had put down then I would expect RSA to pay that and not restrict it to 
the value Mr B had suggested.
Mr B also thinks the trade valuation guides dont give an accurate value of his car. And he 
seems to think the guides offer the amount a dealership would pay a consumer when they 
trade in their second-hand car, but that isnt correct. The valuations guides that RSA used 
give a guide of the market value of a car similar to Mr Bs from around the time of claim. 
Finally, I can see Mr B has mentioned in his latest correspondence with this service that his 
car had upgraded alloy wheels. But Im satisfied that RSA took this into account when it 
valued Mr Bs car. And although modifications like this cost a lot when a car is first bought 
they often dont add anywhere near as much value in the second-hand market. 
Given all of this, Im satisfied RSA has looked to value Mr Bs car in a fair and reasonable 
way and looked to pay him the market value of his car in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. Valuing second hand cars is far from an exact science and it isnt my role to 
value Mr Bs car, Im just looking to see if RSA has acted reasonably in providing a fair 
market value of his car and I think it has. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman