DRN-3173033
The complaint
Mrs F complains on behalf of Mr F that Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Limited 
(Berkshire Hathaway) mishandled his motor insurance policy.   
What happened
Mr F is represented in this complaint by Mrs F, but I will refer to Mr F throughout.
Mr F bought an annual motor insurance policy online in August 2020 via a broker. He 
supplied details to Berkshire Hathaway including information about him such as his 
occupation, to which he answered that he was working in the healthcare sector. Mr F was 
employed via an agency and later in 2020 his working hours were reduced and his role 
changed, but he was still working in a similar healthcare-based capacity.
Mr F contacted Berkshire Hathaway on 14 April 2021 by on-line chat and told them that he 
was out of work and had been for eight months, which he says was an error and that he had 
meant to say eight weeks. He also said in the chat that he was sometimes only able to get 
two days work per week and as such he couldnt claim for unemployment benefit.
In the same chat, Berkshire Hathaway told Mr F the occupation must be updated and he 
replied OK, thanks.
On 16 April, Berkshire Hathaway texted and emailed Mr F to say that his monthly payment to 
the premium funding company used by Berkshire Hathaway had failed. Berkshire Hathaway 
told Mr F to make payment by 22 April or his policy would be cancelled. It also emailed Mr F 
to tell him that he must update his occupation or it would cancel his policy within seven days.
Mr F made a payment directly to the premium funding company on 21 April, the day before 
this was finally due, but this information doesnt seem to have been passed on to Berkshire 
Hathaway. 
Berkshire Hathaway then cancelled the policy on 23 April. It says that although payment had 
been received within the time allowed, the reason it cancelled the policy was because Mr F 
did not update the policy about his occupation. It refers to the policy terms and conditions it 
says allow them to do this.
Mr F was left with some money owing to Berkshire Hathaway and he decided to carry out a 
chargeback on his final payment made. Berkshire Hathaway say Mr F now owes them 
£236.55.
Mr F is unhappy with the way Berkshire Hathaway handled his policy. He asks for a refund 
of premiums and charges hes paid. He also asks for Berkshire Hathaway to pay for the 
higher amount he had to pay to his new insurer which he had to find at short notice and 
without a full years No Claims Discount.
Our investigator didnt think Berkshire Hathaway had acted fairly and reasonably. She 
thought thered been a mix-up between it and Mr F about his occupation and that, although 
Mr Fs job had changed, he was in a similar role throughout his policy.  She didnt think it 
was fair of Berkshire Hathaway to cancel Mr Fs policy on this basis. Mr F also clarified that 
he had not, in fact, been out of work for eight months as this would have meant he was 
unemployed before the policy began. He had made an error due to stress and that he should 
have said that his contracts had fluctuated for eight weeks.
Our investigator also points out that Berkshire Hathaway cancelled Mr Fs policy 24 hours 
before it was due to expire and she didnt think it was fair for it to do this. She said that 
Berkshire Hathaway should have let the policy expire at renewal. So she said Berkshire 
Hathaway should remove any cancellation marker from Mr Fs internal and external records 
and it should also recognise Mr Fs full No Claims Discount.
In her view of the complaint, our investigator said Berkshire Hathaway should pay Mr F £50 
for his inconvenience caused in having to find an alternative insurer at short notice. She also 
said that as Mr F used the policy, he needs to pay the outstanding balance due which would 
include the payment that was clawed back, after removing any cancellation charges applied 
by Berkshire Hathaway.
Our investigator didnt think it was fair to ask Berkshire Hathaway to pay any increase in 
premium Mr F has paid to his new insurer. This is because calculating premiums is a 
complex procedure and she couldnt be sure how Mr Fs new insurer would have treated him 
differently. But she did say if Mr F was able to provide his current insurer with new 
information and it was able to confirm they would charge a different premium, our 
investigator felt she could perhaps take this premium difference into account.
Mr F agreed with the investigators view, but Berkshire Hathaway did not. It asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman so it has been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator said that the policy was cancelled one day before it was due to end. This 
was incorrect as the policy was for 12 months and was due to expire in August 2021.
Berkshire Hathaway has clarified that Mr F did not misrepresent his occupation but instead 
he failed to comply with the terms and conditions of the policy by not updating his 
occupation. It says it was entitled to cancel Mr Fs policy and the relevant clause is:
We have the right to cancel your policy by sending you seven days notice in 
advance of the cancellation date to your last known email or postal address or that of 
your Policy Administrator. We will return the premium for the part of the policy that 
you have not yet used, provided you have not made a claim during the Period of 
Insurance or an incident has occurred which may result in a claim.
An administration charge, as shown in our Terms and Conditions, will be applied if 
your policy is cancelled as a result of you failing to supply us with documentation or 
information we have requested, or if we discover that the information that you gave 
us when you took out a policy was inaccurate or incomplete.
This type of clause requires the consumer to advise it of any changes after the policy has 
started. At this service we might not necessarily consider the insurers application of these 
clauses to be fair and reasonable in all circumstances. 
Our approach is that by issuing a policy, Berkshire Hathaway had effectively promised to cover Mr F against certain contingencies. And in many cases, if Mr Fs circumstances 
changed during the term of the policy, that was generally just part of the risk Berkshire 
Hathaway agreed to take on. For non-fundamental changes we would not normally expect 
Berkshire Hathaway to then change its mind about what cover, if any, it would provide. I can 
see that Berkshire Hathaway have told us that it would have covered Mr F if theyd known 
about his change of occupation, so I think it was unfair for it to cancel Mr Fs policy mid-term 
and decline his claim.
When a business makes a mistake, as I think Berkshire Hathaway has done here, we expect 
it to restore the consumers position as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the 
impact the error had on the consumer.
Mr F has told this service that it was very inconvenient for him to find another insurer at short 
notice and I can appreciate that he may not have been able to find a new insurer at the best 
possible terms for him. By cancelling Mr Fs policy unfairly, Berkshire Hathaway have 
potentially deprived Mr F of a years No Claims Bonus. In addition, Mr F may have to 
disclose to new insurers that his policy was cancelled which may mean he has restricted 
access to the market and his premiums may be affected. 
Mr F has been caused distress and inconvenience by Berkshire Hathaway at a stressful time 
for him, so I require Berkshire Hathaway to pay Mr F £150 for this.
However, I agree with our investigator that its very difficult to establish how much more Mr F 
has been charged by his new insurer than he would have been if this policy had continued to 
renewal successfully. So Im not going to ask Berkshire Hathaway to make an additional 
payment for this.
Berkshire Hathaway have told us that Mr F owes them £236.55 following his chargeback 
request. I can see from its calculation that this includes various fees and charges and I think 
its unfair that these charges have been applied to Mr F. As Berkshire Hathaway cancelled 
the policy, it should offer a pro-rata refund of the whole premium to Mr F removing its various 
fees. For clarity, Berkshire Hathaway should also refund the non-refundable optional extras 
on a pro-rata basis. 
Putting things right
For the reasons given, I require Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Limited to:
1. Provide a refund on a pro-rata basis for Mr Fs premium from the date it cancelled the 
policy, removing all charges and fees and including in the refund the extras 
purchased as explained above. Mr Fs pro-rata outstanding balance may then be 
deducted from this refund figure.
2. Remove records of the cancellation from any internal and external databases where 
it has been recorded.
3. Pay Mr F £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
unfair cancellation.
If the pro-rata refund calculation in 1. results in Mr F continuing to owe money to Berkshire 
Hathaway, then the compensation payable in 3. can be adjusted accordingly.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman