DRN-3014071
The complaint
Mr C complains about the valuation of his car by Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
following an accident.
  
What happened
Mr C had car insurance with Admiral. Unfortunately, in March 2021 he was involved in an 
accident in which his car was damaged, so he raised a claim. After arranging for the car to 
be inspected by an engineer, Admiral deemed the car a total loss.
Admiral calculated the market value of the car to be £31,960. 
Mr C didnt think this was a fair valuation and so he complained to Admiral. Mr C highlighted 
that hed bought the car from an independent garage for £33,750 only five weeks earlier. 
He noted the car had a high mileage but an enormous specification and a full service history 
with the manufacturer. So he felt the car was great value for the price he paid. 
Mr C was also unhappy with the service hed received from Admiral, citing delays and poor 
communication amongst other concerns. 
In its final response letter, Admiral upheld the complaint in relation to the valuation of the car. 
It noted full details of Mr Cs optional extras hadnt been added to one of the motor-trade 
guides. This increased the valuation to £32,060, so it offered to pay this and simple interest 
on the difference between the figures. 
But Mr C remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint about the valuation of his car to 
our service. Mr C still felt his car had been undervalued, by around £5,000.
Our investigator looked into things and used the valuation tools at our disposal to consider 
Mr Cs complaint. They requested bespoke valuations from the guides, noting the high 
specification of Mr Cs car which they felt may not be accurately reflected in a standard 
valuation. They were ultimately of the view that £36,320 was a fairer figure and asked 
Admiral to increase its offer and to pay Mr C 8% simple interest on the additional payment. 
They also asked Admiral to pay Mr C an additional £100 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused. 
Mr C accepted this proposed valuation as fair. But Admiral disagreed. It noted that the price 
it had offered Mr C was within the range of valuations found by our investigator. It highlighted 
three other complaints where it had been told its valuation was reasonable in similar 
circumstances. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint Mr C has asked our service to look into is the valuation of his car. So, whilst 
Im aware Mr C raised other complaint points with Admiral as part of his original complaint, 
I dont intend to comment on these here. 
I note Admiral has identified other complaints our service has considered which were not 
upheld. And which it thinks demonstrate its valuation in this case is fair. Its important to be 
clear that Ill be considering the specific circumstances of this complaint when reaching my 
decision. No two complaints are the same. And as I know Admiral is aware, motor valuation 
isnt an exact science. So, what could be fair in one situation, may not be in another. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy. These state that Admiral will pay the 
market value of the car which it defines as The cost of replacing your car, with one of a 
similar make, model, year, mileage and condition based on market prices at the time of the 
loss. Use of the term market in which you would normally shop for your car e.g. Retail 
value, will not apply if you bought your car privately or at an auction.
So, whilst I can see Mr C purchased the car for £33,750 not long before the accident, Im 
satisfied that this doesnt mean Admiral ought necessarily to pay Mr C this amount for the 
car. The value Admiral has agreed to pay, as stated in the terms and conditions, is the price 
it would cost to buy a similar car at the time of loss. 
Admiral told us it used two different motor-trade guides to obtain valuations which gave the 
following figures: £31,960 and £32,060. The valuation it ultimately gave Mr C was the higher 
of these two values.
Our investigator observed that Mr Cs car had a large number of optional extras and 
therefore felt it appropriate to approach the original two motor-trade guides for bespoke 
valuations. This gave valuations of £31,960 and £36,130. Our investigator also checked one 
other motor-trade guide which provided a third valuation figure of £40,872. Given this, they 
felt a fair market valuation for Mr Cs car was an average between the three figures.
But Admiral felt the higher figure should be discounted as an outlier. It stressed its valuation 
fell within the range of figures given across the guides. So, it didnt think it was an 
unreasonable offer.
Market value is about the price the consumer would have had to pay for a comparable car at 
the time the car was damaged. As Ive said, establishing the market value of a car is not an 
exact science but the valuations from motor trade-guides are usually the most persuasive 
evidence. The figures given in these guides will, however, vary and where they do, it may be 
fair and reasonable to discount outliers unless theres persuasive evidence otherwise. 
But I dont agree that the higher figure obtained by our investigator is an outlier. The three 
figures are similar distances apart, with £4,170 between the lowest and middle figure and 
£4,742 between the middle and highest figure. So, I dont think the higher value is 
significantly greater such that it should be discounted as an outlier.
In these specific circumstances, Im satisfied theres no reason to discount any of the three 
motor-trade valuations. And whilst Admirals valuation falls within the range, it is at the 
lowest end of this. Given this range is a significant one, a difference of nearly £9,000 
between the highest and lowest figure, I dont think a valuation that falls within the lowest 
part of this range can be considered fair. Overall, I agree with our investigator that a 
reasonable approach would be for Admiral to take an average of the valuations, a figure of 
£36,320.Im aware Admiral has already paid Mr C £32,060, less the policy excess. So, I think it 
should now pay Mr C the difference between this and the average valuation - an additional 
£4,260. It should also pay Mr C 8% simple interest on this amount from 1 April 2021 until the 
date this is paid. I also think its fair that Admiral compensate Mr C for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the lower valuation, and I think the £100 payment suggested by 
our investigator fairly reflects this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
to:
Pay Mr C £4,260 plus 8% simple interest on this amount from 1 April 2021 until the 
date this payment is made.
Pay Mr C £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
If Admiral Insurance Company Limited considers it should deduct income tax from the 8% 
interest element of my award it may do so, but it should give Mr C the necessary certificate.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman