DRN-2931506
The complaint
Mr E complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) did not offer him advice 
when they gave him shares arising from the demutualisation of Halifax Building Society in 
1997.
Mr E also complains that Halifax did not offer him the option of receiving dividends as cash 
rather than reinvesting.
What happened
In June 1997, Halifax Building Society changed its status to a listed company on the Stock 
Exchange and qualifying members were entitled to free shares as a result of this change 
(demutualisation).
Mr E received free shares and was sent documentation from Halifax that gave options on 
what he could do with the shares. Members could either sell the shares or keep them via a 
share certificate or place them into a Personal Equity Plan (PEP).
Mr E chose to place them into a PEP and continued to hold the shares. These were 
transferred into an Individual Savings Account (ISA).
The shares were administered by a third party and Halifax changed this provider in 2016. In 
July 2016, Halifax wrote to all clients who held shares and provided options  clients could 
sell shares, transfer to another ISA provider or agree to the transfer to the new provider.
Clients who did not respond to the options were provided with the default option which was 
transferring to the new provider. This was the option that Halifax provided to Mr E.
In September 2020, Mr E complained to Halifax. Mr E said that Halifax did not discuss his 
needs and circumstances at the time the free shares were issued. Mr E said that the risks 
were not discussed, and they did not consider his attitude to risk.
Mr E also said that he did not recollect being given the option to receive dividends in cash 
rather than them being reinvested.
Halifax investigated Mr Es complaint and replied with their final decision on 19 October 
2020. Halifax said that no advice was provided, and they had made him aware of the various 
options that were available. Halifax did not uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with Halifaxs decision, Mr E referred his complaint to the service and one of 
investigators reviewed his complaint. The investigator agreed with Halifax and didnt think 
that they had done anything wrong.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr E has asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr E but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator for 
much the same reasons and I will not be upholding the complaint.
Mr Es complaint to the service is that he was mi-sold and didnt get suitable advice. Given 
the time that has elapsed since the event complained about in 1997, Halifax have said that 
they dont have copies of the documentation that was sent out at the time of demutualisation, 
so I have had to rely on what Halifax and Mr E have said in their submissions.
In their submission to the service, Halifax have said that qualifying members were made 
aware of what options were available and a leaflet called Next steps to conversion  how it 
affects you was posted. 
Mr E has said that he has never seen this leaflet and that he seldom throws things away. Mr 
E has sent in documentation from around 1997 and I thank him for taking the time to do this.
I think that on the balance of probability, Halifax did send this leaflet out and it was sent to Mr 
E. Im not able to say whether Mr E received it, but I cant blame Halifax for this. I know that 
Mr E has said that it should have been sent in a way that ensured delivery, but I cant say 
that Halifax have acted unreasonably by sending via Royal Mail.
Halifax have said that no advice was offered as it was not a regulatory requirement and it 
was at the discretion of each qualifying member to select an option. They said that they were 
unable to consider whether the chosen option for suitable for Mr E.
In his submission to the service, Mr E has said that while he agrees that he did not receive 
any specific advice and that it was ultimately his decision to sign the PEP application, he 
does not believe that he was provided with enough information from Halifax to provide an 
informed decision.
Ive considered this and the documents that Mr E sent in with his complaint. I think that it is 
likely that no advice was provided to the qualifying members as this would have required 
Halifax to assess the suitability of the shares to each qualifying member. Mr E also says that 
he did not receive any specific advice so Im unable to say that Halifax have provided Mr E 
with unsuitable advice or that he was mis-sold.
Ive also thought about what Halifax have said that if Mr E had wanted financial advice then 
he could have made an appointment with an independent financial adviser. 
As Ive said, the leaflet is not available for review, but I think that it is likely to have contained 
wording that suggested if the member wanted advice, they should consult a financial 
adviser. This is common where a consumer is presented with options on financial 
investments and advice is not included.
Mr E has said that he wasnt offered the option of receiving dividends in cash and these 
were re-invested. Its difficult to say what options would have been presented to Mr E in 
1997 but again, I need to think about what may have been presented to Mr E based on the 
balance of probability.
I have to say that its probable that Mr E would have been presented with an option of how he 
wanted to receive dividends. I also think that as Mr E continued to receive dividends, he 
could have contacted Halifax to ask for these to be paid in cash.In summary, I think that it is likely that Halifax provided Mr E with documentation that would 
have allowed him to make an informed decision. I dont think that Halifax provided advice 
and there was no mis-selling of investments. Im not going to ask Halifax to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman