DRN-3037016
The complaint
Mr X complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has failed to pay for legal costs following 
a claim on a motor insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mr A was sadly involved in a fatal motor accident. On behalf of his estate, Mr X made a 
claim on Mr As motor insurance policy with UKI.
As well as providing motor insurance, the policy included additional cover for legal expenses. 
Mr X asked UKI to appoint solicitors under the legal expenses section of the policy. He 
wanted cover for attending the coroners inquest.
UKI said the action Mr X was considering was against the police and, as the police hadnt 
accepted liability for the accident, this wouldnt be covered, and he would have to appoint his 
own solicitors.
Over the following months, UKI investigated other aspects of the incident for the purposes of 
other claims on the policy.
The matter was referred to a Coroners inquest for a hearing which would last several days. 
UKI reconsidered the matter internally, and considered whether it should provide cover for 
representation at the inquest in light of the complexity of the case but didnt initially reach a 
decision on this. 
Mr X then contacted UKI and asked again about providing financial support for the inquest.  
UKI said it wouldnt provide legal expenses cover because this part of the policy only 
covered representation in civil matters or in certain circumstances (at their discretion) in 
defending criminal matters. And in this case, UKI said Mr X was proposing to pursue legal 
action against the police, not to defend a criminal matter.
Mr X said this wasnt a legal action against the police  the inquest was being held by the 
Coroner to investigate the circumstances of the accident. 
UKIs motor legal department agreed to speak to Mr Xs solicitors about costs. During a 
phone call, UKIs claim team said they couldnt provide funding at the Coroners hearing for 
the reasons theyd given already. 
UKIs legal expenses department then looked into the claim further and said it had contacted 
Mr Xs solicitors but hadnt had a reply. UKI said it would be able to give an answer on the 
claim after receiving the solicitors response, depending on whether certain criteria were met.
Mr Xs solicitors replied to UKI saying they believed the legal action Mr X was intending to 
pursue would have at least a 50% chance of success. So UKI accepted the claim under the 
legal expenses section of cover. 
After the Coroners hearing Mr Xs solicitors billed UKI for their costs. UKI said it would only 
consider the costs at the end of the court process, along with any other legal costs. In the 
meantime, Mr X covered the solicitors costs himself.
UKI has said if Mr X decides not to pursue legal action it will consider the legal costs now (as 
the matter will have been concluded) but otherwise it will be dealt with once the legal case 
has concluded. UKI has also said its waiting for more information from Mr Xs solicitors on 
whether the claim is likely to be successful.
When Mr X complained about the legal costs relating to the Coroners hearing not being paid 
UKI said payment for the Coroners court costs was discretionary. But it agreed more 
information could have been provided about this, and awarded Mr X £250 for poor service 
and communication throughout the claim.
Mr X remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service. He said UKI only 
considered the matter under the legal expenses section of the policy and while this may lead 
to the costs being reimbursed eventually, this has left him out of pocket for costs hes had to 
pay in the meantime. He said these costs should have been covered by the motor insurance 
section of the policy  the policy booklet specifically mentions coroners court costs, and 
although it says paying these costs would be at the insurers discretion, this isnt explained 
and UKI hasnt handled the claim fairly or given reasons why it hasnt exercised discretion to 
pay the costs in this case
Our investigator didnt think UKI was at fault when deciding not to pay the legal costs. She 
said the policy terms make it clear these costs will only be paid in certain circumstances, 
where there is a claim against the insured arising from the death or injury of a third party or 
damage to property, and that wasnt the case here. 
But she thought there had been delays and UKI could have handled the claim better. She 
said these issues had caused some inconvenience for Mr As estate and compensation of 
£500 would be a fair reflection of this, so she asked UKI to make a further payment of £250 
bringing the total compensation to £500.
Mr X doesnt accept the investigators view and has requested an ombudsmans decision. 
Hes made a number of comments. I wont set them all out here but will summarise the key 
points as follows:
He tried to claim under the legal expenses section of cover because he was 
repeatedly told by UKI there was no cover for these legal costs under the motor 
insurance - he wasnt told that the costs could be paid at UKIs discretion.
Given the circumstances of the case, if UKI had used its discretion its not clear why 
it would not have been covered.
His solicitors replied to all correspondence from UKI. He had to chase many times for 
replies and often the people he spoke to had little knowledge of what was happening.
The relevant policy term refers to claims where someone is killed or injured; there 
was a passenger in the vehicle who was injured and so that should apply in this 
case.
Cover was agreed under the legal expenses section, but the costs havent been paid 
yet - due to this not being covered under the motor insurance section he was left out 
of pocket as he had to pay the solicitors himself in the hope hell be repaid later.
There was an accident covered by the policy and therefore the costs of attending an 
inquest should have been covered.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr X and his family have been through the most difficult circumstances in 
relation to the accident and the insurance claim that followed. I have to consider this 
complaint independently and impartially and as a result my decision may come across as 
dispassionate, but I mean no offence by this. Ive considered everything Mr X has said very 
carefully when deciding what I consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr A had a motor insurance policy for his vehicle which includes cover for liability to other 
people. In the relevant section - Section A Liability to other people  part 1 says:
Cover for you
We will cover you for legal liability to other people arising from an accident which
involves your car and:
You kill or injure someone;
You damage someone elses property.
Part 2 of this section Cover for other people says UKI will also provide cover under this 
section for the legal personal representative of anyone covered under this section if that 
person dies.
The cover provided under Section A Liability to other people includes the following:
If there is an accident covered by this policy, we have the option entirely at our discretion to 
pay the reasonable legal costs and/or expenses to defend or represent you or any driver 
covered by this policy:
 at a coroners inquest or fatal accident inquiry and/or
 in criminal proceedings arising out of the accident.
This section of the motor insurance policy concerns Mr As liability to other people  in other 
words, it covers the situation where someone else (or their estate) makes a claim against 
him because they have been killed, suffered injury or had their property damaged. It does 
give UKI the discretion to cover legal costs relating to attending a coroners inquest. But that 
cover is discretionary, meaning UKI is not obliged to provide it, only to consider whether to 
cover those costs. And importantly, this only arises in relation to liability claims under this 
part of the policy.
So to request cover for costs relating to the coroners court, Mr X would have to show these 
are costs that relate to a liability claim being made against Mr A by someone else.
Mr X wished to attend the coroners hearing to find out more about the circumstances of the 
accident, which might be relevant to a possible claim he wished to bring against the police. It 
isnt related to a claim someone else is bringing against Mr A (or his estate) where he (or his 
estate) would have any legal liability. Since cover for legal costs under this section is only 
available where there is a claim for legal liability, and there isnt such a claim against Mr A or 
his estate, then theres no entitlement to cover for the legal costs. So it was fair, and in line 
with the policy terms, for UKI not to cover these costs under the motor section of the policy.
However, although I think the decision was correct, UKIs communication was unclear. 
Although Mr X is not the policyholder, he was potentially entitled to cover for costs relating to 
the inquest, since that section of the policy included cover for the legal personal 
representative of anyone covered under this section if that person dies. Mr X was given 
incorrect information about why the claim wouldnt be covered and had to spend additional time discussing this with UKI. This wouldnt have been necessary if hed been given the 
correct information initially. It would have been frustrating for him and he was put to 
unnecessary trouble, which could have been avoided if UKI had dealt with his request better. 
I agree it would be fair for UKI to offer a further payment of £250 to acknowledge this 
(bringing the total to £500).
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part and direct U K Insurance Limited to 
pay additional compensation of £250 to Mr X.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr X and the 
estate of Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
Peter Whiteley 
Ombudsman
