DRN-4233590
The complaint
Mrs F complains about how esure Insurance Limited (esure) handled a claim on her motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs F had a car insurance policy with esure. 
In late December 2022 Mrs F damaged a tyre and wheel, which needing replacement, and 
the suspension and steering needed investigating. She made a claim.
It took a few days for esure to recover her car. Mrs F wasnt at her home address and there 
was some confusion about which recovery agent could attend and where the car would be 
taken to.
During this time, Mrs F needed a courtesy car but wasnt entitled to get one from esure until 
the car was being repaired. She hired a car, and esure agreed to pay for it, before providing 
her with a hire car.
Repairs then started and Mrs F wasnt happy about the updates she was getting or the 
length of time it was taking, and she complained. 
While the car was at the repairers, it was further damaged when the repairer collided with it. 
The repairer told Mrs F it would repair it. These repairs were not finished to Mrs Fs 
satisfaction and its my understanding that shes made a further complaint to esure about 
this.
This complaint is about the service during the claim for the damage to her wheel and the 
inconvenience shes had due to the additional damage. 
Esure said it would pay her £200 compensation for her distress and inconvenience. 
Mrs F remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. She asks for an amount 
of compensation sufficient to cover her excess and at least one months finance payment for 
the car. She also makes other requests in her complaint, but these relate to possible 
consequences of the further damage that occurred, so Im not going to mention them further 
here. 
Our investigator looked into her complaint and upheld it. He said he thought esure should 
pay a further £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused by the repairers further 
damage. He also thought it should supply Mrs F with an accurate record of the parts, labour 
and works the repairer had done in fixing this further damage.
Mrs F accepted the view but esure didnt. It said it thought £200 compensation was fair and it 
wasnt able to supply the record of works because that was being done by the garage. 
Because it didnt agree, this complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from the file of evidence I have that Mrs F has sent detailed evidence about the 
process she went through when making her claim, and I thank her for this.
Its important that I say I know Mrs F has asked that esure changes its procedures so that 
other customers arent treated the same as her. But this service isnt the regulator and I cant 
require a company to change what it does. What I am able to do is see if a companys 
actions were fair and reasonable and award compensation when things havent gone right.
In any event like this its important to realise that theres a certain amount of disruption to 
normal life. And in Mrs Fs claim, which was ostensibly for a tyre and wheel, further damage 
was found which cost nearly £2,500 to repair in total.
Ive looked at the service esure gave Mrs F and I can see it varied in quality. It took about 
thirteen days from notifying esure for her car to arrive at a repairer and I can see Mrs F had 
asked for this to happen at a different place to her home address. This caused esure some 
problems to organise. 
Ultimately though, Mrs F had been provided with a hire car by this point so her disruption 
should have been minimal.
Ive said above that esure also paid for an earlier hire car Mrs F had arranged for herself and 
I think its action in doing this was fair and reasonable.
There were several times when esure didnt call Mrs F back, even when promised. 
esure has said it thought that £200 compensation was sufficient and our investigator thought 
it should pay £300 in total, which I can see Mrs F has accepted. 
I can see from esures response that it didnt agree with the view. It also said it wouldnt be 
able to provide a list of the works carried out to repair the car because the repair to the 
further damage was an arrangement between Mrs F and the repairer who caused the 
damage. 
I can see from the file that the garage did indeed make arrangements with Mrs F to repair 
this further damage, but the garage is acting as an agent on behalf of esure throughout this 
process. Mrs F is engaged with the garage due only to esures claims process. The garage 
caused the extra damage, but as it is acting on esures behalf, esure are responsible for its 
actions.
In later correspondence with this service, Mrs F said shed had the further damage repaired 
which had been paid for partially by the repairer and partly by esure.
But Ive said above that Ive only thought about the distress and inconvenience caused by 
esure to Mrs F, which includes the event of the further damage, but not the implications of it.
I think its fair that esure provide Mrs F with details of the work done on her car to repair the 
damage she caused in the original collision as that was a covered claim under her policy.
If I were considering a further complaint about the further damage then its likely I would 
similarly decide that esure needed to provide evidence to her of the works done to fix it, so Id also ask that esure liaise speedily with its repairer to also supply her with a breakdown of 
the work done to fix this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct esure 
Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mrs F a total of £300 for her distress and inconvenience.
Provide Mrs F with a breakdown of the work carried out to her car.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman