DRN-2794911
The complaint
Ms T is unhappy with the claims information esure insurance Limited trading as 
Sheilas Wheels has placed on the claims database. Ms T thinks information about an 
incident in 2016 wasnt recorded properly and caused her difficulties when taking out car 
insurance with other providers. 
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought Sheilas Wheels had 
recorded the claim from 2016 correctly on the claims database. And without further 
information from the other car insurance providers to explain why Ms Ts applications had 
been declined, he didnt think he could fairly uphold the complaint.  
Ms T disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said she had to tell 
Sheilas Wheels in 2018 and 2019 that the 2016 claim was notification only, and that before 
she did so, it had logged the claim as a fault against her. She said this led to her applications 
being declined by other insurance providers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why below.
Ms Ts concern is that she had trouble getting insurance with other providers when her policy 
with Sheilas Wheels ended, and she says this was because of the information 
Sheilas Wheels put on the claims database in relation to the December 2016 claim. She 
says two other insurance providers told her she had made incorrect disclosures when she 
applied for new policies. Ms T says this is because her 2016 claim wasnt logged as 
notification only. 
Sheilas Wheels has said the 2016 claim was open until December 2017 and closed as 
notification only and it has provided evidence of this. Ms T then contacted Sheilas Wheels in 
2018 and the claim was re-opened and closed again as notification only. The information on 
the claims database shows the claim as closed in December 2018 and as notification only. 
Ms T says this was because she told Sheilas Wheels the claim hadnt been closed properly. 
Ive not seen any persuasive evidence which shows the 2016 claim was closed incorrectly. 
And the information about the 2016 claim is not the only claim that Ms T had on her record 
from 2016-2018. And without any specific information from the other insurance providers to 
show that it was the recording of the 2016 claim specifically that created difficulties for her in 
obtaining another insurance policy, I cant fairly uphold this complaint against 
Sheilas Wheels. 
I note Ms T was offered £100 due to Sheilas Wheels not sending a written response 
following her complaint. This seems reasonable to me and in line with what Id expect in 
similar cases. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman