DRN-3283768
The complaint
Mr D complains about the advice given by Beacon IFA Limited (Beacon) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has 
caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ds employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In June 2017, Mr D received a transfer value quotation from the trustees of the BSPS. This 
summarised the benefits Mr D was entitled to under the BSPS at that point. It also gave the 
cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ds BSPS pension benefits, which was 
£409,334.67.
On 11 August 2017, Mr Ds employer confirmed the terms of an agreement with the 
pensions regulator about the next steps for separating the BSPS from the company  which 
had been broadly agreed in May 2017 and included a lump sum payment into the pension 
fund  had been signed. This announcement included confirmation that agreement had also 
been reached about the sponsorship, by Mr Ds employer, of the BSPS2.
Then on 25 August 2017, an important update was issued in respect of BSPS transfer 
values. This explained that the expected lump sum payment into the BSPS by Mr Ds 
employer was likely to result in an improvement to transfer values. And for those with 
unexpired transfer values, as in Mr Ds case, updated valuations would be issued around 
October 2017, which would be guaranteed until at least December 2017.
Mr D approached Beacon in August 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. He 
had been referred to Beacon by another adviser and I understand that he was concerned 
about the situation with his employer and the BSPS. 
Beacon completed a fact-find in August 2017 to gather information about Mr Ds 
circumstances and objectives. The fact-find, and other information from the point of sale, 
showed that:
Mr D was aged 57 and Mrs D was 54, they had one dependent child. 
They were both in good health.
They owned their own home which was subject to a mortgage that had around two 
years left to run. 
They had an outstanding loan with a value of £20,000.
They had around £15,000 in savings held on deposit.
Mr D was employed by Tata Steel. Mrs D was also employed full time. 
Their net monthly income was recorded as being about £3,750 while their 
expenditure was £1,200, leaving a net disposable income of £2,550. 
In respect of their pension arrangements Mr D had been a member of the BSPS for 38 
years. Mrs D had also been a member of her OPS for over 30 years. And they would both 
receive full state pensions. Mr D had recently joined his employers defined contribution 
(DC) pension scheme. He and his employer were in total contributing 16% of Mr Ds salary 
into this. 
Beacon also carried out an assessment of Mr Ds attitude to risk, which it said was 
cautious. Mr D had no prior investment experience, and it was recorded that he had a low 
capacity for loss. 
On 11 September 2017 there was a further announcement, confirming the agreed payment 
had been made into the BSPS by Mr Ds employers and the separation of the BSPS from 
the company had been completed. This set out that members would have to make a choice 
between staying in the BSPS or moving to the BSPS2 and explained that personalised 
information and illustrations would be provided in October 2017 to assist with that choice and 
that members would have until December 2017 to make a decision.
On 12 September 2017, Beacon advised Mr D to transfer his pension benefits into a SIPP 
and invest the proceeds in a range of funds. The suitability report, and the other point of sale 
information, said the reasons for this recommendation were:
To ensure he had flexibility and control over when and how he drew his retirement 
savings. Mr D found the increased flexibility to be appealing and, this would help 
Mr D to retire early and dictate his own income strategy. 
To increase the death benefits available to his dependents. 
To capitalise on his BSPS transfer value while it was high. 
To move away from the scheme due to the proposed reduction to his BSPS. He felt 
that remaining in the BSPS was a bigger risk than moving away from it. 
As Mrs D had significant DB scheme benefits, their income needs would be met. So, 
this pension could be used for life luxuries.
Mr D complained in 2021 to Beacon about the suitability of the transfer advice because he 
strongly felt that his pension was mis-sold. He has seen the industry regulators information 
about potential DB transfer mis selling and thought this may be the case for this transfer. He 
noted that the information the transfer was based on was incorrect as it didnt take into 
consideration the pension sharing order that was in place. He says that if he was aware of 
the magnitude of the potential loss of income then he wouldnt have proceeded. 
Beacon didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. It said that it did a full, and detailed, fact-finding 
process and provided full information about the DB transfer. It said the advice met Mr Ds 
objectives as they were recorded on the fact-find. And whilst the DB transfer did have some 
risk this was explained to Mr D in full, and he accepted it. In particular, he signed to say he 
agreed with the loss of guarantees. 
Mr D referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended that Beacon pay compensation. Our Investigator didnt think that the transfer 
was financially viable and so Mr D would be worse off if he went ahead with it. And it was 
particularly unsuitable given that Mr D was generally risk averse. He should have waited until 
it was clear what benefits the BSPS2 would provide and, ultimately, the BSPS2 would have 
been the best option for him. He didnt need flexibility and the income from his current 
arrangements would have met his needs.  Beacon disagreed, saying: 
Even though the TVAS was incorrect it was still ok to advise Mr D due to the urgency 
of the situation. 
Mr D didnt want a secure pension as his other provision would have met his needs. 
The death benefits were very important to him, and he wanted the ability to pass the 
full fund to his wife or children. 
Whilst the BSPS had some benefits it was perfectly reasonable for Mr D to have 
been concerned about its future. 
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
an ombudsman to make a final decision.
Following this Beacon indicated that it would be willing to calculate any loss Mr D had 
suffered and pay him £300 for the distress and inconvenience he had experienced. 
Mr D didnt initially accept this offer and he wanted to ensure that transactional costs and 
platform charges were included in the compensation. And he has reservations about 
supplying information to Beacon about his pension which it said it needed to calculate the 
loss. 
Both sides have been informed that an ombudsman is likely to require that Beacon calculate 
any loss using the BSPS2 specific loss calculator. Beacon has confirmed that it is happy to 
do this. 
But, as no agreement has been reached, I have fully considered this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Beacon's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Beacon 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Ds best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
Financial viability 
Beacon was gathering information and ultimately advised Mr D at a time when there were 
some significant updates being issued about what was happening with the BSPS and the 
BSPS2. This included confirmation that sponsorship of the BSPS2 was planned, that details 
of the scheme would follow and that members would have until December 2017 to make a 
choice. It was also explained that the expected payment into the BSPS by Mr Ds employer 
was likely to result in an improvement to transfer values. And that members with unexpired 
transfer values would be sent updated valuations  again likely improved ones  which 
would be guaranteed until at least December 2017. And the lump sum payment to the BSPS 
was confirmed just before Beacon issued the suitability letter that gave Mr D advice.
Beacon proceeded with the advice without really accounting for any of these developments. 
It is clear that Beacon and Mr D were aware of all of this and I think it should have been fully 
factored in. There were no comparisons carried out of the benefits the BSPS2 would 
potentially provide. And the advice was based on the CETV Mr D had received in June 2017, 
which was due to expire at the end of September 2017.
Beacon has indicated that Mr D wanted to act urgently, and he thought that staying in the 
BSPS was a risk. But I dont think this was right at the time. Beacons role wasnt to facilitate 
what Mr D mightve thought he wanted. It was to look at and advise him about what was in 
his best interests. Given what information the announcements indicated would be 
forthcoming, in order to give Mr D enough information to make a fully informed decision 
about what was in his best interests, I think Beacon should have told Mr D to defer making a 
decision on the transfer until further details of the BSPS2 were known and revised transfer 
values received. 
Transferring out of a DB scheme is a one-off event. Once transferred there's no going back, 
the benefits of the DB scheme are usually lost forever. The announcements indicated that 
Mr D would be afforded time to think about his options  so the deadline in the original 
transfer quotation became less relevant. And waiting wouldve allowed Beacon to carry out 
an analysis of the BSPS2 benefits, and properly compare these to the alternatives, and 
based its advice on this. Because I think without doing this, Beacon was acting on 
information which it knew to be limited, so it is difficult to argue that it could properly assess 
whether a transfer was in Mr Ds best interests.
I have also noted that Mr Ds pension was subject to a Pension Sharing Order, Beacon has
said that the TVAS results may have been incorrect as the income amount was wrong. 
Beacon has said that it proceeded with the recommendation on the basis that the situation 
was urgent, but I dont agree with this. It cant have advised Mr D properly about his options 
when the information underpinning the advice was incorrect.   In summary Beacon has given advice despite knowing the information in the TVAS was 
incorrect and in the middle of some significant changes to Mr Ds DB scheme entitlement. 
This seems to me to be wholly inappropriate and is a serious failing. I cant see how it can 
say it has advised Mr D properly with this in mind and I think its a significant error of 
judgement. 
That said Ive looked at the figures that were provided to see if they give an indication about 
whether it was reasonable for Mr D to transfer.  
Beacon carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing 
how much Mr Ds pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the 
same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
The critical yield applicable to the BSPS2 benefits wasnt calculated  although again I think 
Beacon ought to have waited and analysed this before providing its advice. The lower 
annual increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical yields somewhat in 
comparison to the BSPS. But I still think they wouldve likely been higher than those 
reflecting the PPF benefits and are likely to have been closer to those of the BSPS benefits, 
particularly at age 65.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
Mr D was 57 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire between ages 60 and 65. The 
critical yield required to match Mr Ds benefits at age 65 was 18.56% if he took a full pension 
and 16.66% if he took tax-free cash and a reduced pension. The same figures for his age 60 
was not shown for a full pension as it was calculated to be over 50%, but when he took tax-
free cash this was shown to be 42.61%
The critical yield to match the benefits available through the PPF at age 65 was quoted as 
11.91% per year if Mr D took a full pension and 11.09% per year if he took tax-free cash and 
a reduced pension.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
3.4% per year for 7 years to retirement and 2.7% for two years to retirement. Ive kept in 
mind that the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 
5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ds 
cautious attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr D 
giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, 
the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield was 
over 11%, I think Mr D was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value 
than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. 
This would be the case even if the scheme moved to the PPF.
Beacon has provided cashflow models which it says show Mr D wouldve been able to meet 
his needs despite the high critical yields. Ive considered these, but Beacons models show 
that if Mr D took the same income as the DB scheme, and it increased by the retail price 
index, then his funds would run out somewhere between his age 78 and 84. So, if there was 
a period of poor investment returns, or he lived a long time, he may run into problems. Also, as Beacon will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and so I 
consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in 
this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over 
such a long period of time.
Lastly Beacon estimated that if he were to replace the income he was giving up in the DB 
scheme he would need a fund value of around £1,400,000. This is a very large amount and 
far higher than the DB scheme funds could reasonably be expected to grow to. I think this 
gives a revealing insight into the cost of the benefits Mr D was giving up. 
Of course, all of this is only indicative of the DB transfer viability as the figures are incorrect. I 
understand that Mr Ds ex-wife would be entitled to a third of his pension. And this isnt 
accounted for in the figures above. Beacon say this will have artificially increased the critical 
yields. But even so the yields are very high, and I think that even if this was properly 
accounted for the transfer still wouldnt be viable. 
For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ds best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as Beacon 
has said in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, 
despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
One of the main reasons that the DB transfer was recommended to Mr D was to increase 
the flexibility that he had from his retirement provision. He wanted to retire early if possible, 
and perhaps use the DB scheme benefits to bridge the gap between his retirement and the 
state pension age. He wanted the flexibility to control his withdrawals to do this. 
It's evident that Mr D could not take his DB scheme benefits flexibly in this way. Although he 
could choose to take tax-free cash and a reduced annual pension, Mr D had to take those 
benefits at the same time. But Im not persuaded that Mr D had any concrete need to take 
tax-free cash and defer taking his income, or to vary his income throughout retirement. To 
my mind this seems more of a nice to have rather than a genuine objective. 
It was recorded that he and Mrs D wanted £1,500 per month net. Its not clear how this was 
calculated but it seems like a useful starting point. This is £18,000 a year or probably around 
£25,000 before tax. 
It was recorded that Mr Ds DB scheme would provide benefits at age 65 of an income of 
£36,261 or tax-free cash of £160,210 and a reduced income of £24,031. Or at age 60 he 
could receive an annual income of £29,734 or tax-free cash of £136,088 and a reduced 
annual pension of £20,413. 
Of course, as Ive said above this would be reduced by around a third due to Mr Ds pension 
sharing order. This really should have been properly accounted for. And the pension would 
be reduced by the move to the BSPS2. So, on its own this pension would not provide all of 
the income Mr D said he needed at retirement if he were to retire early. 
But this doesnt give the full picture here. Mr D was a member of his new employers DC 
scheme and he and his employer were contributing 16% of his salary each month into this, 
and he was looking to increase this. And he would build up a sum of money to use in 
retirement. Mrs D had a DB scheme entitlement herself. Its not clear exactly what benefits Mrs Ds 
pension would provide, and I think this is a significant failing on Beacons part as it couldnt 
have advised Mr D on his income needs in retirement without knowing this. But given her 
income, and the length of time she had been in it, it was likely to be significant. And I note 
that Mr D felt that they could use this and their state pension to live on. 
But I think its reasonable to say that Mr and Mrs Ds existing provision, including their state 
pension entitlement, would have met their aims. 
I think the right advice here would be for Mr D to remain in his DB scheme and anticipate 
that this would form a core guaranteed income. And Mr and Mrs D could continue to build up 
funds and other provision elsewhere to enable them to be flexible about their retirement 
when they had a better idea what they wanted to do. 
Beacon may think that once Mr Ds state pension, and other provisions, became payable he 
would have too much income. But Mr D couldve reinvested any surplus income for the 
benefit of his children in a tax-efficient manner such as within a trust.
Even if Mr and Mrs D could have got by without the income form Mr Ds DB scheme once 
their state pensions became payable this isnt a good reason to transfer in itself. This income 
could have been an important foundation for their retirement, providing a guaranteed amount 
that wouldve at least mostly covered Mr and Mrs Ds main expenses meaning that any 
income received above this couldve allowed them to enjoy their retirement fully. 
Overall, Im satisfied Mr D could have met his income needs in retirement by maintaining the 
guaranteed income available to him through the PPF or the BSPS2. So, I dont think it was in 
Mr Ds best interests for him to transfer his pension just to have flexibility that he didnt really 
need. And if Mr D found that his circumstances changed and he did in fact need flexibility, if 
hed opted to go into the BSPS2 he wouldve retained the ability to transfer out closer to his 
actual retirement age. So, ultimately, I think any need for flexibility couldve been addressed 
nearer to his retirement.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr D. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr D might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr D about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Beacon explored to what extent 
Mr D was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr D 
was married and he had a dependent child and so the spouses and dependents pension 
provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful if Mr D predeceased them. I dont think 
Beacon made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr D. This was guaranteed and it 
escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining 
on death in a personal pension was. And as the cashflow analysis shows, the fund may have 
been depleted particularly if Mr D lived a long life.  In any event, Beacon should not have 
encouraged Mr D to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.Furthermore, if Mr D genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse or children, which 
didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, 
I think Beacon shouldve instead explored life insurance. I appreciate that the suitability 
report mentioned a whole of life policy with a sum assured of £407,000  this was 
discounted by Mr D because of the cost (over £570 per month). But I dont think that this was 
a balanced way of presenting this option to Mr D.
Basing the quote on the transfer value of Mr Ds pension benefits essentially assumed that 
he would pass away on day one following the transfer, and that isnt realistic. Ultimately, 
Mr D wanted to leave whatever remained of his pension to his dependents, which would be 
a lot less than this if he lived a long life or if investment returns were poor. So, the starting 
point ought to have been to ask Mr D how much he would ideally like to leave on his death, 
and this couldve been explored on a whole of life or term assurance basis, which was likely 
to be a lot cheaper to provide. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr D. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
One of the main reasons that Mr D wanted to transfer was due to the changes within his 
employer and his OPS scheme. It was documented that Mr D wanted to take control over his 
retirement provisions due to the proposed reduction of benefits under PPF/BSPS2. And that 
he understood that this involved accepting the investment risk but felt more comfortable with 
this than the alternative options. 
Its clear that Mr D, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he 
was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. Hed heard negative things about the PPF 
and he said he preferred to have control over his pension fund. So, its quite possible that 
Mr D was leaning towards the decision to transfer because of the concerns he had about his 
employer and his negative perception of the PPF.
Its well documented that this was a period of uncertainty for people like Mr D. But this only 
serves to emphasise the need at that time for a balanced assessment of the options 
available and ultimately the need for suitable advice. So, Beacon needed to give Mr D an 
objective picture and recommend what was in his best interests.
And on the subject of financial stability, I think Beacon couldve done a lot more to allay any 
concerns. As Ive explained, I think Beacon should have waited before confirming its advice 
so that the option of the BSPS2 couldve been fully considered and explained. Prior to the 
advice being given there were several important updates regarding the BSPS2 that indicated 
it was progressing and appeared likely to be an option for customers in Mr Ds position. So, 
the advice shouldve properly taken the benefits available to Mr D through the BSPS2 into 
account. Which, as Ive said, it appears he was unlikely to improve upon by transferring. And 
I think this shouldve alleviated some of the concerns Mr D mightve had about the scheme 
moving to the PPF and the BSPS2.
Im also conscious that while Beacon says Mr D was keen for a clean break, he still worked 
for the same employer. And hadnt suggested he intended to find alternative employment. 
He was also a member of the new defined contribution pension scheme his employer 
provided. So, he wasnt going to achieve a clean break by transferring, as he would remain 
tied to the employer in other respects. And I think it also shouldve been talked about with 
more clarity that his employer and the pension scheme trustees were not one and the same.I think Mr Ds desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr D was not an 
experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able 
to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective 
for Mr D  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Furthermore, if the scheme did end up moving to the PPF, I think Beacon should have 
explained that this was not as concerning as Mr D thought. As Ive explained above, Mr D 
was still unlikely to match, let alone exceed the benefits available to him through the PPF if 
he transferred out to a personal pension.
Suitability of investments
Beacon recommended that Mr D invest in some funds which he now thinks may not have 
been suitable. As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB 
scheme wasnt suitable for Mr D, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the 
investment recommendation. This is because Mr D should have been advised to remain in 
the DB scheme and so the investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been 
given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr D. But Beacon 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr D might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr D needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr D was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr D was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr D shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme just because of the concerns he had with his employer and the BSPS scheme. 
These concerns werent worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme.
Whilst Mr D indicated he was interested in retiring early, he was already 57 and doesnt 
seem to have been able to say with any certainty what his needs in retirement would likely 
be. So, I don't think that it would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he 
would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF. I say this because while it is true the PPF 
wouldve provided a more favourable reduction for very early retirement, because his plans 
were not confirmed, there was no guarantee the reduction in the pension he accepted would 
end up being offset by this more favourable reduction for early retirement. And by opting into 
the BSPS2, Mr D wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his 
retirement age if he needed to. The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was 
also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think if Beacon had correctly advised him 
against transferring Mr D wouldve opted into the BSPS2.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Ds best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2 in the future.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr D would've gone ahead anyway, against Beacon's 
advice. 
Ive considered this carefully. But Im not persuaded that Mr D wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Beacons advice. Mr D had obtained a CETV from the trustees of the BSPS before speaking to Beacon. But 
hed also been told by that point about significant potential changes to the BSPS and that 
hed likely have to make a choice at some point. Obtaining a CETV helped him to make an 
informed choice. But I dont think this means his mind was already made up.
I dont doubt that Mr D likely had a negative opinion of his employer at that time in respect of 
the pension arrangements, given what had happened up to that point. And I think he had 
likely put a lot of thought to the information hed been given and may even have gone into 
the discussion leaning towards transferring. But Mr D still worked for the employer and 
hadnt indicated an intention to stop. So, I dont think the relationship and trust was as 
irretrievably broken down. Again, he wasnt obtaining a clean break through a transfer, as 
Beacon has suggested. And his employer and the pension scheme trustees were not one 
and the same.  
And while I accept that Beacon disclosed risks associated with transferring to Mr D and 
provided him with information about this in the suitability report, that isnt a substitute for 
suitable advice. And ultimately Beacon advised Mr D to transfer his benefits, and I think Mr D 
relied on that advice.
And Mr D was an inexperienced investor with a cautious attitude to risk and this pension 
accounted for the majority of Mr Ds retirement provision. So, if Beacon had provided him 
with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his 
best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
So, I dont think Mr D would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think Beacon should compensate Mr D for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Mr D has raised some concerns about how Beacon will perform the calculation particularly in 
respect of some aspects of the charges. My decision is that Beacon should use the FCA 
derived BSPS redress calculator which gives guidance on how to account for ongoing 
charges. It is the method both the Financial Ombudsman and the regulator think is 
appropriate where a customer shouldnt have been advised to leave the BSPS scheme. 
And, if Mr D does accept this decision he should assist Beacon to perform the calculation 
correctly, by either providing authority for, or obtaining himself, the information it needs to do 
this. 
Beacon has offered to pay Mr D £300 for the distress and inconvenience that the unsuitable 
advice caused him. I agree that this is a reasonable amount to compensate him for the 
distress this issue has caused him. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr D, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr D would most 
likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if 
suitable advice had been given. 
Beacon must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Beacon should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr D and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation.
For clarity, Mr D has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ds 
acceptance of my decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Beacon should:
calculate and offer Mr D redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr D before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr D receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr D accepts Beacons offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr D for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ds end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr D as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Beacon may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ds likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Beacon should pay Mr D £300 for the distress the poor advice caused him. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Beacon IFA Limited to 
pay Mr D the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Beacon IFA Limited pays Mr D the balance.
If Mr D accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Beacon IFA Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr D can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman