DRN-2316986
The complaint
Miss B complains about the way Black Horse Limited has administered her hire purchase 
agreement. 
What happened
Miss B entered into a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse in October 2015 in order to 
acquire a car. In late 2017, she contacted Black Horse to arrange voluntary termination of 
the agreement. Miss B says she was told she would need to pay around £433 to settle the 
agreement. However, she says Black Horse changed this at a later date to say she actually 
needed to pay around £933 because she also had to pay for any outstanding insurance 
shed taken out with the finance. 
Miss B complained to Black Horse about the amount she was being asked to pay. She didnt 
think she needed to pay the additional insurance costs. Black Horse responded to this 
complaint in January 2018 to say the outstanding balance was correct. This specific 
complaint wasnt referred to our service within the correct time limits, so Im unable to 
comment on this part of Miss Bs complaint in this decision.
 
The figure of £933 was included on the voluntary termination documentation that Miss B 
signed when agreeing to the termination. The agreement was voluntary terminated in 
January 2018 and Black Horse said that Miss B had 30 days in which to pay the outstanding 
amount. Because Miss B didnt pay the outstanding balance, Black Horse registered a 
default with credit reference agencies in May 2018. 
Miss B made a further complaint to Black Horse. She said she tried to make payment to 
Black Horse on several occasions via the telephone and her online account. But she says 
Black Horse repeatedly prevented her from making repayments. She says when she called, 
nobody could locate her account in order to apply any payments to it. She says the default 
should be removed and she should be allowed to pay what she owes. 
Black Horse didnt uphold this further complaint. It said it had told Miss B she would need to 
contact their collections team to arrange payment but they had no records to show she had 
done so. It said it had held off adding the default earlier because Miss B had contacted them 
in April to say she was seeking legal advice about the outstanding balance. Black Horse said 
that because they heard nothing further from Miss B, it registered the default. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said that Black Horse could 
have been more explicit with Miss B in setting out the consequences of her not paying. But 
she didnt think this had made any difference to the default being applied as she hadnt seen 
anything to suggest Miss B had attempted to contact the collections team to make a 
payment. 
Miss B didnt agree. In summary, she said that her personal circumstances hadnt been 
taken into consideration. She said she had tried countless times to make a payment to Black 
Horse but they wouldnt allow her to do so. She said the voluntary termination documents 
said they could agree a repayment plan for the outstanding amount but nobody got in 
contact with her to arrange one. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficult personal circumstances Miss B was experiencing in 2017 
and 2018. I can see why this may have made it more challenging for her to deal with the 
voluntary termination of this agreement. Ive thought carefully about everything shes told us, 
and I realise this will be disappointing for her, but I dont think Black Horse has acted unfairly 
or unreasonably. Ill explain why. 
Its clear Miss B didnt agree with the amount she was being asked to pay on termination. 
She felt her liability should be around half that figure. I cant however comment on whether 
the amount they were seeking was fair as that specific issue formed part of separate 
complaint. 
Ive seen that in January 2018 Black Horse told Miss B that her outstanding balance was 
around £933 and that she would need to make that payment within 30 days of her 
terminating the agreement. Ive reviewed Black Horses customer contact notes and these 
show that Black Horse told Miss B in a phone call in the same month that if she didnt pay 
the amount outstanding, or agree a suitable repayment plan, her credit file would be 
impacted. It appears Black Horse told Miss B that if she wanted to enter into a repayment 
plan she would need to complete an income and expenditure assessment to determine what 
was affordable to her. 
Miss B says she attempted on multiple occasions to pay the outstanding balance to 
Black Horse. She says she was unable to do so online and over the phone. Black Horse 
have agreed that Miss B wouldnt have been able to make payment through her online 
account. But it has said she could have made it by calling their collections team.
The customer contact notes dont show that Miss B called and asked to make a payment. 
However, that doesnt necessarily mean she didnt. Its possible she did call and either spoke 
to the wrong department who couldnt locate her account or that the collections team didnt 
make a record of the call. Ive therefore considered all of the other wider evidence and 
circumstances to decide what I think is most likely to have happened. 
We asked Miss B about when she first attempted to make payment. She told us that it was a 
few months after terminating the agreement when she logged into her Black Horse account 
and attempted to make payment. She said she realised then there was a problem but said It 
wasnt until I signed up to a credit reference agency  I realised I had a default then 
questioned it. So from what Miss B has told us, its clear she attempted to make a payment 
a few months after termination (which was in January 2018) and when she realised she 
couldnt, she didnt question Black Horse further until discovering the default some months 
after that. 
The default was applied in May 2018. Black Horses contact notes show that Miss B 
contacted Black Horse in April 2018 saying she still disputed the outstanding balance and 
was seeking legal advice. So I think its clear from what Miss B has said and from the 
contact notes that Miss B didnt attempt to make payment (other than perhaps on the online 
account) until some time after the default was recorded. It seems she was still disputing what she owed only a few weeks before the default was applied, which I think further supports 
that she hadnt attempted to pay prior to that point. 
Ive seen that Miss B raised a dispute via a credit reference agency regarding the default in 
July 2018. However, she didnt complain to Black Horse until November 2018. Black Horses 
contact notes dont show any contact from Miss B between July and November 2018. And it 
seems Miss Bs dispute through the credit reference agencies was that she believed the 
balance had been paid. But this seems to be inconsistent with what shes told us that Black 
Horse refused to accept her payment. Given all of this, Im not persuaded she made 
repeated attempts to pay the outstanding balance.
 
Ive seen that Black Horse did send two arrears letters to her between January and 
May 2018 letting her know there was still a balance outstanding. These letters asked her to 
contact the collections team to discuss the repayment of the debt. Like the investigator, 
I think these letters could have been more explicit in setting out what exactly could happen if 
Miss B didnt pay and by what date. However, Miss B has said she never received these 
letters, so I dont think that made any difference here. In any event, Im satisfied from the 
conversation she had with Black Horse in January that she was aware of the need to pay 
and that if she didnt Black Horse would record that non-payment on her credit file.  
It seems Black Horse waited four months from the date of termination to default the account 
despite it saying this would happen within 30 days if she didnt pay. So I think they gave 
Miss B a reasonable amount of time to make payment or to agree a repayment plan. Ive not 
seen anything to persuade me that Miss B did attempt to call Black Horse to make payment 
before May 2018. On that basis I dont think Black Horse acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
recording the default. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman