DRN-3536190
The complaint
Mrs B  a company director of N  complains on its behalf about the way Arch Insurance 
(UK) Limited handled and declined a claim against its Property Owners insurance policy. 
Reference to Arch include their agents. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to all parties, so I wont repeat it here in detail. In 
my decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
In summary, Mrs B took out Property Owners insurance with Arch for N in June 2020. In July 
2020, she says a tenant residing in the property reported a foul smell. Later, rodents were 
found to have damaged the sewage pipe which resulted in an escape of water under the 
property. 
Mrs B raised a claim on behalf of N. Arch accepted to cover the clean-up costs, and further 
investigations were needed to establish the extent of the resultant escape of water damage. 
Arch  at this point  had concerns over when the claim-incident occurred. They say the 
tenant alleged they reported a foul smell to N 12-18 months prior, but nothing had been 
done. And this would have meant the claim occurred prior to the policy start date. But, as 
Arch were unable to gather further evidence in this regard, they requested Mrs B provided 
estimates for the further claim costs she had explained would be forthcoming. 
Arch chased Mrs B for estimates for several months. Mrs B says this was due to the tenant 
refusing to leave the property. 
Later, Mrs B provided an invoice for £20,000 which Arch had concerns with. They say they 
hadnt authorised works to start, and works were undertaken to the entire property  even 
though their expectation of the damage was contained within the bathroom and hallway only. 
Mrs B provided a second estimate but said N needed the works done desperately so a new 
tenant could move in. Mrs B also confirmed the works hadnt been completed but were in 
process. And Mrs B says she wasnt told by Arch to cease with the works at this stage. 
Eventually, Arch requested Mrs B provides photos of the damage so the claim could be 
validated. And after reviewing these, Arch declined the claim. They say Mrs B started works 
without authorisation, prejudiced their position, and the damage shown pre-dated the policy 
inception date  which the tenant also suggested had been occurring over a long period.  
Mrs B wasnt happy and complained. She says Arch handled the claim poorly, appointed 
several loss adjusters, and only declined the claim after seeing the cost of repairs. She also 
says they didnt tell her to stop the works despite being aware they had already started. As 
such, she thinks Arch should cover Ns claim. 
Arch didnt uphold Ns complaint, so Mrs B approached our service. 
An investigator here didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Although she thought Arch 
should have told Mrs B to stop the works so the claim could be validated, she didnt think this 
would have made a difference to the outcome of the claim. She thought Archs decision to 
decline the claim was reasonable. And whilst things could have been handled better, she 
didnt think this impacted N. 
Mrs B requested a decision, so the case was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres a great deal of correspondence on this complaint and several issues have been 
raised. I will, however, focus on the issues which are  in my opinion  relevant to reaching a 
fair outcome to this complaint. That isnt meant as a discourtesy, it simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service. 
Mrs B commenced repair works without gaining pre-authorisation from Arch to do so. She 
says she was desperate to have the repair works undertaken as soon as possible so a new 
tenant could move into the property. Mrs B, however, says Arch should have told her to stop 
the repair works when she notified them of starting so Arch could validate the claim. 
The claim notes suggest Arch were awaiting estimates from Mrs B, but later received an 
invoice for repairs to the sum of £20,000. Arch says their handler thought the works had 
been completed at this stage, although the evidence shows Mrs B later confirmed the works 
had started but were ongoing at that point. Arch also had concerns about the level of works 
being undertaken, as their expectation was for repairs to be undertaken to a smaller area of 
the property  not the entire property  which Mrs B later confirmed had also suffered 
damage after further inspection was carried out. 
It's fair to say Arch should have told Mrs B to stop the works after she had notified them the 
repairs were ongoing, but not yet complete. That said, a key finding I must make is whether I 
think this had any material bearing on the outcome of the claim and subsequent complaint. 
And having considered all the available evidence, I dont think it did and Ill explain why. 
I appreciate Mrs Bs reasons for wanting to have the works done as soon as possible. But 
before the works started, Mrs B should have requested authorisation from Arch to do so. Its 
clear from the claim notes Arch were awaiting estimates for the repairs to validate the claim. 
But I dont think the opportunity to validate the claim was lost necessarily because Mrs B had 
already started the works. I say this because, later, Arch requested photos of the damage 
which were passed to their claims team for validation. 
There were concerns over how long the foul smell had been present. Arch says the tenant 
had told their agent they reported the smell to N some 12-18 months prior to the claim, but 
nothing was done. They say this suggests the escape of water  which was from a sewage 
pipe  had been leaking over a period and causing damage. And as the policy was incepted 
roughly four weeks prior to the claim, the incident fell outside the policy. Although Mrs B 
disputes this to be the case and has provided her testimony as evidence. 
Returning to the photos Mrs B provided, Arch considered these and said they show damage 
to rotten joists that appeared to have been occurring over a considerable period  which was 
prior to the inception of Ns policy with Arch.  
The onus here was on N to prove its claim fell within the scope of the policy, and to receive 
prior authorisation for any claim-related repairs. As N failed to gain pre-authorisation from Arch, they based their decision on the information available to them  such as these photos 
 which they say show damage had been occurring over a period prior to N incepting the 
policy. And damage hadnt been caused by a one-off insured event. 
Overall, having weighed up the evidence, I havent been persuaded to agree with Mrs B that 
this significant property damage occurred due to a one-off insured event that took place 
within the policy period. I dont find Archs failure to inform Mrs B to stop the repair works had 
any bearing on the outcome of the claim. I say this because Arch declined the claim based 
on the photos Mrs B later provided. And, having seen these photos  along with all the other 
evidence provided by both parties  Im satisfied this was reasonable. 
I do agree things could have been handled better by Arch. But I dont think things were 
handled so poorly by Arch that they should compensate N for this. 
Mrs B says the impact on N due to the way things were handled caused it to suffer a 
financial loss of £20,000. But these costs were incurred by N due to the incident Mrs B 
reported, rather than due to the way Arch handled things. And in any event, I think its most 
likely N would have incurred these costs anyway. I say this because Mrs B says she was 
desperate to have the works done as soon as possible so a new tenant could move in. As 
such, I dont agree this was a direct financial loss due to the handling of the claim, so I wont 
be requiring Arch to do anything further in this respect. 
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs B. But my decision ends what 
we  in attempting to resolve Ns dispute with Arch  can do for it. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman