DRN-3890261
The complaint
Mr S complains about how NewDay Ltd (NewDay) responded when he asked it to help him 
obtain a refund of a fee he paid using his NewDay credit card.
What happened
Mr S bought airline tickets using a credit card provided by a third party bank I will call H. Mr 
S bought the tickets from a travel agency I will call O. However, after the purchase Mr S 
realised he needed to amend the booking. O said in order to do this Mr S would have to pay 
it a fee of £491.60, Mr S paid the fee to O. 
Subsequently Mr S checked with the airline. It told him it had amended the tickets without 
charging a fee. Therefore, Mr S considers that no fee should have been requested and taken 
by O. Moreover, Mr S also considers that O gave him incorrect information on which he 
relied to his detriment as he thinks no fee was necessary. In other words, Mr S considers 
that O misrepresented the situation to him Therefore Mr S wants all of the £491.60 back. 
Moreover, due to the type of credit Mr S used to purchase the tickets he thinks he is entitled 
to bring a like claim for misrepresentation against NewDay as he could against O. Therefore 
Mr S complained to NewDay on this basis and asked for a full refund. But NewDay rejected 
Mr Ss claim on what Mr S sees as spurious grounds. As a result, in addition to the £491.60 
Mr S asks for compensation for mental stress and effort and time being used to recover my 
money back.
NewDay considers that it had two potential routes open to it in order to try to reimburse Mr 
Ss money. Namely a claim against itself for misrepresentation under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) or a claim ultimately against O, under a process 
known as chargeback. But it concluded in this instance neither option could assist Mr S.
That said, NewDay accepts, that on one occasion, it did not handle responding to Mr S as 
well as it should have done, therefore it credited his account with £40 to make up for this. 
Mr S rejected NewDays response, and because he remained dissatisfied, Mr S complained 
to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint. Our investigator did not recommend 
that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld.
NewDay did not respond to let us know if it accepted our investigators recommendation, but 
Mr S did respond to reject it. In summary, Mr S told us that O had got the amount of the fee 
wrong the fee should have been £364.20 not £491.60. Both he and O agreed on this point. 
O had promised to refund the £127.40 but despite this promise it had not refunded the 
money. Therefore Mr S is entitled to claim the £127.40 from NewDay instead. Moreover, he 
only claimed the full £491.60 because NewDay told him to do this.
Mr S asked that an ombudsman review his complaint
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S has now also raised a new complaint about O failing to refund him £127.40 as it 
promised to do. Further it appears in this new complaint both Mr S and O both accept that O 
was entitled to charge Mr S for the amendments to the tickets, so the charging of a fee is not 
in itself in dispute. Rather the issue is Os failure to refund the part of the fee that amounted 
to an overcharge. This appears to be an entirely new matter and has not been considered by 
NewDay in its final response to Mr S or investigated within this complaint. Neither is it the 
complaint Mr S made when we asked him specifically if we had understood his complaint. It 
follows that I am unable to look at this matter in this decision. I will therefore only look at Mr 
Ss original complaint that O charged him for amending his tickets when it should not have 
charged any fee at all for this because the airline amended the tickets for free and therefore 
Mr S is entitled to a refund of £491.60.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the credit card agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it.
Further, Mr S used his credit card to make the payment to O. Because he used this type of 
credit he potentially has the protection afforded to debtors against creditors under section 
75. 
The general effect of section 75 is that if Mr S has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract against the supplier he can also bring a like claim against NewDay provided certain 
conditions are met. One of these conditions is that there must be a specific type of 
agreement in place known as a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement. NewDay said there was 
no such agreement in place as the supplier was the airline. But I think NewDay has 
misunderstood the complaint on this point. Mr S complains about a misrepresentation made 
by O about the service it was going to supply not the service the airline was going to supply. 
So O is the supplier for this complaint. This is why I am satisfied there is a relevant debtor-
creditor-supplier agreement in place that would permit Mr S to rely on section 75 in his claim 
against O.
Therefore if I was satisfied that Mr S had a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract 
against O, Id say it was fair and reasonable that NewDay had to take responsibility for this 
and put things right. It follows I am going to look at whether Os representation amounted to 
a misrepresentation or a breach of contract.
In this context misrepresentation means a false statement of fact that induced Mr S to enter 
into the contract. Theres an initial difficulty here because Mr S had already entered into the 
contract with O for the purchase of the tickets so on the one hand I could say that nothing O 
said about the need to pay the fee could have induced Mr S to enter into that contract so Ive no fair or reasonable basis for saying NewDay has to take any responsibility for 
misrepresentation because there was none. This is because the representation was made 
after the formation of the contact.
That said, I dont know enough about the process behind the amendment of the tickets to 
know whether it was merely a variation of the original contract or if in the alternative, it 
required a whole new contract to be created between Mr S and O. 
However, even if I took an alternative view and said that the contract here is a new one, 
namely a contract to take the actions necessary to amend the tickets, it does not get Mr S 
much further. I recognise that Mr Ss position is that since the airline told him that it did not 
charge him to make the amendments then O gave him false information when it said a fee 
had to be paid. It is not clear enough though what representation O actually made, it could 
have said it was going to charge Mr S because the airline would be charging a fee, which on 
the face of it would appear to be false. But even this on balance I could not say was enough 
as I dont know if the airline never intended to charge a fee or merely waived it in this 
instance. But O could just have said it was charging the fee because it was entitled to so 
when an amendment is made which would appear to be true when I look at Os terms and 
conditions. Mr S accepted these terms and conditions when contracting with O. In the 
circumstances, I cannot safely say Os representation was a misrepresentation. It follows I 
have no fair or reasonable basis to uphold this part of Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S complains about misrepresentation not breach of contract, but I think it is appropriate 
given my inquisitorial remit to look at this too given the facts of this complaint. But again this 
does not assist Mr S because as I have already mentioned the relevant terms and conditions 
permit O to charge for amendments. Therefore I dont find that by charging the fee O 
breached any contract it had with Mr S. It follows Ive no fair or reasonable basis to uphold 
this part of Mr Ss complaint either.
Chargeback
Throughout Mr S has talked about his rights under section 75. But I think NewDay acted 
correctly when it considered chargeback as well as section 75 as both, potentially, could 
have helped Mr S get his money back, which is what he wanted.
As Mr S paid for the goods and services using his credit card and wanted a refund, Ive 
thought about whether NewDay dealt with his request fairly. The chargeback process is 
relevant in this case. This is a way in which payment settlement disputes are resolved 
between card issuers and merchants. They are dealt with under the relevant card 
scheme rules.
The chargeback system does not give consumers legal rights. But we consider it good 
practice for a financial business to raise a chargeback where there is a reasonable prospect 
of it succeeding. If I am to order NewDay to refund all of the fee to Mr S, I must be satisfied 
that it acted incorrectly, in relation to the chargeback.
A chargeback can only succeed to the extent there is a valid chargeback reason as set out 
in the relevant card scheme rules. And here, there was no such chargeback reason that 
could have applied in these circumstances. Therefore on balance any chargeback would 
have had no reasonable prospect of success.
It follows from what Ive said above Ive no fair or reasonable basis for saying NewDay acted 
incorrectly in relation to this part of the complaint. Therefore I dont uphold this part of the 
complaint.
Distress and inconvenienceNewDay paid Mr S compensation for the service issues it highlighted. Mr S asks for further 
compensation as he indicates NewDay has not paid him enough for mental stress caused 
by the complaint and the time and effort he has put into getting his money back. But in he 
circumstances I think the £40 NewDay has paid Mr S goes far enough based on the 
information Ive got. I cant fairly say it acted in such a manner that I think it caused 
unavoidable distress and inconvenience that would merit a larger award.
Mr S indicates Os customer service has been below par too. But Ive no proper basis to hold 
NewDay to account for Os customer service failures. For all of these reasons it follows I 
dont uphold this part of his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman