DRN-1741018
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them payment protection insurance 
(PPI).
What happened
Mr and Mrs L took out PPI policies with a mortgage and further advance in 1988 and 1992. 
They paid a monthly amount for the policies, which just covered Mr L.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ls case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint for the following reasons.
Mr L signed a separate application form for the PPI on each occasion. So, I think Nationwide 
made Mr and Mrs L aware that they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose 
to take it. 
Its unclear if Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs L, but it seems to have been 
right for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. 
I think Nationwide couldve explained the cost of the PPI better than it did. But even if it had, 
I think Mr and Mrs L would still have bought it.
Its possible Nationwide didnt point out the main things the PPI didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs 
L dont appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
The regulators rules on high levels of commission and profit share dont apply to this 
complaint, because the mortgage account was closed in 2007. So, Nationwide doesnt have 
to refund any commission or profit share it received. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ls comments, including what theyve said about being 
told they had to have the PPI to get the mortgage and further advance. But these points 
dont change my conclusion. I dont think it would be reasonable to uphold the complaint 
based solely on their recollection of something that happened so long ago. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman