DRN-3308133
The complaint
Mr N complains about the amounts included on a hire purchase agreement, under which a 
car was supplied to him, and which he says was mis-sold to him by Whichdeal Limited, 
trading as Creditplus. 
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr N in October 2021 under a hire purchase agreement with a 
third party for which Creditplus was the credit intermediary. He complained to Creditplus 
later that month about the charges that he was paying. It agreed that a package of warranty 
products had been sold to him without highlighting that it was two separate products and that 
he wasnt given the opportunity to opt in or out of one of the products (but he wanted the 
warranty) so it agreed reimburse the cost of £99 for the other product. It also agreed to 
reimburse him for the acceptance fee of £50 and the option to purchase fee of £50. Mr N 
didnt accept its offer and complained to this service. He says that hes been charged for the 
warranty twice.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld in part. He said that 
Mr N wasnt charged twice for the warranty but he had been caused distress and 
inconvenience and he recommended that Creditplus should pay him an additional £100 
compensation. He also said that Mr N had verbally agreed to activate a GAP insurance 
product.
Creditplus has accepted our investigators recommendations but Mr N has asked for his 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. Hes responded to our investigators 
recommendations in detail and has explained why he considers that the figures in the 
agreement are wrong and that hes paying more than he should for the warranty and the 
GAP insurance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N signed a document from Creditplus in October 2021 which set out the details of the hire 
purchase agreement under which the car was being supplied to him. That document showed 
that the price of the car was £27,485, he was paying a deposit of £10,000 (which was a cash 
deposit of £8,000 and £2,000 for a part-exchange) so the loan amount was £18,058, he was 
paying interest of £1,896.08, that the total amount payable would be £29,580.08 and the 
balance payable was £19,580.08. It also showed that he was paying £474 for a warranty and 
that he would make 24 monthly payments of £831.42 for the car to be supplied to him. 
Mr N then entered into the hire purchase agreement with the third party. The agreement 
shows that the price of the car was £27,584. That was £99 more than the price shown on the 
other document which Creditplus says was a charge for an additional warranty product 
which it has agreed to reimburse to Mr N. The agreement shows the deposit as being 
£9,526. That was £474 less than the deposit shown on the other document which is the 
charge for the warranty that has been deducted from the deposit for the purposes of the 
agreement. Theres no other charge in the agreement for the warranty.
The agreement shows the amount of credit as £18,058 (which is the same as the loan 
amount shown on the other document) and that the interest charged was £1,896.08 (which 
is the same amount as shown on the other document). The agreement also shows a 
document fee of £50 and an option to purchase fee of £50. Those fees werent shown on the 
other document and Creditplus has agreed to reimburse those fees to Mr N.
The agreement shows that the total amount payable was £29,580.08 (which was the same 
as the amount shown on the other document) and that Mr N was going to make a payment 
of £881.42 (which included the £50 document fee), 22 monthly payments of £831.42 and 
then another payment of £881.42 (which included the £50 option to purchase fee). 
I have carefully considered both of those documents and the information that Mr N has 
provided and Im satisfied that Mr N has been charged £474 for the warranty that he wanted 
and £99 for an additional warranty product. Im not persuaded that Mr N has been charged 
for any other warranty product or that hes been charged twice for the £474. 
Creditplus has provided an e-mail exchange with Mr N about GAP insurance in which he 
said that he would like to pay for a GAP insurance policy by direct debit over ten months to 
which Creditplus replied that it would set that up. Im not persuaded that theres enough 
evidence to show that Creditplus acted incorrectly in connection with the GAP insurance 
product.
Creditplus has agreed to pay £99 to Mr N to reimburse him for the cost of the additional 
warranty product and to also pay £100 to him to reimburse him for the document fee and the 
option to purchase fee. Creditplus has also accepted our investigators recommendation that 
it should also pay £100 to Mr N to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that 
he's been caused. I consider that to be fair and reasonable in these circumstances and I find 
that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Creditplus to pay any other 
compensation to Mr N or to take any other action in response to his complaint.  
Putting things right
Creditplus has confirmed that it hasnt reimbursed Mr N for any payments. I find that it would 
be fair and reasonable for Creditplus to now reimburse £199 to Mr N for the additional 
warranty product and the two fees. I also find that it would be fair and reasonable for it to pay 
him £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes been caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ns complaint in part and I order Whichdeal Limited, trading 
as Creditplus, to:
1. Pay £199 to Mr N to reimburse him for the costs of the additional warranty product 
and the two fees that it has agreed to reimburse him for.
2. Pay £100 to Mr N to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022. 
Jarrod HastingsOmbudsman