DRN-4510382
The complaint
Mr T complains about the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) decided and handled a claim 
under his motor insurance policy.
Any reference to Admiral includes the actions of its agents. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
whats happened.
Mr T has a motor insurance policy which is underwritten by Admiral. In January 2023, 
he made a claim on his policy when he was involved in a motor incident with a third 
party. 
Admiral accepted the claim and initially concluded Mr T was at fault for the incident. It 
said hed been reversing into a bay  against the flow of traffic  when the third-party 
approached from the oncoming traffic and attempted to park in the bay. It said Mr Ts 
manoeuvre, contravened the Highway Code.
Admiral added that as it was a low-speed collision and Mr T had said hed not seen 
the third party until the collision occurred  he should have spotted the third-party if 
hed carried out the necessary checks to his blind spots before manoeuvring. So, it 
was satisfied Mr T was at fault. 
Mr T disagreed with Admirals decision and so, brought a complaint to this Service. 
Whilst the complaint was with this Service, Admiral confirmed the claim had been 
closed because it had not received a claim from the third-partys insurer and due to 
the length of time the claim was open with no costs being provided by the third-party 
insurer. But it said the claim will be revisited if it receives any costs from the third-
party insurer.
An Investigator considered it and said she was satisfied Admirals decision to hold Mr 
T responsible had been reached fairly. 
Mr T remained unhappy saying the third-party had provided misleading information  
having admitted fault at the outset before changing their position; Admiral hadnt 
carried out a meticulous review; and its interpretation of events was incorrect and 
contradicted the physical evidence. And so, the complaint has been passed to me for 
an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator reached  Ill explain why. But 
before I address Mr Ts concerns, I need to explain that our role is not to determine which 
party is at fault, but instead consider whether the insurer, in carrying out its duties to decide 
liability, has acted fairly and in line with the policy terms. 
Mr Ts main concern in respect of this claim is that he considers the third-party driver to be 
responsible for the incident. Hes also unhappy with how Admiral investigated the claim as 
he doesnt think it has considered the evidence fairly. 
When determining liability, Admiral has explained this is based on whether it considers the 
claim would be successful if it proceeded to Court  which is reasonable. The policy also 
says Admiral can decide how it handles and settle claims  which is also reasonable 
provided it does so fairly and reasonably. And so, whilst Mr T might disagree with the 
outcome, ultimately, he doesnt have the autonomy to decide how the claim is settled. But I 
have kept in mind that Admiral has a duty to resolve claims promptly and fairly.
Its not in dispute Mr T was reversing into a parking bay at the side of the road when the 
collision occurred with the third-party driver - who approached the same bay from the 
oncoming traffic. It seems there was some disagreement between Mr T and Admiral as to 
whether the bay was clear at the time Mr T reversed into it. But as Admiral has said in its 
final response the third-party vehicle would be moving slowly past you and turned to park 
slowly behind you, and the third-party damage begins on the nearside front door this shows 
that their vehicle is established going past the rear end of their vehicle prior to you 
reversing. From this, it seems to have accepted the third party wasnt parked stationary in 
the bay at the time of the incident. So, I dont need to consider this point further.
I appreciate Mr T says he checked his surroundings before conducting the manoeuvre, but I 
have to balance this with the fact he was reversing against the flow of traffic  which as 
Admiral highlighted is in contravention with the Highway code. Admiral has also said that as 
the collision was at low speed - which both parties agreed it was - there would have been 
time for Mr T to notice the third party approaching had he carried out the necessary checks. 
And Admiral has said the cars colliding is indicative of him not having completed these 
checks  which I think is a reasonable conclusion. Its also said the occurrence of damage to 
the third partys vehicle shows they had right of way and would not have been aware that Mr 
T had started to move his vehicle as they were beginning to park. So, Im satisfied Admiral 
has reasonably considered the available evidence and I dont consider its decision to find Mr 
T at fault to be unreasonable. 
Whilst I agree it could have obtained CCTV, Im not persuaded this would have changed 
how liability was determined when I consider the sequence of events and the rules of the 
Highway Code persuasively show Mr T was most likely at fault.   
Mr T has raised concerns about the third partys account being misleading  saying they 
originally admitted fault and then subsequently, changed their mind. Hes also said the third-
party is no longer engaging with him which is also indicative of dishonesty on their part. But 
this is only Mr Ts opinion  given the third party is entitled to dispute liability and theres 
evidence from them saying they werent admitting fault at the scene, the concerns Mr T has 
about the third partys integrity dont persuade me Admiral has unfairly held him responsible 
for the incident. 
Admiral has said the third party has not sought to make a claim, but if it does it would 
consider Mr T at fault for the incident for the above reasons. Based on what Ive seen Im 
satisfied this is fair.
CompensationAdmiral has paid £50 compensation to recognise its service fell short in respect of not 
providing call backs. Understandably this would have been frustrating for Mr T. But I havent 
seen anything else to persuade me Admiral needs to increase the amount of compensation 
its paid and so, Im satisfied £50 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman