DRN-1161051
The complaint
Mr O has complained that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. (Mapfre) turned down a claim on his travel insurance policy, 
following a road traffic accident. 
What happened
Mr O took out a travel insurance policy with Mapfre online in December 2017. In early 
January 2018, he and his wife were travelling abroad in a rented camper van when it 
crashed. Thankfully, they only suffered minor injuries. They went on to rent a second camper 
van a couple of days later, at a cost of almost £1,500, and finished their holiday. 
Mr O submitted a claim for the rental of the second camper van to Mapfre, but this was 
turned down. Mapfre said there is no section in Mr Os policy that covers damage to his own 
motor vehicle and the cost of hiring another vehicle. It said this would usually be considered 
under general motor / car insurance. 
Mapfre said its policy wording provided information about what Mr O was not covered for, 
namely:
Loss, theft or damage to contact or corneal lenses, sunglasses, prescription glasses or
spectacles, dentures, hearing aids, artificial limbs, paintings, household equipment,
mobile phones, bicycles and their accessories, motor vehicles and their accessories (this
would include keys)...
Mr O was unhappy that his claim had been turned down and so complained to Mapfre. 
Mapfre responded in May 2019 and said Mr Os claim was turned down because what 
happened to him is outside the scope of his insurance policy. Mapfre said his policy doesnt 
provide coverage for the cost of a motor vehicle or replacement motor vehicle. It said a claim 
for personal belongings has been considered and a settlement was issued to Mr O. 
Mr O was unhappy with this outcome and complained to this service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. She said she had reviewed the relevant terms and conditions of Mr 
Os policy and said she wasnt going to ask Mapfre to settle the claim as motor vehicles are 
not covered under the policy. 
Mr O didnt agree with what our investigator said and so this has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
When Mapfre turned down Mr Os claim it said it was because his policy doesnt provide 
coverage for the cost of a motor vehicle or replacement motor vehicle. So Ive read the 
policy documents to see whether the policy provides any cover for the rental of the second 
camper van. And Im satisfied that it doesnt. Ive seen the policy term that Mapfre referred to 
when it turned down Mr Os claim, and this clearly excludes loss, theft or damage to motor 
vehicles and their accessories under the personal belongings section of the policy. 
I can see that when Mr O submitted the claim to Mapfre, he said the camper van was more 
than just a vehicle, it was his home for the period of time he rented it. And he wanted his 
claim to be considered with this in mind. But, again, I cant see anything that captures his 
particular situation in the policy terms. There is a term that looks at what might happen if a 
policy holders accommodation becomes uninhabitable. It says: 
We will pay up to the amount shown in the table of benefits if, after you have commenced 
your trip, you pay or agree to pay overseas for travel expenses (of a similar standard to 
those initially booked) to allow you to continue with your trip if you cannot live in your 
booked accommodation because of fire, flood, earthquake, storm, lightning, explosion, 
hurricane or outbreak of infectious disease as declared by the national or local health 
authority.
Im satisfied this term doesnt cover Mr Os particular situation. This is because his expenses 
would only be covered if he couldnt continue to live in his accommodation in very specific 
circumstances  damage as a result of a road traffic accident isnt one of them. And I 
suspect this might be because expenses associated with road traffic accidents are usually 
covered by motor insurance policies. 
I know this decision is likely to disappoint Mr O, but any insurance policy will provide 
information for a consumer about what exactly the policy covers. And if what happened isnt 
an insured event in the policy, then it wouldnt be fair to ask an insurer to settle a claim. So, 
I wont be asking Mapfre to take any further action.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman