DRN-3199759
The complaint
Miss G has complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans was 
irresponsible in lending to her.
What happened
In April 2018 Miss G took out a loan with Everyday Loans for £2,000. She said the loan was 
for home improvements. The loan was taken out over 24 months with an APR of 93.6% and 
her monthly repayments were £153.73 making the total repayable £3,689.52. She repaid the 
loan in April 2019.
In July 2019 Miss G applied for another loan from Everyday Loans. She borrowed £1,000. 
The second loan was taken out over 18 months with an APR of 148.3% and her monthly 
repayments were £106.94 making the total repayable £1,924.92.
Miss G complained that Everyday Loans hadnt properly checked she could afford the loans.
Everyday Loans looked into her complaint and didnt uphold it. It said the checks had been 
properly carried out and it thought the loans were sustainable. Miss G referred her complaint 
to us. 
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Gs complaint. She thought Everyday Loans shouldnt have 
made the loans. As Everyday Loans disagreed that the first loan was unaffordable, the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Miss Gs complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Everyday Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss G would be able to repay the loans without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss G wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Everyday Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Loans to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Gs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Miss G undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss G. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Gs complaint.
Loan 1
With regard to the first question Everyday Loans obtained and reviewed Miss Gs bank 
statements, one payslip and a credit search. It also checked where she worked. 
Based on the term and the cost of the loan repayments, I think these checks were 
proportionate. So, I now need to decide whether Everyday Loans made a fair lending 
decision based on the results of these checks.
The credit check showed that Miss G had three live loan accounts and 2 revolving credit 
accounts. In 2017 shed entered into arrangements to pay with three lenders. I note 
Everyday Loans queried this with Miss G and shed explained that shed experienced 
problems due to being unemployed for a while. 
Miss Gs bank statement showed that she was making payments to a debt collector. She 
was also exceeding her overdraft limit and incurring charges for that. Miss Gs existing credit/finance repayments (allowing for a monthly repayment to reduce her 
credit card debt) and the repayment for the new loan from Everyday Loans were more than 
25% of her monthly income. Everyday Loans has pointed out that £150 of this was in 
respect of a car hire purchase agreement which it doesnt think I should take into account. I 
agree that hire purchase isnt a loan as such but it works in a similar way to a loan as though 
Miss G was borrowing and paying off the cost of the car. So I think its fair to include this sort 
of finance commitment when looking at the total amount of Miss Gs credit commitments.   
Taking the above factors into account I think Everyday Loans ought to have realised that 
Miss G was already over-committed financially and that the repayments on the loan were 
unlikely to be sustainable for Miss G. In summary, Im not satisfied Everyday Loans made a 
fair lending decision. 
Loan 2
Everyday Loans has accepted that it shouldnt have given the second loan to Miss G. So 
other than considering what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right, I dont need to 
look at that loan any further.
Ive also thought about whether Everyday Loans acted unfairly in some other way and I 
havent seen any evidence that it did.
Putting things right
To put things right Everyday Loans should:
 refund all the interest and charges Miss G paid on loan 1;
 pay simple interest* of 8% a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date they 
were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
 remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 2 and treat all the payments 
made by Miss G towards this loan as payments towards the capital;
 if reworking Miss Gs loan 2 account as Ive directed results in Miss G effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then Everyday Loans should refund 
these overpayments with simple interest* of 8% a year calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement;
 If reworking Miss Gs loan 2 account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
Everyday Loans can use the total refund for loan 1 (after the deduction of tax) to offset this. 
And if there is still an outstanding capital balance, then I remind Everyday Loans that it 
should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an affordable repayment plan with 
Miss G; and
 remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Gs credit file in relation to the loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. Everyday Loans 
must give Miss G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Miss Gs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
trading as Everyday Loans should put things right for Miss G as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman