DRN-3279606
The complaint
Mr M complains about a declined Covid payment holiday on his loan with Nationwide 
Building Society (Nationwide).
Mr M also complains about a late payment marker on his credit file.
What happened
Mr M says that in May 2020, he applied for a Covid payment holiday on his loan with 
Nationwide. Mr M says he applied online using his phone and he got confirmation on screen 
that his application had been successful. 
Shortly after, Mr M found his payment holiday wasnt in place, so on 22 June 2020 he 
applied again. Mr Ms second application was declined by Nationwide. It said Mr M had 
missed two loan payments and that meant he didnt qualify for a Covid payment holiday. 
Nationwide said Mr M was in financial difficulty in October 2019 which resulted in a late 
payer plan being put in place. Mays loan payment due before or on 20 June was then 
missed  two days before Mr M applied for the payment holiday. Nationwide also confirmed 
that as the 20 June fell on a weekend, it would request the payment one or two days before, 
as if it waited for the first working day after, it was classed as a missed payment. Due to the 
way the late payer plan had been set up, the missed payment in June also counted as two, 
as the late payer plan allowed Mr M to make a payment up until the 20th of the month for 
May. When Mays payment was then missed, Junes payment on the 21st was also due as 
the late payer plan had failed. As neither were paid in time, two missed payments were 
recorded. 
Mr M disputed hed missed two payments, so he logged a complaint with Nationwide. Mr M 
said he was in a payment plan in May 2020, so could pay at any point within a 30-day period 
after the payment date without it being late. He went on to say that as he thought he was in a 
payment holiday in June, he didnt think the full amount would be taken on 20 June 2020. 
Nationwide looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. It said it found no record of Mr M 
applying for a payment holiday in May 2020. It went on to say that had an application been 
made at that point, it may have been approved. Nationwide went on to say that as a 
payment was missed in June and that payment missed the extended time frame Mr M had 
been given, he no longer met the criteria for the break. Nationwide also reported the June 
missed payment to the credit references agencies (CRAs).
As Mr M remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. Our investigator found 
Nationwide had done a thorough search using its IT team to try and locate Mr Ms 
application he said he made in May. As Nationwide didnt find any record of the application, 
our investigator didnt find Nationwide had acted unfairly when it had recorded Junes late 
payment. 
Our investigator went on to find that Mr M had missed two payments, so Nationwide hadnt 
acted unfairly when it had declined Mr Ms Covid payment holiday application in June 2020.
As Mr M didnt agree with the investigators view, the complaints been passed to me to issue 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On 9 April 2020 the regulator  The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), finalised guidance 
for temporary relief for customers impacted by the pandemic. This included firms being 
expected to offer a temporary payment holiday on loans and credit cards for up to three 
months. This was later extended for a further three months (6 months total) after which firms 
were expected to consider individual arrangements with customers based on their individual 
circumstances in line with normal guidance involving financial difficulties. The FCA did build 
some overarching principles in the guidance and one of those was advising businesses not 
to give Covid Payment breaks if a consumer was already showing signs of financial 
difficulties before they asked for the break. 
Mr M says he applied for his payment holiday in May 2020 but hasnt been able to give us 
any information to show this was approved. Nationwide have shown our service the checks 
theyve completed to look for Mr Ms application, and Im satisfied there was no application 
received for it to approve. Thats not to say Mr M didnt complete an application, but for 
reasons I cant be sure of, it wasnt received. On that basis I dont find Nationwide at fault 
when a payment holiday wasnt put in place in May.
When Mr M called Nationwide on 22 June 2020 to ask for a further application to be 
considered, he was already two days late with Mays contractual monthly loan payment. As 
Ive mentioned above, the FCA set out some guiding principles for lenders and one of those 
was that consumers in debt prior to the payment holiday request could be declined. This was 
to ensure businesses didnt put consumers in a worse financial situation. Given Mr M was on 
a late payer plan and had now also missed a payment, its clear he had been in financial 
difficulty previously and Nationwide were supporting him with this.
So, given that Im satisfied Mr M did miss a payment in June 2020, I dont find it unfair that 
Nationwide declined Mr Ms application for a Covid payment holiday. I also find this was in 
line with the FCAs guidance.
I can see that after Mr M raised his complaint with Nationwide, it didnt ask Mr M for 
payments or call him to chase these whilst the complaint was being investigated  as Mr M 
had asked. Following this I can see Mr M continued to make payments.   
Nationwide have gone on to explain why the payment on 20 June 2020 wouldve been 
requested some days before the last payment date. Given 20 June fell on a weekend, 
Nationwide needed to request the payment on a working day beforehand. This is a common 
process when taking loan payments to prevent consumers getting a late payment marker if 
the money is taken after the contractual date. So, given Mr M didnt pay Junes loan 
payment, I dont find it unreasonable that it was reported as a late payment on Mr Ms credit 
file. Although Mr M was on a late payer plan, 20 June wouldve been the latest a payment 
could be received without it being recorded as late.  In summary, although it must have been frustrating for Mr M to find he firstly wasnt in a 
payment holiday and to then find he wasnt accepted for one, I havent found Nationwide to 
be at fault.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman