DRN-3340729
The complaint
Mr D complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) were unable to pay the funds 
from his guaranteed growth bond into his bank account on the day it matured.
What happened
Mr D had a Guaranteed Growth Bond with NS&I that was due to mature on 1 March 2021. 
When this was opened he added details of the account that he would like it paid into on 
maturity. A few days before it was due to mature, NS&I processed the payment using these 
details. However on 3 March 2021 the funds were returned as the transaction had failed. 
Due to this NS&I sent the funds by cheque on 4 March 2021 to Mr Ds home address.
On 5 March 2021 Mr D made a complaint to NS&I as he hadnt received the funds as 
expected. It didnt uphold the complaint as it said it hadnt made an error, and was only 
unable to pay the funds into the requested account as the details were either incorrect or the 
account was closed.
Mr D didnt accept this, as he said the matter had caused him anxiety and inconvenience. 
And he said he hadnt entered incorrect bank details, so this must have been NS&Is error. 
He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, as she said shed seen nothing to suggest NS&I 
had made an error. And it had rectified the problem promptly. 
Mr D didnt agree, so the complaint has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a complaint, I first need to determine if the business in question got 
something wrong. And where I find it did, decide what it should do to put things right for its 
customer so theyre back in the position they would have been in if it hadnt. 
Here, I can see that the payment of the funds from Mr Ds bond were paid into an account 
that either didnt exist or had been closed. So the funds were returned. NS&I have said it 
used the account details entered by its customer. But Mr D disputes this. 
Where there are two conflicting accounts of what happened, its my role to decide what was 
most likely, based on the evidence. Mr D entered the details of the account he would like the 
funds paid into, when the bond was opened. NS&I have provided details of this account and 
shown that it attempted payment using these details.
Mr D has disputed that the account details that were used were the ones he provided. And I 
appreciate he isnt able to provide proof of what he entered at the time. However it seems 
most likely that the details NS&I used were those provided by Mr D. As, from the images its 
provided from its system, Ive seen nothing to suggest it made any changes to the account 
details it had on file or that it made an error when processing the payment. So I havent 
found that NS&I have got anything wrong when processing the payment. 
And even if it had, Im satisfied that it took prompt action to rectify the problem for Mr D. I can 
see the cheque for the funds was sent the day after they were returned. And this was 
cashed on 11 March  ten days after it matured. So I think it took appropriate steps to 
ensure Mr D had the funds and to reduce the impact the matter had on him. So even if I had 
found that it had made an error, Im satisfied it has done enough to put things right for Mr D.
For these reasons I dont think NS&I has done anything wrong and I wont ask it to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman