DRN-3300480
The complaint
Mrs M and the estate of Mr M complain that Mrs M and the late Mr M (Mr M) were mis-sold, 
a fixed sum loan agreement (agreement) with Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) to 
fund the supply and installation of a conservatory by a company that I will call W.
Mrs M and the estate of Mr M are represented in this complaint by a third party. But for ease, 
Ive simply referred in this decision to any submissions made by the third party on behalf of 
Mrs M and the estate of Mr M as if they had been made by Mrs M herself.
What happened
In late-2015 Mrs and Mr M entered into an agreement for the supply and installation of a 
conservatory. The cash price of the supply and installation of this conservatory was £16,192.
The conservatory was supplied and installed by W who also sold/arranged the finance that 
Mrs M is now complaining about.
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Mrs and Mr M undertook to 
make 120 monthly payments of £353.47, making a total repayable of £42,416.40 at an 
APR of 26.4%. As it turned out, Mrs M and Mr M settled their agreement liability early 
in mid-2018.
Mrs M complains that the agreement was mis-sold to her and Mr M. In summary she says:
She and Mr M were unaware of whom they were contracting with for the finance they 
took out.
She and Mr M werent advised of the interest rate (of 26.4% APR).
She and Mr M werent advised of the amount they would end up repaying, if the 
agreement ran to term, (£42,416.40).
The term over which monthly payments of £353.47 were required to be made (120).
No attempt was made to ensure she and Mr M understood the terms of the 
agreement.
She and Mr M received no follow up call from Shawbrook to ensure they were happy 
with the agreement they had entered into.
Mr Ms offer to pay £8,000 by way of an advanced payment was dismissed by W 
who persuaded them to keep this sum on bank deposit.
She and Mr M were advised that there was no financial advantage to them in making 
an advance payment towards the conservatory supply and installation.
This complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that Shawbrook 
had nothing wrong.
Mrs M disagreed with the investigators conclusion, so the complaint has been passed to me 
for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can confirm that Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator and 
for the same reasons.
First, I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Secondly, I would add that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or 
contradictory, as some of its here, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I accept that on reflection Mrs M might view the agreement that she and Mr M entered into in 
2015 might not have been the best way to finance the supply and installation of her (and 
Mr Ms) conservatory. But that doesnt mean the agreement was mis-sold.
I accept that Mrs M has raised concerns about there being no recording of the initial sale. 
But there was no requirement in 2015 for such a recording to be made. I can also see that 
Mrs M has raised concerns about a number of post-sale telephone call recordings no longer 
being available, recordings which might have supported what she is complaining about. But 
given the passage of time this doesnt surprise me, and I dont view the absence of such 
recordings as suspicious in any way.
Ive considered the agreement that Mrs M doesnt dispute that she and Mr M signed, and the 
other documents Shawbrook say would have been provided at the relevant and appropriate 
time. And having considered all of these documents Im satisfied that Mrs and Mr M would, 
or should, have understood the nature of the commitment they were entering into including:
the interest rate to be charged
the total amount repayable if the agreement was to run to term
the agreement term length
they werent making any advance payment
I think its also worth pointing out that the above information appears on the top half of the 
first page (which was signed by Mrs and Mr M) of a two page document and not hidden 
elsewhere.
Mrs M says that she and Mr M offered to make an advance payment of £8,000, thus 
reducing the amount they needed to finance for the supply and install of the conservatory. 
Now I cant say for certain what was or wasnt discussed about an advance payment being 
made, or not. But on the balance of probabilities Im simply not persuaded by Mrs Ms 
submissions on this point, particularly in light of the agreement terms that she and Mr M 
signed. 
I accept that Mrs and Mr M settled their agreement early. I also accept that I cant discount the possibility that when they did so they might have been under the impression that they 
owed substantially less than it transpired they did. But Im not persuaded that their decision 
in this respect is enough for me able to reasonably conclude, on the balance of probabilities, 
that the agreement was mis-sold to them.
Mrs M says neither she nor Mr M received a follow up call from Shawbrook after they 
entered into the agreement that they did. But I see no reason why such a call should have 
been made to them.
For the sake of completeness, I would add that Ive seen nothing that would lead me to 
conclude that anything Shawbrook did, or didnt do, resulted in an unfair relationship being 
created as defined under various legislation. 
I appreciate that Mrs M will be disappointed but based on what has been said and submitted 
Im simply not persuaded, on the balance of probabilities, that Mrs M and Mr M were 
mis sold their agreement.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and the 
estate of Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman