DRN-3260525
The complaint
Mr S complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE didnt repair his car properly when he
claimed on his commercial vehicle insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S holds a taxi insurance policy with Great Lakes. He claimed on his policy after a
passenger opened the rear nearside door onto another vehicle.
Great Lakes reviewed the claim and arranged for Mr Ss car to be inspected by one of its
repairing garages. The repairing garage assessed Mr Ss car and provided an estimate to
repair the damage to the rear door. Once the repair had been completed it was discovered
the rear nearside door lock wasnt operating correctly. Upon further investigation it was also
noted the offside rear door had the same issue.
Mr S said the door locks all worked correctly before the accident so it must be accident
related. The repairing garage looked into the issue and found wiring in the front passenger
footwell had been cut and additional wiring added to it. It said it thought this was the likely
cause of the rear doors not working with the central locking. Mr S didnt agree so Great
Lakes arranged for an engineer to inspect the car.
The engineer inspected Mr Ss car and didnt think the issue with the rear door locks was
accident related. It also referred the issue with Mr Ss car to a manufacturing garage who
said the rear door locks needed replacing. Great Lakes said it had changed the rear
nearside lock when it repaired the car, so agreed to replace this one but said Mr S would
need to cover the offside rear door lock as it wasnt related to the accident.
Mr S didnt agree and referred his complaint here. He said he hadnt had his car for months
and because of this hed not been able to work. He also said the car was in good condition 
beforehand and the central locking had worked correctly before the accident.
When the complaint was referred here, Great Lakes said its communication during the claim
could have been better and offered Mr S £250 to apologise for this.
I issued a provisional decision on 21 December 2021 where I said:
The terms and conditions of Mr Ss policy say if his car suffers accidental damage Great
Lakes will either pay for the damage to be repaired, pay cash in lieu of repairs or replace the
lost or damaged item. In this case Great Lakes has paid for the damage to be repaired, Ive
therefore looked to see if its done this in a fair and reasonable way.
The issue in this particular case is to do with the central locking not working on the two rear
passenger doors. The repairing garage didnt think the issue was accident related as the
fault affects a door which wasnt repaired in the accident and it found wiring under the
dashboard which had been altered and cut into. Because of this Great Lakes appointed an
engineer to inspect the car to identify if the issue was accident related or not.
The inspecting engineer said:
Upon checking the body control unit it appears additional wires and
modifications have been made to the harness in this areas and wires
have been cut this suggests the central locking fault is a result of
these modifications and not a result of the accident damage.
From reviewing the engineers report Im not persuaded Great Lakes has done anything
wrong by saying the fault isnt accident related. I say this because the repairing garage has
given its opinion and also an engineer has inspected the car and not found the fault to be
accident related. I also noted that the issue was referred to a manufacturing garage who
recommended changing both rear locks. I can also see Great Lakes agreed to change the
nearside one as it had already been changed when Mr Ss car was repaired, which I think is
as much as it needed to do in this particular case.
I understand this isnt the answer Mr S was hoping for, but Ive not seen enough to persuade
me Great Lakes has done anything wrong by not repairing the fault with the central locking.
Ive also considered the length of time Mr Ss claim has been going on for. I can see the 
delays with Great Lakes are due to the country being put into a national lockdown and 
businesses closing. And while it could have communicated better during this claim, Im 
satisfied its offer of £250 is enough to compensate for this. Im therefore not going to tell it to 
do anymore.
Great Lakes didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr S responded and didnt accept it. 
He said Great Lakes had agreed to take his car to a manufacturing garage for a further 
report but didnt. He also said the locking worked correctly beforehand and that he didnt cut 
the wires in his car. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Ss response, but its not persuaded me to depart from my provisional 
decision. I say that because my role is to consider whether Great Lakes has done what its 
supposed to under the policy and in a fair and reasonable way. And Mr S hasnt provided 
anything additional that persuades me it hasnt.
I understand there is an issue with Mr Ss central locking and if Great Lakes had caused that 
I would expect them to correct it. However, Ive not seen sufficient evidence to show the fault 
was most likely caused by Great Lakes. So, while Mr S is unhappy Great Lakes havent 
conclusively identified the fault with the central locking on his car or fixed it, Im not 
persuaded from the evidence provided that Great Lakes needs to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, and in my provisional decision, I find that Great
Lakes Insurance SEs offer of £250 to compensate Mr S for distress and inconvenience is
fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman