DRN-3228778
The complaint
Mr M complains about an excess mileage charge when his agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) was voluntary terminated.
What happened
In February 2015 Mr M was supplied with a car through a hire purchase agreement with 
MBFS.
The total repayable under the agreement was £38,190.76. Mr M was required to make 48 
monthly payments of £438.87 (after factoring in the initial deposit and purchase activation 
fee) and there was a final optional payment of £13,600 if he wished to buy the car at the end 
of the agreement. The agreement set out that Mr M had the right to terminate the agreement 
at any time before the final payment was due. In doing so, MBFS would be entitled to the 
return of the car and at least half of the total repayable under the agreement. This was 
£19,095.38.
The agreement also set out that Mr M had an annual mileage allowance of 10,000. It said 
that in certain circumstances if he exceeded this allowance MBFS could charge him nine 
pence (plus VAT) for every mile that he exceeded the allowance by.
In February 2018, Mr M chose to exercise his right to terminate the agreement early. After 
he handed the car back, MBFS later charged Mr M £2,253.74 as he had exceeded the 
mileage allowance on the agreement and hadnt exercised his right to purchase the car.
They said this was explained on the first page of his agreement, under key information. They 
said the provisions of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) that cover a customers right to 
Voluntary Terminate their agreement permitted them to include excess mileage when 
determining what is 'not reasonable' upon the cars return. This was in addition to half of the 
total repayable under the agreement. They later offered to reduce this amount by 10% as a 
gesture of goodwill, asking Mr M to pay £2,028.36.
Mr M disputed the charges for exceeding the mileage allowance. In summary, he said:
Section 100 of the CCA, restricted his liability to one half of the total price payable 
under the agreement with MBFS. Under his agreement, this equals £19,095.38. 
And, as hed already paid this amount in monthly repayments, MBFS is not able to 
require him to pay any more.
MBFS rejected Mr Ms complaint as they were satisfied that the charges had been raised 
correctly.
Mr M wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 November 2021 where I explained my intention to 
uphold the complaint. In that decision I said:
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; and the 
regulators rules and guidance. Mr M was supplied with a car under a hire purchase 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look 
into complaints about it.
The issue here is whether or not its fair and reasonable for MBFS to charge Mr M for excess 
mileage after he voluntary terminated the agreement and returned the car. Both Mr M and 
MBFS have cited sections of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) and have reached 
different conclusions.
Considerations under the CCA
Clause 12 of the terms and conditions of the hire purchase agreement makes a provision for 
an excess mileage charge should the car be returned, and the agreed amount of mileage 
has been exceeded by the customer. However, I have also considered Section 173 of the 
CCA which essentially renders a contractual term void if it is inconsistent with the protections 
as set out in the CCA (or regulations made under it).
Sections 99 and 100 of the CCA set out the rights consumers have to voluntary terminate 
their hire purchase agreements and the liability that is due on termination. I consider these 
relevant to determining what is fair and reasonable here.
Section 99 of the CCA refers to a consumers right to terminate a hire purchase or 
conditional sale agreement by giving notice. It states:
99 Right to terminate hire-purchase etc. agreements.
At any time before the final payment by the debtor under a regulated hire- 
purchase or regulated conditional sale agreement falls due, the debtor shall be 
entitled to terminate the agreement by giving notice to any person entitled or 
authorised to receive the sums payable under the agreement.
Termination of an agreement under subsection (1) does not affect any liability 
under the agreement which has accrued before the termination
Section 100 of the CCA sets out the consumers liability on termination:
100 Liability of debtor on termination of hire-purchase etc. agreement.
(1) Where a regulated hire-purchase or regulated conditional sale agreement is 
terminated under section 99 the debtor shall be liable, unless the agreement provides 
for a smaller payment, or does not provide for any payment, to pay to the creditor the 
amount (if any) by which one-half of the total price exceeds the aggregate of the 
sums paid and the sums due in respect of the total price immediately before the 
termination
(3) If in any action the court is satisfied that a sum less than the amount specified in 
subsection (1) would be equal to the loss sustained by the creditor in consequence 
of the termination of the agreement by the debtor, the court may make an order for 
the payment of that sum in lieu of the amount specified in subsection (1).
(4) If the debtor has contravened an obligation to take reasonable care of the goods or 
land, the amount arrived at under subsection (1) shall be increased by the sum 
required to recompense the creditor for that contravention
The TERMINATION: YOUR RIGHTS section of Mr Ms hire purchase agreement refers to the liability that is due on termination and in his case, that was £19,095.38. Other sections of 
the agreement Mr M had with MBFS also referred to the liability on voluntary termination, 
including where excess mileage, damage charges or other charges may increase the final 
liability.
Whether or not it is fair for a lender to apply the charge will depend on the terms of the 
agreement that has been entered into. I have to decide whether or not the agreement has 
been constructed in a way as to allow the charging for excess mileage without contravening 
what is set out in the CCA regarding voluntary termination. In Mr Ms case, I dont think it 
has. Ill explain why.
Section 99 sets out that any liabilities which accrue prior to termination are not affected by 
the termination. What this means is that Mr M is liable to pay any charges which have built 
up prior to the termination of the agreement, and that these charges are in addition to the 
other liability for early termination. So if the liability for excess mileage charges has accrued 
prior to termination it is not incompatible with what is permitted under section 99. To 
determine if the liability has accrued prior to termination I have to look at Mr Ms agreement.
The first page of Mr Ms hire purchase agreement has a section headed: Default Charges. 
This section sets out the mileage allowance and what charges will apply if that mileage is 
exceeded. It says that if the agreement is terminated early the mileage allowance will be pro- 
rated to the reduced period of time and that, If you do not exercise your right to purchase 
the vehicle (including if the agreement terminates early for any reason), an excess distance 
charge will be payable. This then refers to clause 12 which is in a separate part of the 
agreement and says:
12. Excess Distance
12.1 If the Vehicle is returned to us (whether at the end of the period of hire or on earlier 
termination for any reason, including voluntary termination by you), we will calculate the 
total distance travelled by the Vehicle whilst in your possession (the Total Distance).
12.2 You will pay us a charge at the rate stated in this Agreement if and to the extent that 
the Total Distance exceeds the allowed distance for the Vehicle (calculated using 
the Annual Distance stated in this Agreement for each year or part of year between 
the Start Date and the date of return).
12.3 You shall immediately notify us of an odometer (the meter that measures how far 
the Vehicle has travelled) failure and we shall be entitled to estimate the distance 
covered by the Vehicle for the period during which an odometer shall have 
appeared to have failed or to have been interfered with.
Having considered the terms of the agreement, Im not satisfied the liability for excess 
mileage charges accrue prior to the termination. From the wording above it seems to me that 
a charge for excess mileage will only be raised once the agreement has been terminated 
and the option to purchase the car has not been taken. The wording of clause 12.1 of the 
finance agreement particularly reinforces this and states that MBFS will only calculate the 
excess mileage if the vehicle is returned to us. Overall, I think a reasonable interpretation of 
the contract in this case is that a charge for excess mileage will only be imposed once the 
agreement has been terminated and the option to purchase the car has not been taken. So it 
follows that liability could not have accrued before this point.
Im satisfied that my interpretation of how the charges are described in the agreement is 
reasonable. So I consider that the charges arising out of this particular contract are not 
consistent with what is permitted under section 99 of the CCA.I have also to take into consideration whether the excess mileage charge is permitted under 
section 100 of the CCA.
Section 100(1) of the CCA sets out the consumers liability on termination and in essence 
allows MBFS to charge Mr M one half of the total price. If Mr M has already paid this in 
monthly repayments under certain circumstances he would not have to pay anything more. 
One exception to this is if Mr M has failed to take reasonable care of the vehicle. Then, 
under section 100(4) MBFS are able to increase the amount owed under section 100(1) to 
compensate for this.
Section 189 of the CCA defines total price as the total amount payable by Mr M under the 
hire purchase agreement including any option to purchase charge. However, it excludes any 
sum that might be payable as compensation for a breach of the agreement.
Ive thought about whether the excess mileage charges make up an additional part of the 
price of hire and are therefore allowed to be charged as part of the total price under section 
100(1), but Im not satisfied they are. Having reviewed the terminology of the agreement, it 
lists the excess mileage among others under Default Charges and clause 12.2 refers to the 
maximum mileage as the allowed distance for the vehicle. Instead, I consider exceeding 
the mileage a breach of the agreement and therefore cannot give rise to a charge that 
comes within the total price and is charged for under the calculation required by section 
100(1) of the CCA.
Under section 100(4) of the CCA, if Mr M had failed to take reasonable care of the vehicle, 
MBFS are able to increase the liability owed under section 100(1) of the CCA to compensate 
for the breach. However, having reviewed the documentation Mr M received, I dont think 
exceeding the set mileage would count as failure to take reasonable care of the vehicle.
Under the agreement, paying for repairs is a separate requirement to that of keeping within 
the mileage allowance. Mr M would only need to make repairs to the vehicle had he not kept 
it in good cosmetic/technical condition in accordance with what the contract states, while the 
application of an excess mileage charge is not dependent on whether the car matches the 
return standards but whether or not Mr M had gone over the mileage limit. I think it is clear 
from the agreement these are separate charges triggered by different things.
In their final response letter to Mr M, MBFS said that the CCA permitted them to include any 
over mileage when determining what is 'not reasonable' upon the cars return. Having 
considered the documentation Mr M received, I am not satisfied that driving more miles than 
the contract allowed should be treated as failing to take reasonable care of the vehicle.
So while I am satisfied that clause 12 of the agreement does make provision for a charge 
following early voluntary termination of the agreement, if the maximum mileage allowance is 
exceeded  I dont think that the term is consistent with the protections of the CCA in respect 
of voluntary termination. Therefore, I think that this term is void under section 173 of the 
CCA in so far as it is extends excess mileage charges to early voluntary termination  and 
MBFS is unable to use it to make Mr M liable for more than the £19,095.38 he has already 
paid. So, I consider the excess mileage charge has been wrongly imposed and it is not fair 
and reasonable that Mr M should be required to pay it.
Ive also considered the rules set out in the regulators Handbook and cover these below.
The clarity of the contract
Mr M told us that he believed if he returned the car early under the voluntary termination 
process, his liability would be £19,095.38 as long as he had taken reasonable care of the goods. From this I take it that Mr M was not clear about the application of an excess mileage 
charge in the event of his voluntary termination of the agreement.
Even if I were mistaken in my interpretation of the points above regarding when excess 
mileage charges begin to accrue and what is chargeable as a failure to take reasonable care 
of the vehicle I still also consider that an underlying lack of clarity in the contract about the 
cost of ending the agreement early is an important consideration as to whether it is fair and 
reasonable to enforce an excess mileage charge in the particular circumstances. In 
considering what is fair and reasonable I have considered the FCA Principles for 
Businesses. In particular Principle 7 which says:
Principle 7
A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading
I have also had regard to the relevant provisions of the FCAs Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC) including:
CONC 2.3.2
A firm must explain the key features of a regulated credit agreement to enable the 
customer to make an informed choice as required by CONC 4.2.5 R (adequate 
explanations).
CONC 4.2.5
(1) Before making a regulated credit agreement the firm must:
a) provide the customer with an adequate explanation of the matters referred to 
in (2) in order to place the customer in a position to assess whether the 
agreement is adapted to the customers needs and financial situation;...
(2) The matters referred to in (1) (a) are:
a) the features of the agreement which may make the credit to be provided 
under the agreement unsuitable for particular types of use;
b) how much the customer will have to pay periodically and, where the amount 
can be determined, in total under the agreement;
c) the features of the agreement which may operate in a manner which would 
have a significant adverse effect on the customer in a way which the 
customer is unlikely to foresee.
In considering the clarity of the information Mr M was given about the agreement he was 
entering into I have based my findings on the limited documentation I have been provided, 
namely the contract. Although Mr M should have been provided with a draft of said contract 
and considered the information in it, MBFS has not sent any specific pre-contractual 
documentation for consideration.
I note that the agreement has a section headed TERMINATION: YOUR RIGHTS. This 
section contains specific wording which MBFS was required to include in the agreement, and 
in summary sets out that so long as Mr M has paid at least half the total amount payable 
under the agreement, he will not have to pay any more. Ive thought about this explanation in light of the rest of the terms of the agreement, specifically those that explain charges for 
exceeding the mileage.
I note that clause 12 of the agreement does refer to the calculation of an excess distance 
charge in circumstances where the car is returned  including early termination. I accept that 
when taken in isolation this term does appear to provide for an excess mileage charge in 
circumstances of voluntary termination. However, when taken in context of the agreement as 
a whole there is a lack of clarity in respect of a customer electing to terminate in accordance 
with the relevant provisions of the CCA and the section TERMINATION: YOUR RIGHTS 
which itself says that nothing further would be payable if Mr M has paid at least £19,095.38 
and taken reasonable care of the car.
For example, clause 8 of the agreement headed Early Termination by you does not 
specifically reference charges for excess mileage due if a customer should terminate the 
agreement early and return the vehicle, and instead only makes direct reference to a clause 
relating to additional charges regarding the condition of the vehicle. This is particularly 
unhelpful considering that:
Clause 8 appears to be an itemisation of what the customer needs to do and pay 
when terminating early. I note that Clause 8.1 (i) re-iterates that the customer must 
comply with the terms of the statutory notice one of which states that the customer 
wont pay more than £19,095.38.
Clause 12 is not well signposted in respect of early termination, and only appears to 
be cross referenced in relation to an earlier section headed Default Charges.
I also note that the right to early terminate the agreement and the maximum overall liability 
for this is clearly displayed on page 2 of the agreement in a bold box. Yet any terms (in 
respect of excess mileage) that might qualify or negate the liability on early termination are 
not given similar prominence and are not clear and compelling. Clause 12 features in 
particularly small print someway down the agreement and is not signposted in a way that 
would have naturally drawn Mr M to it in respect of an intention to return the vehicle early.
The lack of clarity within the terms of the agreement about excess mileage charges on 
voluntary termination, could result in a significant adverse effect on Mr M in a way he was 
unlikely to foresee. Looking at the agreement as a whole, I dont think Mr M was adequately 
informed that an excess mileage charge would increase his liability beyond the £19,095.38 
payable on voluntary termination of his agreement. So I am not satisfied that MBFS has met 
its obligations under CONC 2.3.2 and CONC 4.2.5 respectfully.
Because I do not agree that the agreement was clear, fair and not misleading I also find that 
MBFS has breached principle 7 of the FCA Principles for Businesses. Therefore, overall I 
consider it not fair and reasonable for MBFS to enforce such an excess mileage charge in 
these particular circumstances.
I think it reasonable to consider the point that had Mr M known the excess mileage charge 
would be due on voluntary termination he may have adjusted his use of the vehicle or 
changed the date of said termination so as to avoid or minimise such charges.
All things considered, I think the lack of clarity in the contract is likely to have prejudiced Mr 
M financially.
Overall, I am not satisfied that Mr M should be liable to pay the excess mileage charge, as I 
consider that the excess mileage charge as specified in the contract here is inconsistent with 
what is allowed to be charged under the CCA. In any event, even if Im mistaken about that, I consider that the agreement lacks clarity as to how the early termination fee is qualified by 
additional charges relating to excess mileage. Because of this I am not satisfied that MBFS 
has met the requirements under the FCA Principles for Businesses and CONC. And I 
consider that it would not be fair and reasonable to charge for excess mileage in these 
particular circumstances.
My provisional decision is that I uphold this complaint. I am minded to order Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited to:
remove the charge of £2,253.74 from Mr Ms account. If this amount, or part of it, 
has since been paid by Mr M, MBFS should refund the amount and add interest to 
the refunded sum at the rate of 8% simple interest per year from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement.
if any adverse information has been recorded with credit reference agencies, in 
relation to the period where the excess mileage charges werent paid, this should 
now be removed.
If MBFS consider it should deduct tax from the interest part of my award it should provide Mr 
M with a tax deduction certificate so that he may claim this back from HMRC if applicable.
Neither MBFS or Mr M responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party responded by the date I gave them, I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional findings and I now confirm them as final. 
Putting things right
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited must:
remove the charge of £2,253.74 from Mr Ms account. If this amount, or part of it, 
has since been paid by Mr M, MBFS should refund the amount and add interest to 
the refunded sum at the rate of 8% simple interest per year from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement.
if any adverse information has been recorded with credit reference agencies, in 
relation to the period where the excess mileage charges werent paid, this should 
now be removed.
If MBFS consider it should deduct tax from the interest part of my award it should provide Mr 
M with a tax deduction certificate so that he may claim this back from HMRC if applicable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint and Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited must put things right as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022. 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman