DRN-3031393
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mrs B says HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as First Direct, mis-sold PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Bs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought First Directs offer to 
pay back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mrs B paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
I can see that First Direct indicated to our adjudicator after her view that Mrs B was intending 
to issue legal proceedings in respect of her PPI claim. Mrs B told us that she did not intend 
to issue such proceedings. Our adjudicator contacted First Direct to gain some clarity about 
what it told us. There was no reply. On that basis, I am proceeding with this final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided First Direct should have disclosed 
the commission it received - but that its offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
Was PPI mis-sold? 
It looks as though Mrs B applied for her First Direct current account by telephone. When the 
paperwork was sent to her for that account, First Direct also sent her an application form for 
a credit card. Mrs B then applied for her credit card and the PPI policy at the same time. 
The first thing Ive considered in this case is whether First Direct made it clear 
Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI. Looking at the application form, I can see that there 
were two equally prominent boxes to mark  one to tick to say she wanted a PPI policy, and 
another to say she did not. The yes box has been ticked and the no box has been left 
blank. I think it would have been clear to Mrs B that if she didnt want a PPI policy, she could 
have selected no.  
First Direct didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B. That means it didnt have to check that the 
PPI was right or suitable for her. But it did have to give her enough clear and timely 
information about the cover so she could decide if it was right for her.
I accept its possible the information First Direct gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out, so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. I dont think the cover was fundamentally wrong for her. I say this because 
she wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. For example, I 
understand Mrs B was in good health at the point of sale, so I dont think she would have 
been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. I havent seen 
anything that was unusual about Mrs Bs employment circumstances that would have 
stopped her from being able to make a successful claim if she needed to.
Those representing Mrs B made several submissions about what they considered to be 
additional exclusions around back or mental health conditions. However, after considering 
the policy document, I cannot see there were any such limitations as alleged by the 
representative. 
If Mrs B had needed to claim on the PPI policy, 10% of her credit card balance would have 
been repaid for every month she was off sick or after being made redundant. Mrs B told us 
she would have been entitled to three months full sick pay. So it looks as though the PPI 
would have lasted for longer than her full sick pay. She said shed been in her job for around 
two years, so I think its most likely the cover would have lasted for longer than her 
redundancy pay.  
Putting all this together, I can see how the policy could have been helpful to Mrs B at what 
could have been a difficult time for her if she was out of work.  With all of this in mind, I cant 
reasonably say Mrs B would have declined the cover had First Direct given her more or 
better information about it. 
Mrs Bs representative raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points it is 
argued apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the Financial 
Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling 
PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of significant 
exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost 
good faith meant First Direct should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.But the representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. 
This means First Direct doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided First Direct should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that First Directs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
First Direct didnt tell Mrs B about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
First Direct and Mrs B was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because First Direct didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share in 
this case 
I dont think First Direct acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs B because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mrs Bs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on this complaint.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipIn summary, it was argued Mrs B should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: First Direct failed to tell Mrs B about the high commission and profit-share rates 
paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say 
that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mrs B wouldnt have taken out the 
policy had they known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all 
the premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Mrs 
B in order to remedy the unfairness caused by First Direct not disclosing the high level of 
commission to her before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus 
interest in order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level 
of commission; and
refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in 
my view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of 
the Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness;
I am not, as Mrs Bs representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for First Directs failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above. I think it was fair for First Direct to calculate compensation in line 
with the FCAs guidance and return some of the money Mrs B paid for her PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mrs B 
with the policy Ive concluded above she would still have taken out if First Direct had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that First Directs offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission 
and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman