DRN-2064542
The complaint
Mr O has complained that damage was caused to his home because of the failure by British 
Gas Insurance Limited (BG) to identify the cause of a leak. 
What happened
Mr O has a Homecare policy with BG which covers him, amongst other things, for repairs to 
his boiler.
In May 2019 a leak was noticed from Mr Os boiler. This was beginning to cause damage to 
the ceiling in the room below, where a hairline crack had appeared. It was only on BGs third 
visit to Mr Os home that the cause of the problem  a blocked condenser pipe - was 
identified. But BG didnt unblock or replace this, and Mr O had to engage a third party 
engineer to do this at a cost of £320.
Because of the delay by BG in identifying the source of the leak, the damage to Mr Os home 
worsened. Water ran down a wall and damaged the floor underneath.
BG has admitted that its engineers failed to correctly diagnose the source of the problem, so 
this wasnt identified for several months. BG says that the damage caused to Mr Os wall 
and ceiling is consequential damage for which it isnt liable, and that this should be claimed 
for from his home insurers. BG accepted that it didnt repair the blockage and has 
reimbursed Mr O with the £320 it cost him to have this repaired. It also paid him £50 for the 
distress and inconvenience this caused him.
Mr O says that his complaint stems from the fact that the additional damage to his wall and 
floor wouldnt have occurred had the blockage been rectified at the first call out. He says that 
in addition to the further damage to his home, his family suffered the additional 
inconvenience of a prolonged and defective investigation, and the loss of heating and hot 
water.
Mr O wasnt satisfied with BGs response to his complaint, so he brought it to this service. 
Our investigator considered that it was BGs failure to identify the cause of the leak that 
resulted in additional damage being sustained to Mr Os property which couldve been 
prevented. He considered that BG should pay for this additional damage to be repaired, but 
not the damage to the ceiling as that damage was present before BG became involved. 
BG didnt agree with our investigators view. It says it didnt cause the damage, and it didnt 
install the boiler which it believes was the cause of the damage. It maintains that this should 
be classified as pre-existing damage which is why it declined Mr Os claim. 
Mr Os complaint has therefore been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Os complaint and Ill explain why.
I can see from BGs records that a number of visits were made to Mr Os home by BG 
engineers over a number of months. At least three visits failed to identify what was causing 
Mr Os boiler to leak. The leak therefore continued and the damage this was causing spread 
from the ceiling, where the evidence first appeared, to a wall and his floor.
I think its clear that if the cause of the leak had been identified earlier, the damage wouldve 
been limited to the ceiling. Mr O had this repaired himself, and I think that was correct  it 
was consequential damage for which BG wasnt responsible.
Ive looked at Mr Os policy, and amongst the General Exclusions it states:
other loss or damage
Were not responsible for any loss of or damage to, or cleaning of property, furniture or 
fixtures as a result of your boiler, appliance or system breaking or failing unless we 
caused it. For example damage caused by water leaks.
I believe that whilst BG didnt directly cause the leak and isnt responsible for any initial 
damage this mightve caused before it became involved, it was responsible for the damage 
getting worse. I dont consider this to be consequential damage. It was directly attributable to 
BGs failure to identify and repair the source of the leak. Mr O had to have this repair 
undertaken by other engineers and BG, in my view quite properly, reimbursed him for that 
cost.
So I dont accept BGs contention that it isnt responsible for the damage to Mr Os walls and 
floor. Nor do I think its relevant that BG didnt install the boiler. And whilst Mr O may have 
home insurance that would cover this damage, I dont think that its reasonable for BG to 
suggest that he make such a claim. Any such claim would have financial implications for Mr 
O in terms of payment of an excess, and potentially higher premiums in the future.
Putting things right
I therefore consider it would be fair and reasonable for BG to cover the cost of repairing the
damage to Mr Os wall and floor. BG should either arrange for the repair to be done by its 
own contractors or reimburse Mr O for arranging for the work to be done by contractors of 
his choosing subject to BGs prior approval of a reasonable estimate.
I also agree with our investigator that BG should pay Mr O further compensation of £50 for 
the trouble and upset he has suffered.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr Os complaint.
I require British Gas Insurance Limited, at its option, to either arrange for the repairs to Mr 
Os walls and floor to be done by its own contractors within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr O accepts my final decision, or to reimburse Mr O for arranging for the work to be 
done by contractors of his choosing subject to BGs prior approval of a reasonable estimate.
I also require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr O within 28 days compensation of 
£100 less any compensation it has already paid him.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman