DRN-2937132
The complaint
Mrs B complains she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Although the policy was sold by another business, AXA France IARD (AXA) has accepted 
responsibility for the sale and this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA in my decision. 
What happened
Mrs B applied for a store card in February 1996. AXA says PPI was added to Mrs Bs 
account in July 1996 during a phone call (something Mrs B disputes).
The PPI wouldve cost Mrs B no more than £1 per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance 
on her account. It wouldve paid a monthly benefit of 15% of the outstanding balance for up 
to 12 months if she was unable to work due to ill-health, an accident or if she lost her job. 
Mrs B says the PPI was added automatically and she was never given a choice about it. And 
she also says, among other things, that her personal circumstances meant she couldnt 
afford the cover.
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Bs complaint didnt uphold it. Mrs B disagrees and so her 
complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint. 
The sale of the PPI took place around 25 years ago. So I am making my decision based on 
what I think is most likely to have happened, taking into account the evidence available, what 
both Mrs B and AXA have told us and what we know about these types of sale. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA had to make it clear to Mrs B the PPI was optional and it had to get her agreement to it. 
Mrs B says her store card application form was ticked by a store assistant to include PPI 
when she applied for the card. But Ive seen a copy of the application form Mrs B signed in 
February 1996. The section dealing with PPI has been left blank. So, despite Mrs Bs 
recollections to the contrary, I dont think she took the PPI out at the same time as she 
applied for the card in the store.
AXA says Mrs B took the PPI out in July 1996, some months after shed applied for the card, 
during a phone call. It doesnt have a copy of the call recording, or any details about what 
was said in the call. But I dont think this is surprising after so long.
Mrs B says there was no phone call. But I wouldnt expect Mrs B to remember one particular 
phone call about PPI from one particular business after so long. And from what we know 
about how PPI was sold with store cards around this time, I think its likely  since Mrs B 
didnt take the PPI out at the same time as the card  that it was added to her account 
following a phone call. At this point, around five months after Mrs B had applied for her card, 
I think the PPI is something she wouldve known she had a choice about.  So I dont think its 
likely the PPI was added automatically to Mrs Bs account. I think its more likely its 
something she agreed to in a phone call knowing she didnt have to.
Its not clear whether AXA would have given Mrs B a personalised recommendation about 
the policy  it says it wouldnt have done. But I have treated this case as if AXA did do this, 
because it holds them to a higher standard. It means AXA would have had to take 
reasonable steps to make sure the policy was right for Mrs B. 
Looking at what Mrs Bs says her circumstances were at the time of sale I think the policy 
was suitable for her. I say this because: 
 Mrs B was eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been affected by any of the terms 
which might have made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim, such as 
those relating to existing medical conditions. 
Im not entirely clear what work Mrs B was doing when she bought the policy but she 
says she was self-employed. Some PPI policies made it more difficult for those who 
were self-employed to claim benefit for unemployment. But I think its likely Mrs Bs 
policy didnt make it more difficult. 
From what Mrs B says, she may also have had two jobs at the time she took out the 
PPI. Again, some PPI policies made it difficult for a person with two jobs to make a 
successful unemployment claim. But I think its likely the policy Mrs B had defined 
work as being employed for over 16 hours a week. So if Mrs S lost her main job, 
any other part-time bar work would not have prevented her from making an 
unemployment claim if it was for less than 16 hours a week.  
 Being self-employed, Mrs B wouldnt have got any sick pay if she couldnt work. And 
she says she didnt have any savings she could fall back on if things got difficult. So I 
think the PPI gave her a useful additional benefit. 
 The cost of the policy was greater than other PPI policies for sale around the time. 
But the benefit was significantly higher and couldve paid off her entire balance in 
some months if she made a successful claim. 
Its possible AXA didnt give Mrs B all the information she ideally should have got to take her 
decision. But I dont think more, or better, information wouldve changed her mind about 
buying it because the policy was suitable for her in the ways Ive already described. 
In conclusion regarding the mis-sale of PPI, I dont think Mrs B lost out because of anything 
AXA might have done wrong.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman