DRN-4076489
The complaint
Mrs S complains about U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Insurance (UKI) and their 
decision to decline the claim she made on her motor insurance policy following the theft of 
her car.
Mrs S has been represented by her son, Mr S, during the complaint process. So, for ease of 
reference, I will refer to any comments made by Mrs S and Mr S as made by Mr S 
throughout the decision.
What happened
Mrs S held a motor insurance policy, underwritten by UKI. On 26 August 2022, Mrs S car 
insured by this policy was stolen. So, on 27 August, Mrs S husband contacted UKI on her 
behalf to make a claim.
Following acceptance of the claim, UKI instructed a third-party company, who Ill refer to as 
TCG to conduct an interview with Mrs S and her husband, who had moved the car on the 
morning of the theft. And having done so, TCG produced a report expressing concerns 
about the legitimacy of the claim due to conflicting information regarding the availability of 
CCTV and how many keys were provided when the car was purchased. Part of TCGs 
recommendation was for UKI to organise an examination of the remaining key. So, UKI 
arranged for this examination to take place by a key specialist, who Ill refer to as X. X 
examined the key and produced a report stating their belief that they key hadnt been used 
regularly and that it was likely another key was used to drive the car. 
UKI considered the reports compiled by both TCG and X against the testimony provided by 
Mrs S and her husband. And having done so, they took the decision to repudiate the claim. 
UKI issued a letter explaining their belief that the testimony provided had been knowingly 
false, or that information had been deliberately withheld, to make a financial gain from the 
claim. And they cancelled the policy Mrs S held, retained any premiums that had been paid 
and advised they would be looking to recoup the costs theyd already incurred processing 
the claim so far.
Mr S was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint. Mr S didnt think UKIs decision to 
decline his mothers claim was a fair one. He thought too much weight had been placed on 
the reports of TCG and X, which he disputed the findings of. Mr S was also unhappy with the 
conduct of TCG during their investigation and he speculated about the reasons behind the 
declinature of the claim. So, Mr S wanted UKI to overturn the claim decline and pay Mrs S 
the value of the stolen car, less any applicable excess.
UKI responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought the enquiries made by 
TCG were reasonable and proportionate. And they thought the decision to decline the claim 
was a fair one, based on the information available to them. So, they didnt think they needed 
to do anything more. Mr S remained unhappy with this response, so he referred the 
complaint to us.
While the complaint was with our service, Mr S provided several comments explaining why 
he thought the complaint should be upheld. These included, and are not limited to, his 
explanation regarding the confusion surrounding how many keys Mrs S had available for the 
car. Mr S also provided an explanation for the contradictory testimony regarding the CCTV 
and his thoughts regarding Xs report on the available keys usage. Mr S also provided 
CCTV footage of other times to show the issue with the CCTV stream.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought UKI had acted 
fairly, and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy Mrs S held, when deciding to 
decline the claim. They recognised Mrs S and her husband had provided conflicting 
information regarding the availability of CCTV footage. And they noted Xs report regarding 
the key, suggesting another key had been available and potentially used during the theft. So, 
our investigator didnt think UKI should reconsider the claim.
Mr S didnt agree, and he requested an Ombudsman reconsider the complaint. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint is likely to have had on Mrs S and her 
family. I appreciate it wouldve been distressing for Mrs S to discover her car had been 
stolen. And I recognise Mrs S purchased the insurance policy to help protect her against any 
financial losses this situation would create. So, when UKI made Mrs S aware her claim 
would be being declined, I can understand the upset this wouldve caused. I also recognise 
that the reasoning UKI have used to decline the claim is a particularly sensitive one, which is 
likely to have caused some anger and offence. So, I can understand why Mr S would feel the 
need to raise a complaint on Mrs S behalf.
But for me to say UKI should do something differently, such as overturn the decline and 
accept the claim, I first need to be satisfied theyve done something wrong. So, Id need to 
be satisfied UKI failed to act in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when declining 
the claim and the subsequent steps they took. Or, if I think they did act within these terms, 
that it was unfair for them to do so. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached this decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
exactly what Ive been able to consider, and how. Its not my role, or the role of our service, 
to re-underwrite the claim as we dont have the expertise to do so. Instead, its my role to 
consider the actions UKI have taken against the evidence and information available to them 
and decide whether I think theyve acted both fairly and reasonably.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Mrs S held. And this explains under the 
heading Fraud that Mrs S, and so anyone acting on her behalf when making a claim on the 
policy, must be honest in your dealings with us at all times. We wont pay a claim that is in 
any way fraudulent, false, or exaggerated.
And, where an insurer such as UKI declines a claim stating their belief the claim was 
fraudulent, or exaggerated, for me to say UKI has acted fairly, I need to be satisfied there is 
evidence that reasonably supports UKIs conclusions.Its not disputed that when Mrs S husband called UKI to make a claim, he confirmed there 
was no CCTV footage available. But Ive seen in TCGs investigations they found a post 
shared on social media on the day of the theft, which contained a still image of CCTV 
footage of the theft itself. So, I dont think I can say UKI have acted unfairly or unreasonably 
when deeming the information Mrs S husband provided to be false on this occasion. 
While I appreciate Mr S comments about the standard of the CCTV footage, and his fathers 
ability to obtain this footage due to his lack of technical knowledge, I have to take into 
consideration the fact a still image obtained from CCTV footage at Mrs S property was 
shared on social media on the day of the theft. And Im aware Mrs S husband didnt contact 
UKI to raise a claim until the day after the theft. So, at this point, I think Mrs S husband 
shouldve been reasonably aware some form of CCTV footage was available. Whether or 
not this was a complete video, I think it shouldve been reasonably obvious a still image 
depicting the thief would be material to the claim being made. And I think the onus was on 
Mrs S, and whoever was acting on her behalf, to ensure the information they provided was 
accurate and correct. And I dont think I can say they have here.
As this information wasnt declared, UKI have assumed it was withheld as the footage itself 
showed the theft occurred due to the car being left open, or with a key in the ignition, or at 
least in, the car. So, Ive thought about whether this was a fair assumption.
I note that again in the first conversations with UKI, a family member of Mrs S stated the car 
had two keys. And that this testimony was changed by Mrs S husband, saying the car was 
instead only bought with one key. So again, I think there was contradictory information 
provided here.
I can see that because of this contradiction, and TCGs recommendation, UKI instructed X to 
have the remaining key examined. And in Xs report, I can see X states its opinion that the 
condition of the key suggested it was unlikely to have been used as the main key used to 
drive the car. And, due to the cars age and make, X wouldve expected another key with 
button entry to have been provided, explaining the key given to them was the plain key 
alternative. Xs report also goes onto explain that a car such as Mrs S wouldve needed a 
key in the ignition to be driven and that it wasnt able to be hotwired or bypassed.
So, based on the above, I dont think UKI have acted unfairly when concluding that Mrs S 
most likely had two keys available for the car. And, due to the condition of the remaining key 
available, the car was stolen using another key that was most likely available.
I think the policy terms and conditions make it reasonably clear that, under the theft section 
of the policy, UKI wouldnt cover claims where the car keys were left unattended in and or on 
the car. Or, when a car was left unattended and unlocked. And I think its fair to assume 
anyone who owns a car, with an insurance policy, would be reasonably aware that any claim 
where a car has been left unsecure was unlikely to be covered.
So, due to the contradictions regarding the availability of CCTV footage and how many keys 
were available with the car, I can understand why UKI have come to the conclusion that 
these contradictions were provided by those representing Mrs S during the claim process in 
an attempt to ensure the claim was accepted. And, in a situation where a claim was 
accepted, Mrs S wouldve received a financial gain of a payment for the valuation of her car.
So, I dont think I can say UKI have acted unfairly, or outside of the terms of the policy Mrs S 
held, when deciding to decline the claim quoting the terms including the fraud condition.
I note the policy explains that, where UKI believe a claim has been made fraudulent, falsely 
or exaggerated in any way, they could cancel the policy, reject the claim, and keep any premium Mrs S had paid up until that point. This is what UKI have done on this occasion and 
so, I dont think I can say theyve acted unfairly or unreasonably when doing so. 
I note in UKIs repudiation letter, they also explained their intention to recoup the costs they 
had incurred handling the claim from Mrs S. Standard industry practice, shaped by 
regulation guidelines, allow insurers such as UKI to take this action where they reasonably 
find a claim is fraudulent. As I think UKI have acted fairly when reaching this conclusion on 
this occasion, it follows that I think UKI have acted fairly when deciding to recoup these costs 
from Mrs S. 
Because of all of the reasons outlined above, I think UKI have acted fairly, and within the 
policy terms and conditions, on this occasion. And so, I dont think they need to do anything 
more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs S, or Mr S, was hoping for. I want to clarify to Mr S 
that Ive considered all of the points hes raised, including his thoughts on Xs report and the 
videos hes sent which he feels shows the issues with the CCTV system and how it records. 
But none of these comments, or the evidence Mr S has provided, persuades me that UKI 
have reached an unfair conclusion based on the information and evidence they had 
available to them when repudiating the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs S complaint about U K Insurance Limited 
trading as Churchill Insurance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman