DRN-4152703
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund him for transactions which he says he 
didnt make or authorise.
What happened
On 22 September 2021, two transactions of £2,965 and £499 were debited from Mr Bs 
current account. Mr B contacted Monzo straightaway to report the transactions as 
unrecognised. These transactions were contactless payments made via Apple Pay using a 
secondary device to that of Mr Bs trusted device. 
Mr B told Monzo that he didnt receive any phone calls, text messages or emails from 
anyone pretending to be a reputable organisation. He confirmed that no one else had access 
to his mobile phone, debit card or Personal Identification Number (PIN). He hadnt written his 
PIN anywhere and that he hadnt given any information about his account to anyone. 
He explained that he received a mobile phone notification on 21 September 2021 asking 
approval for a transaction which he didnt recognise. He confirmed he declined this 
transaction, and the two disputed transactions the following day were carried out without 
approval or confirmation from him.
A few hours after the disputed transactions, Mr B contacted Monzo again to let them know 
hed just received two calls from 0800 numbers pretending to be from them. He sent Monzo 
a screenshot of his call history. Monzo explained that the calls appeared legitimate and were 
from a different bank. They asked Mr B to confirm if he received any calls from anyone 
pretending to be Monzo or another bank on the morning of 22 September 2021  Mr B 
confirmed he didnt.
Monzo declined Mr Bs claim and explained they were unable to treat the transactions as 
fraudulent, so they wouldnt be reimbursing him. They said that based on the information 
they had available, and the timeline of transactions, it suggested it wasnt possible for these 
transactions to have been authorised by anyone else. Unhappy with this, Mr B referred his 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator said that Mr B most likely authorised the disputed transactions as he was 
the only person in the position to use his mobile phone and his bank card was in his 
possession. Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.  
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 2 May 2023, and I made the following findings:
Under the relevant regulations, Monzo can hold Mr B liable for the disputed 
transactions if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that he made or 
authorised them himself. 
The disputed transactions of £2,965 and £499 were authenticated using Apple Pay. 
Monzo have provided technical evidence which shows that only the payment tools 
issued to Mr B couldve approved the Apple Pay token to be added to the secondary 
device  which was then used to make the disputed transactions shortly after. 
But this alone isnt enough for Monzo to hold Mr B liable for the disputed 
transactions. I also need to be satisfied that based on the evidence, its likely that Mr 
B himself made, or otherwise authorised the transactions.
In order for Mr B to have consented to the disputed transaction, I need to be satisfied 
that he disclosed his long card number, expiry date and three-digit security code to a 
scammer or unauthorised third party and approved the Apple Pay token to be added 
using his banking app.
Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that Mr B willingly disclosed all the card details 
required for a scammer or unauthorised third party to add the Apple Pay token to 
their device. I dont think its improbable and nor can I rule out the possibility that Mr 
Bs card details may have been compromised somehow without his involvement. For 
example, through data linked to transactions he authorised leading up to the disputed 
transactions. 
Im persuaded that this was most likely the case, given that there was an attempted 
transaction for £4,748 on 21 September 2021 at around 7.30pm which Mr B declined 
as he didnt make or recognise it. 
Although Mr B doesnt admit to approving the Apple Pay token, I think the evidence 
points to him doing so. I say this because, hes confirmed he was in possession of 
his mobile phone, and he has accepted he was using his banking app at the time the 
Apple Pay token was set up. He was also the only person that had access to his card 
details and PIN which wouldve also been required to approve the Apple Pay token.
But that doesnt mean Mr B consented to the disputed transactions. Ive looked at the 
screenshots Monzo have provided which shows the process Mr B wouldve followed 
to approve the Apple Pay token. I dont think it wouldve been clear to Mr B that he 
was approving his card details to be set up on a secondary device. And I think its 
plausible that Mr B completed this process unknowingly and without the 
understanding that he was granting someone else access to make transactions using 
his card.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think theres enough evidence to show that Mr B, or 
someone with his permission, completed both the steps required to have consented 
to the Apple Pay token being added to a secondary device  meaning the disputed 
transactions werent authorised.
I also dont think Mr B failed with intent or that he was grossly negligent. As 
explained, I dont think Mr B intentionally approved the Apple Pay token to be added 
to the secondary device. And I think he likely did so without realising that the safety 
of his account would be compromised. So, Im satisfied Mr B didnt fail with intent. 
The standard for gross negligence is whether Mr B was significantly careless  did he 
act so far below what a reasonable person wouldve done or seriously disregarded 
an obvious risk. I appreciate Monzo believe that Mr B isnt giving them the full story, 
but this isnt a clear-cut case. And I dont believe Mr B is deliberately holding back 
information. Scams are becoming increasingly more sophisticated and its not 
unusual for victims to be unaware when they have been tricked. Mr B has maintained that he didnt receive any scam calls at or around the time the 
Apple Pay token was approved. But, he has told us about some calls he had with 
another bank on and around the date of the disputed transactions. He cant recall the 
dates or details of those calls, but he believes these calls were legitimate as they 
were in relation to a business account. 
I think its possible one of these calls was from a scammer and the unrecognised 
attempted transaction of £4,748 on 21 September may have been the start of the 
scam. This is also supported by Monzo acknowledging in their investigation notes 
theyd seen similar high value transactions attempted in these types of scams. 
On balance, and taking into account the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think 
Mr B approving the Apple Pay token amounts to gross negligence when the 
notification on the banking app wasnt clear that he was agreeing to add his card 
details to someone elses device and putting his account at risk.
In any event, I dont think Monzo have adequately met their responsibility to protect 
customers from financial harm. I say this because I think Monzo shouldve made 
more enquires when Mr B declined the transaction of £4,748 on 21 September 2021. 
Ive looked at Mr Bs bank statements which shows this transaction was out of the 
ordinary for his spending activity. It wouldve also drained all the funds in his account 
and placed him into an overdraft.
I appreciate Monzo feel that the customer declining a payment during the 
authorisation stage isnt indicative of fraud or the payment being unrecognised. And 
they wouldnt proactively block the customers card as a result of them declining a 
payment.
I dont think its usual for a customer to decline a transaction if theyd attempted to 
make a purchase  and in this case in particular, as explained, the transaction 
shouldve raised Monzos suspicions given that Mr B declined it along with the other 
factors such as it being a significant large amount, it wasnt usual activity for Mr Bs 
account and wouldve cleared his balance.
And given that this activity was followed by an Apple Pay token being added to a 
secondary device, and another out of character large transaction being made within 
half hour of the Apple Pay token being created, shouldve alerted Monzo to take 
steps to minimise financial harm.
The onus is on Monzo to identify and detect suspicious transactions. I understand 
theyre aware of similar patterns as seen in Mr Bs complaint of reported 3DS scams 
from other customers. Alongside this, I think there were enough red flags which 
shouldve triggered Monzo to take action, such as placing a block on Mr Bs card until 
theyd had an opportunity to make contact with him to verify the activity on the 
account. 
If Monzo had done so following the transaction on 21 September 2021, I think its 
likely that the compromise of Mr Bs card details wouldve come to light before the 
disputed transactions look place the following day. Monzo couldve taken action such 
as cancelling the compromised card details to prevent any further fraudulent 
transactions.
Alternatively, if Monzo had identified the suspicious activity on Mr Bs account on 22 
September 2021 (after the Apple Pay token was approved and the first disputed transaction was attempted shortly after) and taken action, such as block or decline 
the transaction, then I think Mr Bs funds couldve been protected. Im persuaded Mr 
B wouldve confirmed to Monzo that he didnt authorise the transaction. This is 
supported by the fact that Mr B contacted Monzo immediately after the transactions 
were carried out to report that he didnt recognise or authorise them.  
All things considered, I dont think its fair and reasonable for Monzo to hold Mr B 
liable for the disputed transactions and to put things right, they should:
Refund Mr B £3,464;
Add 8% simple interest* per annum from the date of the payment (22 
September 2021) to the date of settlement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Monzo to deduct tax from this interest. Monzo 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off, if he asks for 
one.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further submissions.
Mr B confirmed he didnt have anything else to add. Monzo didnt respond to us within the 
deadline given.
Since there isnt any further information or evidence for me to consider, Im satisfied with the
findings I reached, and I see no reason to deviate from the outcome I explained in my
provisional decision.
As a reminder, to put things right, Monzo should:
Refund Mr B £3,464;
Add 8% simple interest* per annum from the date of the payment (22 September 
2021) to the date of settlement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Monzo to deduct tax from this interest. Monzo must give 
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, Monzo Bank Ltd should put things right in the way Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman