DRN-3787497
The complaint
Mr C complains that JAJA FINANCE LTD rejected his claim for a refund.
What happened
On 21 October 2021 Mr C used his JAJA credit card to purchase two indoor air quality 
monitors from a supplier, along with data integration with a partnership company, whom Ill 
call P. The monitors were delivered to Mr C on 14 December 2021.
 
In March 2022 the supplier announced they were no longer in partnership with P. Mr C says 
that the data integration with P was the main reason for him getting the monitors, he thought 
the product was mis-advertised and no longer fit for purpose. He contacted the supplier for a 
refund, it said the units primary purpose was to monitor air quality, so because they could 
still do this, it didnt think Mr C was entitled to a refund. 
Unable to resolve his concerns with the supplier, Mr C contacted JAJA on 7 April 2022 to 
ask it for help getting a refund. JAJA declined Mr Cs claim for a refund. It said Mr C was out 
of time for a chargeback and it didnt think there was sufficient evidence of either a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier, so didnt uphold his section 75 claim
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr C complained to JAJA, it maintained its position and didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr C brought his complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
didnt uphold the complaint, she didnt think it was unreasonable for JAJA not to raise a 
chargeback on Mr Cs behalf because he hadnt returned or attempted to return the monitors 
to the supplier, as required under the chargeback rule. She thought it was reasonable for 
JAJA to decline Mr Cs section 75 claim, as she didnt think that he had provided sufficient 
evidence of either a breach of contract or misrepresentation to support his section 75 claim.
Mr C provided an unheaded letter, from an individual he said was an expert. The letter noted 
the monitors no longer transmitted data and in summary said the devices arent functional.
As there was no business name or address details, the investigator didnt think she could 
confirm the letter was from someone who was independent or an expert. 
Mr C disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
And our rules allow me to do this. This reflects the nature of our service as a free and 
informal alternative to the courts.
Generally, where a consumer raises a dispute about a transaction made on a credit card, the 
card provider can consider the dispute under two guises- chargeback and section 75 claim. 
JAJA considered both, Ive set out my findings under the headings below.
Chargeback
  
Chargeback is a process by which disputes are resolved between the card issuer and 
merchant, under the relevant card scheme. Its a voluntary scheme, one that banks dont 
have to adhere. But if the right to make a chargeback claim exists under the applicable 
scheme rules  and if there is a reasonable prospect of success  I consider it to be good 
practice for a chargeback claim to be raised. 
JAJA initially considered the dispute under the Visa chargeback scheme. It said that Mr C 
hadnt raised the chargeback request within the 120 days Visa time-limit, so it didnt process 
the claim. It later said that based on the evidence from the supplier, it didnt think his claim 
would be successful as there wasnt sufficient evidence to show the monitors were defective 
or not as described.
For the Visa reason code not as described or defective merchandise/services the time limit 
is 120 calendar days from either the date of the transaction or the date the goods were 
delivered. The monitors were delivered to Mr C on 14 December 2021, and Mr C contacted 
JAJA within 114 days, so I dont think he was out of time. However, for a valid claim under 
this reason code Mr C must have either returned the monitors or have proof of attempting to 
return them to the supplier, but I havent seen any evidence that he did this. In the 
circumstances, I think a chargeback would have been unsuccessful, so I dont think it was 
unreasonable for JAJA not to raise a chargeback. 
Section 75
In certain circumstances section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr C to hold JAJA liable for 
breaches of contract by the supplier or misrepresentations made by it in relation to the 
agreement made. 
Its worth making clear that Im not deciding JAJAs liability under section 75 - only a court 
can do that. We take into account the relevant law and that includes section 75. But we 
decide cases by considering what is fair and reasonable, as statute requires us to do. 
What Im deciding is whether JAJA did enough in considering Mr Cs complaint. And if it 
didnt, what else it should now do.
misrepresentation
 
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which induces someone to enter a contract 
and causes them loss. A statement which is true when it is made but becomes false before 
the contract is completed, may also amount to a misrepresentation.
Mr C says the monitors were misrepresented as they were advertised as coming with data 
integration with P. And Mr C says data integration is the main reason for him purchasing the 
monitors and he would not have entered the agreement with the supplier for them, if he 
knew the data integration partnership would end.
 
The supplier announced it was ending its partnership with P in March 2022 and I can see 
from Mr Cs order that his monitors came along with data sharing with P. And Mr C has 
provided screenshots of pages which have been removed from the suppliers website, which 
showed the monitors came with data integration. However, the statements about the data 
integration with P were not false when Mr C entered the agreement for the monitors in 
October 2021, and he has confirmed he was able to use the function until April 2022. So, I dont think there was a misrepresentation as the statement only became untrue several 
months after Mr C entered the agreement, due to a change in circumstances. 
satisfactory quality
For the purpose of section 75, a breach of contract is where the supplier fails to do what the 
contract says it must, either expressly or by implication.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant here, it implies into every contract to 
supply goods that the quality of the goods must be satisfactory. The CRA states that in order 
for goods to conform to contract they need to be of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
This is defined as being what a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory. And 
the relevant aspects of quality here are fitness for purpose and goods to be as described.
Mr C says the monitors are not fit for purpose and are not as described, as they no longer 
share data with P. 
The CRA says that goods must be of satisfactory quality at the time of supply, so the key 
here is whether the monitors were fit for purpose and matched the description given when 
Mr C took delivery of them. And Mr C has confirmed they worked until the partnership with P 
ended and the video provided shows he was able to share data with P until April 2022. So, 
Im not satisfied that Mr C not being able to share data with P, means the monitors were not 
of satisfactory quality when they were supplied.
More recently Mr C has provided a letter dated 17 October 2022 from an individual 
described as a technology professional, who inspected the monitors. The letter states more 
specifically the complete disregard of internal data transmission that was promised on 
purchase of the sensor. And whilst I dont doubt that Mr C is no longer able to share data, 
Im not satisfied that this issue was present at the point of supply. 
The letter also says, sensor that is not working, and the monitors are not functional, it isnt 
entirely clear, but this indicates the units are no longer operating or possibly not detecting air 
quality. And whilst I dont doubt this is the case, I would need to be satisfied that this issue 
was present or developing at the point of supply, and theres nothing to support this is the 
case. So, Im not persuaded a current fault means the monitors werent of satisfactory quality 
when they were supplied.
I appreciate Mr C expected to continue to share data with P and is unhappy that the 
partnership with P has ended. However, for the reasons explained above, I dont think this 
means the monitors were not of satisfactory quality.
Mr C hasnt provided anything to show he was promised or guaranteed to be able to transmit 
data to P for the lifetime of the monitors or for a certain period of time, so I cant reasonably 
say there is sufficient evidence of a breach of contract by the supplier. 
 
Having considered everything, I think JAJA was entitled to conclude that thered been no 
misrepresentation or breach of contract. As such I think it dealt with Mr Cs complaint in a fair 
manner. I shant be asking it to do anything else. 
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr C, but this is our final say on this 
complaint. He is not bound to accept my decision, and if he doesnt, he will be free to pursue 
this matter in court  if he wishes to.My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Karen Dennis
Ombudsman