DRN-2768354
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wouldnt initiate a chargeback for a trip hed booked 
which was cancelled, as it said hed contacted it too late. But Lloyds said he would be sent a 
cheque which wasnt correct, as well as sending a letter in error to say the refund would be 
taken back, when no refund was ever given. Mr C is also unhappy with the service he was 
provided when visiting the branches and calling to raise the complaint.
What happened
Lloyds initially said that Mr C had contacted it too late and it couldnt raise the chargeback as 
it was outside of the timescales  but it apologised for the mistakes it made with regards to 
the cheque and the letter. It offered Mr C £50 compensation.
After a referral was made to this service, Lloyds made an offer to resolve the complaint. It 
accepted Mr C had been given incorrect information about the timescales, as he was within 
the timescales when he first contacted it. It couldnt raise the chargeback, as Mr C was now 
outside of the timescales, but said it would refund the two amounts of £194.65 and £50.
In addition to this, Lloyds said it would add 8% interest to this payment from the date he first 
contacted it, to the date of settlement, as well as increasing the compensation from £50 to 
£100.
This offer was put to Mr C, but he declined it. The investigator felt the refund plus the interest 
was fair compensation for failing to initiate the chargeback. He thought however that the 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused was too little. Instead he said he 
thought Lloyds should pay £150.
Lloyds accepted the investigators recommendation.
Mr C did not. He felt he couldnt accept the investigators view because he felt he was lied to 
and that the chief executive of the bank knew about the lies. He explained he emailed the 
chief executive repeatedly and yet only got a reply when he attended a branch of the bank 
and insisted on speaking to the manager.
He felt the very top of Lloyds needs to be looked at regarding professional conduct and 
behaviour. He also provided a list of all the time and effort he spent engaged in getting the 
refund which included several time-consuming trips by bus. He noted that Lloyds is charging 
49.9% interest on overdrafts and felt this interest rate should be applied to the money it owes 
him.
I didnt agree entirely with the investigators view and so I issued a provisional decision. In it I 
said:
At this service we are here to resolve individual complaints. We are not a regulator  the 
relevant regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority  and so we arent here to punish banks 
or to investigate professional conduct. When we look at a complaint and there has been an 
error we try and put the consumer in a position as close to what they would have been in if 
the error hadnt occurred and if they have suffered distress and inconvenience sometimes, 
we will think it is appropriate for the consumer to be compensated.
Looking at this complaint I can see the time spent by Mr C  which if you include travelling 
time is over 20 hours. I can also see the passion induced in Mr C by the banks errors. I dont 
think it is correct to say he was lied to. In my experience, chargeback requests arent always 
straightforward. I very much doubt that anyone at Lloyds lied to him; I think it is far more 
likely they were genuinely mistaken. But I can appreciate that to Mr C thats not how it 
seems.
Regarding the interest rate to be applied to the money Lloyds owes Mr C, I think the rate of 
8% is fair; its the statutory interest rate on judgment debts and so is our usual starting point 
for looking at compensating a consumer who has been deprived of funds. Mr C has 
confirmed to the investigator what he would have done with the money if he had got it 
sooner - he would have booked another holiday. As Mr C wouldnt have used the money to 
reduce his borrowings, I dont think the interest rate charged by the bank on overdrafts is 
relevant.
Taking all the above into account  the time spent, the frustration experienced and the 
disappointment at not being able to make plans for another holiday  I think it would be fair 
for the bank to pay £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience. I asked the 
investigator to put this to Lloyds. It didnt think it should pay more than £150 because: Given 
the uncertain circumstances with COVID 19, it is unlikely Mr C would have been in a position 
to plan and go on another cruise in 2020. He first visited branch on 31 July 2020 to raise 
this. Shortly after this restrictions were placed on travel and some of these are still in place 
until May 2021.Furthermore the bank is also paying the customer 8% interest as he was 
deprived of the funds until settlement. It feels this along with the compensation offered is fair 
and reasonable.
I appreciate what the bank is saying about restrictions on holidays, but Mr C would still have 
been able to book a holiday even if it wasnt until later in 2021 or beyond. And the interest 
the bank is paying is to compensate Mr C for the loss of his money not for the distress or 
inconvenience caused by the loss. Overall, I still think £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused is fair. And so, subject to any further comments from either party 
thats what I intend to order.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both Mr C and Lloyds agreed with my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agreed with my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from it and 
confirm it here.
Putting things right
To put things right I think Lloyds should pay the compensation I set out in the provisional 
decision which it has now agreed to do.My final decision
I uphold this compliant and order Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr C:
£244.65 with 8% simple interest per year from the date Mr C first contacted Lloyds 
about the chargeback (28 July 2020), to the date it is paid; and
£300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr C.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman