DRN-2693344
The complaint
Mr A complains that Equifax Limited keeps missing information from his credit file. Mr A is 
unhappy with the length of time that Equifax has taken to resolve his complaint.
What happened
In 2019, Mr A brought a complaint against Equifax. Mr A was unhappy to see information 
about his twin brother on his credit file. 
Equifax explained to Mr A the mistake had happened as he and his brother had the same 
name and date of birth. Equifax advised Mr A that he and his brother should update their 
personal information to include their middle names.
To fix things, Equifax recorded a notice of disassociation which then led to information about 
Mr A disappearing from his credit file. Equifax told Mr A that once he and his brother had 
updated their financial records with each institution, he should ask Equifax to remove the 
notice of disassociation.
In 2020, Mr A complained to Equifax after he found out his credit report was missing 
information. Mr A was unhappy that Equifax didnt respond within eight weeks as another 
credit reference agency resolved the problem very quickly.
Mr A wanted Equifax to sort out his credit report and pay compensation for the stress the 
situation had caused to him.
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr As complaint be upheld. Mr A disagrees with the 
investigators recommendation. He says when he checked his score on the Equifax website, 
it didnt contain any of his details. Mr A also queries why Equifax couldnt have replied within 
eight weeks if it wasnt going to uphold his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A says that information is missing from the Equifax website but hasnt given us further 
evidence about this. Equifax previously told Mr A that he should update his personal 
information with each financial institution to include his middle name. Ideally Mr As twin 
brother should do the same. I understand that once this happens, Mr A can ask Equifax to 
remove the notice of disassociation which will make his online account available to him. 
As far as I am aware, the paper version of Mr As Equifax report shows his credit 
information. And its this information that a lender will be shown when it carries out any 
checks on Mr A. Experian has already explained what to do to put things right for the online 
report. It follows that I cant reasonably require Equifax to take any further steps.
Mr A says that Equifax didnt respond to his complaint. This isnt something that I can 
consider as complaint handling isnt a regulated activity but from what Ive seen, although 
Equifax didnt give its final response within 8 weeks, it did contact Mr A about his complaint 
at least three times before he referred it to this service.
Im sorry that my decision is likely to disappoint Mr A as hes currently struggling to obtain 
further credit, but I dont require Equifax to make any changes or pay compensation. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman