DRN-3229904
The complaint
Mr R complains that Ageas Insurance Limited hasnt validated a claim he made on his policy 
for lost keys.
What happened
Mr R contacted Ageas in July 2021 after he says he lost three car keys for different cars. 
Because Mr R had contacted Ageas out of hours, it wasnt able to provide him with 
assistance, and Mr R was told that if he felt the lost keys posed a security risk, then he 
would need to find an auto locksmith to help him. Ageas offered the contact details for an 
auto locksmith; however, Mr R found a different locksmith via social media.
Mr R went ahead and got replacement keys for the vehicles and received an invoice for the 
work. Mr R submitted a claim to Ageas to reimburse him for the cost of replacing the keys. 
Ageas proceeded with validating the claim. However, it says it couldnt do this based on the 
information Mr R had provided. It said that the invoice it got from the locksmith didnt provide 
sufficient contact information for the locksmith used, so it wasnt able to validate the work. It 
also said it couldnt find any business page online for the locksmith. Ageas say that the 
invoice didnt contain the registration details for the vehicles that had the keys replaced  
and so it couldnt be certain that the work on the invoice related to vehicles that belonged to 
Mr R, or one of his immediate family members at his address. Ageas also raised concerns 
that there was no guarantee for the work that had been carried out and no information about 
the parts that had been used.
Mr R says he contacted the locksmith to get an updated invoice, however they said that they 
had already carried out the work Mr R had asked them to do, and an additional invoice 
including the information Ageas wanted would cost an extra £39.99 per key  which Ageas 
said it wouldnt pay for.
In addition to this, Ageas raised concerns about some of the information Mr R had provided 
about the vehicles. It said that Mr R hadnt provided them with the most up to date V5 
document for two of the vehicles, and he hadnt provided the V5 or insurance documents for 
the third vehicle. Given that Mr R hasnt provided the most up to date information, Ageas 
also asked for the insurance documents for the other two cars. But Mr R hasnt provided this 
to Ageas.
Ageas say it hasnt been able to validate the claim based on the information provided by Mr 
R so far, and so it hasnt reimbursed him for the cost of having the keys replaced. However, 
Ageas has said in its final response to Mr R that it would review its position on this if Mr R 
provides the information it has asked for.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr R, but they didnt uphold the complaint. They didnt 
think it was unreasonable of Ageas to question the information that Mr R had provided, and 
they didnt think that it was unreasonable of Ageas to ask for further information before it 
validated the claim. Because Mr R didnt give this information to Ageas, the investigator 
didnt think that it had acted unfairly or unreasonably when it made its decision not to 
validate the claim.
Mr R didnt agree. Mr R feels that he is being asked for too much information in order for the 
claim to be validated, and he doesnt feel this is fair, and outside of the terms and conditions 
of the policy. Mr R believes that he has provided Ageas with sufficient information for his 
claim to be validated and approved.
Because Mr R didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything that has been provided to me by both parties, it is my decision 
not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Mr R, 
however I will explain my reasoning for this below. 
I this decision, I will only look to see if Ageas has assessed the claim fairly up until it issued 
its final response letter, and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Our investigator has already quoted the terms and conditions that relate to Mr Rs claim. So I 
dont intend to quote these again. But essentially, they say that Ageas will request valid 
invoices/receipts for the work carried out. It will also request a copy of the V5. The terms and 
conditions also state that it may ask for more supporting documents at its discretion.
Ive looked at the invoice Mr R gave to Ageas for the works carried out. Based on what Ive 
seen, the invoice does seem to be missing information that Ageas would likely need to 
validate the claim. 
Firstly, the invoice doesnt include the registration details of the vehicles worked on. I dont 
think it was unreasonable of Ageas to request that the locksmith provides an invoice with the 
registration of the vehicles. Afterall, it needed to be certain that the keys provided and 
programmed belonged to cars that were covered under Mr Rs policy. I appreciate that Mr R 
has said that the new invoices would be at an additional cost to him, but I dont think it was 
unfair of Ageas to decline to pay for new invoices, given that this isnt a cost thats covered 
under the policy. And it was up to Mr R to provide valid receipts for the work in the first 
instance.
Ageas has stated that it attempted to contact the locksmith to validate the claim on the email 
address provided on the invoice, however it says it was returned as undelivered. I asked 
Ageas if it attempted to contact the locksmith at the address provided on the invoice, but it 
confirmed that the postcode provided wasnt valid. And so, I can understand why it didnt 
attempt to do this. In addition, the invoice provided doesnt have a contact number for the 
locksmith Mr R used. While I appreciate that Mr R has given Ageas a contact number for the 
locksmith, Ageas would need to be able to satisfy itself that it was indeed talking to the 
locksmith  the fact the number isnt on the invoice would make this difficult. 
Ageas say it told Mr R that it would review his claim, despite it not being able to validate the 
locksmith, if he could provide Ageas with guarantees and receipts (for the parts) for the work 
carried out, but Ageas says it has yet to receive these from Mr R.I appreciate that Mr R says that the issues with the invoice has stemmed from Ageas not 
notifying him of what the invoice needed to include when he first called up to notify it of the 
loss.  But Mr R didnt ask this specific information, and I wouldnt have expected Ageas to 
have confirmed this where it wasnt specifically asked for. In any event, the information 
included in the invoice isnt enough to say that work was carried out on the vehicles Mr R 
has claimed for. I dont think this is down to something Ageas has done wrong.
Based on what Ive said above, overall, I find that Ageas did make attempts to validate the 
work carried out by the locksmith, but it was unable to so. 
 
Ageas noted that the V5 document supplied by Mr R wasnt the most recent V5 that had 
been issued. Mr R disputed this and said he had sent it the most up to date documents. Ive 
researched this myself, and it appears that the V5 documents were issued on two of the cars 
after the ones supplied by Mr R. I know Mr R disagrees with this point, but whether this is the 
case or not, I dont find it unreasonable of Ageas to request additional information in order to 
satisfy itself that the costs Mr R was claiming for related to cars that were covered under the 
policy. The information Ageas has asked for is insurance documentation which ought be 
relatively simple for Mr R to provide.
Mr R feels that Ageas has requested information that goes beyond that noted in the terms 
and conditions of the policy. The policy documents state that it may request additional 
supporting information at its discretion, so I dont find that it has gone outside of the terms 
and conditions here. And I cant say that it has treated Mr R unfairly. 
It follows that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. I dont think Ageas has treated Mr R unfairly, 
and based on all the information I have seen, there isnt enough to evidence that keys were 
replaced for cars that were covered under Mr Rs policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman