DRN-3179941
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt paid a claim under their 
travel insurance policy after they cut their holiday short. 
All references to Great Lakes include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its 
behalf.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L held a single trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes. The policy
was purchased in November 2019.
Mr and Mr L were on holiday, in a country while Ill call A, and were due to return to the UK
on 29 March 2020.
On 17 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO 
formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised British nationals against all
but essential international travel abroad because of the circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. From 20 March 2020, the government in A introduced travel restrictions preventing
anyone other than citizens or permanent residents from entering the country, which led to
the suspension of many international flights. On 23 March 2020, the FCDO advised all
British travellers abroad to return to the UK and the UK government announced wide-ranging
restrictions on movement, commonly referred to as lockdown. The government
announcement included an instruction to stay at home other than for a limited list of essential
reasons.
Mr and Mrs Ls travel agent had told them on 22 March 2020 that their upcoming return flight
on 29 March 2020 was cancelled and arranged a new flight for them on 27 March 2020.
However, the flight on 27 March 2020 was also subsequently cancelled. Mr and Mrs L paid
for new flights back to the UK with a different airline on the same day (27 March 2020) and
made a claim under their policy with Great Lakes for these costs, as well as for the cost of
car hire in the UK and telephone calls.
Great Lakes turned down Mr and Mrs Ls claim. It said the reason they were required to 
return to the UK wasnt one which was covered under their insurance policy. Unhappy, Mr
and Mrs L complained to Great Lakes before bringing their complaint to the attention of our
service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He said, although Mr and Mrs Ls claim
wasnt covered under the terms and conditions of their policy, he thought it would be fair and
reasonable for Great Lakes to settle their claim regardless. This was because Mr and Mrs L
wouldnt have been covered under their policy if theyd remained abroad against FCDO
advice and our investigator didnt think it was fair for Mr and Mrs L to be left in a position
where they werent covered if they stayed in A but they also werent covered if they cut their
trip short and returned to the UK.
Great Lakes didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so Mr and Mrs Ls complaint was 
referred to me. I made my provisional decision in October 2021. In it, I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into
account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and
Mrs Ls complaint.
I understand the situation Mr and Mrs L found themselves in was completely unprecedented.
I also understand, when their insurance was purchased in November 2019, the
circumstances surrounding the spread and impact of Covid-19 couldnt have been foreseen
by either consumers or insurers.
However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide
what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Great Lakes
obligations under its contract with Mr and Mrs L are limited by the terms, conditions and
exclusions which are set out in the policy.
Mr and Mrs Ls policy, at page 15 under the heading Section 2 Cutting Short Your Trip,
provides for Great Lakes to pay for certain costs if a policyholders holiday is cut short for
one of the following listed, insured reasons:
 a) an unforeseen illness, injury or death of you, a close relative, travelling
companion or any person with whom you have arranged to stay during the trip.
b) you or any person with whom you plan to travel being called up for Jury Service or
being summoned as a witness in a Court of Law (other than in a professional, or
advisory capacity).
c) accidental damage, burglary, flooding or fire affecting your home, occurring during
your trip, when the loss relating to your home is in excess of £1,500 or your presence
is required by the Police in connection with such events.
d) complications of pregnancy of you or a travelling companion.
e) you being unable to continue your trip, as detailed in your travel itinerary, due to
loss or theft of your passport, or that of a travelling companion.
f) your home being made uninhabitable or place of business being made unusable,
due to fire, lightening, explosion, earthquake, subsidence, storm, flood, falling trees,
riot or civil unrest, malicious damage, burst pipes, impact by aircraft, the Police
requesting your presence following a burglary or attempted burglary.
Mr and Mrs Ls trip wasnt cut short for any of the above reasons. This means their claim
isnt covered under Section 2 of their policy.
Ive also reviewed the remaining sections of Mr and Mrs Ls insurance policy (including
Section 5 Travel Delay and Section 17 Catastrophe), but I dont think they held any cover
which would pay a benefit in the circumstances they found themselves in.
Our investigator correctly pointed out that Mr and Mrs Ls policy may not have provided
cover if theyd been in a country where the FCDO was advising against all but essential
travel to (as it did in relation to A from 17 March 2020). He thought this left Mr and Mrs L in
an unfair position. There may be some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer
had clearly and transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy provisions relatingto claims for changes in FCDO advice and/or exclusions for travelling against FCDO advice,
I might think it was fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of a strict
application of the policy terms and conditions. However, I dont think it would be fair or
reasonable for me to ask Great Lakes to do so here.
This is because Section 2 of Mr and Mrs Ls policy contains the following exclusion:
What is not covered
16. prohibitive regulations by the Government of any country
Its difficult to pinpoint with any certainty one specific reason for Mr and Mrs Ls claim. A
combination of factors  the spread of Covid-19, FCDO advice and government restrictions
both in A and in the UK  are all likely to have impacted to some degree on Mr and Mrs Ls
airlines decision to cancel their flights.
However, Mr and Mrs Ls trip was curtailed on 27 March 2020 at a time when both border
restrictions in A and UK restrictions on movement were in force, and these restrictions
remained in force until after Mr and Mrs L would have been due to return to the UK.
So, not only are the reasons why Mr and Mrs Ls holiday was cut short not covered as listed,
insured events under their policy, I think its likely the exclusion Ive quoted above would
apply to the circumstances of their claim anyway.
Ive listened to two telephone calls between Mr L and Mrs L and Great Lakes which took 
place while they were in A. I understand Mr and Mrs L were in a difficult situation and wanted
some reassurance about what their policy would cover, but I wouldnt ordinarily expect an
insurer to be in a position to confirm that a claim is payable over the phone. An insurer is
entitled to fully consider the circumstances surrounding a claim, as well as the evidence
relating to that claim, before confirming cover and it would usually only do this once a claim
form with relevant supporting documentation has been submitted. During both calls, Great
Lakes said it couldnt say at that point whether the claim would be covered, but that Mr and
Mrs L could go ahead and submit a claim for consideration. I cant fairly say Great Lakes
gave Mr and Mrs L any incorrect information during these calls. And, even if I accept that the
information which Great Lakes gave to Mr and Mrs L could have been clearer, I dont think
this financially disadvantaged Mr and Mrs L. I understand Mr and Mrs L have said theyd
otherwise have waited for a repatriation flight, but I think its highly unlikely Mr and Mrs L
would have been repatriated free of charge.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs L. I understand they paid a lot of money for their new
flights, at what must have been a stressful time. But I dont think their claim is covered under
the terms and conditions of the policy, and I dont think Great Lakes acted unfairly or
unreasonably by declining their claim. So, I dont currently intend to recommend that Great
Lakes should do anything further.
Great Lakes accepted my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add. Mr and 
Mrs L didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has raised any new arguments nor provided any additional evidence, I see 
no reason to change my provisional decision. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman