DRN-3229575
The complaint
Mr O has complained about the amount by which his insurance premium for his pet dog has 
increased. Covea Insurance plc (Covea) is the underwriter and responsible for setting 
premiums.
In this decision, references to Covea include its agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint has been fully set out by our investigator in his view on this 
complaint so I wont repeat it here at length. 
Briefly stated, Mr O has complained that in 2020 the insurance premium he paid for his dog, 
who Ill refer to as M, was £322.23 but for 2021 it increased to £451.14  an increase of 
40%. Mr O say that he hasnt made any claims for M under the policy. He complained to 
Covea.
In its final response to Mr O rejecting his complaint, Covea explained in general terms that 
premium ratings are based on many factors such as the breed, age of the pet and claims 
history. A loading is applied to policies if a claim has been made, and that other rating 
increases can be made that apply to everyone, and that it is common for premiums to 
increase as a dog gets older. Specifically, it explained that due to claims made previously 
and in general, the rating for Ms breed had increased. M was also another year older, 
placing him in a higher rating category. Covea said it wasnt obliged to share with him 
information about the change in his premium on grounds of confidentiality and data 
protection.
As he was dissatisfied with Coveas response to his complaint, Mr O brought it to this 
service. Our investigator made a number of enquiries of Covea as to why Mr Os premium 
had increased so significantly. He was provided with information by Covea that enabled him 
to explain to Mr O what had led to the 40% increase in his premium. 
This was accounted for by a 16% increase to reflect that M was now 6 years old, a 12% 
increase to reflect a general increase in vet fees, and a further 12% increase to reflect the 
fact that Ms breed was one of 33 breeds of dog whose group had been changed to one with 
a higher loading. Ms breed had been moved from Group 7 to Group 8. 
Mr O asked if the information provided by Covea could be shared with him. Our investigator 
had to inform him that this wasnt possible because such information is only provided to this 
service on the understanding that it remains confidential because how insurers price the 
risks they accept is commercially sensitive. 
Mr O is unhappy that he is being asked to accept what Covea has told our investigator, and 
that he and M are being lumped in with all other clients in a similar position irrespective of 
individual history. He wants to appeal against our investigators view, so his complaint has 
been referred to me as an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Os complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the information that Covea has provided. I understand why Mr O would like to 
understand why his premium has increased and to see the evidence to support it. Ordinarily 
we aim to share information with consumers if it impacts the outcome of their complaint, but 
underwriting information is commercially sensitive and is provided to us on the 
understanding that its not disclosed. Im afraid Mr O will have to take on trust that I have 
seen it and considered it, as did our investigator. What he has said in his view is a correct 
explanation as to why Mr Os policy has increased by 40%.
The FCA doesnt regulate on the prices insurers charge or the methods an insurer might use 
to calculate a price, so we wont usually make any judgements about the way an insurer 
chooses to assess risk, the risk assessments it makes, or the premium it charges to cover a 
certain risk.
But there are aspects of price that we can look at in order to determine whether a customer 
has been treated fairly: 
Discrimination  if one consumer has been treated differently to the way other 
consumers would be in the same circumstances, thats unlikely to be fair. So well 
consider whether a consumer has been treated consistently with the insurers general 
approach to pricing.
Mistakes  if the price is based on incorrect information, thats unlikely to be fair. So well 
consider whether a consumers premium has been calculated correctly according to the 
insurers general approach.
Misleading information  if consumers arent given clear information to make decisions 
with, thats unlikely to be fair. So well consider what the insurer told the consumer and 
whether that allowed them to make an informed decision about price.
Restricted choice  if a consumer doesnt have freedom to change insurers and choose 
what premium to pay, that may present unfairness. So where the consumer is restricted, 
well consider whether the insurers approach treated them fairly.
Ive considered each of these headings as they apply to Mr Os complaint. 
Having seen the information provided by Covea, Im satisfied that the percentage increases 
in premium have been applied consistently to all policyholders with similar circumstances to 
Mr O. Ive seen the loadings applied as the ages of dogs increases, and these are applied 
across the board. Given Ms age, that leads to a 16% increase in premium. Ive also seen 
that all dogs of the same breed as M which were formerly in Group 7 and are now in Group 8 
where a higher loading applies. Their premiums will all have increased by 12% on this 
ground. So Covea hasnt discriminated against Mr O by treating him differently to any other 
customer.
Im satisfied that there has been no increase in Mr Os premium based on any claims having 
been made.Mr O was told before his policy fell due for renewal what his premium for the following year 
was going to be. He was therefore able to make a decision as to whether he wanted to 
continue to insure with Covea or to shop around for cheaper cover with another insurer. So 
Mr O was given relevant information and he had a choice.
So although I understand Mr Os upset in facing a substantial premium increase, I hope that 
the information that this service has been able to provide helps him to understand the reason 
for it, and that he hasnt been treated any differently to any other policyholder in the same 
circumstances. That would include having the same breed of dog, of the same sex and age, 
with the same medical and claims history, living in the same area, and other factors that 
Covea might take into account when assessing risk. I know that Mr O considers that hes 
been lumped in with all other clients in a similar position irrespective of individual history. 
But if Covea treated clients in a similar position differently, that would be unfair. 
In these circumstances, I dont consider that Covea has treated Mr O unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman