DRN-2865982
The complaint
Mrs S complains that her account with NewDay Ltd (NewDay) was unfairly defaulted.
What happened
Mrs S had a retailer branded credit card from NewDay. She was taken ill in 2017. Her 
husband had to give up his job to care for her. She ran into financial difficulties. In April 2019 
she told NewDay she couldnt afford to make the payments. On 3 June 2019, NewDay 
issued a default notice. On 26 June 2019, they sent a termination notice. In June 2019, Mrs 
S sent an income and expenditure form to NewDay. They agreed to suspend payments for 
six months and wrote to Mrs S on 15 June 2019. They sent a default notice on 18 
September 2019. The default was registered on 31 October 2019.
Mrs S complained that New Day had agreed to suspend payments and so the default 
couldnt be right. When she called them in September 2019 she was told not to worry. If 
shed known about the default, she wouldve repaid the amount due. So  she now had a 
default registered on her credit file which was stopping her from moving to a new house. 
This, coupled with her illness, was causing her a lot of worry and stress.
NewDay said they sympathised with Mrs S health problems. But  the correct action had 
been taken. In April 2019, following her call to them, Mrs S account was put on hold  no 
payments were to be made and interest and fees were not charged. They asked Mrs S to 
complete an income and expenditure form  this was returned in June 2019. On 3 June 
2019, a default notice was sent  as there were arrears of £77.69. This was because  even 
though there was a payment plan agreed, Mrs S was contractually in arrears. On 26 June 
2019, a termination notice was sent with the balance £859 debit. Interest and charges 
remained suspended. On 18 September 2019, a default notice was sent to say a default 
would be registered on Mrs S credit file  this could be avoided if the account was brought 
up to date within 28 days. Mrs S called NewDay at that point to say she was unhappy. Later 
in September 2019, she complained to NewDay  and they made a goodwill payment of 
£85. The default was registered on 31 October 2019. But they said their default processes 
had been properly followed.
Mrs S brought her complaint to us. Our investigator looked at what had happened. He said 
Mrs S had been told not to worry  and in July 2019 had been told she didnt need to make 
any payments for six months. The call made by Mrs S in September 2019 wasnt available 
 but he came to the view that it was plausible that she was told not to worry about the 
default notice. And  the conversation overrode what had been put in writing to Mrs S. 
Also, the default notice had been applied prematurely  as he expected NewDay to give 
Mrs S six months before going down that route. He could see that Mrs S had enough 
money in her bank account to pay the arrears of £774 in October 2019  hed seen her 
bank account statements and salary slips. If things had been explained clearly to her, and 
the six-month period allowed to run  then he felt she wouldve paid off the arrears. He said 
NewDay should remove the default from Mrs S credit file and pay £400 compensation.
New Day didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman review Mrs S complaint.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
Im afraid I take a different view to our investigator. I have every sympathy with what Mrs S 
had gone through in recent times and I have fully reviewed what happened. I can decide 
against NewDay if theyve made errors or acted unfairly. But, on balance, I dont think they 
did - and I will explain why.
Its important to note that under a credit agreement, the minimum monthly payments must be 
made  otherwise, cardholders are judged to be in arrears. And if payments are missed for 
at least three months, a lender considers them to be in default and can register a default on 
their credit records. Here, the Information Commissioners (ICO) guidance is that a default 
can be registered after three missed payments, and certainly must be after six missed 
payments. All lenders have an obligation to notify credit reference agencies of accurate data 
on borrowers.
And  even when a payment plan is agreed  as was the case here, as NewDay agreed that 
payments could be stopped  customers are still considered to have broken the terms of the 
credit agreement and therefore be in default.
Therefore, for me, the key issues here are what Mrs S was told  in writing and on the phone 
when she called NewDay.
In April 2019, and then in July 2019, NewDay came to an arrangement with Mrs S for her to 
suspend payments. No interest or charges were to be applied. In July 2019, NewDay wrote 
to Mrs S and said we will hold the above account from further collection activity until 15 
January 2020. During this time we will accept a reduced payment per month and suspend all 
interest and charges.you will continue to receive statements which will request the 
overdue payments on the accountplease ignore these requests for payment. We would 
like to make you aware that making reduced or no payments may affect your future credit 
rating and your ability to obtain credit in the future. It could mean a default is registered 
against you. So  Mrs S was told that she didnt need to make any payments  but she was 
also told that even so - defaults could be registered.
Ive looked at other correspondence sent to Mrs S. The statements sent to her do show the 
amount of the arrears each month  and warned of what might happen if payments werent 
made. For example, in April 2019, the statement shows arrears of £26.03 and says, You 
have failed to make a minimum paymentfailing to make your minimum paymentresult in 
us taking legal action against you. To be fair to Mrs S  she was told in NewDays letter in 
July 2019  that she could ignore the requests for payment on the statements, so I can see 
why she didnt pay the amounts due - and ignored any warnings on them.
But - In July 2019, Mrs S was sent a Notice of Sums in Arrears, with the balance at £859.17 
debit. This said Doing nothing could make things worsethe lender could take legal action 
against you There had also been a Notice of Sums in Arrears sent in May 2019  with the 
same text. And the Default Notice dated 3 June 2019 said You must pay £77.69 by 24th 
June 2019What will happen if I dont pay before the date shown? Well terminate your 
credit agreement with us, close your credit card account and ask you to pay the full account 
balance immediately. If we terminate your credit agreement, we may sell your account to a 
third party. We will also share details of the status of your account with credit reference 
agencies which may make it harder for you to get credit in the future. So  the letters Mrs S 
were clear  that legal action could take place and credit reference agencies notified.
When Mrs S called NewDay in September 2019, she says she was told not to worry. And 
she therefore thought that she didnt need to do anything. At that time, she was on an 
agreed plan with NewDay  to make no payments for six months from July 2019 until January 2020. Mrs S thought that this also meant that no legal action would take place. The 
call isnt available for us to listen to. So, we cannot be sure what was said. The call handler 
might have said  not to worry about making payments  which wouldve been correct. But  
that doesnt mean to say that a default wouldnt be registered. Ive seen the notes of the call 
in July 2019 and they say 6 month hold for six months 15.7.19-15.1.20  so they dont help, 
but they dont say that any legal action should be stopped either.
Looking at the timing of the default notices. Mrs S last made a payment in April 2019. The 
default was registered on 31 October 2019  after six months of missed payments - so 
NewDay acted within the rules here. NewDay didnt register the default ahead of when they 
could have.
I have every sympathy with Mrs S situation. I can see she acted with all good intentions. 
She says that had she realised what would happen, she couldve found a way to pay off the 
arrears. But - I must take a decision based on the balance of evidence here. And  I have to 
say that given the letters and notices that Mrs S was sent, she shouldve been aware that a 
default would be registered. And  NewDay have followed their processes and acted 
correctly.
Weve discussed Mrs S situation with NewDay. As theyve acted correctly, the default has to 
stay on Mrs S credit file. But - NewDay have told us that they dont intend to pursue Mrs S 
for the outstanding balance, which may help with her financial situation. Thats not to say 
NewDay or any agents they appoint to deal with the debt wont ask her for payment in the 
future. Its just that at the present time, theyve told us theyre not actively seeking payment 
of the debt. But if Mrs S situation changes, then she should contact NewDay about this. So 
 I hope this gives Mrs S some help at the present time.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mrs S argued strongly that:
She had made all payments to NewDay over the period she had the card, without 
fail, and showed us evidence of that.
My provisional decision showed that procedures are more important than her 
personal situation.
She repeated that NewDay told her she could ignore requests for payment, and she 
didnt realise this meant that a default would be registered. She said the letter dated 
15 July 2019 gave her false hope. 
She referred to her call to NewDay on 21 September 2019  when she was told not 
to worry, and no payments were needed and (in Mrs S words) overriding also the 
request for payment to prevent the default from being registered.
She referred to her call to NewDays complaints department in August 2020  she 
said theyd listened then to the call made in September 2019 and they confirmed 
that in the recording I was very upset and reassured by Customer Care Officer that I 
should not worry about the default notice.
NewDay said:The calls covering September 2019 have been deleted  they showed evidence that 
theyd searched their records for them.
The content of what was discussed between Mrs S and the complaints department in 
August 2020 was contained in their letter which was sent following the call  on 1 
October 2020. This said Our CCT received a call on 25 September 2019, because 
you had received the letter of 18 September 2019. You were unhappy that a Default 
was going to be recorded on your credit file. It was explained that this was in line with 
our usual process. 
NewDay showed us again the complaint departments notes of that call  they had 
listened to it - and recorded that it said She was unhappy that a Default was going to 
be recorded on her credit file. It was explained that this was in line with our usual 
process.
The default was registered correctly  and they must record accurate information of 
payment history.
NewDay said that apart from the call in question, Mrs S has been sent at least three 
letters which said that a default could be registered. So, she shouldve been aware 
that it could happen.
So  I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I really do have every sympathy for Mrs S situation, but I have to reach a decision based on 
the balance of evidence and what I think was said to her on the call in September 2019.
I agree with NewDay that Mrs S had received several letters which said a default might be 
registered.
I can see that Mrs S interpreted the letter dated 15 July 2019 as only meaning that she could 
make reduced payments  but it also said, We would like to make you aware that making 
reduced or no payments may affect your future credit rating and your ability to obtain credit 
in the future.
Its unfortunate that the call from September 2019 has been deleted  but equally, NewDay 
listened to that call at the time of their discussion with Mrs S in August 2020 and noted its 
content in their final response  and said it said that a default might be registered. I cant 
make a finding against NewDay just because theyve deleted the call. I did find a note in 
NewDays records to say they intended to retain the call  but this didnt happen. It is very 
disappointing NewDay no longer has the call recording, particularly given its records show it 
has noted the importance of the call and it should be retained in order to help any 
investigation from this service. But  notwithstanding this, I must make a decision based on 
what I think was said and on the overall balance of evidence.
On balance, I still tend to the view that the call handler probably tried to reassure Mrs S  
given her illness - and said  not to worry about payments which were being put on hold, and 
not to worry about the letters she might get  but this is a different thing to stating that a 
default wouldnt be registered. And  all lenders, including NewDay, have an obligation to record accurate information at 
credit reference agencies. They can only change these if theres been an error. And in 
fairness here, I cannot say that NewDay made a mistake. And so, the default must remain 
on Mrs Ss credit file. 
NewDay have told us that they wont be asking Mrs S to make any more payments to her 
debt, and nor will her debt ever be sold to a third party for collection  so I hope that helps 
Mrs S in some way.
So - I know Mrs S will be very disappointed by my final decision  but Im not going to ask 
NewDay to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman