DRN-3618115
The complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide Building Society unfairly closed his account and failed to 
take a report of fraud seriously.
What happened
Mr Hs account received a number of requests for direct debits that werent authorised by Mr 
H. Mr H noticed them and was able to cancel them, preventing any loss of his funds. He 
reported this to Nationwide.
Mr H didnt believe that Nationwide had taken the issue seriously and made a complaint. As 
part of their investigation into the direct debits, Nationwide provided Mr H with a new account 
and closed his old one. When Nationwide responded to Mr H, they recognised that they 
could have given him better service when they dealt with this issue and made a payment of 
£40 to recognise the level of service hed experienced.
Later, Nationwide carried out a review of Mr Hs accounts and decided to end their 
relationship with him. Nationwide issued a 60-day notice to close the account and Mr H 
made a further complaint about the conduct of the staff member who spoke with him.
After the 60-day period had elapsed, Nationwide closed Mr Hs account and issued a final 
response letter, declining his complaint. Mr H remained unhappy with how hed been treated 
and brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review.
Mr Hs complaint was looked into by one of our investigators who reviewed information about 
the complaint from both parties. She thought that Nationwide had acted reasonably when 
theyd closed Mr Hs account and didnt think that the fraud issue had been ignored by them. 
Our investigator also thought that Nationwide had treated Mr H fairly during his membership 
and didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr H disagreed and wanted a further review of his complaint which has now been passed to 
me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H had a broad complaint about his treatment by Nationwide, including specifics that were 
addressed in the investigators outcome. Here, Ill concentrate my comments on what I think 
is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
It's apparent from reading the information provided by both parties that Mr H was generally 
unhappy with his membership of Nationwide, which hed had for a relatively short period of 
time. Nationwide on their part didnt think that they were the right banking provider for Mr H 
and decided to close his account.
So, first Ill address the fraud complaint raised by Mr H regarding the direct debits set up on 
is account. I noted that Mr H didnt suffer any financial loss, although I recognise that the 
potential for loss would have been worrying for him at the time. What happened here is that 
the direct debits were processed electronically from another organisation, who, it appears, 
had sufficient information to request that Nationwide set up the direct debits from Mr Hs 
account.
The direct debit system is largely automated and requires the requesting organisation to 
properly process the direct debit request which is then sent electronically through to 
Nationwide. Direct debits are backed by a guarantee and the likelihood of loss for an 
incorrectly completed one is generally small. Here, because Mr H has said he wasnt 
responsible for setting up the direct debit, it couldnt have been considered as an authorised 
transaction and Nationwide wouldnt have had the authority to carry out the instruction to 
send the money via a direct debit.
Nationwide relied on the information they received from the other organisation and thats 
usually sufficient to correctly set up the direct debit. I noted that Nationwide told Mr H that 
because the operation was automated, there was no error on their part. I dont think thats 
necessarily fair to Mr H because he relies on Nationwide to protect his accounts. But here 
there was no loss to him financially and Nationwide eventually issued a different account to 
overcome the problem. I dont think that Nationwide ignored Mr Hs issue with the direct 
debits although their response could have been quicker.
I think the £40 payment for the service he received concerning Nationwides delays was a 
reasonable way for then to recognise the lack of service and speed of response Mr H 
experienced and I wont be asking Nationwide to do anything further.
Account closure
The decision to close an account is something that both parties can choose to do. 
Nationwide carried out an internal review, after which they made the decision to stop 
providing banking services to Mr H. Nationwide gave Mr H 60 days notice that his account 
was to close which is in line the terms of the account. I dont think that Nationwide acted 
unreasonably here, and I wont be asking them to re-open it. 
Customer service
Mr H also had other issues with how Nationwide treated him, and I can see there were 
several other complaints raised throughout his membership with them. Im only going to 
address the specific issues investigated by Nationwide and brought to our service. 
Essentially Mr H believed that he was treated poorly when he was told about the closure of 
his account. Ive only had opportunity to read the notes of the call between Mr H and a call 
handler and its apparent that Mr H was unhappy with how the call went.
This call was to advise Mr H about the closure of his account which would no doubt have 
been stressful for Mr H. I havent seen anything that would indicate Mr H was treated unfairly 
here, although I do appreciate his frustration at not being able to speak with a manager at 
the time. Nationwide told Mr H the next steps available to him if he wanted to complain 
further about the issue, which I think was an appropriate way for Nationwide to direct the 
call. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman