DRN-3043424
The complaint
Mrs H complains about how UK Insurance Limited (UKI) handled her claim on her home 
insurance. 
What happened
Mrs H had home insurance with UKI up until 2014. In 2015 she made a claim after she 
discovered a slow leak at her property which had likely started when she had insurance with 
it. UKI accepted the claim.
Over the months that followed, UKI sent out a number of contractors. Mrs H wasnt happy 
with how the claim was handled or the work carried out by the first contractors. She made a 
number of complaints throughout the claim. 
In 2018 UKI appointed a new contractor to review the work completed so far and put 
together a snagging list of outstanding repairs. However Mrs H said this didnt include all the 
work necessary to fix the damage caused by the leak and the problems caused by the poor 
work of the previous contractor. She also thought it had taken too long for the contractors to 
put together the list. She made another complaint to UKI.
UKI responded to her complaint to say that it was waiting for her to confirm if there were any 
additional items she felt should be added to the snagging list. However it accepted there had 
been some delays and it offered £200 compensation to make up for this. 
Mrs H wasnt happy with this response. She said a previous contractor appointed by UKI had 
provided a scope of works and the snagging list didnt include all the work included in the 
first scope. She brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  She said UKIs contractors had 
put together a snagging list, and while Mrs H had queried it, she hadnt provided anything to 
show that it was missing items. She also thought the £200 compensation was reasonable for 
the avoidable delays UKI had caused. 
Mrs H didnt agree and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
My provisional findings
When the complaint came to me, I reviewed everything and came to a different outcome to 
our investigator. Mrs H had provided a copy of a previous scope of works that she said 
included additional repairs to the more recent one. And UKI had not provided reasons for 
this difference. So I wasnt satisfied that UKI had done enough to show that all necessary 
repairs were covered by the new snagging list. 
I therefore recommended UKI appoint an independent surveyor to attend Mrs Hs property, 
assess the damage and put together a report on the necessary repairs. I wrote to Mrs H and 
UKI and they both agreed to this course of action.
After the independent surveyor attended, he provided a report. This concluded that there 
was a significant damp problem at Mrs Hs property that was unrelated to the escape of 
water. And work to fix this would need to be completed before any repairs could be carried 
out to rectify problems that were related to the claim. However he also identified outstanding 
work that UKI were liable for as part of the claim. 
I assessed the report and concluded that UKI should carry out all work the surveyor 
identified that was or might be attributed to the original escape of water. However due to the 
extent of the other, unrelated, issues he identified, I thought it should cash settle at the 
amount it would cost Mrs H to have the work carried out that is covered by her policy. The 
independent surveyor costed this at £3,556. I also thought UKI should pay an additional 
£500 compensation to make up for the delays it had caused.
The work that is required is detailed in the report, however for avoidance of doubt, the parts 
that I thought UKI should accept liability for are as follows:
Main living room
Damaged and contaminated plaster should be taken back to brickwork, and the area re-
rendered and plaster set, incorporating a salt inhibitor. Redecoration of the whole wall 
with emulsion paint will also be required.
The plaster around the socket back-box requires renewal and refitting of the socket 
plate, and the length of skirting renewed. Remedial redecoration will be required.
Head of door opening at rear of living room - prior to redecoration, the staining required 
sealing with a stain blocker to prevent the staining burning through new emulsion paint 
decoration.
The staining to the plaster of the frieze warrants sealing with a stain blocker to prevent 
the staining burning through the redecoration. The anaglypta type paper requires 
renewal along the frieze of the rear wall. However, if the anaglypta paper pattern is no 
longer available, the frieze of the whole room will require renewal with an alternative 
pattern acceptable to the Insured, thereafter emulsion painted.
Remedy the overbrushing of emulsion paint on the picture rails.
Ground Floor Hallway
Renewal of wallpaper in ground floor hallway.
First Floor landing of rear addition
Bulkhead wall  preparation and repainting with emulsion
Renewal of skirting board including preparation and re-decoration.
The landing face of the partition wall with the front of the bedroom, the landing wall to the 
right of the bathroom  remedial work to surface finish and re-decorate. 
Re-wallpaper landing.
First floor bathroom
Renew cracked tile and refill missing grouting.
Remove smear of sealant. 
Ceiling  surface to be prepared by removing the loose and flaking paintwork, removal of 
mould then an application of a sealer/mist coat to bare plaster before an application of 
two coat emulsion.
I wrote to UKI and Mrs H to explain my provisional findings. UKI accepted my proposed 
resolution. However Mrs H didnt. She said the electrics at her property had been badly 
affected by the escape of water so thought the re-wiring of the property should be covered 
as part of the claim. She also thought UKI should carry out the work itself and didnt think the 
cash settlement proposed was enough to cover the work required. She said she had already 
started work on the other issues, so thought UKI should fix the claim related issues once this work was complete.
Ive considered Mrs Hs response, and all the points she has made, when reaching my final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H has said she doesnt think the work identified in the independent report covers all the 
required repairs that UKI should be liable for. She says that the escape of water caused 
significant damage to the electrics and this should be covered as well.
Ive considered this along with the independent surveyors report and all other information 
provided by each side. And I dont think theres enough evidence to show that the damage to 
the electrics was caused by the original escape of water. But instead is more likely due to 
the significant damp problems as the property. The surveyor states in his report:
From my experience, including involvement in major escapes of water from within building, 
and major flooding of buildings from external sources, the electrical cabling is more often 
than not unaffected, but it is the electrical fittings such as socket plates, switch plates, light 
fittings and such like that warrant renewal.
So in the absence of any evidence that the electrics were affected at the time, and 
considering the damp problems the surveyor identified, it seems most likely this was the 
cause of the damage to the electrics. So I wont ask UKI to rectify these problems.
Mrs H has also said she thinks UKI should carry out the work itself, rather than cash settling. 
I have considered this and I understand Mrs Hs reasons for the preference. However 
considering the amount of work thats required before the repairs UKI is liable for can begin, 
I think its reasonable for UKI to cash settle. The claim has already been ongoing for a 
number of years, and as the repairs are reliant on other work completing, there would be no 
clear start date for UKIs repairs to begin. And I dont think it would be fair to ask it to keep 
the claim open indefinitely. 
Further, the cash settlement will allow Mrs H the possibility of using the same contractors for 
both the uninsured and insured work. Which would mean there would be less disruption 
overall. 
So while I understand Mrs Hs preference that the work is carried out by UKI, I think the most 
reasonable resolution is for UKI to pay Mrs H the cash settlement of £3,556 as quoted by the 
independent expert for the work outlined above in my provisional findings. 
Mrs H has also said she doesnt think this amount is enough to cover the work listed. 
However she hasnt provided any evidence to show that this is the case. As the independent 
surveyor has provided costings of the work, Im satisfied that this is a fair amount. 
If additional costs that werent identified before become apparent while the work is being 
carried out that Mrs H thinks UKI should be responsible for, then she should provide 
evidence of these costs to UKI and Id expect it to consider them.
I also said in my provisional findings that I thought UKI should pay an additional £500 
compensation to make up for the delays it has caused during the claim. As UKI has 
accepted this and Mrs H hasnt provided anything to contest this, I see no reason to depart from this part of my decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I require UK Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mrs H £3,556 as cash settlement for the outstanding repairs its liable for.
Pay Mrs H an additional £500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman