DRN-3590876
The complaint
Mr B complains that New India Assurance Company Limited cancelled his motor insurance 
policy. He wants the cancellation marker removed. 
What happened
Mr B took out a policy with New India and his broker requested proof of his No Claims 
Discount (NCD) to validate the policy. This wasnt provided and so the policy was cancelled. 
Mr B said this was an honest mistake and he provided the document as soon as he realised 
the error. He wants the cancellation marker removed. New India said the broker had 
cancelled the policy and it didnt have any evidence to offer. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the broker 
was acting for New India and so New India was responsible for the cancellation. In the 
absence of other evidence, he relied on Mr Bs testimony. And he thought the policy had 
been unfairly cancelled. He thought New India should remove the cancellation marker and 
provide Mr B with a letter saying that the cancellation had been made in error. 
New India didnt respond to the Investigators view, so the complaint has come to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen from Mr Bs Certificate of Insurance that New India is the underwriter for his policy. 
The underwriter, not the administrator, is regulated to effect and carry out contracts of 
insurance, including cancellation of a policy. And so the complaint should be against New 
India, not the policys administrator. Also, the broker says that it was acting for New India 
and, as it was New Indias agent, then Im satisfied that New India is responsible for the 
cancellation of Mr Bs policy. So Ive looked to see whether the cancellation was fair and 
reasonable. 
New India provided a timeline of events leading up to the cancellation. It said proof of NCD 
was requested and then chased by letter and email. But I cant see whether these were sent 
to the correct addresses. A notice of cancellation was then sent, and then the policy 
cancelled. Mr B didnt respond until four weeks later. He said he didnt know why the policy 
had cancelled. And he immediately took out a new policy and provided the required proof. 
Without further evidence from new India to show that the emails and letters were sent to the 
correct addresses, I cant reasonably say that Mr B received them or should have acted 
sooner. Mr B said he hadnt received these requests for his NCD proof. And I have no 
reason to disbelieve him as he was able to provide it immediately he was told this was the 
reason for the cancellation. And so I think the policy was unfairly cancelled. 
Mr B wants records of the cancellation removed. Cancellations arent recorded on the 
Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE), but New India has told Mr B that he would have 
to disclose the cancellation to future insurers. 
So, to put things right, I think New India should remove records of the cancellation from any 
databases where its been recorded and provide Mr B with a letter saying that the 
cancellation was made in error. He can then show this to his current insurer to have his 
policy rerated. 
Putting things right
I require New India Assurance Company Limited to do the following:
1. Remove records of the cancellation from any internal or external databases where its 
been recorded.
2. Provide Mr B with a letter stating that the cancellation was made in error, that it has 
removed the cancellation, and that he doesnt need to declare this to future insurers. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require New 
India Assurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman