DRN-4257621
The complaint
Mr D complains he was irresponsibly provided with unaffordable credit card accounts and 
credit limit increases by NewDay Ltd.
What happened
Mr D was provided with two credit card accounts from NewDay under the brands Marbles 
and Argos.
The below table provides the details of these accounts and NewDays lending decisions:
Brand Lending decision Date Limit
Marbles Original limit January 2016 £300
Marbles 1st increase May 2016 £950
Marbles 2nd increase September 2016 £2,000
Marbles 3rd increase July 2017 £3,000
Marbles 4th increase July 2018 £4,250
Marbles 5th increase January 2019 £5,750
Argos Original limit September 2020 £500
Mr D complained to NewDay in 2022 saying had it completed reasonable and proportionate 
checks it would have identified all lending decisions were unaffordable for him. When 
NewDay didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint he brought it to our service for review.  
Our investigator reviewed Mr Ds complaint and upheld it in part. She concluded NewDay 
hadnt made fair lending decisions from July 2018 onwards. NewDay didnt respond to our 
investigators assessment, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I recently issued a provisional decision where I set out, with reasons, my initial thoughts on 
this case and what I was intending to decide. As previously agreed with Mr D my provisional 
decision, and therefore this final decision, focuses on the lending events complained about 
within six years of when this complaint was referred to NewDay; so, from September 2016 
onwards. 
The following is an extract from my recent provisional decision:
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website; and both Mr D and NewDay are aware of this.
NewDay needed to take reasonable steps to ensure the lending it provided was responsibly 
lent to Mr D. The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time of each of NewDays 
lending decisions required it to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. These 
checks needed to assess Mr Ds ability to afford the credit limit being approved and repay it 
sustainably, without causing him financial difficulties or harm.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as the borrowers individual circumstances.
And it isnt sufficient for NewDay to just complete proportionate checks  it must also 
consider the information it obtained from these checks to make fair lending decisions. This 
includes not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring repayments can be 
made sustainably without the need to borrow further.
Ive carefully considered all of this when reaching my decision.
Marbles credit card  2nd limit increase onwards  September 2016 to January 2019
For these limit increases NewDay completed a credit check and reviewed Mr Ds 
management of the account up to each lending event. It didnt obtain up-to-date income 
details for Mr D; or request details of his monthly expenditure at any of these lending events. 
At the point of the 2nd limit increase, NewDays checks identified Mr Ds total outstanding 
debt had increased from around £500 to around £9,000. The management of this account 
also showed that since the 1st limit increase Mr D was no longer clearing his total balance in 
full each month, and was instead generally made much lower payments (although higher 
than the contractual minimum payments). 
Mr Ds total outstanding debt and management of his account was relatively similar when 
NewDay completed its checks for the 3rd limit increase. 
However, when NewDay increased Mr Ds credit limit for the 4th and 5th times, his total 
outstanding debt had again increased, to around £12,500 and £20,500. His management of 
the account had remained relatively consistent with generally lower payments being made 
on a monthly basis; however, these were again higher than the contractual minimum 
payment due. Mr Ds use of the available limit had also changed across this period  he had 
started to utilise the limit to a higher level, and at times was close to the credit limit; although 
his balance never went above the available limit, and he incurred just one late payment fee 
during this time. The credit checks across all of these lending events showed no defaults, 
CCJs or arrears across any of Mr Ds existing credit commitments. So, the credit checks 
suggested although Mr Ds total credit had increased, he was managing his accounts well.
Taking into account the level of the limit being provided at the 2nd increase, together with the 
significant increase in debt within six months of NewDays previous limit increase, and the 
change to Mr Ds management of this account, Im persuaded NewDays checks werent 
proportionate from the 2nd limit increase onwards.
I consider NewDays checks should have gone that extra step to review Mr Ds income and 
understand his regular monthly expenditure on non-discretionary expenses, as well as 
understanding his existing credit commitments, as it did. By reviewing Mr Ds income and 
obtaining information about his regular monthly expenditure NewDay would have been able 
to build a full picture of Mr Ds overall financial circumstances at the time of these lending 
decisions; and satisfy itself that Mr D would be able to sustainably afford to repay this credit. 
Our investigator asked Mr D for his bank statements for the months leading up to these limit 
increases, to obtain an accurate picture of his financial situation around these events. Mr D 
has said hes unable to provide us with his statements; but he has provided us with details of 
his income and expenditure around the times of these limit increases, which he has 
confirmed generally remained consistent across all lending events. In the absence of any other information, Ive considered this evidence to understand what proportionate checks 
would likely have shown NewDay around the time of each of these lending events.
Mr D has confirmed his income was around £1,800 at the point of the 2nd limit increase and 
over the course of the following credit limit increases. He has said his regular expenditure 
totalled just over £600 and was broken down as around £520 per month (£120 per week 
declared by Mr D) on rent and council tax, an average of around £55 towards a mobile 
phone, and an average of around £50 a month towards costs associated with his studying. 
This would have left Mr D with just under £1,200 per month for other living costs such as 
food and travel, and payments towards his other credit commitments as evidenced within the 
credit file checks NewDay completed, as well as making payments towards this credit card.
While I acknowledge Mr D had a relatively high level of outstanding debt at the point of the 
5th increase, based on the testimony Mr D has provided NewDays checks would likely have 
identified that this was around 75% of his income; so while not unsignificant it wasnt at an 
unreasonable level. Mr D has confirmed that a large proportion of this was in relation to a car 
purchase, and as such had a fixed term and fixed monthly repayments, rather than 
consisting of opened ended revolving credit that may have had a higher available level of 
credit. And as Ive found above, the credit checks NewDay completed show Mr D appears to 
have been maintaining his existing credit well. 
In the absence of any conflicting information, I consider the amount of disposable income 
obtained from Mr Ds testimony was at a reasonable level for him to have been able to 
reasonably maintain his living costs and other credit commitments, as well as sustainably 
afford to repay the credit limit increases NewDay approved. 
So, it therefore follows Im satisfied had NewDay completed reasonable and proportionate 
checks it would still have reached the same lending decisions, which I currently consider 
were fair.
If Mr D is able to provide any further information evidencing his financial situation around the 
times of these lending decisions, such as bank statements for the months leading up to the 
events, or his full credit file, I will of course review this prior to issuing my final decision.
Argos credit card  the original limit  September 2020
In September 2020 Mr D was approved with a £500 limit under an Argos branded card. At 
the point of this application NewDay obtained details of Mr Ds income, declared as £40,000 
by Mr D, and completed a credit file check.
The results of the credit check showed Mr Ds total indebtedness at this point had increased 
slightly to around £21,300. The check also showed that Mr D was managing his existing 
credit commitments well, with no defaults, CCJs or arrears having been reported. 
At the point of this lending NewDay had a history with Mr D and should have used that 
history, in part, to influence its lending decision. 
Had it reviewed Mr Ds Marbles account it would have identified that he requested a credit 
limit decrease to £500 in January 2020, around nine months before this lending application. 
Ive reviewed the contact notes to identify the reason for this decrease request; but they 
dont provide any insight other than to confirm the decrease request was received and 
actioned, and that Mr D was advised he may not be able to increase the limit within a six-
month period. So, Im unable to safely conclude Mr D made NewDay aware of a reason for 
the decrease request; and therefore, that NewDay should have been on notice that Mr D 
was experiencing possible financial difficulties around this time.Mr D told our investigator that he took out a loan in around January 2020 and used this to 
consolidate his outstanding balance on his Marbles card. So, it appears Mr D responsibly 
asked NewDay to reduce the limit to stop further spending. But, as it doesnt appear this 
information was known to NewDay at the point of this application (or at least theres no 
evidence to suggest this), I dont consider it needed to be concerned about the limit 
decrease on the Marbles card and therefore consider it as part of its lending decision here. 
Mr D was applying for a relatively modest limit and had declared a relatively sizeable 
income. While the information NewDay obtained from its credit check showed Mr D had a 
higher level of outstanding debt, this was now at around 50% of his declared income. 
NewDays credit checks suggested his existing credit was being maintained well, and I dont 
consider there was anything from the management of his Marbles card which ought to have 
been of concern to NewDay, or prompted further checks at this lending decision.
So, for these reasons I think NewDays checks were reasonable and proportionate based on 
the terms of credit being provided; and that it went on to make a fair lending decision based 
on these reasonable and proportionate checks. 
I understand Mr D has said he was struggling financially throughout these lending events, 
and ultimately entered into a Debt Arrangement Scheme in late 2020. While I acknowledge 
this event, which took place after NewDays lending decisions, based on Mr Ds testimony 
and the documentary evidence currently available to me, I cant safely conclude NewDays 
lending decisions were unfair.
NewDay responded and accepted my provisional decision. Mr D responded to say he didnt 
accept it. He felt that he had been penalised because NewDay hadnt responded to our 
investigators assessment and the case had therefore been reviewed by an ombudsman and 
the outcome overturned. He provided a copy of his full credit file for my consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the further evidence Mr D has provided, Ive not seen anything which leads 
me to depart from the conclusions I reached within my provisional decision.
I say this because the information within the credit file Mr D has provided largely supports 
the information NewDay reviewed at each of the lending events Ive considered. Theres no 
contradictory information leading me to conclude that NewDay ought reasonably to have 
been aware of any further information than it had available to it at the times of its lending 
decisions. And theres nothing to contradict the findings within my provisional decision that 
these lending decisions were affordable for Mr D.
So, Im therefore satisfied the lending decisions that I have considered were fairly provided 
by NewDay. I say this because:
Although I dont consider NewDays checks were proportionate from the 2nd limit 
increase onwards on the Marbles branded card; based on the testimony provided by 
Mr D its likely had NewDay completed proportionate checks at each increase that it 
would have reasonably reached the same decision to increase the credit limit at each 
event; and 
The checks NewDay completed for the initial credit limit provided to Mr D on the 
Argos branded card were reasonable and proportionate, based on the terms of credit being provided and the information NewDay already had and obtained about Mr Ds 
financial circumstances at that time.
It therefore follows Im satisfied that for the lending events I have considered NewDay made 
fair lending decisions when providing Mr D with credit.
I appreciate Mr D will be disappointed with this outcome, but Id like to assure him Ive 
carefully considered all of the available evidence when reaching this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my recent provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Mr Ds complaint and therefore dont require NewDay Ltd to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman