DRN-2335390
The complaint
Mr Ks representative has complained, on his behalf, about the advice he received from 
Insight Financial Associates Limited in 2012 to transfer his existing Personal Pension Policy 
(PPP) to a Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). 
Mr K was advised to invest in a deposit based, structured product, and he says that he was 
told hed obtain better returns by doing so. But he says that he wasnt made aware of the 
true nature of some of the underlying funds within the investments or the full impact of the 
charges associated with the transfer. 
 
What happened
In late 2012, Mr K was referred to Insight by a friend and a fact finding exercise was 
undertaken to establish his circumstances and objectives. It was recorded that he had an 
existing PPP with Friends Life valued at approximately £80,000, invested equally between a 
managed fund and a retirement distribution fund. There was a transfer penalty of £1,600 (2% 
of the overall value) and there was an annual fund charge of 1%. Mr Ks anticipated 
retirement age was 60 and he had a medium risk attitude.
Insight recommended that he transfer to a Succession SIPP within which it advised 
investment in a structured product called Gilliat Multi-Asset Deposit Plus. This was 
described as a deposit based investment with a term of six years, which aimed to pay a full 
return of capital, in addition to interest, at the end of the term. It had an underlying asset 
base of UK and global equities, UK gilts and corporate bonds, as well as commodities such 
as gold.
Mr K accepted the recommendation, transferring his funds and investing £75,000 into the 
structured product. He would continue to make regular contributions, which Insight said 
would initially also be held in cash.
Unfortunately, at the end of the six year term, the investment had made no return. Mr Ks 
representative complained on his behalf, but Insight didnt uphold the complaint. It said that 
Mr K had been made aware of how the structured product worked and was happy with the 
proposal. It further commented that the investment carried a low to medium risk rating and 
was therefore suited to Mr Ks risk attitude. 
Insight also said that the SIPP wasnt a true SIPP but a hybrid between a SIPP and a PPP, 
which meant that the charges were lower than a typical SIPP, but with the ability to invest in 
a wider range of products, including this one.
Insight gave Mr K referral rights to this service, but said that it felt Mr K fell foul of our time 
limits for such referrals. In support of this, it said that the recommendation had been made 
more than six years before it received Mr Ks complaint and that he would have been aware 
of the nature of the investment, and its value  and so would have had knowledge of cause 
for complaint - more than three years before he raised his concerns.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr Ks representative referred it to this service. Our 
investigator considered the matter and firstly addressed Insights position on Mr K having 
exceeded our time limits.
He said hed seen valuations sent to Mr K between 2017 and 2020, but none of these 
showed any movement in valuation, interest payments received or predictions as to 
performance. He noted that Mr K had said that he only became aware of an issue when he 
realised that he wouldnt be receiving any return from the investment. Hed also said that 
hed received reassurances from Insights representative that hed see returns at the end of 
the six year term.
The investigator noted that Mr K had contacted his representative within two months of the 
investment maturing in January 2019.
The investigator was therefore of the view that Mr K hadnt known, nor ought reasonably to 
have known, that he had cause for complaint until the investment matured. And so he 
considered that the complaint had been made in time.
In terms of the merits of the complaint, he said the following in summary:
A comparison of the charges between his existing plan and those of the SIPP (and 
subsequent investment) demonstrated that the latter had upfront implementation and 
product charges amounting to 10%, in addition to further platform and ongoing advice 
fees amounting to a further 1.35%. There were further initial costs (a dealing charge 
and transfer charge totalling £65) and an annual administration cost of £100.
The PPP had a 1% annual fund charge on accumulation units, and a 4.5% charge on 
capital units  those which are bought in the early stages of a policys life.
The investigator therefore concluded that the overall charges in the SIPP and 
associated investment were higher than those Mr K had been paying in the PPP.
He also noted that Mr K had paid a transfer penalty of £1,600 when leaving his PPP.
Overall, the investigator wasnt persuaded that Mr K had been made sufficiently 
aware of the likely higher costs involved in the new arrangement.
The investigator also noted that it was Mr Ks position that he had sought better 
returns and higher growth, whereas Insight had said that he wished to reduce the 
volatility in his pension fund and protect his capital.
There was some evidence in statements agreed by Mr K in determining his attitude 
to risk, that he would be worried about a loss greater than 5% over a 12 month 
period, but the investigator didnt think that this necessarily indicated an overly 
cautious risk attitude, or that Mr K wanted capital security at all costs, including fund 
growth. 
In support of this, the investigator noted that Mr K had said in other sections of the 
risk assessment that he agreed with the classification of a balanced investor who 
would be prepared to take some risk for the sake of fund growth.
But he didnt think the possibility of there being no fund growth at all had been made 
sufficiently clear to Mr K. 
The investigator also observed that none of Mr Ks regular contributions over the 
years had been invested  instead remaining in cash, generating minimal or no 
return.
Any volatility in medium risk funds could be moderated throughout the 20 or so years 
remaining in Mr Ks working life, and only in the final stages of this type of investment 
period would it normally be expected that fund changes would be made to start to 
protect capital. There were also no particularly adverse market conditions in 2012 
which might have necessitated a move into capital secure products.The recommended investment locked Mr K into a six years investment, during which 
he was unable to monitor its performance. Rather, he was reliant on illustrations hed 
been given showing projected growth of 10% and this, Mr K had said, was the driver 
behind accepting the investment advice. This also corroborated Mr Ks keenness to 
see healthy returns, the investigator said.
In summary, the investigator said that he thought the complaint should be upheld, and that 
fair compensation would take the form of a comparison of the performance of Mr Ks SIPP 
with that of his existing PPP with Friends Life. But if that wasnt possible, the investigator 
said that the return in the SIPP should be compared against one of our benchmarks for 
assessing loss, using a combination of the FTSE Private Investors Income Total Return 
Index and the average rate from fixed rate bonds.
He also recommended that Insight pay Mr K £200 for the trouble and upset caused to him by 
its unsuitable advice.
Insight disagreed, however, saying the following:
It was clear from the suitability report that there was always the possibility that there 
could be no return on the Gilliat investment. It strongly disagreed that this hadnt 
been made clear or that any promise of an interest payment had been made to Mr K.
The costs, and comparison of these against the PPP, had also been set out clearly 
for Mr K, and he had also signed a disclosure agreement, confirming his awareness 
of the costs.
Mr K had also indicted that he wanted an advisory service, which is not something he 
had experienced before.
Mr K wanted to invest in a deposit based product which would protect his capital. He 
was fully informed that it was a six year investment with the possibility of receiving 
just the capital back  with no return.
Insight couldnt locate illustrations which predicted 10% growth. But the suitability 
report and other documents made it clear to Mr K how the product worked.
The investigator responded to say that, although the suitability report may have made Mr K 
aware that there might be no interest payment at the end of the six year term, the focus was 
on the overall suitability of the advice to transfer and invest in the structured product.
He further said that, although Mr K had been recorded as wanting to invest in a deposit 
based product to protect his capital, he didnt think the available evidence supported this. He 
noted that his attitude to risk had been described as medium and that this was described in 
the suitability report as being someone who was prepared to accept a medium degree of 
risk, in that your investments may fall in value as well as rise, with potential of higher returns 
over the long term.
Some interest may have been expressed by Mr K in protecting his capital, but the 
investigator remained of the view that, as confirmed to him by Mr K, the prospect of better 
returns was the driving force here. 
The investigator also remained of the view that the true cost of the Gilliat investment wasnt 
made sufficiently clear to Mr K. But moreover, his position remained that the 
recommendation wasnt suitable for Mr K, as his circumstances and attitude to risk werent 
consistent with this type of investment, especially given his age, and that hed lost out on 
potential investment growth in a more appropriate investment.
Insight disagreed, however, and so its been passed to me for review.What Ive decided  and why
Ive noted that objections were raised by Insight to us looking at the case, as it considered 
that Mr K had referred his complaint to us too late. Following the investigators assessment, 
it hasnt repeated that objection, instead focussing on the merits of the complaint. But for the 
sake of completeness, my view on this is the same as that expressed by the investigator. I 
dont think its likely that Mr K had, or ought reasonably to have had, reason for knowledge of 
complaint before he actually raised his concerns.
It seems likely to me that, if hed had cause for complaint by virtue of receiving information 
about the product when he first invested, he wouldnt have accepted the recommendation in 
the first place. It was only later, when he realised that the investment had produced no 
return, that he gained this awareness. And as with the investigator, my view is that no 
information he received in the interim as to the progress of the investment would reasonably 
have given him cause for concern.
So my view is that the matter is in time and falls within our jurisdiction.  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im broadly in agreement with the findings of the investigator, but perhaps 
with more focus upon the general suitability aspects of the investment rather than issues of 
disclosure of its features.
To explain, even if I am to accept that the key features of the recommended investment were 
set out in a fair and misleading fashion  although, as with the investigator, I have concerns 
relating to the disclosure of costs  I dont think the advice was suitable. And this may be the 
case, irrespective of clarity in the conveyance of the rationale for a recommendation.
And Ill firstly dwell upon the issue of Mr Ks circumstances and objectives. There is 
disagreement here between the investigator and Insight as to what Mr Ks objective was, be 
it a greater focus upon capital security or greater growth potential. But there can be no 
disagreement on his circumstances, and in the absence of a very clear indication as to which 
of those competing priorities was Mr Ks true objective, Ive thought carefully about what is 
more likely than not to have been the case, taking into account what we know about Mr Ks 
position at the time.
So he had approximately 20 years left to retirement, had a relatively modest sum in the PPP, 
and unknown other pension provision  although I note there was reference to Mr K (and his 
wifes) employer schemes. So it may well have been the case that primary pension 
provision took the form of membership of occupational pension schemes. Mr K was 
obviously keen to seek a benefit from this PPP though, hence his commitment to making 
regular contributions once the benefits had been transferred.
Mr K had a medium attitude to risk and I think the description of that, with the acceptance 
of some risk for the prospect of greater rewards in the future, would be entirely consistent 
with his circumstances, especially as he had a significant amount of time to weather any 
short term or cyclical dips in fund performance. And I think capital security might be an ideal 
which any investor would be keen upon, if both reasonable returns and that security could be 
guaranteed. But for an individual in Mr Ks position, I think the likelihood is that his greater 
priority would have been on ultimate returns from the policy, rather than capital security for 
the next six years  with the possibility of no return whatsoever.But even if Mr K was concerned about his exposure to equities and the associated potential 
for volatility, there were other means of reducing this risk through simply amending the asset 
base of his existing policy, with perhaps a lower exposure to equities. 
Semantics also become important when advising on structured products involving 
counterparty risk, and I note that both capital protection and a future return were both aims 
of the Gilliat investment. Insight has been keen to reference the aim for the latter, when 
arguing that the return wasnt guaranteed. But then neither was the capital security. 
And its also worth noting at this point that any return on this deposit style investment was, 
according to the suitability report, subject to the performance of a combination index made 
up of indices related to UK and emerging market equities, UK gilts and corporate bonds, and 
certain commodities, including gold.
So with the possible exception of the investment in commodities, this bore a striking 
resemblance to the funds in which Mr K was already invested  and perhaps riskier in terms 
of the exposure to emerging markets equities.
Its therefore difficult to see a compelling rationale in terms of Mr Ks circumstances and 
objectives for a move to the type of investment recommended here, rather than simply 
staying where he was.
Ive then considered the overall cost to Mr K of accepting Insights advice. The starting point 
really is the 2% transfer penalty, or £1,600, which Mr K would need to incur to proceed with 
the transfer. Its difficult to tell whether this was factored into the comparison of fund values 
at age 60, or whether Insight just did a comparison on the basis of the amount invested in 
the SIPP  which of course strips out the additional amount Mr K would still have had in the 
PPP. 
Its nevertheless fair to say that enhanced performance might readily compensate for this 
type of penalty over a period of 20 years, if other factors such as ongoing costs were also 
lower. But Im afraid this isnt apparent from the illustration provided by Insight. As far as I 
can tell, this was just based on a cost comparison of the same investment amount, with 
identical levels of growth for direct comparison. So really, this was a comparison of the PPP 
cost with those which would be levied in the SIPP.
But there was another set of costs here relating to the Gilliat investment within the SIPP. 
Insight said that the total charge should not exceed 7% of the money you invested and 
these will not affect the stated returns from this product. But if there are no returns, as was a 
possibility - and, as it turned out, the reality  here, and if this is then added to the 2% 
transfer penalty, the impact of charges on Mr Ks pension fund would have been significant. 
The required yield to make up for those charges then becomes higher. But the yield here 
over a six year period was zero. And whilst Mr K may have received the value of the initial 
investment, I also note that the charges for the investment were to taken from the cash left in 
the SIPP. So that return of capital is likely to flatter to deceive.
Ive included known facts about the outcome of the Gilliat investment above, but to be clear, 
these are not findings made with the benefit of hindsight. The higher required yield to offset 
the effect of the costs and the transfer penalty would have been known at the outset. And my 
view is that the required yield is likely to have been higher than was suitable for Mr K, and 
probably represented the types of risks which perversely, according to the narrative provided 
by Insight around Mr Ks keenness for lower risk investments to balance out higher risk ones 
in other areas of his portfolio, he was seeking to avoid.Ive also noted that Insight included a 1% charge in the comparison of costs for the pension 
funds for an ongoing advisory service. But given the constraints, involving early termination 
penalties, which were put on roughly 96% of Mr Ks SIPP funds for a six year period, its 
difficult to see how any meaningful advice could have been given to him relating to those 
particular funds. 
It might be argued that such advisory costs were to cover the investment of Mr Ks regular 
contributions into selected funds. But my understanding is that these have been left in cash, 
earning minimal returns if any. I dont think it can reasonably be argued that this is suitable 
for a medium risk investor with many years left to retirement.
Its fair to say that the costs of the existing PPP were by no means the cheapest available, 
and it looks as though Mr K was paying higher charges on the units bought at the beginning 
of the life of the policy. But these also contributed to the transfer penalty which would be 
imposed in the event of moving the funds elsewhere. And the higher charge was only paid 
on a small amount of the units held.
Summary
Its certainly possible that a new investment strategy, possibly by means of a transfer, which 
might serve to compensate for the transfer penalty, could have been beneficial to Mr K. But 
for the reasons given, I dont think this was it. Overall, Im not persuaded that a six year 
capital secure investment such as this was a suitable fit for Mr K at this point in his 
retirement saving strategy, and certainly not for nearly all of his PPP funds. I also dont think 
that any perceived benefit of the transfer and reinvestment, taking into account the actual 
costs involved, bears up to scrutiny. 
 
Putting things right
As Ive said above, its possible that there was a better way for Mr K to enhance the growth 
potential for his PPP funds, but I dont think I need to recreate one here. The investment 
funds held by Mr K at the time seem to have been entirely adequate for his purposes, and 
the available evidence doesnt suggest that he was particularly dissatisfied with the growth 
levels being achieved. 
So my view is that, suitably advised, Mr K would have remained in the same PPP, within the 
same funds. And his further regular contributions would have been invested in the same 
fund split.
As such, and as recommended by the investigator, Insight should establish the notional 
value of Mr Ks pension funds, at the date of this decision, had they been retained in the 
PPP. This should include the unit value of the regular contributions, calculated using the 
actual dates those additional units would have been bought. 
That notional value (not transfer value) should be compared with the value of Mr Ks SIPP 
funds, again as at the date of this decision. If the value of the (notional) former is higher than 
the (actual) latter, Mr K should be compensated for that loss. If possible this should be paid 
into his SIPP to make up that loss, allowing for any charges and available tax relief but 
taking into account any existing allowance or protection issues.
If the compensation cannot be paid into the SIPP, or there are allowance or protection 
issues, the compensation amount should be paid directly to Mr K. But had it been possible to 
pay into the SIPP, it would have provided a taxable income or lump sum. Therefore, the 
compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise 
have been paid.The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr K's expected marginal rate of tax at 
his selected retirement age. Its been assumed that Mr K will be a basic rate tax payer, and 
so a 20% deduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation (to allow for tax free 
cash).
If payment isnt made within 28 days of Insight being informed of Mr Ks acceptance of this 
decision, interest should added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% simple interest 
from the date of this decision to the date of settlement. 
I also think that Mr K will inevitably have been caused some upset in realising that hed been 
unsuitably advised, and so as with the investigator, my view is that Insight should pay him 
£200 in respect of this.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Insight Financial Associates 
Limited to calculate whether redress is due, and make payment, as set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman