DRN-1731303
 
The complaint
The estate of Ms G ('the estate') is represented by its executor, Mr E. Mr E says Barclays 
Bank UK PLC ('Barclays') failed to disclose and distribute a particular investment/asset to 
the estate in 2013 and did so six years later in 2019. He says resolution of the asset will 
presently require additional estate administration and costs which the estate ought not have 
to incur - and that Barclays should be responsible for all costs associated with this.
What happened
A chronology of key events is as follows:
1. In March 2013, Ms G unfortunately passed away.
2. In October 2013, probate was granted for the estate, with Mr E as sole executor. 
[Historically and for a number of years prior to Ms G's passing, Mr E had an advisory and/or 
management role in her investments/assets; he was known to the Barclays entity or 
department relevant to those assets.]
3. In December 2013, Barclays paid the proceeds of Ms G's account(s) to the estate.
4. In May 2019, Barclays wrote to Mr E and said it had recently conducted a review and 
identified an asset of Ms G's that it had failed to distribute to the estate in 2013. It apologised 
for the delayed notice and it invited him to engage in its 'Expression of Wish' process in 
order to have the asset distributed to the estate.
5. In June 2019, Mr E complained about the delayed notice and failure to disclose the asset 
in 2013. He referred to additional estate administration tasks (including the opening of a new 
executor's account, of a corrective account for inheritance tax ('IHT') purposes and amended 
tax returns) that would be necessary in order to "... dispose of [the] investment and distribute 
the funds". He argued that the additional tasks, their costs and the cost of his service in 
addressing them would have been avoided but for Barclays' omission in 2013 and its delay 
of six years in correcting it, so he demanded that Barclays cover all related costs. He also 
requested additional information about the asset.
Barclays disputes the complaint. It says the contact addresses for Ms G and Mr E in relation 
to the investment were last updated around 2006; in 2009 correspondence related to the 
investment was sent to Mr E's former firm - which was the nominated address for the 
investment - and was returned as 'addressee has gone away'; the asset thereafter remained 
invested without an updated nominated address; this led to a lack of connection between the 
investment and Barclays' distribution of Ms G's account(s) to her estate in 2013, as its 
standard address matching process at the time did not draw a connection between both (due 
to the absence of an updated nominated address); it conducted a review in 2019 using a 
non-standard process and drew the connection, hence its notification to Mr E that year; it 
does not consider itself responsible for the matter because it was the failure to update the nominated address for the investment that caused its omission in 2013 and it was not 
responsible for that failure.
One of our investigators looked into the matter and disagreed with Barclays. He concluded 
that the complaint should be upheld and said the investment was administered by a 
subsidiary of Barclays so it was within its capability to draw the connection, in 2013, between 
it and the other account(s) belonging to Ms G which were being treated for the estate.
The investigator agreed that Barclays should cover the reasonable costs and expenses of 
Mr E now distributing the asset for the estate. However, he noted that the asset had 
appreciated in value since 2013 and that the gains since then would not have been achieved 
but for omission of the asset from the estate in 2013 - otherwise it would have been realised 
in 2013. He concluded that the gains since 2013 should be offset against the costs and 
expenses of distributing the asset and only if the latter exceeds the former should the 
difference be paid as compensation to the estate. He noted that Barclays need not 
reimburse any tax liability - as any such liability on the 2013 value of the investment would 
have applied in 2013 anyway and any such liability arising from the gains would be due to 
the gains [not due to a wrongdoing].
Barclays and Mr E disagreed with this outcome for different reasons. Barclays retained its 
substantive dispute about the merits of the complaint, for broadly the same reason(s) 
summarised above. Mr E welcomed the upholding of the complaint's merits but disputed the 
redress offsetting proposed by the investigator; he argued that any gains in the investment 
would still have been achieved if the investment was distributed in 2013 and if it was 
retained as the same investment thereafter and to date; that the gains would have been 
achieved without the costs to the estate of presently distributing the investment; so it is unfair 
to offset the gains against compensation for those costs.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator's, for broadly the same reasons he gave.
I do not accept Barclays' position in disputing liability for the omission in 2013 and for the 
costs and associated expenses of the estate now having to distribute the asset which should 
have formed part of the distribution in 2013.
I consider that the connection between the asset and Ms G ought reasonably to have been 
identifiable in 2013, despite the lack of an updated nominated address. After all, the 
connection was established by Barclays in 2019 without an updated nominated address. 
Barclays would have been aware of the importance of the distribution of a deceased's  
assets in the context of probate and the administration of the deceased's estate. The events 
in 2019 show it would have been within its capability to identify the asset in 2013 and I do 
not accept any suggestion that it was reasonable to base identification only (or seemingly 
only) upon an address matching exercise - given the other available identification related 
information that could have been used to link the asset to Ms G (for example, her full name, 
date of birth or previous addresses). Overall and on balance, Barclays should not have 
omitted the asset in 2013 and it is responsible for the costs and expenses of repairing the 
consequences of that failure.
I also do not accept Mr E's position in disputing the redress proposed by the investigator. 
There is no evidence that the asset, in particular, would have been retained by the estate or the beneficiary in its invested state had it been disclosed and distributed in 2013. It is 
noteworthy that, as quoted above, Mr E presently appears to seek redress for the costs of all 
relevant steps required and leading to the disposal of the asset and distribution of the 
proceeds. It could be argued that the asset would have been equally disposed of in 2013 - 
thereby defeating the argument that gains within it would or could have been made 
thereafter. Primarily, in the absence of evidence that the asset would, on balance, have 
remained invested had it been distributed in 2013 I am not satisfied by Mr E's assertion that 
it would.
Putting things right
I refer to the relevant asset as the 'omitted asset'. I order Barclays to do the following:
1. Respond to and provide Mr E will all accurate information and documentation about the 
omitted asset as he has requested, related to the investment, its constitution (including 
dividends/payments distributed and/or reinvested) and related to its value at all the relevant 
times (to date). The estate is entitled to such information and documentation if Barclays has 
not already provided them.
2. Subject to paragraph 3 below, cover all reasonable costs and expenses to be directly 
incurred (and/or already directly incurred) by the estate (and/or Mr E, and including the 
reasonable costs of Mr E's service) in the course and completion of administering the 
omitted asset within the estate and to the relevant beneficiary, and as required for this 
purpose. All such costs and expenses result from Barclays' failure to identify the omitted 
asset in 2013 and failure to distribute it to the estate at the time. The parties are ordered to 
engage meaningfully with each other in establishing the relevant reasonable costs and 
expenses.
3. As the investigator explained and for the same reasons he gave, any tax liability related to 
the omitted asset does not feature in redress for the estate.
4. I consider that the omitted asset (or its value) should have been distributed to the  estate 
on 3 December 2013 as was the proceeds from Ms G's other account(s). If, as it appears, 
the omitted asset has gained in value between 3 December 2013 and up to the 'end date' 
defined below then the total gains (between these dates) should be used to offset Barclays' 
responsibility under paragraph 2 above. If the total gains exceed the total of Barclays' 
responsibility under paragraph 2 above then that responsibility is negated and Barclays need 
not take any further action. If the total gains do not exceed the total of Barclays' 
responsibility under paragraph 2 above then the difference will be the limit of Barclays' 
responsibility. As the investigator explained, this offsetting provision is required to ensure 
fairness by recognising that any financial benefit to the estate that has resulted from 
Barclays' failure in 2013 is reflected in the compensation due to the estate for that failure.
5. The 'end date' is the date of this decision, so calculation of the total gains in the omitted 
asset will be based on any positive difference between its value on 3 December 2013 and its 
value on the date of this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms G 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Roy KukuOmbudsman