DRN-2892817
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Ms W has with Yorkshire Building Society (trading as 
Chelsea Building Society).
I recently issued a decision to explain that the only points Ill be considering are:
Ms Ws request for a single point of contact.
The phone call in January 2020.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator, for these reasons:
I understand Ms W would prefer to deal with one nominated member of staff. Whilst she 
has her accounts with Chelsea, that doesnt give her access to a designated personal 
account handler, nor does it mean Chelsea needs to provide a bespoke service tailored 
specifically for her. Chelsea has set up its business so that customers contact its 
customer service contact centre where all the staff are trained to deal with most queries. 
Chelsea confirmed that if the contact centre is unable to deal with a particular query 
because it is more specialist, then they will refer it to the relevant department as 
applicable. If Ms W wants a more bespoke service then shell need to look into providers 
of that type of service, but thats not something Chelsea offers. Im satisfied Chelsea 
hasnt acted inappropriately in telling Ms W that she needs to contact it in the same way 
as all its other customers.
Having listened to the call I agree with Chelsea that it could have been handled better. 
There were times the call handler spoke over Ms W, but equally there were times that 
Ms W interrupted the call handler. However, Im satisfied the call handler apologised to 
Ms W and explained why she hadnt been able to call her sooner, as well as apologising 
for giving incorrect information about needing a £10 fee for a subject access request, 
and apologising for other staff members not being able to locate her previously. Having 
considered everything Im satisfied that the £50 already offered by Chelsea is fair 
compensation for any trouble and upset arising from the call.
For these reasons, although I understand Ms Ws frustration, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense Im satisfied Yorkshire Building Society (trading as 
Chelsea Building Society) has already made a fair offer to resolve it. I leave it to Ms W to 
decide if now  on reflection  she wants to contact the business directly to accept that offer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman