DRN-3641243
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr B complain that Elderbridge Limited (Elderbridge) didnt fairly or reasonably 
deal with their complaint under section 140A (S140A) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA) in respect of a holiday product purchased in June 2008.
Mrs B and Mr B are assisted in bringing their complaint by a professional representative 
(PR).  
What happened
In or around June 2008, Mrs B and Mr B purchased a holiday timeshare product from a 
supplier - who Ill refer to as C. The purchase was funded under a fixed sum loan 
agreement with another business (Lender 1).
In or around February 2017, the PR wrote to Lender 1 on Mrs B and Mr Bs behalf. They 
said that commission had been paid by them to C which wasnt disclosed to Mrs B and Mr B. 
And because of that, they believe Mrs B and Mr B are entitled to damages and 
compensation as the acts of the seller [C] amount to a breach of section S140A of the CCA 
by you. 
The PR went on to give reasons to support why they consider there to be a breach of 
S140A, principally based upon their belief that a fiduciary duty existed between C (as the 
seller) and Mrs B and Mr B. And in the event that C made a secret profit as a result of any 
commission received, it would constitute a breach of fiduciary duty. By not providing that 
information to Mrs B and Mr B, the PR believe this leads to the agreement between Lender 1 
and Mrs B and Mr B being unfair under S140A.
As part of the claim, the PR acknowledged that the finance agreement had been entered into 
more than six years prior and Lender 1 might consider the claim to be statute barred. 
However, the PR believe postponement of that limitation applies under section 32 (S32) of 
the Limitation Act 1980 (LA), due to the concealment of commission paid. 
Lender 1 wrote to Mrs B and Mr B in response to the PRs letter. They said your mortgage 
[the fixed sum loan] was transferredto Elderbridge Limited on 1 July 2016. From this date, 
Elderbridge Limited assumed responsibility for the ongoing management and administration 
of the account. 
In the absence of a substantive response to their letter from Lender 1, PR referred Mrs B 
and Mr Bs complaint to this service. In doing so, Mrs B and Mr Bs complaint was expanded 
to include the following:
a proper assessment of affordability for the loan hadnt been conducted; and 
C unduly pressured Mrs B and Mr B in to entering into a contract and a finance 
agreement.
It was subsequently established and confirmed that Mrs B and Mr Bs loan had indeed been 
transferred to Elderbridge. Lender 1 agreed to forward PRs original letter of complaint/claim 
to Elderbridge to consider and respond.
In August 2018, Elderbridge provided a response to PRs original letter via their own 
professional representative. They didnt agree that C was acting as Mrs B and Mr Bs 
fiduciary agent, so did not owe [Mrs B and Mr B] a single-minded duty of loyalty. 
Because of that, Elderbridge didnt accept that the relationship was unfair.
They went on to point out that in any event, any claim is statute barred by reason of the 
expiry of the relevant limitation period. And because they believe there was no legal or 
regulatory obligation to disclose details of any commission payments, this doesnt constitute 
concealment and so doesnt allow the limitation period to be extended under S32 of the LA.
Having considered all the evidence and information available, our investigator thought Mrs B 
and Mr Bs claim had been brought to this service too late under DISP 2.8.2(2) of the 
Dispute Rules within the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook. But they did think 
Mrs B and Mr B had raised their complaint within three years of when they ought reasonably 
to have known they had cause for complaint. And DISP 2.8.2(2)(b) means that the complaint 
can be considered. 
Our investigator went on to say that they thought the claim was in time under the LA as the 
credit agreement didnt end more than six years before the claim was made. However, they 
didnt agree that either Lender 1 or Elderbridge had breached any duty by making any 
(alleged) commission payment. And because of that, our investigator didnt think theyd done 
anything that would risk making the relationship unfair under S140A.
The PR didnt agree with our investigators findings and asked that Mrs B and Mr Bs 
complaint be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. In support of the claim, the PR 
asked that the ombudsman consider the contents of various Generic Submissions 
submitted on behalf of complainants
.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant Considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook means Im required to take into account; relevant law and 
regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
S140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between Mrs B, Mr B and Elderbridge arising 
out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement). And because the 
timeshare product purchase was funded under the credit agreement, it is deemed to be a 
related agreement. Only a court has the power to make a determination under S140A. But 
as its relevant law, Ive considered it when deciding what I believe is fair and reasonable. 
Given the facts of Mrs B and Mr Bs complaint, relevant law also includes the LA. This is 
because the original transaction - the purchase funded by a loan with Elderbridge - took 
place in 2008. Only a court is able to make a ruling under the LA, but as its relevant law, Ive 
considered the effect this might also have.
The PRs original letter to Lender 1 is headed Section 140A Claim. So, it appears to be a 
legal claim, not a complaint. The FCAs DISP rules specifically relate to complaints about 
regulated financial products or services and provides rules and guidance about what this 
service is able to consider. Its important to recognise that the complaint being considered 
here specifically relates to whether I believe Elderbridges response to Mrs B and Mr Bs 
claim was fair and reasonable given all the evidence and information available to me. This 
service is not afforded powers to decide or make findings on legal claims.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my decision is 
made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what I 
think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt necessarily to address every 
single point thats been made in my decision. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to 
what I believe are the most salient points having considered everything thats been said and 
provided.
Its also relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision of an 
ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we do not provide a legal 
service and cant make legal findings  that is the role of the courts. Where a consumer 
doesnt accept the findings of an ombudsman, this doesnt prejudice their right to pursue 
their claim in other ways.
The unfair relationship claim under S140A
In response to Mrs B and Mr Bs claim, Elderbridges representative suggests that the claim 
is statute barred by reason of expiry of the relevant limitation period. They go on to confirm 
that they believe there are no grounds under which that limitation may be postponed under 
the provisions of S32 of the LA.
A claim under S140A is a claim for a sum recoverable by statute  which is also governed by 
Section 9 of the LA. As a result, the time limit for making such a claim is six years from the 
date on which the cause for action accrued. 
However, in determining whether or not the relationship complained of was unfair, the High 
Courts decision in Patel v Patel (2009) decided this could only be determined by having 
regard to the entirety of the relationship and all potentially relevant matters up to the time of 
making the determination. In that case, that was the date of the trial or otherwise the date 
the relationship ended.
So, having considered that, I believe the trigger point here is slightly different. Any 
relationship between Mrs B, Mr B and Elderbridge continues while the finance agreement 
remains live. So, that relationship only ends once the agreement ends and the borrowing 
under it has been repaid. And as Mrs B and Mr Bs loan remained outstanding at the time of 
their claim, I believe any claim under S140A is likely to have been made in time under the 
provisions of the LA.
Mrs B and Mr Bs S140A claim is primarily based upon the status of C (as the introducer of 
the loan) and their resultant responsibilities towards Mrs B and Mr B. In particular, it is 
argued that the payment of commission by the lender to C was kept from Mr B and Mr B. But 
I dont think the fact that Lender 1 (now Elderbridge) might have paid C commission was 
incompatible with its role in the transaction. C wasnt acting as an agent of Mrs B and Mr B, 
but as the supplier of contractual rights they obtained under the timeshare product 
agreement. And, in relation to the loan, based upon what Ive seen so far, it doesnt appear it 
was Cs role to make an impartial or disinterested recommendation or to give Mrs B and Mr 
B advice or information on that basis. As far as Im aware, Mrs B and Mr B were always at 
liberty to choose how they wanted to fund the transaction. 
Whats more, as I understand it, the typical amounts of commission paid by the lender here 
to suppliers (like C in this case) was unlikely to be much more than 10%. And on that basis, 
Im not persuaded its likely that a court would find that the non-disclosure and payment of 
commission created and unfair debtor-creditor relationship under S140A, given the 
circumstances of this complaint.
As I mentioned above, Mrs B and Mr Bs complaint submission to this service raised other 
areas of concern which they believe contributed to the unfairness of the debtor-creditor 
relationship. I cant see that these aspects were raised as part of the original claim or 
specifically by the PR. So, it appears Elderbridge havent been given opportunity to 
investigate and respond to these. Further, with nothing to explain or support the circumstances of those allegations or any contemporaneous evidence, Im unable to 
comment or decide specifically on these. 
Summary
Having carefully considered everything that has been provided  including the PRs separate 
generic submissions, Ive not found anything that persuades me that Elderbridges 
response to Mrs B and Mr Bs claim under S140A was ultimately unfair or unreasonable 
here. And while I do appreciate Mrs B and Mr B will be disappointed, I wont be asking 
Elderbridge to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs B and Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman