DRN-1686106
The complaint
Mrs W complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to her alongside a credit card in 2002. 
What happened
PPI was sold to Mrs W at the same time as she made a postal application for a credit card. 
She complained to RBS about the policy in 2019. RBS said it didnt think the policy had been 
mis-sold, but it agreed to refund some of the commission Mrs W paid in respect of her PPI 
premiums. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI was mis-sold. She also said that the offer RBS made to 
settle the complaint was fair. Through her representatives, Mrs W disagreed with that view 
and so the matter has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mrs W, but I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. I also agree with our 
adjudicator that the offer RBS made to refund some of the commission Mrs W paid is a fair 
way to settle this complaint. 
As I said above, PPI was sold to Mrs W by post. Ive been given a copy of that completed 
application. So Im satisfied that Ive been able to see the same information as that which 
was given to Mrs W at the point of sale. I think Mrs W would have been able to complete this 
application in her own time and at her own pace. 
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Mrs W would have known the PPI was optional 
and she didnt have to take it out if she didnt want it. Looking at the form, I can see the PPI 
part was set out in a section headed Card Protection Plan. For the cover to be added, Mrs 
W had to tick a box and she did so. Im satisfied that Mrs W chose to add the PPI cover. I 
think the wording of the form was sufficiently clear so that Mrs W would have known she 
could have simply not ticked the box if she didnt want the policy. And I note that she also 
refused other financial products that were available at the time. 
RBS had to give Mrs W enough information about the cover so she could decide for herself 
whether it was a good fit for her needs. That information should have been clear, fair and not 
misleading. Upon considering the application form, I can see how the information RBS gave 
to Mrs W could have been clearer. For example, I cant see the cost of the policy set out 
clearly. But that doesnt mean I can automatically uphold the complaint. I must next consider 
whether Mrs W would have changed her mind about PPI if RBS had told her everything it 
should have done. 
To help me decide on this point, Ive looked at what we know about the terms and conditions 
of the cover. And Ive also considered what Mrs W told us about her personal circumstances 
at the time. 
I can see that if shed made a claim on the PPI policy, 10% of Mrs Ws credit card balance 
would have been repaid for every month she was out of work up to a maximum of 12 
months. In her PPI questionnaire, Mrs W told us that she would have received more than 12 
months sick pay if she was out of work. I note from the credit card application form that Mrs 
W had worked in her job for less than three years. So I dont think its likely that the sick pay 
Mrs W told us about would have been full pay for such a long time. Mrs W told us that she 
didnt have any other means with which to make her credit card repayments if she couldnt 
work. I think the PPI most likely offered benefits over and above the means Mrs W already 
had in place.
Mrs W appears to have been in good health when she took the PPI policy out. So I dont 
think shed have been affected by any of the exclusions we usually see about medical 
conditions. And I havent seen anything else that was unusual about her circumstances that 
would have stopped her from being able to make a successful claim if she needed to.
 
Overall, I can see how PPI could have been helpful to Mrs W if she was out of work. And she 
chose to buy this policy  so it looks like she wanted this type of cover at the relevant time. It 
follows then that I dont think more or better information about the PPI would have caused 
Mrs W to act differently. 
All of this means RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the PPI to Mrs W. As I said above, it 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI because it got a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premiums. RBS should have told Mrs W about that 
commission. It was unfair of RBS not to disclose that to Mrs W. To put that right, RBS paid 
back the amount of commission and profit share it got that was over 50%. Im satisfied that is 
fair in this case. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W. 
But The Royal Bank of Scotland does have to pay back to Mrs W any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman