DRN-2036173
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Ageas Insurance Limited refused to cover a claim they made on 
their legal expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Ageas Insurance Limited, this includes it agents and claims handlers
What happened
Mr and Mrs W bought a plot of land in order to build a new home. In January 2014 they took 
out an insurance policy which included cover for certain disputes with the developer from 
whom theyd bought the land. The policy also provided a legal helpline.
In May 2015 they called the helpline to say they were having some issues with the developer 
about access to the land and services which should have been provided. They were given 
some advice about negotiating with the developer and following this, they sent a letter before 
action warning the developer about possible legal action. They were sent a claim form but 
didnt return this at the time.
In May 2019 Mr and Mrs W phoned Ageas to say they wanted to go ahead with a claim for 
cover to take legal action against the developer. Ageas refused to provide cover. It said the 
policy was a claims made policy, meaning they had to make a claim during the period of 
insurance and within 30 days of the incident leading to the claim. Ageas said the policy had 
run out some time ago, so they were too late. Initially, Ageas also said the claim related to a 
dispute that had started before they took out their policy, and such disputes werent covered.
After Mr and Mrs W complained, Ageas said it wouldnt consider the dispute to have started 
before they took out the policy. But it still said they were too late to bring a claim.
Our investigator agreed with Ageas that Mr and Mrs W had made their claim too late. She 
didnt think the calls they made in 2015 were enough to amount to notification of a claim, and 
they had been sent a claim form. Although they were negotiating with the third party, the 
investigator thought they should still have pursued the claim sooner, by returning a claim 
form. And she thought the delay had prejudiced Ageas position. So she thought it was fair 
for the claim to be refused.
Mr and Mrs W provided further comments but the investigator didnt change her view. So 
they have requested an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint, in which I said:
The claim Mr and Mrs W wish to bring is one thats potentially covered by the policy but 
Ageas have refused to provide cover on the basis they brought the claim too late. So Ive 
considered whether it was fair for Ageas to decline the claim for that reason.
The policy terms say
All potential claims must initially be reported to Our appropriate Claims Notification and 
Advice Helpline Services
This is a policy where You must notify Us during the Period of Insurance and within 30 days 
of any circumstances which may give rise to any claim under this policy. Failure to do so 
could mean that We decline to pay a claim for Your Professional Fees.
Ageas says this is a claims made policy, meaning that a claim must be made while the 
policy is still in force and as the claim wasnt made until 2019, it was too late. I appreciate 
why Ageas might question a claim being brought now. But Mr and Mrs W say it isnt clear 
what amounts to making a claim  and the policy terms simply say they had to notify Ageas 
of something that might lead to a claim by calling the helpline, which they did in May 2015.
Looking at what the policy terms actually say, I think Mr and Mrs W are right to think that by 
calling the helpline they had done enough. The terms say all potential claims must be 
reported to the helpline  and thats what they did; they called the helpline to notify of a 
possible claim. They followed that up with an email providing further information. The terms 
also say they must notify Ageas of any circumstances that might give rise to a claim  again, 
thats what they did. They then followed the legal advice given to them, which was to try and 
negotiate with the developer. In my judgment, it wouldnt be fair now to penalise them for 
having followed the advice given to them.
The policy terms dont say that a claim form must be completed and returned, or that any 
other process must be followed, before a claim can be considered to have been made. 
Obviously, to continue with a claim, further steps will be needed. But as far as notification is 
concerned, the terms say what was to be done, and Mr and Mrs W did that. So Im satisfied 
they did notify Ageas of a claim (or circumstances that might give rise to a claim) in the right 
way and within the time limit specified.
I dont think there has been any prejudice to Ageas. The legal advice given to Mr and Mrs W 
is that they are not out of time to take legal action and indeed, it wouldnt have been 
appropriate to take legal action earlier.
For these reasons, my view is that the claim was not notified late and if Mr and Mrs W wish 
to proceed with a claim against the developer, Ageas should consider it in line with the 
remaining policy terms.
replies to the provisional decision
Mr and Mrs W have accepted the provisional decision. They say they have spent £2,720.40 
on legal advice since Ageas refused the claim and have provided details of these costs. 
They have asked whether these costs will be reimbursed.
Ageas does not accept the provisional decision. In summary, it says:
claims must be notified to the helpline for advice and support, and the specific advice 
given to Mr and Mrs W was to make their claim in writing, but they didnt follow this 
advice;
in addition to calling the helpline, the policy terms also say a claim must be notified in 
writing within 30 days;
the failure to complete a claim form and provide details in writing has caused 
prejudice to Ageas  its had no information about the claim and is concerned about 
possible limitation dates;
the issue has been ongoing since 2015, so its not clear why Mr and Mrs W didnt 
pursue it until 2019  they have a duty to mitigate any loss and resolve the dispute 
outside court, and any failure to get legal advice and resolve the dispute will lead to 
increased risk and costs.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the points made by Ageas carefully but they dont lead me to a different 
conclusion. If a policyholder doesnt notify the insurer of a claim and pursues their case, and 
runs up legal costs without the insurers knowledge, then I agree that would generally 
prejudice the insurers position. I wouldnt generally expect an insurer to repay those costs. 
But I think the position is a little different here.
Mr and Mrs W did tell Ageas about the claim, when they called the helpline. And this is what 
the policy terms required them to do.  This isnt a situation where they then pursued legal 
action and incurred costs. The reason they didnt pursue matters again until 2019 was that it 
wasnt appropriate to do so. The legal advice they had was that it was right to wait. They 
then got further legal advice in 2019 saying it was now appropriate to proceed.
If they had continued with the claim in 2015, providing a written claim form, I cant see what 
action would have been taken then. So I dont agree that Ageas has been caused prejudice 
 nothing of substance happened during that period. Looking at all the circumstances, it 
wouldnt be fair to reject the claim when Mr and Mrs W were not in a position to go ahead 
with it in 2015 and no harm has been done to Ageas by the delay since then. 
This doesnt necessarily mean the claim will be covered. There are other terms in the policy 
that need to be met  for example, that the claim has a reasonable chance of success and 
the costs will be in proportion to the amount in dispute. If Ageas had accepted the claim in 
2019 it would still have had to consider these points. So it should now accept the claim and 
assess it in line with these terms.
Mr and Mrs W have asked about the costs they have incurred. Assuming the claim is 
covered under the remaining terms, then they should have had cover from 2019 and would 
not have had to incur these costs. So, if the claim is covered once Ageas has considered it 
properly, then its fair for these costs to be reimbursed.
Putting things right
Ageas should:
consider the claim in line with the remaining policy terms; and
if the claim is covered, reimburse the costs incurred of £2,720.40.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Ageas Insurance Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman