DRN-4345345
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has declined a claim he made under his 
home insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2022 Mr B made a claim to Aviva, his home insurer, for damage caused to his 
property by what he said was extreme weather conditions.
Mr B had tried to use his home emergency cover, but this didnt stop the water ingress, so 
Aviva were contacted to make a claim for the damage. 
Aviva later inspected Mr Bs property, but they declined the claim. They said the damage 
wasnt consistent with a one-off event of storm and instead was caused gradually and by 
wear and tear, which isnt covered by Mr Bs policy. But Aviva recognised they could have 
done more in the early stages of the claim validation and paid £100 compensation.
Mr B was unhappy with Avivas position on the claim and approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things but she didnt uphold the complaint. She said she 
didnt think there were storm conditions at the time, and she didnt think the damage was 
consistent with storm type damage either. She also said there were exclusions in the policy 
for the damage caused, and she thought the £100 compensation already paid by Aviva was 
fair. So, she didnt recommend Aviva do anything further.
Mr B didnt agree and the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr B, Im not 
upholding his complaint or directing Aviva to do anything further.
When we consider complaints about storm damage claims, we take into account the 
following questions, and if any of the answers are no then its likely a claim wont succeed:
Were there storm conditions?
Is the damage consistent with storm type damage?
Was the storm the main or dominant cause of the damage?
Were there storm conditions?
Mr Bs policy defines a storm as:
Storm  an unusual weather event with persistent high winds usually associated with 
rain, thunder, lightning or snow.
The wind speed or gust should normally exceed 55mph (48 knots) to be a storm but 
we take other factors into consideration such as where the property is sited. A storm 
can highlight defects rather than cause them and damage due to lack of 
maintenance, wear and tear or which happens gradually is not covered.
Having looked at the available weather data and records, I dont think this shows a storm 
occurred at, or near to, the time of damage being reported. The maximum windspeeds 
recorded by the nearest weather stations in the month leading up to the reported claim were 
34mph winds, and I dont consider this to be storm winds. And whilst there was some heavy 
rainfall around the time, it wasnt significant enough alone to be a storm in the absence of 
any storm force windspeeds. 
Based on the weather data and records, Im not persuaded a storm occurred at the time of 
the reported damage.
Is the damage consistent with storm type damage?
Mr B says the heavy rainfall alone caused the guttering to collapse, and damage to the roof 
which allowed water to ingress into his property. 
Aviva contacted the home emergency team who had visited Mr Bs property before they later 
did. They said the gutter was full of debris which Mr B had attempted to clear with a 
home-made device and there were cracked tiles on the roof.
A gutter is designed to divert water away from a property during rainfall, thats its main 
purpose. And on balance, its unlikely to collapse solely due to heavy rain alone, unless 
there is already an issue with it, which is then highlighted by the weather conditions at the 
time. 
A well-maintained roof is also unlikely to suffer damage such as cracked tiles due to rainfall. 
And its unlikely to allow water to enter a property during heavy rainfall alone, unless there is 
already an existing problem with it. 
So, I dont think the damage being claimed for is consistent with heavy rainfall alone  which 
I also dont think is storm conditions either.Was the storm the main or dominant cause of the damage?
Firstly, for the reasons outlined, I dont think its been shown that there was a storm. And I 
also dont think the damage being claimed for is consistent with rainfall alone. So, if there 
wasnt a storm, and the damage wasnt consistent with rainfall alone, I cant reasonably 
conclude a storm was the dominant or effective cause of the damage.
But Aviva also reached conclusions on why they think the damage was caused, in the 
absence of storm conditions. For completeness, Ill consider this too.
Mr Bs roofer provided a written report which said (Ive included the typos):
Hi im (name) from (company name) we attend (Mr Bs) property check for water 
damages I am covered the side tiles I believe it to be storm damage cause the 
damage the roof the weight of the water drop the felt just by the fascia board which in 
due course to the bottom end of felt damaged wooden fascia board as a fault of this 
we had to change Felt and batten plus retailers we had to replace bottom end of 
wooden fasicw
So, in their view the weight of the water caused damage to the fascia boards and roof. But 
as outlined above, I dont think this type of damage would be caused by heavy rainfall alone.
Aviva also carried out an inspection and in relation to the external damage, concluded (Ive 
included the typos):
The failure of the gutter which has lead to the decay of the original wooden fascia 
wood of been a clear ongoing issue, the gutter which the insured claims to have 
suddenly collapsed from a single weather event is not consistent with any of the clear 
areas of damage present. Wood decay happens gradually from being exposed to 
water penetration, this subsequently caused the gutter to collapse, the weather at the 
time of the loss has merely highlighted the historically failed area.
And in relation to the internal damage:
The point of claim is to the external facing walls of the hall, stairs and landing to the 
rear of the property, the damage present is consistent with a long term issue with 
water penetration following the failed gutter.
The gutter has since been repaired in full prior my visit. It is evident from my on-site 
survey that the leak has been in clear site for a number of months, following the 
extensive mould growth present the two coat plaster will need to hacked off to the 
brick, area dried and the external wall re-plastered.
Whilst Mr B says the mould occurred shortly after the water ingress occurred, having taken 
into account all the information provided, including images of the damage, Im persuaded, on 
balance, that they support the conclusions reached by Avivas surveyor. In my view the 
images support that the damage has occurred gradually and over time, and as a result of 
wear and tear rather than by a one-off incident. Therefore, I dont think Aviva reached an 
unreasonable conclusion. Mr Bs policy excludes:
General exclusions
These exclusions apply to all covers in this booklet.
We wont pay for:
1. Gradually occurring damage
Wear and tear (natural and predictable damage which happens over time or 
due to normal use or ageing) this includes, but is not limited to, gradual 
weathering, the effect of light; deterioration or depreciation;
Any other gradually occurring damage (except subsidence, heave and 
landslip).
With the above in mind, I dont think Aviva has unfairly declined Mr Bs claim for storm 
damage. I dont think there was a storm, or that the damage was consistent with rainfall 
alone. Instead, Im persuaded it was caused by wear and tear and gradual damage, 
highlighted by the weather at the time, and the above exclusion also applies to all sections of 
cover under Mr Bs policy.
Aviva accepted that in the early stages of the claim they could have done more to consider 
whether the claim was covered by an insured event and paid £100 compensation for this. I 
think that was reasonable, so Im not going to direct Aviva to increase this.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman