DRN-2443636
The complaint
Mr E complains about the advice he received from St. Jamess Place Wealth Management 
Plc (SJP) to take out a whole-of-life assurance policy.
What happened
Mr E met with an advisor from SJP in 2000 to discuss protecting his family in the event of his 
death. Mr E explained that the advisor contacted him because he knew hed just got married 
and his wife wasnt domiciled in the UK. Mr E says the whole purpose was to protect his wife 
from a potential inheritance tax (IHT) liability should he pass away.
SJP advised Mr E to take out a whole-of-life policy on a maximum basis. This policy would 
start with a sum assured of £500,000 and also included critical illness cover should Mr E 
have to stop working due to one of the specified illnesses. The policy was set up to increase 
both the sum assured and premium by 10% each year  this was called indexation. The 
policy was written into trust for the benefit of Mr Es wife.
In 2019, Mr E spoke to a different advisor at SJP who explained that Mr Es wife could claim 
domiciled status if Mr E passed away which would mean she wouldnt be subject to IHT. 
Mr E complained as he felt this shouldve been explained at the outset. He explained the 
policy wasnt needed. Mr E also complained about the charges hes paid over the years, the 
high indexation amount and that the policy didnt have an investment element. Mr E said the 
policy wasnt suitable, he had no need for the critical illness and he feels SJP shouldve 
contacted him as soon as the IHT rules changed.
Our investigator didnt feel this complaint should be upheld. She explained that our role is to 
consider whether the advice was suitable at the point of sale. She said the documents show 
his priority was family protection, and protection of lifestyle if he couldnt work. And she 
explained that this policy would enable his wife to receive a pay-out if Mr E passed away, 
and it would pay a lump sum if he couldnt work due to one of the specified illnesses. She 
hadnt seen evidence to suggest the policy was only taken to protect Mr Es wife from IHT.
The investigator also felt that the indexation level was made clear at the outset, and that 
Mr E was given options throughout the life of the policy to amend or cancel this. And whilst 
she agreed the fees were high, she explained the initial charge was explained in the policy 
documents, including when it would be chargeable and a formula to calculate it. So she 
didnt think SJP had done anything wrong.
Mr E responded to explain that the whole purpose of the policy was to cover his wifes 
potential IHT liability if he passed away. He said that was why it was for family protection. 
He said he shouldve been told that his wife could claim domiciled status which would 
exempt her from paying IHT on his estate. He also felt that SJP shouldve contacted him 
when he retired and reviewed his needs at that point. He asked for an ombudsman to review 
his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigator for similar reasons. However, Id like to set out 
in detail why Im not upholding this complaint.
Was the advice suitable?
When considering all of Mr Es complaint points, I think the main issue is that he wanted this 
policy only to ensure his wife didnt have to pay IHT if he passed away. But hes now been 
informed that this can be achieved in a different way. I can understand after years of paying 
for the policy that it wouldve been frustrating to find this out. My role here is to look at 
whether the advice he received was suitable for him at the point of sale  that is in 2000 
when he first took out the policy.
Ive taken on board Mr Es comments about only needing something for IHT mitigation, and 
Ive also looked at the evidence SJP has provided. The documents from the point of sale 
show he was looking for family protection and to protect his lifestyle in the even he couldnt 
work. Mr E earned over £600,000 per year and had a wife and a dependant child. He had 
endowment policies and a life cover policy already in place but these werent high enough to 
replace a years income. SJP recommended a policy for £500,000 cover for both life and 
critical illness. This would then be written into trust so it would go straight to his wife rather 
than the estate. I dont think this is an unsuitable recommendation. This policy wouldve 
given Mr Es family some financial protection if he passed away or couldnt work. And given 
he didnt have this level of protection in place already, I dont think it was unsuitable.
I do note Mr E had a death in service benefit with his employer. Whilst this wouldve been 
useful had it paid out, these benefits are subject to change as its an employment benefit and 
is usually discretionary as to who it pays out to. So, this didnt make the recommendation 
unsuitable.
Ive not seen enough to say that this policy was taken only with a view to mitigating the IHT 
liability Mr Es wife may incur on his death. But I do think that this was set up in a way that 
would be suitable for that. Its clear that SJP was aware of Mr Es wifes non-domiciled 
status. I can see in the suitability letter the advisor writes:
In the event of your deaththe cash sum would be paid directly to your wife ensuring that 
she has the financial protection when she most needs it. This is necessary, as [she] is non-
UK domiciled and wouldnt benefit from the normal spouse to spouse capital transfer rules.
The way this policy is set up means the funds would go directly to Mr Es wife in the event of 
his death, and it wouldnt form part of the estate. This means she would be able to use the 
funds to help with the potential IHT liability. It also means shed likely receive these funds 
before the estate was wound up. So, I dont think the advice was unsuitable for this purpose.
Mr Es main complaint arises out of being told recently theres another way his wife wouldnt 
be liable to IHT if he passed away. I understand this other way would negate the need for a 
policy to cover IHT liability  but I dont think this was available at the time Mr E received the 
advice. This alternative way would also involve Mr Es wife changing her domicile status  
something that would be for Mr Es wife to discuss. The discussion Mr E had was about his 
own finances and he received the advice on his own. Ive not seen any discussion around 
the potential IHT liability or value of the estate at that point. So, I dont think theres enough 
to show this advice was solely to mitigate Mr Es potential IHT liability. And in any event, the 
policy that SJP sold was set up in a way to ensure Mr Es wife would receive the sum 
assured free of IHT.Mr E has said hes not sure why he was also sold critical illness insurance, when he only 
wanted something for IHT mitigation. As Ive explained above, I dont think this advice was 
given solely to mitigate the potential IHT liability. So, Ive thought about whether critical 
illness insurance was suitable for Mr E at the time. Mr E had high earnings and committed 
expenditure, as well as disposable income. He doesnt appear to have anything in place if he 
had to stop working due to an illness. This policy was designed to pay a lump sum in the 
event of Mr E being diagnosed with a specified illness. This would mean hed be able to 
maintain the lifestyle of him and his family if he couldnt work. Having considered Mr Es 
circumstances, I dont think this was an unsuitable recommendation.
Indexation
Mr E has complained about the level of indexation applied to his policy. This was set up as 
10% per year which was the maximum amount. I can see there were discussions at the time 
about Mr Es earnings increasing over the years so I dont think recommending the policy to 
increase with indexation was unsuitable.
I do understand Mr Es point that 10% is a very high level of increase, and much higher than 
general inflation. But I can also see that Mr E was told at all points what the level of 
indexation was. In each review he received it set out clearly that his premium and sum 
assured would increase and that the indexation was set at 10%. I can also see that he was 
able to change or cancel the indexation option at any point. So, whilst I can see Mr E feels 
this is too high, his policy would now pay out a higher amount than it originally would have. 
And each year he was told about these increases. I think it was explained clearly throughout 
the life of the policy and Mr E was given an option to cancel it. So, I dont think SJP has done 
anything wrong in continuing to apply the indexation that was applied for at the outset.
Surrender value
Mr E complains that the policy didnt have an investment value. He explained hes an 
investor and wouldnt have taken out something without a cash-in value. I can see that SJP 
hasnt really been clear on this point as the illustration it gave Mr E at the time says the 
policy has no cash-in value. But the way the policy is set up means it could have a surrender 
value, and I understand thats the case. What is clear, is that this was primarily set up to 
provide life cover rather than an investment surrender value for Mr E. As that was the case, I 
dont think it was unsuitable that it was set up on a maximum basis. This means it could 
provide a higher amount of cover for a lower cost  as the premiums Mr E paid went 
primarily to paying for the cover rather than to building up a lump sum surrender value.
I can understand why Mr E feels that now the surrender value isnt high, it doesnt feel like a 
good policy. But I cant see this was taken out to provide him with a surrender value or 
investment product. Instead, it was to provide a lump sum in the event of his death or critical 
illness and this policy met that requirement. I can also see that it was clear from the 
documentation Mr E received throughout the life of the policy that this wasnt put in place 
primarily to provide him with an investment return. And this wasnt recorded as the purpose 
of getting this advice. So, I dont think this makes the policy unsuitable, and I think SJP was 
clear in explaining this policy wasnt to provide Mr E with an investment return.
Fees
Mr E has recently been given a breakdown of all the charges hes incurred throughout the 
life of the policy. He complained because collectively its around 20% of the total hes paid in 
premiums and he feels this is excessive. I can understand why he feels this is a lot to pay. But I need to determine whether these fees have been applied in line with the policy terms 
and that Mr E was made aware of them. I can see that this is the case.
By far, the largest fee is for the initial charge. I can see in Mr Es illustration it sets out what 
the first initial charge would be. It also sets out that the initial charge would be applied to any 
increase in the policy. Mr Es policy has increased by 10% each year and so the initial 
charge would apply to the increased amount. SJP sets out in the appendix to the policy 
terms a formula that is used to calculate this. Ive not seen anything to show that SJP has 
charged Mr E outside of this formula or in a way that falls outside of the terms Mr E agreed 
to.
Ongoing advice
Since Mr E found out about the IHT changes for non-domiciled spouses hes questioned why 
SJP didnt get in touch with him as soon as the changes came into place. Hes since asked 
us why it didnt review his policy when he retired in 2016.
Ive looked at whether there was any agreement between SJP and Mr E to provide reviews 
of his investments regularly and advise him whether any of these needed to change. But Ive 
not seen such an agreement. Its clear that SJP has advised Mr E on a number of 
investments over the years. But Ive not seen anything to suggest that SJP had to continually 
review Mr Es investments to ensure they still met his needs.
Specifically, for Mr E, he feels he shouldve been contacted about the changes in IHT laws. I 
dont think it would be reasonable for SJP to have done this. It hadnt given Mr E tax advice 
in this instance, it had recommended a policy that was suitable for him. And Ive already 
concluded that I dont think that recommendation was solely for IHT mitigation. As theres no 
agreement to continually review the suitability of this policy, I dont think SJP had a duty to 
contact him when IHT rules changed. 
I understand Mr E feels it shouldve done so given the fees it charged him, but Ive not seen 
that any of the fees provided for an ongoing advisory service in relation to the suitability of 
this particular product. So, I dont think its done anything wrong in not contacting Mr E when 
the IHT laws changed.
Mr E has also said it didnt review this advice when he retired. For the same reason as 
above, Ive not seen that SJP had a duty to continually review the suitability of this particular 
policy throughout the years.
Its clear that SJP has now spoken to Mr E to review the products he holds, but I cant see 
any specific duty for it to have done this earlier. So, I dont think it has done anything wrong.
I understand why Mr E feels strongly about this complaint, and why he was shocked to find 
out there were new ways of addressing his wifes potential IHT liability should he pass away. 
But I hope Ive gone some way in explaining why I dont think that SJP has done anything 
wrong in this instance.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman