DRN-3267696
The complaint
Mr C complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc unfairly applied a balance transfer fee to his credit 
card. 
What happened
Mr C applied for a credit card with Sainsburys Bank in June 2021. Mr C has told us he 
believed the credit card had a 0% promotional interest rate and had no balance transfer 
fees. 
Sainsburys Bank issued pre contract information and a credit agreement to Mr C. in the pre 
contract information, details of interest rates and associated costs were set out. In the credit 
agreement it showed promotional rates of 0% for 12 months on balance transfers. Section 5 
of the credit agreement says Sainsburys Bank may charge a fee for balance transfers 
dependent on the current offer. 
When the card was open, Mr C completed a balance transfer and was charged 0.5%. Mr C 
complained that the information he was given during the application process didnt mention a 
balance transfer fee. Sainsburys Bank didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint and said it had 
applied the 0.5% balance transfer fee in line with the credit agreement and associated terms 
and condition. 
Mr C referred his complaint to this service and provided copies of the information he was 
given by Sainsburys Bank when applying for the credit card. Our investigator didnt uphold 
Mr Cs complaint and he asked to appeal. As a result, Mr Cs complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr C found the details of Sainsburys Banks credit card promotion via a third 
party website. My decision will focus on the information Sainsburys Bank gave Mr C during 
the application process and whether it made the nature of the balance transfer fee it 
intended to charge him clear. 
Mr C has told us the balance transfer fee didnt feature in the documents and information he 
was given by Sainsburys Bank during his application. Mr C has sent in copies of information 
he was sent by Sainsburys Bank. I note they dont include a specific balance transfer fee. 
But I can see reference to a balance transfer fee in the information Mr C has provided. 
Section 5 of the credit card agreement says We may charge a fee on the amount of a 
balance transfer or money transfer. This will vary dependent on your current offer. You can 
find out what this is by calling us. Im satisfied there is provision for a balance transfer fee to 
be charged in the information Mr C was given. 
Sainsburys Bank has sent us pre contract information it provided as part of Mr Cs 
application. Ive reviewed the information and can see it does talk about a balance transfer 
fee. In section 3 Costs of credit it gives details of interest rates and charges applicable to 
the credit card. In the section Any other costs deriving from the credit agreement it says a 
balance transfer fee of 0.50% on transfers made within your first 3 months. 
Sainsburys Bank applied a balance transfer fee of 0.5% to the credit card. Im satisfied 
thats in line with the pre contract information and credit agreement Mr C was given by 
Sainsburys Bank. 
I can see our investigator has forwarded the credit agreement and supporting documents to 
Mr C. In his response, Mr C said Sainsburys Bank had supplied generic contracts, not the 
agreement he accepted. Mr C also pointed out that tables in the information hed provided 
showed a 0% interest rate. Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but I havent found the information is 
simply a generic document. Im satisfied its the credit agreement and supporting information 
Mr C accepted. The credit agreement was accepted by Mr C on 8 June 2021 and forms the 
basis of his relationship with Sainsburys Bank. The pre contract information includes the 
specific credit limit for Mr Cs new credit card, the website that referred his application and 
full details of how the product he applied for works. 
Mr C has highlighted the tables noting promotional interest rates set out in the credit 
agreement as they dont mention the balance transfer fee. But the boxes Mr C has 
mentioned refer to the interest rate, not the balance transfer fee. The balance transfer fee is 
set out separately as Ive noted above. I wouldnt expect the balance transfer fee to be noted 
in the same place as the promotional interest rate. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C, but Im satisfied Sainsburys Bank did its balance transfer fee 
clear in the information it provided. As a result, I havent been persuaded Sainsburys Bank 
treated Mr C unfairly when it applied a balance transfer fee to his credit card. As Im satisfied 
Sainsburys Bank has dealt with Mr Cs complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 
3 May 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman