DRN-3737664
The complaint
Miss M complains about the quality of a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement 
provided by First Response Finance Ltd (FRF). 
What happened
Ill firstly point out that Miss M has provided extended commentary around what happened 
here and has provided a lot of evidence. Im going to set out what I think is the key history 
here  but I want to reassure Miss M that Ive carefully considered all of the information and 
background she provided.
In November 2021, Miss M acquired a used car funded by a hire purchase agreement with 
FRF. The car cost £6,150, was around nine years old and had covered around 77,000 miles.
Miss M says when she went to collect the car it needed a repair for a new wishbone. She 
then took the car away, but said an engine management light (EML) appeared a few days 
later. She complained to the dealer about a seatbelt fitting not working and said the car had 
bodywork issues. She also said it had a higher mileage than she was told.
Miss M says the car went in for a repair to the heatshield. The dealer says this was tightened 
up. But, Miss M then says there was a loud bang when driving and this came off underneath 
the car. Miss M said this was very dangerous.
Miss M complained to FRF about the quality of the car. She also said she had been 
overcharged for the car and it wasnt worth what she paid for it. FRF issued a final response 
in December 2021. It said, in summary, that the dealer could price the car as it wished, but it 
was only sold at slightly over the average retail price it had looked up. And FRF also offered 
to pay for an independent inspection of the car to investigate the issues. But Miss M didnt 
initially want to arrange this.
Shortly after this Miss M made our service aware of the complaint. And she continued to 
complain to FRF.
FRF then issued a second final response in March 2022. In summary, this said it had offered 
to reimburse Miss M for an inspection at a local garage, but she hadnt arranged this. It said 
without further evidence it couldnt investigate further.
Miss M then said the car developed issues with the battery and the key. In June 2022 the car 
was taken to a garage who produced a report and noted various issues with the car. At this 
point it had covered around 81,951 miles. The garage noted issues with the following:
Offside headlight damaged
Near side front inner wheel arch insecure
Excessive play in gear stick
Screen washer bottle lid missing
Near side washer jet inoperative
Key casing insecure
Near side rear tyre wall heavily perished
Front discs and rear discs corroded
Rear exhaust heat shield missing
Central exhaust heat shield insecure
Front bumper insecure
Unfortunately, the car was then stolen and to my knowledge hasnt been recovered. 
Miss Ms insurance policy paid out to FRF, but this has left Miss M with a shortfall.
FRF provided its comments on the report from the local garage. It said, in summary, that it 
thought the issues couldve occurred after Miss M got the car, or they could be down to wear 
and tear. 
The dealer also commented on the report. It said, in summary, that some of the issues were 
MOT fails so wouldnt have been present when Miss M got the car, as it was tested 
beforehand. It said others would need to be looked at further or were down to wear and tear. 
And it said the heat shield couldve come off from being driven over a speed bump or similar. 
It also provided a check list signed by Miss M from the time of sale.
Our investigator issued an opinion. She said, in summary, that she couldnt comment on the 
price the dealer set the car at. She said the issues identified in the report couldve happened 
after Miss M got the car or could be down to wear and tear. She said she thought there 
wasnt an issue with the mileage of the car. And she said the amount due under the 
agreement was made clear to Miss M.
Miss M remained unhappy. She said, in summary, that the car was faulty when she got it. 
And she said the dealer took advantage of her. 
Our investigator said this didnt change her opinion. So, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Miss M complains about a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts such as this as a lender is a regulated activity. So, Im satisfied I 
can consider Miss Ms complaint about FRF.
Miss M has raised quite a significant number of complaint points. Where I havent directly 
commented on something below, that isnt because I havent considered it, nor because I 
think its unimportant. In my decision Im going to focus on what I think are the key points 
and the crux of Miss Ms complaint. This reflects the informal nature of our service.
Quality of the car
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The CRA 
explains under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  FRF here  has a responsibility to 
make sure goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person 
would expect  taking into account any relevant factors. I would consider relevant factors here, amongst others, to include the cars age, price, 
mileage and description.
So, Ill consider that Miss Ms car was around nine years old and had covered over 75,000 
miles. And the price she paid represented a significant reduction from what the car wouldve 
cost new. So, I think a reasonable person wouldnt expect the car to be in the same 
condition as a newer, less road worn one. And they might expect the car to have had minor 
faults and/or some cosmetic damage. But, I think they would expect the car to have been 
free from major faults, and to be roadworthy and safe.
Before I comment on the individual areas, I think its worth providing some thoughts on the 
report from the garage Miss M provided. The report provides no detail on the areas it 
describes  it just provides a list of faults. The report has no photos, no commentary on the 
severity of the faults and no comments on when, or why, the faults might have occurred.
Because the car has now unfortunately been stolen, it means no further detail is going to be 
available. This means there is a lack of evidence here  so Im going to base my opinion on 
what I think most likely happened from the limited information I have.
The CRA explains an issue is not covered when considering satisfactory quality:
(a)which is specifically drawn to the consumers attention before the contract is made,
(b)where the consumer examines the goods before the contract is made, which that 
examination ought to reveal
From what Ive seen, it appears Miss M had the opportunity to inspect the car before she 
acquired it. Miss M has complained about the condition of the bodywork of the car and says 
it has marks and dents. Ive seen a collection form she signed from the dealer which says 
Dent on Door Odd Scratches. So, Im satisfied these issues cant be considered as part of 
the cars quality as they were either pointed out to her or she wouldve been able to see 
them upon inspection.
Its worth pointing out even if Miss M didnt inspect the car before she took it, I still wouldnt 
uphold on these issues. This is because some damage to the bodywork might be expected 
by a reasonable person on a car of this price, age and mileage.
On the collection form Miss M signed there is a tick next to lights to say theyve been 
checked. So, on balance, I think the issues with the headlight and indicator most likely 
happened after Miss M got the car.
Ive considered the issues pointed out by the garage about the wheel arches, play in 
gearstick and the front bumper. But, Mrs M had covered around 4,000 miles in the car at this 
point. I havent seen enough to make me think its likely these issues were present or 
developing at the point of supply.
Even if I reached the opposite conclusion here and accepted these issues were present 
when Miss M got the car, the report gives no commentary on the severity of these issues. If 
these are relatively minor, I wouldnt consider these would make the car of unsatisfactory 
quality given its price, age and mileage. So, because I have no additional information, I still 
wouldnt uphold the complaint on these areas.
In relation to the brake discs, inoperative washer jet and damage to the tyre side wall, if 
these were not road legal and safe I would expect them to be flagged on a MOT test. I can 
see a test was completed under two months before Miss M acquired the car, where no fails or advisories were noted. The mileage on this MOT is only around 200 under what Miss M 
says the car was supplied with. So, on balance, I think these issues were either not likely 
present when Miss M got the car or werent serious enough to mean the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality.
For the missing screen washer bottle lid, this is a very minor inexpensive issue. So, even if 
this was missing when Miss M got the car, I wouldnt consider that on her particular car this 
issue meant it wasnt of satisfactory quality.
In relation to the heatshield, there is some confusion over the dates involved and what 
happened. But it does appear the dealer at least tightened or repaired this at some point. 
And given this, I wouldnt necessarily expect it to fail when it did. But, again the report is 
completely silent on this. No information is given on why this issue likely occurred. The 
dealer explained this couldve been damaged by Miss M driving over a speed bump or 
similar  which doesnt seem unreasonable. And Miss M had covered some mileage before 
this went wrong.
Ive also had in mind that it appears when this failed, the dealer offered to repair this for 
Miss M. But she refused and responded with violent threats. So, theres a case to be made 
here that she effectively hasnt mitigated any losses from this fault.
I appreciate this particular fault is quite a finely balanced issue. But, given the silence of the 
report Miss M provided on any possible reason why this fault occurred, I havent seen 
enough to make me think the heat shield made the car of unsatisfactory quality when it was 
supplied.
Miss M has also complained about the battery and key supplied with the car. But, she was 
able to complete around 4,000 miles in it. So, I dont think these issues meant the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality. And I have assumed any potential issues with the seatbelt and EML 
were put right as these arent mentioned on the report.
Mileage
Miss M complained that the car had more miles on than she was expecting. Ive seen the 
credit agreement which said the car had covered 77,000 miles. Miss M provided a photo of 
the dash showing the mileage as 77,974. 
Ive carefully thought about this. It isnt too unusual for an agreement to contain a round 
figure for the mileage. In this case, if I accept that the photo Miss M provided shows the 
correct mileage when the car was collected, this represents an increase of just over 1% of 
the mileage Miss M thought the car had. Im satisfied this wouldnt affect the value of the car 
nor Miss Ms decision to enter into the agreement.
So, whatever happened here, FRF dont need to take any further action on this point.
Sale price of the car
Miss M believes the car wasnt worth what she paid for it. 
FRF had some responsibilities here. It needed to make it clear to Miss M what the price of 
the car was on the agreement. And, it could be liable for what the dealer told Miss M about 
the price of the car before she entered into the agreement, under section 56 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. So, Ill consider if Miss M was misled or given incorrect 
information.Ive considered the credit agreement. This lists the cash price of the car on the front page. 
And, when considering the dealers actions here, it appears Miss M only raised concerns 
about the price of the car after she acquired it and entered into the finance agreement.
So, Im satisfied Miss M understood what the car cost before she entered into the 
agreement. I havent seen enough to make me think its likely she was misled or given 
incorrect information about the price of the car. It follows I dont think FRF need to take any 
action here.
I know how strongly Miss M feels about the issues shes raised. Ive very carefully thought 
about everything else shes said in relation to the complaint. But this doesnt change my 
opinion that the complaint should not be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman