DRN-3828270
The complaint
Mr N complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) havent been able to trace a 
closed account he held with them to establish whether an overpayment had been repaid. 
Hes assisted in bringing this complaint by his wife Mrs N.
What happened
Mr N came to us as he was unhappy with NatWests response to his request for a refund. Mr 
N said hed received a letter dated 9 February 2017 from NatWest at a previous address 
asking him to stop making payments to a closed loan account and that he was entitled to a 
refund. The letter asked Mr N to contact the bank.
Mr N told us he first contacted NatWest about this in February 2020. He told us hed been 
critically ill following major heart surgery and the letter had been put to one side until that 
point in 2020. Mr N told us he made various enquiries from this point onwards by phone 
email and letter to no avail and finally complained to NatWest in January 2022.
NatWest told us theyd asked Mr N for more information to help them look into the matter but 
this hadnt been forthcoming so theyd sent their final response on 10 February 2022. In that 
they explained that without the loan account number and sort code they were unable to 
progress the complaint then as they didnt have enough information to carry a full 
investigation.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she didnt think NatWest had made an error. 
She said it had sent a letter to Mr N in February 2017 and he didnt respond at the time. And 
she thought there was nothing to suggest NatWest hadnt now acted fairly here.
Mr N didnt agree he thought the bank had intentionally avoided dealing with the matter and 
were doing wrong in withholding his money. He pointed out this wasnt a claim for 
compensation rather a claim for an overpayment amount so NatWest shouldnt refuse a 
refund. He said the letter from 2017 was clear evidence and hadnt been given due 
consideration as it would in a court of law. The letter clearly stated the amount and identified 
it as a closed account. So, he couldnt see what was now preventing NatWest from rightfully 
returning this to him.
I asked Mr N for more information and he told us as he recalled the last payment hed made 
to this loan account would have been about 10 years ago in 2012. He recalled taking a home 
improvement loan which was repaid over a term of ten years and the location of the branch 
hed done this from. And he told us the account hed made the repayments form had been 
closed some time ago.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I understand Mr Ns frustration here there are limitations on the actions we can take 
and the extent to which we, as a dispute resolution service, are able to help him. Were an 
informal alternative to the courts and consider complaints on a fair and reasonable basis. 
Although I take into account the relevant law and industry guidelines, I do not perform the 
role of the court or the regulator. My main focus is whether we think a business has dealt 
with matters appropriately. And, in this case, I think they have. Ill explain why.
Where facts have been incomplete or inconclusive and I cant know exactly whats 
happened, Ive decided whats more likely to have happened, at the time, on a balance of 
probabilities
Mr Ns unhappy as NatWest wont refund him money based on a letter hes produced from 
2017. The letter shows me there appeared to be an overpayment identified in 2017 which 
NatWest were trying to repay to the account holder. I think, on its own, this 2017 letter is no 
more than a snapshot of the position on this account at that point. Without accessing the 
account information theres no way of knowing whether the monies referred to that 2017 
letter remain owing or have already been refunded or to the account holder. And thats the 
central issue here. 
Without the information its requested NatWest cant say whether the refund had already 
been paid or is now due as they cant locate the account the letter refers to. They have said 
if the account number and sort code can be found they will make further enquiries. I dont 
think thats unreasonable.
Mr N says the account he paid the loan repayments from has been closed for some time so 
he cant trace the details thorough the payments he made. But he acknowledges receiving 
the 2017 letter. And that he didnt act until three years later. I appreciate hes told us at the 
time he had major surgery, a life threatening illness and was recovering. But a call or letter 
from him, or his representative, at the time in 2017 was all that wouldve been required. And 
although the 2017 letter didnt give a deadline for a response I cant say its reasonable to 
expect the bank to keep the matter open-ended for many years after it was sent.
Mr N tells us since taking the loan, he changed his name. But the change of name deed Mr 
N sent us uses a different spelling of his surname in both his original name and the new one 
to that used in the 2017 letter to the account holder. The surname is also spelt differently on 
the deed to another identity document provided by Mr N. So, the evidence around Mr Ns 
name isnt entirely clear. This isnt helpful. Despite this discrepancy, NatWest have searched 
under both variances of the surnames spelling. And tell us this has been done across all 
available databases. In the circumstances I dont think it would be fair for me to require 
NatWest to do more to find out whats happened without the information theyve specifically 
requested here namely the account number and the sort code.
I know Mr Ns unhappy that the bank had records of his account in 2017 but cant locate it 
now.  But banks arent required to keep records of closed accounts indefinitely and will 
generally retain records for only six years after closure. We dont know definitively when the 
account was closed. So, it isnt possible to say exactly when that six year period run from. 
But as Mr N says he stopped paying in 2012 and the complaint is that he overpaid this loan, 
I think, on balance, it had to have been settled no later than 2012.  So, I dont think its 
unreasonable that the bank no longer had this information to hand - based only on a search 
of both different spellings of his surname and his date of birth - when Mr N responded to the 
letter in 2020 some eight years after this probable closure and three years after that 
overpayment letter was sent.
NatWest arent refusing to continue looking for this account rather they cant locate it on the 
information available from Mr N at present. For the reasons Ive given above, I dont think 
this is unreasonable. It may be that if Mr N can provide more information about the account 
that this can be resolved. For example, if he can recall the details of the branch used to open 
the account, the sort code for that branch at the time might be traceable. And, as NatWest 
have suggested, if Mr Ns payment bank can retrieve the details of outbound payments to 
this loan that will provide the missing loan account information. But at present I dont require 
NatWest to do anything further. 
Given how strongly Mr N feels about whats happened he may want to pursue the matter further through other routes. Its a matter for him whether he tries to trace the historical 
payment information thats been requested. But my decision brings to an end what we  in 
trying to resolve his dispute with NatWest informally  can do for him. Im sorry if this 
disappoints Mr N.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman