DRN-3590805
The complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building Society has declined his claim under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of a defective engagement ring. 
What happened
In February 2017 Mr M bought an engagement ring for £670. He paid using his Nationwide 
credit card. Within the first year, one of the stones fell out of the ring. Mr M says it was 
because of a broken clasp and that the ring was repaired under warranty. The same thing 
happened in December 2017, but with a different stone. The retailer agreed to replace the 
ring. 
Less than a year later, the same thing happened again. The retailer has refused to carry out 
any further repairs. Mr M says that the ring has now broken or that stones have fallen out of 
it a total of five times. 
In June 2021, Mr M says that one of the clasps holding the centre stone broke. Mr M was not 
happy with the resolutions offered by the retailer, which referred Mr M to the National 
Association of Jewellers. A report was then prepared by The Goldsmiths Company.
 Mr M made a claim under section 75 against Nationwide. It said however that the report was 
inconclusive and that it did not consider therefore it was liable to Mr M. It would reconsider 
the matter if Mr M were able to get a more detailed report about the cause of the problem. 
Mr M did not want to do that and so Mr M referred the matter to this service. Our investigator 
agreed that the report was inconclusive and so did not recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. Mr M asked that an ombudsman review the case.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The effect of section 75 in this case is that, if Mr M has a claim for breach of contract against 
the retailer, he has a like claim against Nationwide. Thats because he paid for the ring with 
his credit card. 
The contract between Mr M and the retailer was to be read as including a term that the ring 
was of satisfactory quality  meaning the quality a reasonable person would expect. That 
includes matters such as durability. I would expect an engagement ring to last for many 
years. 
I note that the original ring was repaired and, in early 2018, replaced. And the replacement 
too has been repaired. The ring that was inspected is therefore rather different from the one 
Mr M bought. The retailers obligation to supply a ring that was of satisfactory quality remains 
the same, however. 
The inspection report discussed in some detail the possible reasons for the damage to the 
ring. It says that accidental damage is unlikely, but not impossible. There is evidence of a 
fault in the casting of the metal, but other observations are inconsistent with that. The 
conclusion is expressly a tentative one that there is a manufacturing fault, but that is not 
proven in the opinion of the inspector. 
My interpretation of the inspection report is that it is inconclusive. The inspector does not say 
what he believes to be the cause of the damage other than saying that  the evidence 
points tentatively to there being a fault in the metal and so a manufacturing fault looks likely 
but is not proven. Given the very cautious nature of that conclusion, I do not believe that it 
was unreasonable of Nationwide to decline Mr Ms claim under section 75 and accordingly I 
agree with the investigators conclusion.  
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Nationwide Building Society to 
take any further steps to resolve Mr Ms complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman