DRN-3977219
The complaint
Miss L has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited 
(C&G) increased the premiums for the insurance for her pet dog because she mis-stated the 
dogs breed in her application form.
References to C&G include its agents and claims administrators.
Ive previously issued a provisional decision in this case and have received comments from 
C&G which Ill refer to below.
What happened
Miss L took out an insurance policy with C&G for her pet dog, who Ill refer to as A, starting 
on 19 April 2018. This was done via a price comparison website. 
Miss L says that when making her application she was asked about As breed type and was 
given a choice of 3 options. They were Breed, Crossbreed or Mongrel. She says she opted 
for the Crossbreed option but found that her dogs breed wasnt shown so she selected 
small mongrel as this seemed to her to be the most apt alternative. C&G issued her with a 
policy and assessed her premium on the basis of this information.
.
On 25 May 2021, A had to have a life-saving operation, a splenectomy. This cost £2,245.32 
which Miss L claimed from C&G.  Upon receipt of this claim, C&G noted As breed from the 
vets records and that he was not a mongrel as Miss A had stated in her application form and 
which had been stated on her policy schedule. 
C&G says that Miss L made a misrepresentation as to As breed. It says that if it had been 
provided with correct information about As breed, the premium wouldve been higher. So 
C&G amended Miss Ls policy details, and this resulted in an increase in her premium from 
£37.38 a month to £75.82 a month. It backdated the new higher premium to the policys 
inception date, deducted the outstanding balance from her claim, and requested the 
remaining shortfall.
Sadly in August 2021, As condition returned and it was necessary for him to be euthanised. 
Miss L was unable to claim for the cost of the treatment hed received as her policy had fully 
paid out, but she did query why her premiums had increased. C&G said it was because she 
had misrepresented A as being a mongrel when he was in fact a crossbreed.
 
Miss Ls concern is that the website was confusing. She says that if shed been able to 
select the name of As breed, and had then seen how much more it was to insure him as 
such rather than as a mongrel, she wouldve shopped around for a more competitive quote.
Miss L was unhappy with C&Gs response to her complaint, so she brought it to this service. 
Our investigators view was that A was a mixed breed dog, and as the option to select his 
breed wasnt presented, he couldnt fairly say that Miss L has made a misrepresentation. As 
such, C&G couldnt rely on the remedies available under the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). In any event, there is no option under 
CIDRA which allows for premiums to be increased. As a result, he didnt believe that C&G 
had acted reasonably towards Miss L in increasing and then retaining the premiums based 
on CIDRA and that it should refund to her the difference between her original premiums and 
the increased premiums it had charged her.
C&G doesnt agree with our investigators view and has asked that the complaint be referred 
to an ombudsman. Its therefore been referred to me to make a final decision from this 
service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Miss Ls complaint for the reasons given in my provisional 
decision although Im accepting a representation made to me by C&G in response to my 
provisional decision which Ill refer to below.
The reasons for my final decision are these:
Ive visited the price comparison website used by Miss L and have seen the questions Miss 
L wouldve been asked. 
A is a cross between two pedigree breeds and is therefore a crossbreed. One of the 
questions asked was whether or not A was a crossbreed. If shed answered No, she 
wouldve been asked to select As breed from a drop-down list. As breed is not listed. But as 
A is a crossbreed, Miss L answered yes.
Having said that A was a crossbreed, the questions then moved on to ask for As weight, 
and whether hed been chipped and neutered. It doesnt ask for his breed.  It then asks 
whether Miss L wanted to cover any pre-existing conditions. If shed answered yes to this 
question, she wouldve been told that no cover could be provided and she should consult a 
specialist insurer. Miss L answered No. She was then referred to C&Gs website where 
further questions were asked.
Ive visited C&Gs website. It first asks the customer to select Type of Breed from three 
options.  The options are Breed, Crossbreed or Mongrel. If Crossbreed is selected, the 
customer is then required to move on to select Breed and a drop-down menu then provides 
a long list of crossbreed dogs which includes As breed.  
C&G says that the questions asked if a direct application to its site is made are different to 
those asked if the customer is transferred by a price comparison website. Having seen a 
screenshot provided by C&G of the questions asked if the referral is through a price 
comparison website, I can see that the options from which Miss L could select As breed 
category were Pedigree, Crossbreed and Mongrel. I have asked for, but have not been 
provided with, the options that wouldve appeared if Miss L had selected Crossbreed.
I therefore cant be certain that Miss L wouldve seen the same large selection of crossbreed 
dogs that appear when visiting to C&Gs website direct rather than on a referral from a price 
comparison website. Miss L says the Crossbreed option had limited choices so she 
selected Mongrel in good faith as the most appropriate option as A was of mixed breed. 
C&G hasnt provided any evidence that As breed wouldve appeared as an option if Miss L 
had selected Crossbreed.Ive looked at the terms of Miss Ls policy, which makes clear the importance of providing 
accurate information and the consequences of failing to do so. I referred to these in my 
provisional decision.
My view is that when Mongrel was shown as As breed on her policy schedule, this was 
inaccurate and misrepresented As breed, and Miss L shouldve taken steps to correct this. 
Under CIDRA, I need to consider whether this was a qualifying misrepresentation  that is 
whether the inaccurate information Miss L provided wouldve made any difference to the 
terms C&G wouldve offered or whether it wouldnt have offered cover at all. I think its clear 
from C&Gs correspondence that had it known As correct breed it would still have provided 
cover, but for a higher premium. 
But CIDRA doesnt allow for an insurer to simply increase a premium in these 
circumstances, or, as in Miss Ls case, to deduct the underpayment of premium from any 
claim made. The fact that the policy terms do give this right doesnt assist C&G. It cant 
circumvent CIDRA by reference to a policy term.
But C&G informed Miss L on 3 December 2021 that £620.48 remained payable by her. After 
the deduction of a further claim of £175.18 in August 2021, it maintains that the amount still 
owing by her for underpaid premium is £445.30. 
I consider that C&G has acted unfairly in making such deductions.
In circumstances of an underpayment of premium, an insurer can make a proportionate 
reduction in the amount of any claim paid. So for example if the premium actually paid was 
80% of what it wouldve been had correct information been provided, the insurer need only 
pay 80% of any claim. It can offer its customer the option of paying any shortfall in premium 
which would ensure that any future claim would be paid in full, but it cant require it to be 
paid. Nor can C&G backdate the difference in premium to the inception of the policy as each 
policy year is a new contract.
In my view C&G has acted unfairly towards Miss L in claiming from her the additional 
premium it wouldve charged her had it been provided with the correct information about As 
breed and it should refund the overpayment of premium. C&G may adjust any amount paid 
to Miss L in respect of any claim to reflect the underpayment of premium.
In my provisional decision I stated that I was proposing to require C&G to waive Miss Ls 
monthly premiums falling due after As death. Following a submission from C&G Ive 
changed my view on whether this is appropriate. If Miss L had not made any claims under 
her policy in policy year commencing April 2021, I wouldve maintained this view, but as 
claims have been made on the policy in that year I accept that it would be unreasonable 
from C&G not to receive the full annual premium. 
I therefore accept that it would be reasonable for C&G to claim from Miss L the remaining 
premiums due for policy year commencing April 2021. As Ive decided that C&G was wrong 
to increase Miss Ls premium, the monthly premiums should be based on the original 
monthly rate of £37.38.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Miss Ls claim. For clarity, Ive expressed 
differently to my provisional decsion what C&G should do.I require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited:
1. to refund to Miss L the amount by which it increased her premium as a result of the 
error in specifying As breed.
2. to reassess Miss Ls claims by applying a proportionate reduction to the amount 
claimed or paid. This should reflect the proportion by which her annual premium was 
underpaid as against the annual premium she shouldve paid in the policy year in 
which the claim arose if correct information had been given. 
C&G may deduct from the sum at (1) above:
a. any instalments of premium remaining due from Miss L for the policy year 
commencing 19 April 2021.
b. Any overpayment of claims paid calculated in accordance with (2) above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman