DRN-3052245
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim 
they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs P are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around February 2014, Mr and Mrs P were contacted by a representative of a company 
Ill call S to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their 
home. After being visited by a representative of S, Mr and Mrs P decided to purchase the 
system and finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
system was subsequently installed.
The CMC complained to Shawbrook on behalf of Mr and Mrs P. The CMCs complaint letter 
is dated 2 April 2014, which is most likely an error, as this is only two months after Mr and 
Mrs P purchased the system. However, in our complaint form, the CMC said they 
complained to Shawbrook on 2 May 2017. Nevertheless, in the complaint letter the CMC 
made a claim on Mr and Mrs Ps behalf under section 75 of the Act to Shawbrook. The CMC 
said that, following a cold call, S had made a number of representations about the system 
that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced Mr 
and Mrs P to enter into the contract with S. 
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system including VAT had been documented as £5,989.90 to 
mislead Mr and Mrs P  this figure did not include any interest associated with the 
loan, so the true cost was £11,604.60; 
Mr and Mrs P wouldnt have entered into the loan agreement if theyd known theyd 
be in a financial deficit of £4,859.60;
Mr and Mrs P were promised a Tax-Free Year 1 benefit of £799.15 and this didnt 
take into account that after making their loan repayments Mr and Mrs P had an actual 
annual deficit of £436.39;
the credit agreement would be self-funded by the FIT payments alone; and,
Mr and Mrs P would make savings on their electricity bills.
The CMC also said Mr and Mrs P had been pressurised into signing the agreement and 
purchasing the solar panel system; Shawbrook had failed to assess Mr and Mrs Ps credit 
worthiness; they had no warranty or guarantee despite being told the system would be under 
warranty for 20 years; and that it hadnt been explained that the performance of the system 
would deteriorate slightly year on year.
The CMC also raised concerns under section 140A of the Act. It said there was an unfair 
relationship between Mr and Mrs P and Shawbrook due to the misleading representations 
made about the systems expected performance.
On making the section 75 claim to Shawbrook, the CMC provided a copy of a non-
compliance hearing from the Renewable Energy Consumer Code (RECC) dated 
December 2013, copies of marketing material used by S, a job advert for S, the loan 
agreement with Shawbrook, and some of Mr and Mrs Ps FIT statements.
Shawbrook issued its final response letter on 13 July 2017. Shawbrook said, having 
reviewed the information it held on file, as well as information provided by S, it didnt agree 
the system had been misrepresented to Mr and Mrs P or that there were any other reasons 
for the claim to be upheld. 
In summary, Shawbrook said:
the fixed sum loan agreement was clear that the cash price of the system was 
£5,898.90 and the total amount payable, due to the associated interest, was 
£11,604.60;
the contract S had provided Mr and Mrs P set out the expected total returns from the 
system and this, alongside the finance agreement, made it clear that the system was 
not self-funding immediately and that there would be a cost involved; 
the contract with S showed that the expected annual return in year one was £799.15, 
whereas the loan agreement repayments were £64.47 a month, or £773.64 over the 
year; 
S said that Mr and Mrs P had raised no concerns about being pressurised into 
agreeing to the installation of the system and the associated finance, and she hadnt 
exercised her right to cancel the contract within the cancellation period;
the performance of the system and any deterioration are set out in the contract;
as part of his loan application, Shawbrook had completed a full credit check to 
assess Mr and Mrs Ps credit worthiness and their ability to repay the loan. Mr and 
Mrs P had met its lending criteria; and,
Shawbrook didnt pay any commission to S for introducing Mr and Mrs P to it.
Unhappy with this response, the CMC referred the complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the information and 
evidence provided our investigator thought the benefits of the system were misrepresented 
as the system is underperforming compared to the estimations provided at the point of sale. 
 
The investigator recommended that Shawbrook should reduce the total amount payable by 
Mr and Mrs P so that it equalled the benefits the system would generate over the original 
loan term. 
Neither the CMC or Shawbrook provided a response, so the case has been passed to me for 
review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations  
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. 
 
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. It states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) 
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against 
the supplier in the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have 
a like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly 
and severally liable to the debtor. 
 
As Mr and Mrs P paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs P could claim 
against Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by S in the 
same way they could have claimed against S, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into 
account when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case. 
 
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs P and S, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by S as an agent of 
Shawbrook. 
 
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss. 
 
Section 140A of the Act is also relevant. This states: 
(1) The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor 
arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is 
unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following: 
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement; 
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights under the 
agreement or any related agreement; 
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either before 
or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement). 
(2) In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters relating to the creditor and 
matters relating to the debtor). 
 
So, Ive considered whether a court might find that there existed an unfair relationship. 
 
Key documents 
 There are several documents that have been provided by the CMC and Shawbrook. These 
include the credit agreement and Mr and Mrs Ps solar quote. Ive considered these in detail 
and whether they support the alleged representations made by S. 
 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr and Mrs Ps recollection of the sale.
 
Shawbrook have provided detailed information explaining Ss sale processes. This detailed 
that Ss sales practice was for the quotation to be sent to the consumers shortly after the 
initial meeting via email. Based on our experience of what we have seen with similar 
complaints, Im satisfied that, on the balance of probabilities, S would have sent this 
document to Mr and Mrs P and I have no reason to doubt thats what happened in this 
complaint.  
 
The credit agreement, which was also provided by the CMC at the time the original 
complaint was made, sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments. 
 
Ill now consider each of the alleged representations made as set out above. 
 
The FIT payments 
 
Mr and Mrs P have alleged that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by their FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided 
by S and considered whether this supports what they say they were told as I consider the 
quote was central to the sales presentation. 
 
Page five of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs P could expect to receive 
by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into two tables. The first shows the 
expected FIT payments in the first year and the second shows the expected average income 
over 20 years. My understanding is that the system would only receive FIT payments for 20 
years and this is why 20 years has been used in the quote. 
The tables are set out as follows:
 
I think that these tables, especially the first one, are clear that Mr and Mrs P could expect to 
receive a total income in year one of £553.22 from their FIT. 
 
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs P could expect from the 
system as well as any savings they would make if they were to take out any optional extras 
like a voltage optimiser and an OWL heating controller. The expected year one electricity 
savings are shown as £245.93. And a table titled Putting it all together shows the combined 
income and savings in year one to be £799.15. 
 
There is a page titled system performance and returns with a series of tables. And includes 
a section titled repayment options. This has three tables set out over 60 months, 120 
months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the length of the 
loan that Mr and Mrs P entered into with Shawbrook. This table sets out that there are 180 
monthly payments of £64.48 due and compares the overall expected grand total from the 
system, averaged over a monthly basis, versus the expected loan repayments. 
This table reads as follows:
 
 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs P could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income 
to their monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income they could 
expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings, would be 
immediately sufficient to cover their monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im satisfied 
that they were told that their monthly loan repayments would be covered by the total income 
they would receive from the system rather than the FIT income alone. 
 
Total cost of the system and expected benefits 
 
Mr and Mrs P have said that the cost of the system was documented as £5,898.90. They 
have said that this was done to mislead them as this figure did not include any interest 
associated with the loan so hid the true cost of the system, £11,604.60. 
 
Im satisfied that the quote provided to Mr and Mrs P makes it clear that the cost of the 
system is £5,898.90. This is supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the total 
amount of credit is £5,898.90 and goes on to show that the total amount payable would 
be £11,604.60. 
 
And as the quote provided by S is clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment due, 
as set out in the table above, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the 
credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £5,898.90, it would 
cost Mr and Mrs P more than this as they had decided to pay for it with a fixed sum loan. 
 
Ill now consider whether S told Mr and Mrs P that the system would not cost them a penny, 
and that they could expect to receive a Tax-Free Year 1 benefit of £799.15. 
 
Ive considered the table above that sets out the expected income from the system versus 
the expected benefit. My view is that this table is in an easily accessible format comparing 
the two. 
Im satisfied that this table shows that in the first year Mr and Mrs P was expected to have 
made a profit of £2.12 a month and in the second year this would increase to a profit of 
£5.12 a month. I think this clearly shows the system would be generating a profit from day 
one and the system would be paying for itself. 
 
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system would be self-funding from the start, 
and Im able to conclude that Mr and Mrs P were told that the system would not cost them a 
penny. I think the quote is clear that there wouldnt be a deficit between the expected 
income and monthly loan repayments. 
 
I do accept that Mr and Mrs P were told that theyd receive a year one benefit of £799.15 as 
this was the expected combined income from FIT payments and electricity savings on their 
energy bills. Having said that, taking into account the available evidence, Im not persuaded 
that Mr and Mrs P were led to believe that theyd receive this sum in their hands. Im 
satisfied that the quote makes it clear that theyd have to make loan repayments, and this 
would reduce the amount they would receive overall.
 
I do accept that Mr and Mrs P were told by S that the system would pay for itself over the 
loan term. Page 15 of the quote has a table called System Performance and Returns 
detailing the performance over 25 years.  The table is set out as follows:
 
 
This shows that by year 12 the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs P could expect to receive 
would have exceeded the total amount payable under their loan agreement. This table also 
sets out the panel degradation rate so Im satisfied that S made them aware that 
performance of the system would deteriorate over its lifetime.  
 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that S told Mr and Mrs P that the system would pay for 
itself by year 12, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, 
and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into the contract, and 
they subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation. 
 
So, Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with 
the contract between S and Mr and Mrs P. The quote sets out that the system is expected to 
produce 3,212.69 kWh a year and this in turn would generate the income, by way of FIT 
payments and savings in their energy bills, that Mr and Mrs P could expect to receive. 
 
Ive calculated that the system should generate, on average, 8.8 kWh of energy each day. 
Mr and Mrs P have provided their FIT statements which show that for a period of just over 12 
months between March 2015 and March 2016 the system generated 1,922 kWh which 
equates to 5.13 kWh a day or 1,875.74 kWh a year. This is significantly less that the 
estimations provided at the point of sale. 
Im satisfied that the estimated generation, and the subsequent FIT payment, would have 
induced Mr and Mrs P into entering the contract. The actual generation, and therefore 
income, are significantly lower than they were promised so they have suffered a loss. I 
believe that this amounts to a misrepresentation so I think this case should be upheld. 
I note the CMC has raised some additional points. But, whilst I have considered these, 
having already established there was most likely a misrepresentation at the point of sale, it is 
not necessary to discuss these points in this decision.
Ill go on to explain what I think fair compensation should be in this case. 
Putting things right
Our role is to resolve individual disputes between consumers and businesses fairly, 
reasonably, quickly and informally. Determining fair compensation is not always an exact 
science and it is more difficult in a case like this where solar panels have been installed at 
the property. 
 
Ive considered if its fair to unwind the credit agreement, remove the solar panels and give 
Mr and Mrs P a refund of all the payments made (less any financial benefit gained from the 
installation of the solar panels). But I think it may be disproportionate to do this when the 
panels are working and generating green energy. I think theres an alternative that would put 
Mr and Mrs P in a fair position. 
 
In this case, I think fair compensation is trying to make sure that Mr and Mrs P dont suffer a 
financial loss, which in my view would mean that the solar panel system should be cost 
neutral over the 15-year loan term  in summary, my aim is to make sure that total outgoings 
(including the monthly loan repayments) are equal to any income and savings that the 
panels generate. 
 
So, I think to put things right Shawbrook should recalculate the original loan based on the 
known and assumed savings and income to Mr and Mrs P from the solar panels over the 
15-year term of the loan, so they pay no more than that, and they keep the solar panel 
system. This will put Mr and Mrs P in a cost neutral position over the loan term, meaning that 
they are not disadvantaged by the mis-representation.
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr and Mrs P have the following options as to 
how he would like the overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
continues to make their current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
pay a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c) the overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs P and they continues to make their 
current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs P and they pay a new monthly 
payment until the end of the loan term. 
It is likely that, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr and Mrs Ps monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they have paid more each month than they should have resulting in an 
overpayment balance. If so, Mr and Mrs P have been deprived of the amount of the monthly 
overpayment. And so Shawbrook should pay Mr and Mrs P 8% simple interest, per annum, 
on the amount of each overpayment from the date of the overpayment to the date of 
settlement.
I also think that Shawbrook should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.  Shawbrook Bank Limited should 
put things right in the manner set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman