DRN-3735660
The complaint
Mr P complains about how Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited (MICL) handled his 
motor insurance claim.
What happened
In July 2021 Mr P was involved in a road traffic accident, he said when he considered the 
possibility that there could be 50/50 liability he made a claim against his motor insurance 
policy with MICL. 
MICL arranged for Mr Ps car to go to an authorised repairer. But Mr P said as his was a 
specialist car it needed to be sent to a specialist repairer. But MICL wouldnt agree to this, 
Mr P said his car was recovered to his home address. Mr P said hed provided all the 
documentation MICL asked for, but the service he received from them was poor. He said 
MICLs customer service was argumentative, and he had to keep chasing them for his claim 
to progress. Mr P said hed also wanted to keep his car and get it repaired.  
Mr P said he wasnt provided with  a courtesy car even though there was cover for this in his 
policy. And that he had to take out a loan to buy a car with the same functionality to use on 
his land and for his hobbies. He said MICL, at first only offered £12,000 when they 
considered his car to be economically beyond repair. But they later offered £24,000 when 
the modifications to his car were considered. But because of the time the claim was taking 
he accepted the settlement offer made by MICL and didnt get his car back. Mr P complained 
to MICL about the poor customer service hed received, the delay in getting his claim sorted 
and the financial impact caused to him.
MICL said in January 2022 when Mr P had first complained they reviewed the initial 
settlement offer and agreed that the first offer was too low as it hadnt taken into account 
modifications to his car. They said they increased the settlement offer to £24,000 in line with 
standard business valuation tools. They said theyd explained to Mr P that the salvage value 
for the car was calculated in line with business processes and wasnt subject to negotiation. 
The claim was settled on a 50/50 liability and settlement (less the excess agreed by Mr P on 
his motor insurance policy) was sent. 
Mr P wasnt happy with MICLs responses and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said there had been unnecessary delays that had caused Mr P distress and 
inconvenience. He asked MICL to compensate Mr P by paying him £200 for this.
Mr P didnt agree he said £200 was insufficient to compensate for the way his claim had 
been handled. He asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im partially upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
In the course of Mr Ps complaint hes made a number of detailed points. But, while I've 
considered everything that's been said, in this decision I will focus on what I see as being the 
key issues. In reaching my decision Ive considered the terms and conditions of Mr Ps motor 
insurance policy, and any relevant legislation, guidance and good practice.
I can see that liability for the accident was disputed. And I think where liability is in dispute 
its not unusual for claims to take many months and in some cases years to resolve. From 
MICLs records it wasnt until June 2022 that it was confirmed that the liability for the incident 
was accepted as 50/50.
Courtesy car
Mr Ps motor insurance policy says hes insured for:
Courtesy car for duration of repairs authorised by us and completed by an approved 
repairer
I can see from MICLs records that Mr P wasn't happy for MICLs approved repairer to carry 
out the work. And he asked for his car to be sent to a specialist repairer. That was Mr Ps 
choice. But if hed allowed the approved repairer to do the work that could have most likely 
reduced any significant delay. And Mr P would have had a courtesy car while his car was 
being  assessed for repair. So, he wouldnt have incurred the expense of buying another car 
to use while his was being assessed.
In August 2021, Mr P sent images to MICL of the damage to his car for it to be assessed. 
MICL records show that theyd difficulty in viewing the images and they contacted Mr P in 
September 2021 about this. They also asked for further detail about the incident as liability 
was being considered. In November 2021 I can see Mr P sent further images and these 
were sent to the engineer to assess the damage. 
In December 2021, Mr Ps car was deemed to be beyond economical repair. His motor 
insurance policy says:
You are not entitled to a courtesy car if it is believed your vehicle is beyond economical 
repair.
So I dont think MICL acted unfairly or unreasonably in not providing Mr P with a courtesy 
car. And so I cant ask MICL to reimburse Mr P for the financial impact this had.
Pre Accident Valuation (PAV)
In December 2021 the engineers assessed the PAV for Mr Ps car at £12,000. And as the 
cost of repair was estimated to be more than £16,000, Mr Ps car was deemed beyond 
economical repair. MICL offered Mr P a settlement of £12,000 less his policy excess.In January 2022, Mr P said the settlement offer was too low. I can see that MICL reviewed 
the offer. They said the engineer had noted there were modifications made to Mr Ps car 
when it was assessed. But as they couldnt see the modifications had been declared they 
werent considered in the PAV as it wasnt known whether the policy would cover the 
modifications. 
Mr Ps policy says:
Failure to disclose any modification could result in the policy being declared invalid. If in 
doubt you should disclose it. E.g. engine or body modifications, special or non-standard 
equipment, non-standard or alloy wheels, cosmetic changes, sound systems.
MICL said Mr Ps broker hadnt notified them about the modifications. But after review 
accepted the modifications should be considered when assessing the PAV for Mr Ps car. In 
late January 2022 the engineer reassessed the PAV and increased the PAV to £24,000. So 
Im satisfied MICL acted fairly and reasonably.
Salvage
In December 2021, Mr P said hed wanted to keep his car and to look to get it repaired. He 
said he expected the salvage value to be around £4,000. And after the PAV was increased 
in January 2022 Mr P questioned whether his car was still economically beyond repair. MICL 
has shown that the repairs would have been over £16K so the increased PAV didnt impact 
the decision that the car was considered a total loss. 
I can see that Mr P was of the belief that the salvage value was negotiable and that the rates 
to calculate should be included in his policy documents. As this is a commercial decision and  
a business process made by MICL I wont comment further on this.
In May 2022 MICL asked Mr P if he wanted to retain his car, and that the settlement offer 
was £24,000. Mr P took from this that he would receive £24,000 and still be able to keep his 
car. As Mr P wanted to keep the car hed looked to get quotes for its repair. 
I can see from MICLs records they clarified this in June 2022, Mr P was told the salvage 
amount would be £8,150, which would leave a settlement of £15,590. I think this letter was 
clear that the settlement would be reduced by the salvage amount. In early July 2022 Mr P 
accepted the settlement offer as he no longer wanted to retain the car. While MICLs 
communications could have been clearer Im satisfied that Mr P had sufficient information to 
make an informed decision about the retention of his car.
Customer service
Mr P felt there were unreasonable delays with the claims process. I can see from the claim 
being made July 2021 it wasnt until July 2022 that the claim was finally settled. From 
January 2022 until the claim was settled I can see Mr P and MICL were in discussions to 
determine the PAV and salvage value and whether Mr P wanted to retain his car or not.
But between September 2021 and December 2021 when the first PAV was sent to Mr P he 
was asking about the progression of his claim. There were issues with viewing the images 
sent by Mr P. This caused a delay in Mr Ps car damage being assessed. And left him 
wondering what was happening with his claim. This would have been a difficult time for Mr P 
having been in an accident and without the use of his car, so I think MICL could have kept 
Mr P better informed about his claims progress. And in July 2022 his settlement payment couldnt be made until his car was collected because of inaccurate registration details being 
used by the recovery agents.
Our investigator said MICL should pay Mr P £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
to him for this and I think this is fair and reasonable. I think MICL could have handled the 
claim better.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint. And ask Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited to pay  
Mr P £200 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman