DRN-3984510
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs T complain that Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) has declined 
their claim made against their insurance cover when Mrs Ts mobile phone was stolen.
What happened
Mr T and Mrs T have insurance for Mrs Ts mobile phone as a benefit with their joint bank 
account. Mr T and Mrs T said theyd been looking to sell the mobile phone through an on-
line marketplace, and agreed to sell it for £450, following which a man called to, as they 
thought, pay for and collect the phone. Mrs T said she answered the door carrying her baby 
as shed been unwell while holding her mobile phone in her hand. She said the man had first 
tried to use a fake banking app and then physically grabbed the mobile phone from her 
hand.
Mrs T said shed reported this to the police and had put a block on the phones usage before 
Mr T called to make a claim against their insurance cover. He was told during the call that 
the claim was declined as theyd been selling the phone. Mr T and Mrs T complained to 
Assurant.
Assurant said theyd reviewed the policys terms and conditions and that the terms had been 
applied correctly as the policy didnt cover loss from the sale or trade of a mobile phone.
Mr T and Mrs T didnt agree and referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt think Assurant had applied the term fairly as Mrs T hadnt actively 
handed over her phone. He asked Assurant to review Mr T and Mrs Ts claim again.
Assurant reiterated that the policy didnt cover loss resulting from a sale. And they didnt 
think Mrs T had taken care of her phone. Assurant asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I understand the stress Mrs Ts been under. Theres inevitably some stress involved in every
claim - because somethings happened to make that claim necessary. And her phone was 
physically taken from her while she was holding her baby. Ive listened to Mr T and Mrs Ts 
account of what happened. And Assurant dont dispute that the mobile phone was taken out 
of Mrs Ts hand.
Insurers write their policies to cover different risks and will set out not only whats covered 
but also what isnt. Each term which explains whats not covered is called an exclusion.  In 
reaching my decision I need to determine whether I think the exclusion term used by 
Assurant in declining Mr T and Mrs Ts claim was applied fairly.
Assurant has declined Mr T and Mrs Ts claim under the policy:
Losses incurred as a result of the sale of your mobile phone.
And Mr T and Mrs T dont dispute that they were looking to sell the mobile phone. The policy 
says:
We do not cover any loss of your mobile phone or any loss of money expected from any 
transaction, from the sale or trade of your mobile phone.
But goes on to say 
This is because the mobile phone will have been actively passed to an individual or 
business and, therefore, no loss or theft has taken place.
Id consider this to mean that as part of the sale and trade Mrs T would have handed over 
her mobile phone to the person who she was selling it to. But Mrs T didnt do this  from her 
testimony she says the phone was taken from her, not handed over.
Assurant also offer advice about the selling process:
We therefore recommend you take precautions if you sell your mobile phone, such as;  
waiting for payment (including waiting for cheques to clear) before releasing your 
mobile phone,  using a secure payment service,  not accepting cash payments from 
people you don't know (who could be using forged banknotes), and  ensuring your mobile 
phone is sent using a reliable and suitably insured delivery service
Upon Mrs T becoming aware that the alleged buyer was attempting to use a fake banking 
App, the phone was forcibly taken from her. I think its clear the intention was to take the 
phone from Mrs T and not to buy it from her. And Im persuaded by Mrs Ts testimony that at 
no point did she willingly or unwillingly hand the phone over to the alleged buyer. The phone 
was forcibly taken from her.
Ive also considered the actions Mr T and Mrs T took after the mobile phone was taken and 
before they claimed against their insurance policy. And these fall in the line with the policy to:
Tell the airtime provider the phone has been stolen as soon as possible
Report the phone stolen to the police; and 
Report the claim to Assurant as soon as possible
When Mr T called to make his claim with Assurant he confirmed that hed spoken to the 
airtime provider and a block had been placed on the phones usage. The incident was 
reported to the police and Mr T and Mrs T have provided a crime reference number.
Ive considered the comments made by Assurant following our investigators outcome to the 
complaint. But they declined Mr T and Mrs Ts claim solely on the exclusion that they didnt 
cover the loss of a mobile phone from a sale. And I dont think this exclusion has been 
applied fairly as the mobile phone was forcibly taken from Mrs T and not actively handed 
over.
Putting things right
I agree with our investigators outcome in that Assurant should now reconsider Mr T and   
Mrs Ts mobile phone claim against the remaining policy terms.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Assurant to reconsider Mr T and Mrs Ts claim, subject to 
the terms and conditions of their policy, excluding the policy term they previously declined 
the claim for.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman