DRN-2963794
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr A complain that Hastings Insurance Services Limited (Hastings) treated them
unfairly as they the existing insurance policy theyd amended wasnt changed to include
commuting as expected.
Theyre unhappy they were charged a cancellation fee when they realised the policy was
unsuitable for their needs.
What happened
Mrs A had an existing insurance policy with Hastings for social and domestic use of her car.
In September 2020 she contacted them to ask if she could add Mr A to her existing policy on
a temporary basis as he would be using the car for around a month.
Hastings asked for Mr As details  including his employment details  and added him to the
policy. They then asked Mrs A if all the other details on the policy would remain the same,
which Mrs A confirmed was correct. Hastings then amended the policy and sent Mrs A the
new policy documents in the post.
A couple of days later, Mrs A received the policy documents and saw Mr A had been added
to the policy. However, the type of cover hadnt been changed to include commuting for
Mr As journeys to and from work as theyd expected.
So Mrs A contacted Hastings. She explained the policy wasnt any use as Mr A needed it to
include commuting. She also asked why Hastings hadnt told her the new policy didnt
include this as she would have never continued the policy with Mr A as a named driver
without commuting.
Hastings said that Mrs A should have known the policy didnt include commuting (as her
existing policy hadnt done so because of her circumstances) and they couldnt amend the
policy - so Mrs A had to look for a new policy elsewhere.
Mrs A cancelled the policy with Hastings and was charged a cancellation fee of around £100
for the outstanding time on cover that she hadnt used, so she made a complaint.
Hastings didnt uphold the complaint. They said theyd followed their correct process and
added Mr A onto the policy under the same cover as Mrs A already had. They said they
werent asked about the cover which would be provided, and it is the responsibility of the
policyholder to check they have the right cover before going ahead with any changes. Mrs A
didnt agree and asked this service to look into the complaint.
Our investigator recommended the complaint was upheld. He thought Hastings should have
asked Mrs A more questions about Mr As use of the car. He also felt it wasnt enough for
Hastings just to ask Mrs A if everything else on the policy remained the same as theyd
asked about Mr As employment which implied commuting would be covered.
He also felt that had Mrs A applied online she would have been able to select the option for
commuting cover. So he asked Hastings to refund the cancellation fee and pay Mrs A £100
for the inconvenience caused.
Hastings didnt agree. They said they hadnt implied commuting would be included in the
amended policy and as they are a non-advised company, they wouldnt have been able to
recommend cover. Hastings also said Mrs A had never asked for commuting to be included
or asked if it would be. So they asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 26 July 2021. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill 
explain why.
Mrs A has told us that when she called Hastings to add Mr A to her policy, she told them the
car would need to be insured for when it was needed, which she thought meant at any time.
She also felt Hastings should have summarised the cover as she wouldnt have had the
terms and conditions when shed made the amendment.
I recognise Mrs As frustration at what appears to be a misunderstanding here, however I
dont think Hastings did anything wrong with the questions they asked her. I say this
because Ive listened to the call between Mrs A and Hastings and I think the questions
Hastings asked about Mr A were for factual and information purposes, rather than implying
what type of policy would be required.
These questions are also common in the insurance industry for businesses to help them
assess the risks of the individuals on the policy, based on their jobs, age demographic or
location in the country for example.
On the call, after taking the details for Mr A and adding him to the policy, the call handler
asked if everything else on the policy remained the same  which Mrs A confirmed was
correct. I agree that Mrs A wouldnt have had the new policy documents for her to review the
cover with the amendments, but I think its reasonable to believe that she had a copy of the
original policy which shed taken out in her sole name.
If Mrs A had these policy documents with her when she made the call to Hastings, I think its
fair to say that she could have checked the details she already had in place with the call
handler to check it was correct.
I acknowledge Mrs A feels Hastings should have confirmed the cover she had in place
during the call. However, I dont think its fair to expect Hastings to ask all the questions
about the different levels of cover again if a customer is looking to make an amendment to
an existing policy. This is only required when a new policy is taken out.
As the policyholder, Mrs A ought to have reasonably known what amendments would need
to be made as she knew the cover she already had and what she wanted Mr A to be able to
use the policy for. Hastings wouldnt have known this information without Mr or Mrs A telling
them what was required, so there is a need for them to ask for this to be added.
Mrs A has also told us this has had a big impact on her finances due to her limited income,
so shed like a refund of the cover she didnt use. Im sorry to hear how this has affected
Mrs A but I cant reasonably ask Hastings to refund her the difference. I say this because
Mrs As policy hadnt included commuting  as her circumstances didnt require it  so
Hastings wouldnt have been able to simply amend Mrs A policy to include commuting if
theyd known she wanted to include this.Looking at the policy booklet Ive seen under the Cancellations section it says regardless of
when the policy is cancelled the refund will be minus our non-refundable fees - which were
listed on the policy summary document So Mrs A would always have had to take out a new
policy and incur the £45 cancellation fee even if Hastings had mentioned at the outset
commuting for Mr A couldnt be added to Mrs As policy  as Mrs A said the policy wasnt
suitable without this amendment.
Ive looked at the Product Information Document section How do I cancel the contract and
Ive seen it says, If this is within the 14-day cooling off period, well refund the premium on a
pro-rata basis for the period of cover that hasnt been used minus our non-refundable fees.
So I can understand why Mrs A may have though this should apply. However, Ive listened to
the call between Mrs A and Hastings, and I think the agent on the call was very clear that the
cooling off period didnt apply to policy amendments.
The agent also said no refunds could be made after the amendment had been applied 
even if Mrs A decided she didnt need it  which Mrs A confirmed she understood. Hastings
have also sent me a copy of their underwriting criteria which confirms that once temporary
cover has been applied, if a customer wants to reduce this, no refund of premium is allowed.
So I cant reasonably say Hastings have done anything wrong here as they explained the
costs in clear and plain language and acted in-line with their policy guidance.
I acknowledge Mrs As comments about her personal circumstances, but I havent seen any
evidence that she made Hastings aware she made need additional support when amending
the policy or that she didnt really understand how the process worked. So I cant reasonably
hold Hastings responsible for not explaining things in more detail  or summarising the
requested cover - to Mrs A as they werent aware that she may need this.
I understand that Mrs A and Mr A will be disappointed with my decision as they wanted a
refund of the remainder of the policy. However, Mrs A would always have had to cancel the
existing policy as she wanted to add Mr A to it for commuting purposes and Hastings
couldnt offer this level of cover. So I cant reasonably say Hastings have treated Mrs A and
Mr A unfairly here and I wont be asking them to do anything more.
I invited Mrs A and Mr A, and Hastings, to give me any more evidence and information they 
wanted me to consider before issuing my provisional decision. Hastings responded to say 
they had nothing further to add. 
Mrs A responded to say she was unhappy with the decision and wanted to confirm if the 
policy amendment should have been covered by the fourteen-day timescale for distance 
contracts. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion I did in my provisional decision. 
Mrs A has questioned whether she should have been given a fourteen-day cooling off period 
when she made the amendment to her existing policy. I thought about this when issuing my 
provisional decision and I dont think it applies. 
I say this because the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) says under 
section 3.1.15 that A firm may provide the distance marketing information and the contractual terms and conditions in writing or another durable medium immediately after the 
conclusion of a distance contract, if the contract has been concluded at a consumers 
request using a means of distance communication that does not enable the provision of that 
information in that form in good time before conclusion of any distance contract.
In this case, Ive seen that Mrs A called Hastings and asked to amend her policy over the 
phone, and Ive listened to the call and heard she was given clear information about the 
contractual obligations she was agreeing to  including the costs and cancellation conditions 
 before she agreed to the amendment. So Im satisfied Hastings followed the guidance 
required for distance contracts when making the amendment to Mrs As policy. 
I recognise that Mrs A feels strongly about this but based on everything Ive seen and the 
rules I must abide by, I dont think Hastings has treated her unfairly. So I wont be asking 
them to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman