DRN-3765963
The complaint
Mr K complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt say he must start an application to 
port his mortgage before selling his mortgaged property, until it was too late for him to do 
this. He said now he cant get back a large Early Repayment Charge (ERC) he paid.
What happened
Mr K said he was led to believe he could clear his mortgage, and pay the ERC, but then as
long as he got another mortgage with NatWest on a new property and completed within four
months of that, the ERC would be refunded. But he said hed since found that he couldnt get
the ERC back, because he didnt start a new mortgage application before paying off his
previous one. Mr K said that if he was told this earlier, he wouldve carried on with the old
mortgage as it was, and taken a decision on clearing the mortgage at a later date.
Mr K said he was charged £8,199 for an ERC which he didn't need to pay. He said this
affected his ability to purchase a new property and also get a mortgage. He said that money
couldve helped with the immense rise in cost of living, and eased the stress of affording his
next home with increasing property prices as well.
Mr K thought it was the incorrect information NatWest gave him, which lead to him taking a
chance on clearing the mortgage. So he wanted NatWest to refund the whole of the ERC.
NatWest said that Mr K and his former partner took out a mortgage in July 2019 with a five
year fixed interest rate. He redeemed the mortgage on 30 September 2021, and NatWest
said an ERC was correctly charged then.
But NatWest didnt think Mr K had made his decision to redeem his mortgage on the basis of
the advice it gave him. When it spoke to him on 8 June 2021. that was about transferring the
existing mortgage into his sole name and borrowing an additional sum. NatWest said there
was no mention of porting the mortgage in that call, and no advice was given on the ERC
being refundable.
NatWest said it hadnt been able to find any other evidence of Mr K being given wrong
advice, until a call of 4 October. It accepted that one of its agents told Mr K then his ERC
would be refunded if he completed on a new mortgage within four months of repaying the old
one. But importantly, by 4 October Mr K had already redeemed his old mortgage and hadnt
yet applied for a new one. So he was already too late to port when he was given this advice.
NatWest also said that on that call, Mr K was then transferred to a mortgage adviser who
told him this information was incorrect, he was already too late to reclaim his ERC. So
NatWest said it had put the mistake right, straight away.
NatWest told our service it had offered Mr K £150 to make up for the lapse in service on the
call he had of 4 October 2021.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said she had listened to
the call recordings, and the call of 8 June didnt discuss porting, as NatWest had said. Mr K
was hoping to buy out his partner at that point, but wasnt able to do so. On the call of 4
October, Mr K was given wrong advice at first, but she thought it was important that this was
after Mr K had redeemed his existing mortgage. She couldnt see any evidence that NatWest
gave any wrong advice before Mr K redeemed his mortgage. And Mr K had been properly
notified that an ERC would be payable when he originally took this mortgage out. Our
investigator didnt think NatWest had to pay this ERC back to Mr K.
Mr K said that between 8 June and 4 October, he had one or more calls and web chats, in
which it was confirmed that he could get the ERC back. Our investigator asked both Mr K
and NatWest if they had evidence of this, but neither side could provide that. Our
investigator also asked some further questions of Mr K. He said that hed sold the property
because he and his partner were separating, and the priority was to sell the house. Mr K
said hed found a property by 4 October, but hed also enquired before about lending to him
alone in November 2020 and October 2021. He showed us that hed put an offer in on a
property before his house sold, although that wasnt successful. He said he wanted us to see
that he was seriously looking to buy a new home.
Our investigator said that there was still no evidence that Mr K had been misadvised by
NatWest before 4 October 2021. And even if his application for new lending and porting his
old mortgage had been successful in October 2021, it also wasnt clear that Mr K would have
bought a house within 4 months of the sale. She was sorry to hear that Mr K still hadnt been
able to find a new property, due to increasing house prices.
Mr K still didnt agree, and he said NatWest had already offered to pay more than we had
suggested. He sent us evidence that NatWest had offered to increase its payment to £250.
Mr K wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a
final decision.
I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I only proposed to ask 
NatWest to honour its previous offer. This is what I said then: 
I understand that Mr K has been deeply disappointed to find that he couldnt port his 
mortgage, because he hadnt started the application process for a new mortgage before 
he redeemed the old mortgage. I appreciate he feels strongly that things couldve been 
different now, if hed been given this advice earlier.
But in the situation that Mr K sadly found himself in, of needing to sell his existing 
property as part of the end of a relationship with its co-owner, I can understand why he 
would prioritise selling the house, rather than waiting to tie this in with another purchase. 
In these circumstances, its not always clear to the bank what will happen next for each 
of the parties. And unless NatWest should have been aware that Mr K would wish to 
port his mortgage  unless Mr K approached it about this before he sold the property 
that NatWest lent on, and asked about porting  I wouldnt be able to say that NatWest 
was responsible for Mr K not realising he wouldnt be able to do this later.
Unfortunately, I havent been able to locate evidence that Mr K did have a conversation
about porting with NatWest before he sold, and redeemed the mortgage on his former 
home.
The call that Mr K had with NatWest on 4 October starts with Mr K setting out that he 
should be able to port within four months of redeeming his old mortgage, but I havent 
been able to see that this was advice Mr K received from NatWest, rather than, for example, information he obtained from his original mortgage offer  which is explicitly 
restricted to applications meeting NatWests lending criteria at the time. And one of 
those criteria is that Mr K applies for the new mortgage before he redeems the old one.
I know NatWest did then give Mr K some wrong advice on a call dated 4 October, but I
understand that this was corrected later on the same call. Because Mr K had already 
sold his house and redeemed his mortgage by this time, it doesnt look like this made a 
difference to Mr Ks position overall. But I do think NatWest raised Mr Ks hopes at this 
point, only to dash them a few minutes later.
Although I can hear that Mr K was aware of the ERC payable on his mortgage, and he 
was hoping to avoid paying this, importantly, I havent been able to see that NatWest 
had an opportunity to warn Mr K before his home was sold, that he would only be able 
to obtain a refund of his ERC if he made his new mortgage application before 
redeeming the old one. And I also havent been able to see that this is what has 
prevented Mr K from buying again. So I do think NatWest should offer Mr K some 
compensation for the wrong advice it gave him. But I dont think it has to refund all of the 
ERC that Mr K has paid.
I know that this ERC was a large sum, but mortgages are intended to be a long term
product, and Mr K unfortunately needed to redeem his in the initial five years, while the 
rate was still fixed. When lenders offer a fixed interest rate mortgage, its very common 
for them to also attach an ERC, which is intended to cover the costs to the bank if the 
borrower redeems the mortgage in the fixed interest period. This isnt just profit for 
NatWest.
NatWest said it had offered £150 for this complaint, but Mr K has shown us that 
NatWest offered to increase this sum to £250. I think that £250 is a more appropriate 
amount for NatWest to pay for this complaint, and I also think that does provide a fair 
and reasonable outcome to the issues Ive identified here.
I know Mr K will be disappointed, but I dont think that NatWest has to do more than that.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K said he would like a higher amount of compensation, but he said he had no further 
evidence to offer in support of that. And NatWest just said it would agree to honour its 
previous offer.
I have reviewed my decision, but I still think the payment I suggested then is appropriate in 
this case, for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision. So I havent changed my mind. 
Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc must pay Mr K £250 in 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman