DRN-3625098
The complaint
Mr P complains that he couldnt part exchange a car he acquired through a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn Vehicle Finance Ltd (Moneybarn)due to a condition alert on the 
car he was unaware of .He would like the arrears on the agreement written off and 
compensation for appropriate checks not being carried out.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate it must have been frustrating for Mr P, when having decided to 
voluntarily terminate (VT) his agreement, he says was unable to part exchange his 
vehicle  due to water and mechanical damage caused prior to him taking out his 
agreement. Although I note he hasnt evidenced this . He doesnt feel Moneybarn 
carried out appropriate checks, but I dont agree with him. I have seen the  Hire 
Purchase Investigation (HPI) check Moneybarn carried out , which showed no record 
of total loss claims. Moneybarn said  the car may have been involved in a minor 
accident with repair to a satisfactory standard but that wouldnt mean the car wasnt 
fit for purpose at the point of sale which I agree with.  
Mr P has told our investigator he thought there was a fault with the car. Given Mr P 
took out an agreement for a nine year old car with just under 70000 miles on the 
clock when he got it I think he might reasonably expect it to have more wear  ,tear 
and repair issues than if he had taken out an agreement for a new car. Having said 
that we do expect cars to be fit for purpose at the point of sale. If issues arise within 
the first six months, we usually say its the business responsibility to investigate and if 
appropriate to put right. In this case I cant see that Mr P raised any issues with the 
car until he decided to VT his agreement some 17 months after he took it out.. As 
such the onus is on him to show there were problems at the point of sale ,for 
example by providing an independent report, for which Moneybarn is responsible 
.But  Mr T hasnt done this. 
As Moneybarn carried out the basic checks I would have expected it to do on the car. 
And  I have no evidence of a point of sale issue I cant reasonably ask Moneybarn to  
write off the outstanding balance that Mr P owes on his account or compensate him 
as he would like.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint .
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman