DRN-2294710
The complaint
Ms S, through her son and attorney Mr S, has complained that British Gas Insurance Limited
(BG) wouldnt repair a leak from her toilet under her HomeCare 4 policy.
References to BG include its contractors and agents.
Ive previously issued a provisional decision in this case. In response to this I received 
further information from Mr S which has caused me to change my decision.
What happened
Ms S has had a HomeCare4 policy from BG since at least 2010. This covers her for repairs
in the event of breakdown or damage to her boiler, central heating system, plumbing, drains
and mains electrical system.
Ms S is elderly and vulnerable. One of her carers noticed a leak from the downstairs toilet in
Ms Ss house where she has lived since 1986. Mr S noticed that the leak was from the joint
between the toilet pan and the pipe that connected it to the soil stack. He called BG to have
this repaired.
A BG engineer attended on 4 September 2019 and after examining the source of the leak,
said that the toilet had been installed incorrectly and therefore it wasnt covered under Ms
Ss policy. He provided a quotation 267 to repair the leak. The work needed was described
as:
Cut out old cast iron pan connector, replace with new plastic pan connector. Existing
pan connector poorly installed.
Mr S contacted BG, who confirmed that the work necessary was not covered under the
Policy as the toilet pan had been incorrectly installed and also the leak was a pre-existing
defect.
Mr S considered that BGs quote was excessive and all that was necessary was for the
existing sealant to be scraped out and for new sealant to be applied to the joint. He arranged
for this to be done on 20 September 2019 by another plumber who charged £35. This
plumber also said that the pipe connecting the toilet to the waste stack was plastic, not cast
iron. Until this repair was made, Ms S had to use an upstairs toilet which involved exertion
that left her extremely breathless and put her health at risk due to a heart condition.
Mr S complained to BG. He argued that the work shouldve been carried out under Ms Ss
policy. He argued that the cause of the leak couldnt be attributed to a design fault. Ms Ss
house had been built in the late1960s / early 1970s and there had been no leak since Ms S
moved there in 1986, and a design fault wouldve manifested itself well before 2019. He also
argued that as Ms S had had her policy since 2010, the leak didnt pre-date her policy.
BG said that the toilet had been poorly installed as it was installed straight onto the cast iron
pipe that leads to the soil pipe, and poor installation isnt covered under Ms Ss policy. It
offered Ms S compensation of £30 for the upset caused by the service shed received.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with BGs response to his complaint, so he brought it to this service as
attorney for Ms S. He asked that BG reimburse him the 35 he paid to another plumber to
have the leak repaired and award compensation to Ms S of £250 for the distress caused to
her by BGs failure to carry out the work. He also asks for £100 compensation for his own
time spent dealing with the matter.
Our investigators view was that a lot more work was involved to repair the leak, hence the
quote to remove the cast iron pipe and replace it with a plastic one. Mr Ss plumbers repair
with sealant would be a temporary measure, and more repairs would need to be carried out
to ensure the leak was corrected. She didnt think that BG needed to do more.
Mr S, on behalf of Ms S, doesnt agree with our investigators view and asked that the
complaint be considered by an ombudsman. The matter was therefore passed to me
for a final decision.
 
Because my original view was different to that given by our investigator, I issued a 
provisional decision to enable both parties to make further comments. I receive further 
evidence from Mr S which supported his assertion that the pipe that needed to be replaced 
was plastic, and not cast iron as BG said it was.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im now upholding Ms Ss complaint and Ill give my reasons.
Firstly, there was a dispute of fact over whether the pipe connecting Ms Ss toilet to the 
waste stack is cast iron or plastic. BGs engineer said its cast iron. This was evidenced by 
BGs quotation for its replacement. My original view was that the written evidence from BGs 
engineer was the more persuasive, so I originally found that the connecting pipe is cast iron.
Having now seen photographs submitted by Mr S in response to my provisional decision, Im 
persuaded that the pipe is plastic. The term in Ms Ss policy excluding the repair of cast iron 
pipes upon which I based my provisional decision therefore doesnt apply.
In my provisional decision I gave my opinion on the other grounds advanced by BG as to 
why the leak wasnt covered by Ms Ss policy. I continue to reject those grounds for the 
reasons I previously gave.
 In my view the repair of this leak is covered by Ms Ss policy.
My conclusion now is that BG shouldve repaired this leak under the terms of Ms Ss policy. 
And for this reason, I think it would be fair and reasonable for BG to pay Ms S, as the 
policyholder, £250 for the distress and inconvenience both she and Mr S suffered by BGs 
failure to do so. 
I acknowledge that Mr S has also suffered distress and inconvenience, but I dont consider it 
appropriate to make a separate award of compensation against BG to reflect this. Our 
awards in such cases are not usually increased to compensate each individual who might 
suffer distress and inconvenience from the same incident.  The compensation is intended to 
cover the totality of the distress and inconvenience. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Ms Ss complaint. 
I require British Gas Insurance Limited to reimburse to Ms S the £35 she paid her own 
plumber to fix the pipe. 
I also require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Ms S £250 compensation.
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Ms S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman