DRN-3321842
The complaint
The consumer in this case does not use a title, so I will refer to her as X throughout this 
decision. 
X complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC sent her information she did not request, which was 
then lost before it reached her.
What happened
X had an existing complaint with Barclays about a separate issue. She made an SAR to 
Barclays on 5 February 2021 in which she said she was entitled to a copy of all information 
held on her and went on to specifically request anything relevant to the incident that 
occurred on 5 February 2021 in a Barclays branch. 
When she had not received this, X chased it up. Barclays confirmed they sent a full copy of 
all the information held about X and that this was delivered to her house and signed for. X 
was unhappy with this as she specifically requested information relating to the incident of     
5 February and not everything Barclays held about her. And as she had not received it, she 
was concerned about ongoing security caused by Barclays losing her data. 
Barclays sent a final response letter specific to the SAR on 28 May 2021. This confirmed 
they sent the information to her home address on 14 April 2021 via courier and they could 
see it was signed for. X remained unhappy with this and referred the complaint to our 
service. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and felt Barclays had acted fairly and reasonably 
in the circumstances. They felt it was reasonable that Barclays could have misunderstood 
Xs initial SAR and thought she was requesting a copy of all information held on her. But 
regardless, Barclays had confirmed the first SAR was not received by their GDPR team. 
Instead, Xs second request which she sent on 3 March 2021 was sent to the GDPR team at 
Barclays and processed. But this letter did not make it clear that only information relating to 
the incident on 5 February was needed, so the case handler decided to do a full SAR 
instead. And the Investigator felt this was a reasonable response. 
They went on to consider the fact that the information then went missing and whether 
Barclays took steps to keep her information safe. As Barclays sent the information via a 
courier to her home address, they felt Barclays had taken reasonable steps to ensure she 
received them safely. The courier had sent photographic evidence of the documents being 
left on Xs doorstep and while it said they had been signed for, due to COVID-19, it was 
likely this would not have been an actual signature, but a digital one. And while it was 
possible the package had then been removed from her doorstop by a third party, the 
Investigator did not think Barclays could reasonably be held responsible for that. 
X disagreed with this. She felt that Barclays had an obligation to ensure safe delivery and 
that they had failed in this obligation. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigator for largely the same reasons. I think Barclays 
has acted reasonably in the circumstances and I dont require them to take any further 
action. Ill explain why in more detail. 
To be clear, I am only focusing on the subject access request (SAR) made by X. If she 
wants to complain about what happened before that point, she will need to raise a new 
complaint about it. 
Ill firstly focus on the information that was sent, as X has complained this was not requested 
by her. Barclays has said the initial SAR specifying the information X wanted was not 
received by the GDPR office and that the letter was not received by Barclays office at all. 
Because of this, the first mention Barclays received of the SAR was Xs letter dated 3 March. 
In this, X mentions she made an SAR but does not specify what information she wanted. As 
the only way Barclays had to contact X was via letter, they made the decision to send a full 
SAR including all the information they held on her so as not to waste any time, as there are 
deadlines for producing an SAR. Considering that X was already unhappy her first request 
had been missed and there was nothing to indicate exactly what information she wanted, I 
think a full SAR was a reasonable response from Barclays. 
As X made the SAR by letter, I think it was reasonable that Barclays mirrored this and 
responded by post. And considering that X only wanted communication by letter, I think it 
was their only option. They did so via a private courier and opted for this to be a tracked 
delivery which required a signature. Unfortunately, it appears that, likely due to COVID, an 
actual signature was not obtained by the courier. But I have seen evidence that it was placed 
at Xs door. Considering that there may have been sensitive information included in the 
package, I would have expected Barclays to send it by some form of tracked or recorded 
delivery, which it did. So, Barclays made a reasonable attempt to ensure Xs information was 
securely sent to her. I appreciate X has said the data was not received by her and I 
understand her strength of feeling that this is therefore Barclays fault, but I do not agree. As 
explained above, Barclays took steps to ensure the data was sent securely, and cant be 
held responsible for what may have happened afterwards. 
When Barclays was informed by X that she had not received the SAR and that she had not 
requested a full SAR but a specific one relating to the incident, they first checked to see if 
the information requested was still available. Part of the request was for CCTV of the day, 
but this is only retained for 30 days so had already expired. They then checked to see if the 
information could have been provided when the second request was received by the GDPR 
office and they confirmed the 30 days had already expired by that point, so they could not 
have fulfilled the request regardless. This is what I would have expected them to do in the 
circumstances. 
As a result, I dont think Barclays needs to take any further action to remedy this complaint, 
as I dont think it has made an error in the circumstances.      
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman