DRN-3225197
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr B complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the 
claim they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to 
a solar panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mrs A and Mr B is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around December 2017, Mrs A and Mr B were contacted by a representative of a 
company Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be 
installed at their home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mrs A and Mr B decided 
to purchase the system and finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with 
Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In June 2019, the CMC made a claim on Mrs A and Mr Bs behalf under section 75 of the Act 
to Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mrs A and Mr B to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
Mrs A and Mr B were told:
othe system would be self-funding by virtue of the Feed in Tariff (FIT) 
payments and electricity savings; and
othe system wouldnt cost them anything and would provide a substantial 
income over 25 years; and
oadditional energy savings would be made from other items supplied, such as 
a voltage optimiser; and
othe monthly loan installments would be covered by the electricity savings and 
FIT payments.
The system wasnt fit for purpose and is underperforming due to the goods not being 
of satisfactory quality.
Shawbrook issued a letter in April 2020. They said the complaint was being discussed with 
P. They also said that the CMC had indicated they may be instructed to commence litigation. 
They subsequently said that due to the belief the CMC would be issuing legal proceedings, 
the complaint had been closed. No notice of legal action has, as yet, been forthcoming.
 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mrs A and Mr B and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
The quoted FIT payments and energy savings wouldnt be achieved by year 15; and
The information provided was not set out in a clear way for Mrs A and Mr B to 
understand; and
Mrs A and Mr B relied on what the believe they were told at the point of sale.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mrs A and Mr B paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs A and Mr B could claim 
against Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the 
same way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into 
account when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs A, Mr 
B and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
Section 140A of the Act is also relevant. This states:
(1) The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor 
arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is 
unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following:
(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement,
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement,
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall 
have regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
and matters relating to the debtor).For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made 
by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mrs A and Mr Bs recollection of the sale.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Mrs A and Mr B have alleged that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments and energy savings. Ive considered the quote 
that was provided by P and considered whether this supports what Mrs A and Mr B has said.
FIT payments
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mrs A and Mr B could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mrs A and Mr B could expect to receive a 
total FIT income in year one of £123.98.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mrs A and Mr B could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £216.00 and, when taking into account 
the optional extras chosen by Mrs A and Mr B the combined income and savings in year 
one is shown as £538.70 This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together
Theres a section headed Repayments with three table showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mrs A and Mr B entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the 
loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £93.60. For each year of the 15-year loan it 
shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 
months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £93.60, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mrs A and Mr B could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the 
monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income they could expect to 
receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately 
sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. 
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mrs A and Mr B that the system would self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mrs A and Mr B was told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a duration of time. 
Page 13 of the quote has a table detailing the performance over 25 years. This shows that 
by year 18 the overall benefits that Mrs A and Mr B could expect to receive would have 
exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mrs A and Mr B that the system would pay for 
itself by year 18 as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, 
and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into the contract, and they 
subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mrs A and Mr B. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the 
system is expected to produce 1,923.60 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mrs A and Mr B FIT statements and can see that their system, on average, 
has generated 1,864.61 kWh. This is slightly less than estimated by P at the point of sale but 
is within industry accepted tolerances. So, Im satisfied that the system is performing as 
expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2017 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
explains why they havent been receiving the financial returns they may have been expecting 
from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling 
predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have been 
correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2006 to 2017. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mrs A and Mr 
B couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns 
may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was 
due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mrs A and Mr B entered into 
the contract.
S140A
Ive gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under s140A of the Act.
A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Shawbrook has confirmed 
that it paid no commission to P and, considering that I havent found any misrepresentation 
and Im of the view that the underlying assumptions used by P were reasonable, I think a 
court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair relationship under the Act.
Sales pressure
Concerns have been raised that as part of Ps sales process, pressure was exerted upon 
Mrs A and Mr B to enter into the agreement to purchase the system. Im aware of previous 
allegations which were investigated and addressed by Trading Standards. These relate to 
circumstances predating the sales process and purchase in Mrs A and Mr Bs case. This 
service has been provided with assurances that those concerns were addressed and 
remedied, in co-operation with Trading Standards, prior to Ps sale to Mrs A and Mr B.Im also satisfied that the quote formed a central part of the sales process. It wouldve been 
discussed with Mrs A and Mr B, which the original complaint supports, and so Ive not been 
persuaded that the salesperson wouldve said something that would then have been 
contradicted by the quote. To support this, Im satisfied that Mrs A and Mr B were sent the 
quote, had time to consider it and to raise any issues prior to installation.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mrs A and Mr 
B to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs A and Mr B complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman