DRN-3136140
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd sold her a whole-of-life policy that she didnt 
need.
In bringing her complaint, Mrs P is represented by a claims management company.
What happened
In 1991, Mrs P started a whole-of-life plan on the recommendation of a representative of a 
predecessor business of Zurich. The plan provided cover of £18,063 for an initial monthly 
premium of £25. 
In February 2021, Mrs Ps representatives complained to Zurich on her behalf. They said 
they were concerned that she was advised to take out a unit-linked whole-of-life plan when 
she didnt need cover for life. They said her children were grown up and would shortly be 
independent. They said her husbands pension would provide for them when he retired, and 
Mrs P didnt understand how the plan worked. 
Zurich said that the plan had been suitable for Mrs Ps protection needs at the time. Zurich 
said the plan provided a lump sum in the event of death and included critical illness cover. It 
said Mrs Ps objectives were recorded as financial security for her family and protection of 
her lifestyle if she became sick or disabled. Zurich said the plan documentation made it clear 
that it is unit-linked and how the investment was calculated. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
considered Mrs Ps circumstances at the time of the sale and didnt think the 
recommendation was unsuitable for her recorded objectives of financial security for your 
family and protection of lifestyle if sick or disabled. The investigator was satisfied that 
Mrs P wanted and had a need for the whole-of-life plan.
On Mrs Ps behalf, her representatives didnt accept the investigators findings. They said 
that Mrs P wouldnt have understood how the plan worked or whether it was suitable for her. 
They said there was no question that her husband wouldve been dependent on Mrs P 
beyond retirement, and Mrs P had a loan at the time so paying for the plan didnt help 
resolve that debt any quicker. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done this I find Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator for much the 
same reasons.
Ive reviewed the information recorded at the time of the advice, and this shows that Mrs Ps 
objectives and priorities were financial security for her family and lifestyle. This whole-of-life 
plan would provide a lump sum in the event of her death, or diagnosis of a specified critical 
illness.
 
Although Mrs Ps husband may have had pension provision with his employer, I dont think 
this in itself means that the whole-of-life policy was unsuitable for Mrs P, when it gave her a 
level of protection in line with her objective from the advice. I also acknowledge that the fact 
find records that there was a loan with monthly repayments of £168 which had around 11 
years remaining. But I havent seen anything to suggest that this meant the whole-of-life plan 
was unaffordable for her, or that her intention was to repay this loan earlier than its term. 
Mrs P had a joint endowment plan which would have provided life cover for her, however this 
was the repayment vehicle for the mortgage. And I appreciate Mrs Ps representatives point 
that she wouldnt have understood how the plan worked. However, I think the detail of this 
would have been set out in the policy documentation, including the illustration, schedule and 
plan provisions. Mrs P wouldve had an opportunity to make sure that she understood these 
and question anything she was unsure of. 
Overall, taking into account Mrs Ps circumstances and what she was looking for from the 
advice she received, I dont think this whole-of-life plan was unsuitable for her.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman