DRN-2421691
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Ltd gave her incorrect information about her 
entitlement to an annuity after her husband died, and on other occasions, causing her
distress and inconvenience. She wants appropriate compensation, and for Aviva to
investigate whether it has made a similar error in relation to others.
What happened
Mr P received an annuity paid monthly administered by Aviva. In late May 2019 Mr P sadly
died. A couple of days after his death Aviva made a monthly annuity payment. On 10 June
Mr and Mrs Ps son, who I will call Mr X, telephoned Aviva to notify it of his fathers death. He
says he was told that a letter would be sent informing Mrs P as to what she would be likely to
receive, if anything, after her husbands death.
A few days later Mrs P received a letter from Aviva saying no pension was due to her and
requesting repayment of the monthly pension paid in late May just after Mr Ps death.
Shortly afterwards the family wrote to Aviva enclosing documents showing that Mrs P was
entitled to a reduced pension.
In mid-July Mr X called Aviva again as no response had been received. By letter dated 24 
July 2019 Aviva wrote to Mrs P saying she would get a pension of over £400 a month, 
enclosing a bank details form and asked again for the return of the late May pension 
payment. Mr X called Aviva to ask whether the overpayment to his father could be
taken from the payments due to his mother and was told this couldnt happen. In early
August Aviva received a cheque for the overpayment.
In the first week of August Aviva wrote to Mrs P asking for sight of her original birth and
marriage certificates. Shortly after receipt of that letter Mr X called Aviva to ask when his
mother would receive payment, and the Aviva representative said it couldnt do so until the
certificates were received. Mr X asked why these werent requested earlier and complained
about Avivas handling of the situation. A few days later Aviva received the certificates. 
By letter dated 14 August 2019 Aviva responded to the complaint. It explained that
information was incomplete when the pension policy was transferred to Aviva from another
pension provider and Avivas records showed that the policy was for a single life. But after
Aviva investigated its archives, it found it was a joint life plan. It said that it was sorry that all
the (administrative) requirements werent made clear from the start. Aviva acknowledged
that payments due to Mrs P couldve been reduced in respect of the overpayment, rather
than requiring its return. Finally, Aviva apologised for the distress and inconvenience
caused, and said it had paid £200 into Mrs Ps bank account.
In late August 2019 the pension began to be paid, although with emergency tax deducted.
There was some more correspondence about the complaint response, but that didnt resolve
the familys unhappiness so in December 2019 Mrs P, with her son as representative,
brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think Aviva needed to do any more than it had already done. He said
that it wasnt disputed that Mrs P was now receiving the pension due to her, and that Aviva
had made mistakes but had apologised for them. He thought £200 was fair in the
circumstances to compensate Mrs P for her distress. He also said that he understood the
concern of Mr X that other people mayve lost income due to similar errors but that our
service was set up to resolve individual complaints, with no powers to fine or punish
businesses or tell them to improve their processes  that was the role of the Financial
Conduct Authority (FCA).
In a telephone conversation after our investigator gave his view, Mr X told him that he didnt
think the £200 was enough compensation for his mother. And he felt very strongly that Aviva
had systemic failings and other people had missed out as a result. Mr X also sent an email
elaborating on these points. So the complaint came to me for decision from an ombudsman.
On 12 November 2020 I issued a provisional decision. My provisional findings were as 
follows:
I propose to tell Aviva to pay Mrs P a further £400 in compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience. I understand that Mr X wants me to tell Aviva it must act to investigate 
whether others have been affected by the same error, but I dont have the power to do that, 
although I do appreciate his very real concern for others.
In the background to the complaint Ive set out the key events in Avivas handling of Mrs Ps
pension entitlement. Theres no doubt that Aviva gave Mrs P incorrect information that
suggested she had no entitlement to a pension, then took more than a month to inform her
that she did. It also further delayed the payment of the pension to her by incorrectly insisting
she must repay an overpayment rather than allow it to be deducted from the payments due
to her and asking for information in a piecemeal fashion.
As I understand it, Mrs P is now being paid her correct pension entitlement by Aviva. So the
issue I must decide is what, if any, compensation Mrs P should receive for the distress and
inconvenience she experienced due to Avivas actions.
When I am considering what, if any, compensation to tell a business to pay for a
complainants distress, I take into account their circumstances and vulnerabilities. At the time 
of Avivas errors and delays, Mrs P was 81 years old, and had just lost her husband of nearly 
62 years.  When we asked Mr X what impact Avivas actions had on Mrs P, he very fairly 
began by indicating that it was difficult to say, given all that was going on.
He went on to indicate that during that time she was constantly referring to her worry and
concern as to how, without the pension she and her husband had set up, she would be able
to afford her bills and look after herself. He said she was regularly weeping and shaking her
head with disbelief. Within a month she was hospitalised having suffered significant ill health.
Mrs Ps son said that in his view Aviva played a significant part in her deterioration.
The most significant event, in a chain of poor customer service, was to leave Mrs P with the
impression for more than a month that she wouldnt receive any pension. Ive no reason to
doubt Mr Xs evidence as to the impact of Avivas error on Mrs P. I also think its certainly
possible, indeed likely, that it impacted on her health.
Even when Aviva told Mrs P it would pay her a pension, it then increased her difficulties by
insisting she repay the overpayment to her husband before she could receive her pension.
This could only have increased her distress.
And Mrs P was caused further distress, and some inconvenience by having to repeatedly
deal with requests from Aviva for information. I appreciate Mrs P would always have had to
provide the bank details and certificates requested by Aviva, but in the context of Avivasoverall dealings with her, it can only have caused further delay and inconvenience.
Taking all of this into account, I think that £500 in total for Mrs Ps distress and a further £100
for her inconvenience is more appropriate. That is, £600 in total or a further £400 on top of
what Aviva has already paid to Mrs P. I think this more properly reflects Mrs Ps
circumstances and vulnerabilities, and the impact on her.
I appreciate that this may not seem a great deal of money. But it is more than a token, and I
hope it acknowledges the very real suffering Im sure Avivas actions caused Mrs P.
Mr X also wants our service to tell Aviva to investigate whether there are other individuals
who have also been told they werent entitled to a pension, when they were. I understand Mr
Xs concern, but as our investigator explained at length, the role of our service is to deal with
individual complaints. I dont have the power to direct Aviva to do anything other than the
steps necessary to resolve this complaint, and to pay appropriate compensation related only
to this complaint. Mr X is able to raise the issue with the FCA if he wishes to.
My provisional decision was that Aviva must pay Mrs P a further £400, in addition to the 
£200 it had already paid her. 
In response to my provisional decision, Mr X said on behalf of his family that while 
disappointed by the amount, they understood the logic given the explanation. He also 
explained that the family still felt very strongly about obtaining proof of root cause analysis 
from Aviva and of a proven solution for other customers similarly impacted by Avivas 
takeover of other pension schemes. Aviva accepted my provisional decision without further 
comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs Ps family finds the amount Ive proposed she receive for her distress 
and inconvenience slightly disappointing. I dont think any amount of money can compensate 
for suffering, but as I said in my provisional decision £600 is more than a token amount. 
Since the family understand the logic of my decision, and Aviva accepts it, I dont see any 
reason to change it. So for the reasons given in my provisional decision which are set out 
above, and which I adopt for this final decision, I still think my provisional decision is the 
correct one. 
I understand that Mrs Ps family continue to want to see a wider consideration of whether 
others have also been affected by the same error but accept that our service cant conduct 
such an investigation as our role is to resolve individual complaints that are brought to us. As 
our investigator said, our decisions are published on our website, complaints statistics 
against businesses are published, and the family may contact the FCA and pursue other 
avenues such as the media if they wish. But I should add that accepting this final decision 
prevents Mrs P from bringing any legal action against Aviva. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Ltd must pay Mrs P a further £400, in 
addition to the £200 it has already paid her.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Helen Wheatley
Ombudsman