DRN-4369315
The complaint
Mr W considers Trinity Lane Insurance Company Limited (Trinity) to have treated him 
unfairly when settling a claim made under his motor insurance policy. 
Any reference to Trinity includes the actions of its agents. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
whats happened. 
Mr W has a motor insurance policy which is underwritten by Trinity. In May 2022, he 
contacted Trinity to say hed damaged his vehicle whilst reversing  though he wasnt 
sure what hed hit. A few days later, Trinity received allegations from a third-party 
insurer that Mr W had hit its insureds parked vehicle. 
The third-party provided evidence to support their claim, and Trinity concluded based 
on this, that it was more likely Mr W had hit the third partys vehicle, and so, it agreed 
to settle the third-party claim on the best terms. 
Mr W complained saying the third partys claim was fraudulent and that the repair 
costs sought by them were excessive. Trinity issued a final response saying it was 
satisfied the position it had taken was fair.
Mr W remained unhappy and so, brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator 
considered it but was satisfied Trinity had handled the claim fairly, and so, didnt 
uphold it.   
Because Mr W disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our Investigator reached  Ill explain why. 
The dispute in this case concerns Mr Ws allegation that the damage claimed for by 
the third-partys insurer and the repair cost of putting it right was excessive - as in his 
opinion the damage was only a scratch. So, he thinks Trinity has acted unfairly by 
paying these costs.
Whilst Mr W might consider the damage to the third partys car to have been minimal, 
ultimately, its for the insurers to decide and agree upon the repairs and associated 
costs  provided this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Trinity doesnt need Mr Ws permission to settle the claim, and this is reflected in the 
policy document which states We [Trinity] are entitled to take full control of any claim 
and we must be given whatever information and help we need. So, on its face, Im 
satisfied it acted in accordance with the terms of the policy by settling the claim as it 
saw fit. Ive gone on to consider whether these decisions were fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
Having looked at the available evidence, Im satisfied the damage claimed for 
happened in the accident. I say this because Trinity has said the third-party provided 
a witness statement which said Mr Ws vehicle hit the third-partys parked vehicle. 
And its explained that owing to the large size of Mr Ws vehicle, its reasonable to 
expect it to cause considerable damage in such circumstances.
Trinity has also explained it reviewed the third-party repair costs before settling the 
claim and having reviewed these costs myself, I havent seen anything to persuade 
me these were disproportionate or unreasonable. And so, I dont consider Trinity to 
have acted unfairly by covering them.  
Mr W has raised concerns about the third partys claim being fraudulent on the basis 
that the required repair was exaggerated. Again, this is only Mr Ws opinion. Ive not 
seen any evidence to support this allegation and so, this hasnt changed my mind. 
Mr W said he wasnt informed by Trinity that a third-party had made a claim. But Ive 
seen he was sent an email which said: We are now in receipt of a claim from the 
third party, and they are holding you responsible for colliding with their parked and 
unattended vehicle. And Ive listened to a call where Mr W tells Trinity hes been 
notified of a claim against him by a third party  so I cant agree he wasnt informed. 
Mr W has said he wasnt sent evidence of the damage to the third-partys car when 
he asked for it. In the call  referenced above  Mr W indicates he wants to see the 
evidence so he can comment on it, but at the time of the call, Trinity hadnt received it 
 itd only been notified of a claim against Mr W. 
I understand this may have been frustrating for Mr W, but for the reasons given, Im 
satisfied Trinity has settled the claim fairly in light of the evidence provided. So, Im 
not persuaded any failure to provide information to Mr W would have made a 
difference to the outcome of the claim as it would have remained Trinitys decision as 
to how to settle it. 
Mr W has said hes dyslexic and that he doesnt consider Trinity to have treated him 
fairly in respect of this. From what Ive seen, Trinity corresponded with Mr W by email 
and phone, something hes told this Service hes happy to do. And so, Im not 
persuaded Trinity has treated him unfairly by communicating in the same manner. 
Nor that any communication concerns would have made a material difference to the 
outcome of his claim and its settlement. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman