The complaint
Mrs B complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc have unfairly charged her interest under her 
credit agreement. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The interest free deferral period and applicable interest rates were set out clearly on
the credit agreement that has been signed by Mrs B  such that she ought
reasonably to have been aware of the deferral period end date.
It is not specified under the credit agreement how Hitachi had to remind Mrs B that
the deferral period was coming to an end. So, even if they did not send a letter by
post, they wouldnt have been in breach of their obligations under the credit
agreement. But in any event, I can see that they emailed Mrs B on 17 August 2019 to
remind her of the end of the interest free period  which is how they said they would
get in touch in the welcome letter sent to her in October 2018. Hitachi did not say
they would send a letter in the post to remind Mrs B, so they were under no obligation 
to do so.
Mrs B says she did not receive the email, but Hitachi have provided a copy of the
email sent, and I can see that it was correctly addressed to Mrs B. So, on balance,
Im satisfied it was likely received.
Given that Mrs B did not settle her loan within the deferral period, I see no fair and 
reasonable basis why she shouldn't have to pay the agreed interest in line with the terms 
and conditions of her credit agreement.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
DRN-1984277Jack Ferris
Ombudsman