DRN-3323973
The complaint
Mr Y has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) did not pay his refund direct to him but 
instead offset it against the outstanding balance in his account in 2019. Mr Y is unhappy with 
how his complaint was dealt with. He says he didnt receive the final response and so was 
unable to bring his complaint to this service sooner. 
What happened
Mr Y says he complained about the service he received from BoS in relation to his current 
account in 2019. BoS upheld the complaint and agreed to refund charges and fees applied 
to the account and sent its final response letter on 8 March 2019. 
Mr Y says he didnt get the refund paid direct to him and instead it had been offset against 
outstanding balance on his account. So he complained to this service. Since BoS hadnt had 
the opportunity to investigate Mr Ys new complaint point, our service contacted it to let it 
know. 
BoS looked into things for Mr Y but didnt uphold the complaint. It said the complaint 
regarding the fees had been dealt with previously and so it would not be considered again. It 
also confirmed the FOS rights referred to in the letter did not relate to that part of the 
complaint.  
Mr Y told BoS he didnt want certain members of the complaint team dealing with his 
complaint. BoS said Mr Ys concerns about the complaint handlers wouldnt be upheld since, 
whilst it tries to honour customer requests, it doesnt include who reviews customer 
complaints. 
Mr Y wasnt happy with the response received from the bank and so the complaint came 
back to this service. The investigator looked into things and concluded that we couldnt look 
into Mr Ys complaint about the offsetting of the fees and charges since the complaint was 
brought to us out of time. The investigator also said we couldnt look at the complaint 
regarding the complaint handling since this isnt a regulated activity. 
Mr Y didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Out of time 
I cant consider a complaint that has been referred to this service more than six months after 
the date of the final response letter unless the late referral is as a result of exceptional 
circumstances. This is set out in Dispute Resolutions (DISP) rule 2.8R (1) which can be 
found in the regulators handbook of rules and guidance, or is available online at 
https://handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/2/8.html 
BoS sent Mr Y a final response letter about the refund on 8 March 2019 advising it had 
upheld his complaint and arranged a direct payment for £1307.61. The letter confirms £150 
would be paid into Mr Ys account, and the remainder would be used to reduce the 
outstanding balance on the account. Mr Y had until 8 September 2019 to refer his complaint 
to this service. 
However Mr Y first contacted us about this complaint in March 2021 which was outside the 
six-month referral period. Mr Y says the complaint should be considered under exceptional 
circumstances, if BoS consent. 
Ive considered what Mr Y has said but I dont agree and Ill explain why. 
Under the DISP rules once a business has sent its final response letter it has satisfied the 
regulators requirements in relation to investigating a complaint, and the six-month time limit 
starts from the date of that letter. 
BoS final response letter sent in March 2019 explained the money was not going to be paid 
directly to Mr Y and was going to be paid into the account with the outstanding balance. It 
clearly stated Mr Y had six months from the date of that letter to refer his complaint to this 
service. 
Mr Y continued to communicate with BoS following the complaint regarding the refund. And 
he was aware a final response had been sent. On balance I think it most likely he did receive 
the letter. But even if he didnt the evidence shows he was aware of the outcome of his 
complaint; he knew he could refer his complaint to this service and how to do so. So Im 
satisfied he would have been able to refer his complaint to this service within the six months. 
And as such Im currently unable to say that exceptional circumstances apply in this case. 
Change of address 
I cant see any evidence Mr Y told the bank of his change of address. The bank is only able 
to send correspondence to an address held on file. And in the absence of any evidence to 
the contrary I cant say the bank has done anything wrong here. 
Complaint handling 
Before we can look at the merits of a complaint we need to ensure the complaint is one our 
service is able to consider. Our service cant consider every complaint which is referred to 
us. We have rules in place which are set out in DISP. 
DISP also sets out the types of complaint we can look at. Mr Ys complaint is about how 
members of staff at BoS dealt with his complaints. But complaint handling isnt an activity set 
out in DISP 2.3.1. 
Ive considered whether the issue might be ancillary to an activity thats within our 
jurisdiction. The underlying financial product here is a current account. But complaint 
handling is separate from and not integral to the provision and administration of the account. 
So Im satisfied it isnt ancillary to an activity we can look at here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I am not upholding this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022. 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman