DRN-3202553
The complaint
Mr P says AXA France IARD mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr P bought the policy in 2002 at the same time as taking out a store card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. I know this will be disappointing for him, so Ill 
explain why. 
Mr P says that PPI wasnt mentioned to him when he filled in his store card application, and 
he doesnt recall anything being mentioned about PPI on the application either. But I think 
AXA made Mr P aware that he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take 
it  although I can understand why he doesnt remember this as it was so long ago.
I say this because AXA has provided a copy of Mr Ps store card application, and on this I 
can see that PPI is presented as an optional add on to the store card  and Mr P has 
signed to select it. This is separate to his signature agreeing to the store card itself.  
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr P, so it didnt have to check if it was right for him, but it 
did need to give Mr P enough information for him to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information AXA gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Mr P doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover  and based on what I know about his circumstances it looks like the policy 
couldve been useful to him. So, I dont think better information wouldve stopped him buying 
it. 
Ive taken into account all of Mr Ps comments, but these points dont change my conclusion.
Other considerations
The Supreme Court decided a case known as Plevin, which involved the commission on
a PPI policy. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) then introduced new rules and
guidance for businesses to follow when looking at PPI complaints. The rules meant
businesses would sometimes have to give back some of the commission paid on certain
PPI policies.
But this was about what lenders should do  and AXA isnt Mr Ps lender. Mr P could 
approach his lender about the commission he paid on his PPI policy if he hasnt already 
done so, but the FCA also set a deadline to make any new complaints about PPI, including 
complaints about commission. The deadline was 29 August 2019  so its likely that any new 
complaint would be too late.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman