DRN-3572029
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy about some direct debit payments that have been taken from his Bank of 
Scotland (BoS) account.
What happened
Mr I is a customer of an energy company, which Ill refer to as S throughout this decision. 
He says, over a number of years, S has taken money to which it was not entitled via a direct 
debit instruction set up on his BoS account. He complains that the bank has refused to help 
him get his money back.
The banks records suggest its discussed this matter with Mr I on a number of occasions 
and has explained why he needed to pursue his concerns direct with S. Also that, in 2020 
Mr I did manage to obtain a partial refund from S which was paid into his BoS account.
Mr I remained unhappy and so contacted our service. Our investigator didnt think the bank 
had done anything wrong. She recommended Mr I contact S directly and escalate his 
concerns to the Energy Ombudsman if he remained unhappy.
Mr I didnt accept the investigators findings, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
review. Mr I is a vulnerable person, is unhappy about being directed to a separate 
ombudsman service, and feels the bank and this services inaction amounts to abuse
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr I has provided a great deal of detail about the challenges he (and his family) have faced 
over a number of years. Some of the points Mr I has raised relate to complaints that an 
ombudsman has already made a decision about, so I comment further on those matters. 
Hes also provided some overarching comments about the way he feels the bank (and 
others, including this service) have let him down over the years. I appreciate his strength of 
feeling, but I have focussed on what I consider to be the crux of this particular complaint. To 
be clear, my role in this case has been to decide whether or not BoS has acted fairly in 
relation to the direct debit payments that were sent to S. 
Overall, I dont think the bank has done anything wrong and I say this for the following 
reasons.
Mr I has provided evidence which suggests he holds an energy account with S and theres 
been no suggestion that the direct debit instruction was set up without his authority. That 
instruction allows S to request payments from his BoS account and allows BoS to comply 
with those payment requests.
S is required to notify Mr I if there are changes to the amount, date or interval of payments 
being claimed via the direct debit instruction. And the direct debit guarantee protects Mr I in 
the event that S, or the bank, makes a mistake when payments are claimed via the direct 
debit instruction. 
In this case, it seems that S notified Mr I about the amounts and dates on which it intended 
on requesting payments via the direct debit instruction and the bank has correctly sent the 
amounts S requested. So I dont think BoS ought to have invoked the direct debt guarantee, 
which would have required it to refund the money it sent to S and make a corresponding 
direct debit indemnity claim to S. 
I also think its more likely than not S would have defended any such claim BoS mightve 
made and Mr I would still have been required to pay the money to S. That is unless hed 
managed to persuade S (either by complaining direct to them or pursuing a complaint with 
the Energy Ombudsman) that he didnt owe the money. This seems to have been what 
happened towards the end of 2020 and which resulted in S refunding £42.03 to Mr Is BoS 
account.
As we and the bank have already advised, if Mr I remains unhappy about the relationship 
with S  including what hes been charged over the years  then he can raise this direct with 
S or dispute things further via the Energy Ombudsman. I appreciate he appears to have tried 
the latter in the past and has been unhappy with the ombudsmans response. But I must 
confirm that this service has no power to assist him in his dispute with S.
I can see the bank has offered to cancel the direct debit instruction for Mr I as this would 
potentially prevent S from taking further money from his BoS account. But this is not 
something Mr I has currently requested and I dont think there is anything further the bank 
ought to have done. I say this having taken into account the vulnerabilities Mr I has 
described. 
Overall, while I recognise Mr Is frustration, I dont think the bank has made any mistakes 
when processing the direct debit payments or when refusing to raise a claim under the direct 
debit guarantee and indemnity arrangement. As a result, I cant fairly instruct the bank to 
refund any of the money thats been sent to S or otherwise pay Mr I any compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Is complaint and dont require Bank of 
Scotland plc to do anything further at this time.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman