DRN-3429267
The complaint
Mr L complains about Interactive Brokers (UK) Ltds (IB) decision to close some of his 
positions due to insufficient margin. He said that as the call was covered, there was no 
margin requirement and no risk to IB. He said that IBs actions caused him to lose over 
$16,000 in lost profits. 
What happened
On 1 July 2020 IB sent Mr B emails which notified him that he was within 5% of using up the 
available margin on his account. The warnings explained what actions Mr B could take in 
order to free up more margin. By around 9.30 in the morning Mr Bs account had a net 
liquidation value of around $103,656 and maintenance margin requirement of around 
$118,613. This meant that Mr Bs account had insufficient margin to maintain his open 
trades. IB sent Mr B a further statement to this effect requesting he take urgent action. 
As Mr B did not take any further action, IB proceeded to close some of Mr Bs positions in 
order to free up the required margin  it did so between 9.40 am and 12.24 pm. 
Mr B complained. In short he disputed that he had insufficient margin, because he said that 
his option was fully covered by the shares in his account. He said that he wasnt using any 
credit from IB, and as such he didnt agree it had the right to close his trades. Furthermore, 
he said when IB did liquidate some of his positions, it left him with naked calls because he 
had sold his stock. He said that this left him in a much riskier position, and he proceeded to 
close the remaining positions himself the following day. 
IB looked into his complaint and explained why it took the actions that it did based on the 
required margin on his account. Mr B didnt agree and referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ls concerns, but didnt think IB had done anything 
wrong. As part of his investigation, he took into consideration IBs explanations of how it 
calculated the margin required on Mr Ls account. It explained that the account held a 
covered call position in a stock which required 100% cash backing. The margin required for 
the account was calculated in this way:
MAX[In-the-money amount + Margin(long stock evaluated at min(mark price, strike(short 
call))), min(stock value, max(call value, long stock margin))]
It explained that this meant that while Mr L wasnt borrowing from IB in respect of his 
covered call, on the morning of 1 July 2020 he didnt have sufficient maintenance margin in 
his account. 
This was a margin violation as per the terms of his agreement, which entitled IB to take 
action.  
The investigator therefore concluded that IB hadnt done anything wrong. The investigator 
was persuaded that Mr L was given enough information about the margin required for his 
trades, and how to monitor it while his trades were open. He considered Mr Ls complaint 
about how IB liquidated his positions, but concluded that IB was entitled to liquidate all or 
part of Mr Ls positions or assets, and this was in line with the terms. 
Mr L didnt agree. He said that he held a long position in shares which was 100% cash paid, 
no margin used. On 6 May he sold calls on that position, and received $14,200 which he 
kept in his account. He said that IBs system should not have allowed him to sell the call if it 
was clear to IB that he didnt have sufficient margin. He said that IB should not allow 
customers to set up a trade if it was clear it wouldnt meet IBs margin requirements. He said 
that when the trade went through, he felt safe. 
He said he never received a margin warning as a message, until immediately before the 
position was liquidated. He said this meant he didnt have a chance to react. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L, but I dont have much to add to what the investigator has 
already told him. Whilst I understand why hes unhappy with the way IB liquidated some of 
his trades, what IB did was in line with the terms he agreed to. 
The terms of the account say clearly that Mr L was responsible for ensuring he kept 
sufficient margin in his account. And Im satisfied that Mr L wouldve been able to see how 
much margin he needed via the tools he was using to trade. The terms also allowed IB to 
decide how to bring the account back into compliance, and to decide what and when to 
liquidate certain positions in order to do so. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case, I am required to also take into account 
the relevant law. Caselaw has been clear that the ability of a broker, like IB, to close trades 
or positions due to insufficient margin is not a failsafe mechanism for the protection of the 
consumer. It is a mechanism through which the business, primarily, is allowed to mitigate or 
eliminate risk. The discretion it can use to ensure sufficient margin is freed up in an 
individual account is very broad  and in this case IB was entitled to liquidate some or all of 
Mr Bs trades. 
When looking at Mr Ls case, Im satisfied the evidence shows that whilst he wasnt 
borrowing from IB specifically, he didnt have sufficient margin to cover his open call. IB has 
showed that he needed over $14,000 to ensure that he had sufficient margin to cover the 
open trade he had. And Im satisfied that Mr L himself had access to this information in order 
for him to monitor it. For example he wouldve been able to see how close he was to the 
required margin, and to decide for himself whether to add more money or not. 
Whilst Mr L might have felt that the stock he held ought to have been enough to cover his 
margin requirement, Im satisfied the evidence shows that it wasnt. 
And ultimately, it was his responsibility to ensure that he adhered to IBs requirements  if he 
felt confident that his strategy would product a profit, he ought to have added more margin to 
his account. In any event, Im also not persuaded Mr L was caused a loss. The evidence Ive seen shows 
that the liquidation, overall, crystallised a profit for Mr L  and once his account was partially 
liquidated, Mr L couldve chosen to open more trades in order to pursue additional profits. 
Taking all this into account, Im satisfied there were no errors in the way IB handled Mr Ls 
account and that it treated him fairly. Im satisfied therefore that it need not do anything to 
put things right. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman