DRN-1146300
 Complaint
This complaint is about two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies, taken out with loans 
in 2007 and 2009. Mr M says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, Barclays had to make it clear to Mr M that he had a choice about it. 
But Mr M says he doesnt believe he asked for the PPI.
2007 sale
The first PPI policy was taken out with a personal loan in 2007.
Barclays has sent us a copy of a demands and needs statement sent to Mr M. This says 
Mr M told Barclays he didnt have sufficient alternative means or insurance cover to make 
his repayments in the event of accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment. It also says 
Barclays recommends he take out PPI and that Mr M has agreed with the recommendation.
Barclays has also sent us a copy of Mr Ms loan agreement, which said Mr M had applied for 
PPI. It also set out the cost of the loan both with and without PPI and had a space for Mr M 
to tick and sign to say he wanted to purchase the PPI.
Based on the evidence I have, I think Barclays made it clear to Mr M that he had a choice 
about the PPI. And I think Mr M chose to take it, knowing he didnt have to.
2009 sale
The second PPI policy was taken with another personal loan in 2009.
Barclays says the loan and PPI were taken out over the phone. And its sent us a copy of the 
sales script it says its advisor wouldve followed during the call. This script instructs the 
advisor to tell the customer that the PPI is optional, that its not a condition of taking the loan 
and that it wont affect the loan decision. It then instructs the advisor to given the cost of the 
PPI ask the customer if they are happy to proceed with it.
Based on this I think Barclays made it clear to Mr M that he had a choice about the PPI, and 
that Mr M chose to take it knowing he didnt have to.
Both salesBarclays says it recommended the PPI to Mr M, so it had to check that it was right for him. 
And, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, he doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. The policies couldve paid out for longer than hes told us he wouldve been 
entitled to full sick pay. And they wouldve meant he didnt need to rely on his family to make 
his loan repayments if he wasnt earning.
As well as checking it was right for him, Barclays had to give Mr M clear information about 
the PPI. Its possible the information it gave him wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But, for 
the same reasons I think they were right for him, it seems like the PPI policies would have 
been useful for Mr M if something went wrong. It also looks like they were affordable. So I 
dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr M off taking it out.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because:
    Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
     premiums) - so it should have told Mr M about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr M,
     that was unfair.
    To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
     that was above 50% of the PPI premiums - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premiums. I understand it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2019.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman