DRN-1064230
The complaint
Mr W complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited wont carry out repairs to his 
garage for a claim he had on his home insurance policy. 
What happened
In early March 2019 whilst Mr W was away from his home, a vehicle drove into his garage 
causing structural and cosmetic damage. As soon as Mr W saw the damage he contacted 
the police and Lloyds to let them know what had happened. 
Lloyds passed Mr Ws information to their claims management company who Ill call P for 
them to oversee his claim. They also arranged for contractors who Ill call C to attend 
Mr Ws property and assess the damage and arrange for any necessary repairs. 
After several delays, C attended Mr Ws property but because of concerns over safety and 
the amount of damage to the garage they werent able to complete a full assessment. So 
they reported back to P on the damage theyd seen to Mr Ws property. They also noted the 
neighbouring property might have been damaged at the same time as Mr Ws.
Once theyd received authority to proceed with making the property safe, C visited the 
property again. Mr W explained to C that he felt the garage roof had also been damaged by 
the impact.  C looked at it but didn't think that was the case and said it shouldn't be included 
in Mr W's claim. However, they did raise concerns that the roof contained asbestos and this 
could affect their work.
Due to the concerns over the roof asbestos, specialist contractors who dealt with asbestos 
had to be involved in the repair process. This meant P and C had to liaise with the 
specialists so everyone could attend Mr Ws property at the same time, which caused further 
delays. So Lloyds offered Mr W either alternative contractors or a cash settlement to speed 
up the process. But Mr W declined as he wanted the repairs completed. 
Shortly after, Mr W had a discussion with Lloyds about the repairs that C had recommended. 
He was unhappy theyd only suggested replacing damaged bricks on a closest match basis 
rather than the whole panels he felt should be replaced. Mr W decided he didnt want to 
proceed with the repair, so Lloyds offered him either a cash-settlement or to use an 
alternative contractor who Ill call H. Mr W agreed hed proceed with the repair using H.  
After H visited Mr Ws property, they raised similar concerns to C and no further progress 
was made on repairing the garage. Lloyds felt the best option to settle Mr Ws claim was to 
offer him a cash settlement of £5,168.66 plus a further £500 to cover storage costs whilst 
any repair was taking place. 
Mr W didnt think this was fair. He felt that the repairs being proposed by the contractors 
werent enough to fix the garage, and the cash settlement amount wouldnt cover the costs 
involved. So he asked this service to look into his complaint.Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought that Lloyds had 
acted in line with the policy terms by first trying to repair Mr W's garage and then offering to 
cash-settle his claim after an agreement on the repairs couldn't be reached. 
She also felt that Lloyds had made a fair cash offer based on the breakdown of amounts 
shed seen. 
Mr W didnt accept the investigators opinion and asked for an ombudsman to look into his 
complaint. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to 
uphold it. I'll explain why. 
Repair work
Looking at the evidence available it appears Lloyds visited Mr W several times and tried to 
arrange for repair of the garage as he wanted. However, there were disagreements over the 
scope of work required to put Mr W in the position he would have been prior to the accident 
taking place.
Ive seen evidence from the contractors which says on their third visit they discussed the 
repair works with Mr W and told him what works would be covered. They said they explained 
to Mr W that they couldnt make an exact match, but the repairs would be as close as 
possible. They also said Mr W had initially agreed to the repair taking place and then 
changed his mind. I recognise Mr W feels the repairs Lloyds agreed to do werent enough. 
However, Ive seen photographs which appear to show the brick panels in Mr Ws garage 
were undamaged by the accident, which supports the findings of the contractors. 
Mr Ws policy states Lloyds will pay the cost of re-building or repairing the part of your home 
which is damaged it also says it does not cover the cost of replacing or changing any 
undamaged item, or part of an item, which forms part of a set or any other item of a uniform 
nature, colour or design. I recognise Mr W wanted the whole panel replaced so the colour 
and brick type was uniform. However, as an insurer, Lloyds are entitled to rely on their 
experts opinion, which in this case was that the whole panel didnt need replacing. So, I 
cant say it was unreasonable of Lloyds in only agreeing to replace the damaged bricks.
Ive seen that Mr W mentioned the accident had caused damage to his garage roof, but 
Lloyds didnt think there was anything to suggest this was the case. Ive seen statements 
from the contractor which said there was no evidence of movement around the roof timbers 
and some seals are already showing signs of wear and tear. They also noted that there 
were already missing seals around some of the screws, so there would be some 
deterioration regardless of the accident. Under the general exclusions section of Mr Ws 
policy it says that any loss or damage caused by a gradually operating cause or wear and 
tear wouldnt be covered. So, I cant reasonably expect Lloyds to replace Mr Ws garage 
roof. 
Cash settlement
Mr W is unhappy Lloyds have settled his claim in cash as he feels they should have 
arranged for the repairs to be undertaken and put his garage back as it was before the 
accident took place. However, under the How we settle a claim under your buildings cover section of Mr Ws policy it says, We have the option of giving you a money payment instead 
of repairing or rebuilding your home. 
Ive seen that there were ongoing discussions between Mr W, Lloyds and their contractors 
over a significant period but all the parties couldnt agree on what should be covered under 
the scope of work. Whilst I recognise Mr Ws frustration at Lloyds settlement decision, they 
cant leave a claim outstanding indefinitely due to a dispute. 
Ive seen that Lloyds offered Mr W several different options to try and reach an amicable 
solution and Im satisfied they tried to resolve Mr Ws concerns. But because an agreement 
couldnt be reached, they eventually decided to send him a cheque for the repair costs 
instead. And given the circumstances of the complaint, I think it was reasonable of Lloyds to 
do this.
Mr W has also said hes unhappy with the amount of money that Lloyds have paid him as he 
doesnt feel its enough. However, Ive looked at the quote Lloyds received from the second 
contractor who was actually going to carry out the work, which included an itemised 
breakdown of each of the costs involved. I have also looked at the pictures taken by the 
contractors and compared this to the quote and I think the list of work seems reasonable. As 
Lloyds have been able to show their contractors could complete the schedule of work for 
£5,168.66 I think its fair for them to pay Mr W the same figure as a cash settlement plus the 
£500 they agreed to pay him for additional storage costs. 
I recognise this has been a frustrating time for Mr W, and Id like to reassure him that Ive 
carefully read all the information thats been provided. I understand why Mr W feels strongly 
about whats happened and I realise this wont be the outcome he was hoping for, but I dont 
think Lloyds have treated him unfairly. So, I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2020.
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman