DRN-2214340
The complaint
Miss G complains about how UK Insurance Limited (T/A Churchill Insurance) handled and 
settled a claim she made under her home insurance policy for storm damage. 
What happened
Miss G holds a household insurance policy with Churchill. On 1 August 2019 she contacted 
it to make a claim under her policy for storm damage as shed noticed some of the tiles on 
the gable ends at the rear of her property had been blown off. Miss G also told Churchill that 
her garden shed had sustained damage. And she said she thought this may have happened 
following high winds on 11 June 2019.
Churchill appointed a loss adjuster, which Ill refer to as S here, to attend Miss Gs property 
and assist it in dealing with the claim. S visited Miss Gs property on 6 August 2019 to 
determine the cause of damage to her roof and garden shed.
After S inspected Miss Gs property, it confirmed that half a dozen tiles on the bottom of the 
gable end at the rear of the property had been blown off. But it felt this had happened due to 
the mortar under the roof tiles cracking and gradually deteriorating over a long period of 
time. As regards Miss Gs garden shed, S stated that the shed had been pushed over 
slightly to one side due to its positioning. And, overall, S felt there was no evidence of storm 
damage. So, Churchill declined Miss Gs claim as it was satisfied the damage shed reported 
had been caused by age related wear and tear, which was excluded by their policy.   
Miss G wasnt happy with how Churchill proposed to resolve their claim. She felt, as thered 
been high winds at around the time the damage occurred, a storm had caused the damage 
to her property. So, she complained that Churchill wouldnt meet her claim. 
Churchill investigated Miss Gs concerns. But it maintained its stance that the damage 
wasnt caused by a one-off storm event as was required by her policy. It therefore didnt 
uphold their complaint about the way it had settled their claim.  
Being dissatisfied with how Churchill had dealt with her complaint Miss G referred it to our 
service. Our investigator looked into what had happened but didnt recommend upholding 
this complaint. They werent persuaded the damage caused was consistent with a one-off 
identifiable storm event. And they thought it was, most likely, due to wear and tear. Overall, 
they thought Churchill had dealt with Miss Gs complaint fairly and done nothing wrong in 
declining her claim. But Miss G disagreed and asked for her complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered all the 
information provided by Miss G and Churchill but Ill concentrate my decision on what I think 
is relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because 
Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Miss G has told our investigator about how other insurers settled claims made by those living 
in her locality whose properties also sustained damage at around the time hers did. But my 
role is to assess whether I think Churchill made a mistake in deciding Miss Gs claim, or 
treated her unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully 
about everything Miss G and Churchill have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. I 
appreciate Miss G will be disappointed by this outcome. But I hope she can understand the 
reasons behind my decision.
Theres no dispute that damage occurred to Miss Gs property and garden shed. However, 
theres disagreement between her, Churchill and its appointed agents about the cause of the 
damage and the correct outcome of this claim. 
Miss G would like Churchill to cover the damage to her roof and garden shed because she 
feels it was caused by adverse weather. Her policy with Churchill provides cover for damage 
caused by a range of perils that might happen. These are specific one-off events and include 
storm, for example. But, for a claim to be successful, Miss G would have to show that the 
damage shes claiming for was caused by one of the perils listed in her policy.
There are three conditions that need to be met before this service would say a claim for 
storm damage should succeed. Those are:  
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
I have re-assessed Miss Gs complaint and all the evidence with these three questions in 
mind. I wish to make clear that the answer to all three questions needs to be yes for this 
service to be able to recommend that a storm complaint is upheld.
In weighing up the first question, I can see that Miss Gs policy doesnt define the word 
storm. This isnt unusual. And in that scenario this service takes the view that a storm 
generally involves violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow. So, this is what 
Ive thought about when deciding whether there were storm conditions on or around the date 
of Miss Gs claim.
Miss G has pointed to a storm that occurred on 11 June 2019 which was the date she 
thought damage was most likely caused to her roof and shed. Ive checked the weather 
reports relevant to Miss Gs locality for storm conditions and these show that at the time the 
damage occurred the highest wind speeds recorded were 29 mph. 
I can see Churchill checked weather reports from 8 June to 1 August 2019, which I think was 
a reasonable approach for it to take here  particularly given that Miss G didnt notice the 
displaced roof tiles until 1 August 2019. 
Having also considered the weather records from 8 June to 1 August 2019 I can see that, 
during that period, the maximum wind speed recorded was 39 mph. And, although localised 
flooding was noted on 10 June 2019, Churchill correctly stated that this couldnt be said to 
have caused the damage Miss Gs home sustained.I dont doubt what Miss G has said about there being high winds at the time her property 
sustained damage. But the weather recorded doesnt meet the conditions of what our 
service would consider to be a storm. And this means I havent seen enough evidence to 
persuade me that storm conditions existed at around the date of the damage. 
As Ive been unable to answer question one affirmatively, I cant fairly conclude that the 
damage to Miss Gs roof and shed were caused by a one-off identifiable storm event as her 
policy requires. And this means I cant direct Churchill to pay her claim for storm damage.
As Ive mentioned Miss Gs policy covers damage caused by certain events. Wear and tear, 
or damage that happens gradually, is specifically excluded, which is in common with most 
home insurance policies. This is because insurance is intended to cover the unforeseen, and 
something wearing out or requiring maintenance isnt unforeseen. 
If an insurer wishes to decline a claim on the basis of wear and tear it has to show that this is 
how the damage happened. In this case Churchill is able to rely on S opinion that the 
damage was caused gradually. I can see Miss G is unhappy that Churchill has relied on S 
report but S is a recognised organisation that regularly assesses property damage on behalf 
of insurers. So, its isnt unreasonable for Churchill to use S expertise in assessing a claim 
for damage. 
Miss G has told our investigator she doesnt believe S thoroughly inspected her property. 
But, based on the report Ive seen, Im satisfied S undertook an appropriate inspection of 
Miss Gs property. The photographs it took of the roof support its opinion that the damage 
reported was due to age related wear and tear. I cant ignore that evidence. And Miss G 
hasnt provided any reports to our service that contradict the content of S report
I know Miss G will disagree with this, but mortar deterioration doesnt happen due to a one-
off storm event. I say this because correctly applied and maintained mortar should be 
weather resistant and unaffected by storm related weather  although it will deteriorate over 
time when exposed to extremes of weather. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its most likely that the adverse weather that Miss G 
experienced in June 2019 exposed the underlying deterioration of the mortar, which is what 
had caused the roof tiles to loosen over a period of time. 
Churchill told Miss G that damage caused by mortar deterioration is excluded under her 
policy. Ive carefully considered the terms and conditions of their policy and can see it does 
exclude damage caused by age related wear and tear. This is in common with most home 
insurance policies because insurance is intended to cover the unforeseen. And something 
wearing out or requiring maintenance isnt unforeseen. 
In the overall circumstances, Im not persuaded Churchill made an error in attributing the 
cause of the damage here to wear and tear. As thats something that isnt covered under the 
terms and conditions of Miss Gs insurance policy, I cant fairly ask Churchill to approve her 
claim. 
I know Miss G will be disappointed with this decision. I know she feels very strongly about 
the issues raised in her complaint. And I appreciate the reasons why she brought her 
complaint to our service. But for the reasons outlined Im satisfied Churchill has acted fairly 
and reasonably. So, I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman