DRN-3274274
Complaint
Mr C is unhappy with what Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has done to put things right in 
relation to his complaint about his overdraft.
Background
When the complaint was referred to us Lloyds agreed to refund all the interest, fees and 
charges it added to Mr Cs account from February 2019 onwards. One of our adjudicators 
looked into Mr Cs concerns and thought that what Lloyds had agreed to do to put things 
right was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case. Mr C disagreed and so the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Lloyds has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr C is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his complaint. 
Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
Lloyds has agreed that it ought to have realised that Mr Cs account was in difficulty and it 
shouldnt have added any interest, fees and charges to Mr Cs account from February 2019 
onwards. And it has agreed to refund all the interest, fees and charges added it to Mr Cs 
account from then in order to put things right. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. However, thats not possible in cases where funds that shouldnt have been advanced 
were advanced because typically those funds will have already been spent. 
So we have to look at a way of asking a business to put things right in a fair and reasonable 
way. And where a business provided, or continued to allow a consumer to use, a credit 
facility which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the 
consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges 
on that credit.
This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any 
credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those 
interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year. Thats what Lloyds has 
agreed to do here, so it has agreed to do what Id normally expect a firm to do in these 
circumstances.
In this case, Mr C has been left with an outstanding balance even though hes been 
refunded all of the interest, fees and charges applied from February 2019. So while Mr C 
has been left with an outstanding balance to repay and he might be unhappy with this, 
Lloyds has done what Id normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Mr C believes that Lloyds should do more. As I understand it, he thinks that Lloyds shouldnt 
have provided him with an overdraft in the first place so he should have all his interest, fees 
and charges back  not just some of them. And hes also unhappy that Lloyds now plans to 
reduce his overdraft limit. 
Ive carefully thought about what Mr C has said. And in light of this, Ive thought about 
whether it was fair and reasonable to provide Mr C with an overdraft in the first place. 
Lloyds needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Lloyds needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr C 
could afford to repay any credit it provided. Our website sets out what we typically think 
about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Lloyds says it agreed to Mr Cs initial overdraft application and his limit increases after it 
obtained information on his income and expenditure and carried out a credit search. On the 
other hand, Mr C says no checks were done at all. Ive carefully thought about what Mr C 
and Lloyds have said. 
I have to start by saying that Lloyds did ask Mr C about his income and expenditure before 
providing the overdraft and subsequent limit increases. And the information provided did 
suggest that what was being advanced was affordable. However, Im mindful that Mr C 
made a number of applications within a short period of time. And in these circumstances, I 
think that Lloyds should have taken a closer look at his circumstances before agreeing to the 
increases.
That said, having looked through Mr Cs statements, in the lead up to the overdraft being 
provided and the increases, I dont think that there was anything concerning in this period of 
time. In particular, Mr C had operated his account with a reasonable surplus for an extended 
period. And there wasnt anything in Mr Cs account transactions prior to the increases which 
contradicted what Mr C had declared during his applications either. As this is the case, Im 
satisfied the information available suggested Lloyds was reasonably entitled to conclude    
Mr C could repay what he was being lent within a reasonable period of time. 
I know that Mr Cs position did worsen after the increase to £3,100.00 was agreed. But this 
was after the decision to lend had already been taken. And it wouldnt be fair and reasonable 
for me to use hindsight here, or say that Lloyds should have known this would happen. 
Equally, Lloyds has accepted that it has accepted that it ought to have stepped in by the time 
Mr Cs account was due to be reviewed in February 2019. And its refunded the charges it 
added from then. I know Mr C says the interest fees and charges led to direct debits being missed. But these 
payments were refused because he had insufficient fuds in his account. So I cant see how 
not having the overdraft in the first place would have changed this, especially as Mr C will 
still have a balance after all adjustments have been made and Im satisfied that these 
payments would have been missed even if Mr C had been refused an overdraft in the first 
place. As this is the case, Im satisfied that Lloyds offer does adequately compensate Mr C 
for his losses.
Finally, Ive thought about what Mr C has said about Lloyds wanting to reduce his overdraft 
limit to £850. I know Mr C is unhappy with this. But as Mr C complained that his overdraft 
was unaffordable for him, I dont think it is unfair for Lloyds to have taken this into account or 
put measures in place to ensure Mr C doesnt accrue further charges he cant afford to pay. 
So I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to say that Lloyds should continue to 
provide an increased overdraft limit to Mr C in circumstances where, bearing in mind what 
Mr C has said, it has concluded he cant afford it. 
Overall and having considered everything, while I do appreciate Mr Cs strength of feeling on 
this matter, I think that what Lloyds has already done to put things right for him is fair and 
reasonable and it hasnt treated him unfairly. And I leave it up to him to decide whether he 
wants to accept Lloyds offer. I realise that this will be very disappointing for Mr C. But I hope 
that hell understand the reasons for my decision and hell at least feel that his concerns 
have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Lloyds Bank PLC has already agreed 
to do to put things right for Mr C is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his complaint. 
So Im not requiring it to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman