DRN-2135006
The complaint
Mr D complains about Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) and the interest they charged on his 
credit card account.
What happened
Mr D held a credit card account with BOI. He made balance transfers onto this account 
making use of a 0% promotional interest rate.
Mr D then began making purchases on the credit card in May 2019. He would pay off the 
amount he spent on purchases in the same month, but he was still charged interest. Mr D 
was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr D complained that BOI were using the payments he made to pay off the balance transfer 
amounts, rather than his purchases. And he didnt think this was correct. He felt hed acted 
within the terms and conditions of his account by staying within his credit limit and paying his 
minimum payments each month. So, he didnt think BOI acted fairly when charging him 
interest and felt hed lost much of the benefit of the promotional balance transfer rate. So, he 
wanted to be compensated for this.
BOI didnt agree. They felt theyd charged Mr Ds account interest fairly, in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account. But even so, they reimbursed Mr D the interest hed been 
charged on the account before they issued their response in September 2019. And they 
decided to freeze any purchase interest for the next month. They did this to allow Mr D time 
to adjust the way he was using his account. Mr D remained unhappy with this response, so 
he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He acknowledged the 
frustration Mr D wouldve felt as hed made attempts to make payments to cover the 
purchases he made. But he thought BOI had charged the purchase interest in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account. And he thought theyd acted fairly when applying an 
interest freeze to give Mr D time to adjust the way he used the account. So, he didnt think 
BOI needed to do anything more.
Mr D didnt agree. He thought there was a separate agreement in place for the balance 
transfer amount and that this should remain interest free as long as a monthly minimum 
amount is paid, and he remained within his credit limit. So, he didnt think it was fair for the 
payments he made towards purchases to impact the balance transfer amounts. Our 
investigator responded explaining both balances were on the same card, so the same terms 
and conditions applied to both. Mr D didnt agree with this, and maintained they were 
separate agreements so the payments he made towards the purchases shouldve been 
applied to the purchases only. As Mr D didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the upset this has caused Mr D. Ive no doubt Mr D thought he was 
acting in line with the terms of his account to prevent interest being charged. Ive seen he 
made purchases and then made payments which were usually of the equivalent amount. So, 
I can understand why he thought he was protecting himself from interest charges. And 
because of this, I can appreciate why he wouldve been frustrated and upset when he saw 
interest had been applied. But, for me to agree BOI have done something wrong, Id need to 
see the interest BOI applied to the account was unreasonable and not in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account. Or, that the information BOI provided to Mr D regarding 
interest and how it would be charged was unclear. And in this situation, I dont think thats 
the case.
I understand Mr D feels the agreement connected to his balance transfer which included a 
0% promotional rate should be separate to the agreement for the purchases he makes on 
the same card. So, he doesnt think its fair that payments he made were allocated to the 
balance transfer. And I can understand why he thinks this. But I dont think thats the case. 
Although the interest rates on the balance transfer amounts and the purchases he made 
were different, both amounts were on the same credit card account. So, both balances fell 
under the same terms and conditions. 
I agree that Mr D needed to remain within his credit limit and make the necessary minimum 
payment to maintain the promotional rate attached to the balance transfers. And I agree that 
he did this. But Mr D was not charged interest on this balance transfer amount. The interest 
charges applied to Mr Ds account were generated from the purchases he made.
So, Ive considered the terms and conditions of Mr Ds account to decide whether BOI acted 
fairly when charging Mr D interest. The terms explain:
If the full outstanding balance as shown on your monthly statement is paid by the
specific date, then no interest will be charged in respect of transactions appearing on
that monthly statement. Otherwise, interest will be calculated daily (and applied
monthly) on amounts charged to the account in respect of transactions (including any cash 
advance fee) from the date of the transaction until the date that any payments are credited to 
the account.
As Mr D had an outstanding balance transfer amount which he left on his credit card 
account, his account couldnt be cleared each month. This meant that, when he began 
making purchases, interest would be accrued as the balance would never be cleared. I think 
the terms make this reasonably clear so I cant say BOI have acted unfairly when charging 
Mr D purchase interest.
Ive then considered Mr Ds comments about the way BOI allocated payments. Hes 
unhappy payments he made to his account were used to pay off his balance transfer, rather 
than the purchases he made. But the terms explain that any payments Mr D made would be 
allocated towards billed transactions that appeared on Mr Ds monthly statements before 
unbilled transactions that hadnt yet been included. And Ive seen Mr D usually made 
payments to cover the purchases he made in the same statement period, meaning these 
purchases hadnt yet been billed. So, in line with the terms and conditions of the account, the 
payments he made would be used to pay billed transactions first, which in this case would be the balance transfer amount. I understand Mr D didnt realise this and this wasnt his 
intention. But I think BOI acted in line with their terms and conditions when allocating 
payments in this way, so I cant say theyve done anything wrong.
And Im aware BOI were aware of Mr Ds confusion when they responded to his complaint. 
And to recognise Mr Ds confusion, they reimbursed the purchase interest hed been 
charged and agreed to freeze any purchase interest for a month to allow Mr D time to adjust 
his management of his credit card account to prevent any further interest being charged. 
They explained his best options would be to clear the entire balance, including the balance 
transfer, if he wished to continue making purchases on the card. Or to stop making 
purchases altogether. I think BOI acted fairly when taking these actions and made Mr D 
aware of the options available to him. So, if purchase interest has been accrued after this 
point, I dont think its been caused by anything BOI did wrong.
I understand this wasnt the outcome Mr D was hoping for. But I hope this decision has 
provided Mr D with an explanation as to why purchase interest was charged and why it 
wasnt as a result of any error BOI made.
  
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about Bank of Ireland (UK) 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman