DRN-3122717
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds decision to decline a
claim she made under a home insurance policy for misrepresentation. This led to Admiral
avoiding (cancelling as if it never existed) two policies Mrs M bought under its multi
insurance discount scheme.
Mrs M says she believed shed bought landlord insurance policies with Admiral
What happened
Mrs M bought a home insurance policy with Admiral online in January 2019. This was for a
home shed inherited which Ill call property A. In June 2019 Mrs M bought another property
and purchased a second home insurance policy with Admiral under their multi policy
discount scheme. Ill refer to this as property B. Mrs M renewed both policies with Admiral in 
2020. 
In October 2020 Mrs M contacted Admiral to enquire about making a claim for storm
damage to the roof of property A. Mrs M said she couldnt complete the form as it wasnt 
appropriate to her circumstances as a landlord of the property which she was renting out. 
Mrs M said she was under the impression shed bought landlord insurance policies with
Admiral. Admiral made the decision to avoid both of Mrs Ms policies from their inception
dates for misrepresentation. This meant no cover was in place at the time of the claim
against property A. Admiral refunded the premiums Mrs M had paid.
Mrs M asked us to look at her complaint. She told us that she believed shed bought landlord
insurance with Admiral in January 2019. After renovations, she intended to rent out property
A. She said she bought property B in June 2019 and contacted Admiral. She said she
believed shed bought another landlord insurance policy.
Mrs M said she renovated both properties and they were rented out to tenants in August
2019.
Mrs M says she contacted Admiral with the specific intention of buying landlord insurance.
She said she received her policy documents for both policies but didnt check them as she 
believed all was in order, so she didnt think she needed to notify Admiral of any changes.
Admiral said when Mrs M bought insurance for property B, it told Mrs M it didnt provide
landlord insurance  which was correct at the time. It also told Mrs M that when she had
tenants in the property, shed need to contact it. But Mrs M said Admiral hadnt made her
aware of this.
Mrs M said she had several discussions with Admiral after the damage occurred where it
was clear she thought shed bought landlord insurance. Mrs M said Admiral didnt listen or
correct her policies until after she claimed.
Mrs M says due to the time that has passed, the leak damage from the roof got worse which
meant she had to pay for the entire roof to be replaced. Mrs M believes she paid more than it
would otherwise have cost if her claim had been dealt with when it was made.
Our investigator thought Admiral had asked clear questions when Mrs M bought the policy
for property A. Admiral asked Mrs M if the property was occupied by her, which Mrs M said
yes and described it as a weekend home.
In the call in June 2019 when Mrs M added property B, the investigator found that Mrs M
told Admiral she was to rent out property A. Although the agent initially didnt pick up on
this, he went on to rectify this and ask if Mrs M was going to rent out the properties, which 
she answered yes. The investigator heard the agent clearly tell Mrs M that Admiral didnt 
offer landlord insurance policies. Mrs M then told Admiral she intended to occupy property B 
until she rented it out  and agreed she would change her insurance cover and tell Admiral 
when tenants moved in.
At renewal in January 2020, Admiral sent a renewal pack to Mrs M and asked her to let it
know if anything had changed. Mrs M didnt tell Admiral of any changes.
Where a misrepresentation is careless, an insurer should refund the premium (unless a
claim had been met). This is what Admiral had done. Up to this point, the investigator
thought Admirals decision to avoid Mrs Ms policies for careless misrepresentation was
reasonable.
However, she looked at what would have happened if Mrs M had contacted Admiral at
renewal and told it about the change to rent both properties out from August 2019. She
thought Admiral would have offered Mrs M landlord policies  as by July 2019 Admiral was
selling landlord policies. So she didnt think it was fair  or in line with CIDRA  for Admiral
not to have offered Mrs M landlord policies.
So the investigator recommended Admiral backdate the reinstatement of a landlord policy for
property A to January 2020 and consider Mrs Ms claim from October 2020.
The investigator therefore recommended upholding Mrs Ms complaint and thought Admiral
should pay her £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
Admiral didnt agree. It said it made it clear at renewal in January 2020 that Mrs M should tell
it about any changes. If Mrs M had told it at renewal in January 2020 that shed rented out
the properties since August 2019, Admiral still would have avoided her policies.
Admiral said it viewed the misrepresentation by Mrs M as reckless. Admiral says it wouldnt
have offered landlord cover at renewal in January 2020 as its underwriters would have
declined offering Mrs M a policy  due to having had previous insurance cancelled by it for
misrepresentation.
In any event, Admiral doesnt agree it needed to arrange alternative cover in line with CIDRA
 because landlord insurance is a completely different product with different underwriting
criteria. Admiral said it wouldnt have offered any alternative terms under the home
insurance policy once it knew the properties were rented out. So Admiral wanted an 
ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 22 September 2021. I thought Admiral had acted 
reasonably. 
Mrs M says she wants the matter over and is relieved. But she disagreed with some of the 
comments in my provisional decision. We asked Admiral for their comments on what Mrs M has said and theyve responded. In summary Mrs M says if shed known she wasnt buying a 
landlord policy she would have bought a suitable policy elsewhere. She says she did occupy 
the properties while renovating them before she rented them out. 
Admiral says the crux of the matter is that Mrs M failed to let it know when she rented the 
properties out  having advised her in the key call she would need to do so as she didnt 
have landlord cover  and this is why it avoided her policies. 
So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I set out our approach to misrepresentation complaints in line with 
the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). So I dont 
intend to repeat it in the same level of detail here. In summary, its for an insurer to ask clear 
questions; and for a customer to take reasonable care when taking out an insurance policy; 
The insurer has certain remedies when a misrepresentation is identified. 
When Mrs M bought a policy with Admiral in January 2019, she said the property was a 
weekend home. Ive called this property A.
In June 2019 Mrs M called Admiral to buy a second policy for property B which shed just
bought. Initially the agent didnt pick up on the fact Mrs M said property A was to be rented
out. But the agent promptly rectified the error and checked with Mrs M as to the use of 
property A and property B. He said that property A is a weekend home and later refers to it 
as a second home. He checked with Mrs M if the property was a weekend home as she 
described when she bought policy A  and Mrs M replied yes.
Later in the call - based on Mrs Ms description of use, the agent asked Mrs M if she
intended to rent out the properties. Mrs M replied yes.
The agent then clearly explained to Mrs M that Admiral didnt provide landlord insurance
cover. He said that Admiral only insures properties that are either Mrs Ms home or that she
is occupying herself.
In response Mrs M said she intended to occupy property B until its up for rent and then she
will change the insurance when this happens. At the end of the call the agent reminded Mrs
M that when she becomes a landlord and rents out property B (as he understands property
A is a second home), Mrs M will need to let Admiral know so she can change the policy. 
Mrs M agreed she would change her insurance cover and tell Admiral when tenants moved 
in.
I understand Mrs M says she cannot recall being told this. She says if it was clear, she 
wouldnt have taken out the policy  and isnt usually this careless. 
Ive looked at Admirals policy wording which Mrs M was provided with when she bought her 
policy for both properties. Under the section Keeping your Policy Up to Date it says the 
onus is on Mrs M to let Admiral know if any of the information is wrong, or if anything 
changes during the period of insurance  including if the use of the home changed to a 
holiday home or being rented out. 
Nowhere does Admiral give the impression the policies Mrs M bought were landlordinsurance policies. Mrs M asks how she was to know the policy should say this. But given 
the agent clearly explained to Mrs M that Admiral didnt provide landlord insurance in the key 
call, I dont think Admiral misled Mrs M or set up an incorrect policy against her wishes.
Admiral also warned that if Mrs M didnt advise it of such changes, it may result in the policy 
being voided and/or a claim being refused. 
In my provisional decision I said that I didnt think Mrs M took reasonable care when 
answering their questions as to the occupancy of the properties. Mrs M told Admiral property 
A was mortgaged and occupied by her as a weekend home. But Mrs M told us shed
inherited the property and it was undergoing renovation to be rented out. She told Admiral 
she intended to occupy property B until it was rented out. I didnt think Mrs M had occupied 
either property as described when she bought the policies. 
Mrs M doesnt agree that she provided inaccurate information about the use of property A 
and B. She says the properties were two doors apart and a long distance from her home. 
Mrs M says she spent most of the week there and slept over at weekends while renovating 
them.
In response, Admiral says that the issue of occupancy isnt the issue  but the fact that Mrs 
M was no longer the occupier when she rented the properties out and didnt tell Admiral. 
At the heart of Mrs Ms complaint is that she specifically asked Admiral for landlord 
insurance policies and it failed to set up the correct policies. As I think Admiral clearly 
explained that it didnt provide landlord insurance policies I cant say Admiral treated her 
unfairly when it declined her claim. It was the responsibility of Mrs M to tell them when she 
rented the property(ies) out as Admiral advised. Admiral couldnt have known when Mrs M 
had rented the properties out. 
And  had Admiral accepted that the properties were occupied by Mrs M, it would have been 
reasonable of it to avoid the policies from the date the properties were rented out in line with 
the policy and CIDRA. Instead, Admiral avoided the policies from inception and provided Mrs 
M with a full refund. So I cant say that Mrs M has been treated unfairly. 
I appreciate that Mrs M is very unhappy at the suggestion that she has been dishonest, 
which she takes personally. And she says Admiral made errors too. When she made 
enquiries about making a claim, Mrs M says it was clear that she was a landlord, but Admiral 
didnt change the policy. 
Admiral says the handler advised Mrs M that she didnt hold a landlord policy with it, but she 
would pass her claim to the validations team. 
But even if Admiral had told Mrs M she didnt hold a landlord policy when she first contacted 
it about a possible claim, the outcome would have been the same. The policy says it was for 
Mrs M to notify Admiral of the change to rent the property out before it happened. Mrs M 
didnt do this, despite being advised in the key call in June 2019. 
Having been made aware of the change in circumstances by Mrs M when she made a claim, 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Admiral to make further enquiries before reaching its 
decision. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs M. But overall I dont think Admiral has acted unreasonably. So 
Im not asking it to do any more. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman