DRN-1708181
 
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited settled his home emergency insurance 
claim.
For ease, in my decision I will refer to Aviva when talking about its agents or representatives. 
What happened
Mr M had home emergency insurance with Aviva. At the beginning of November 2019 his 
boiler broke down. Aviva attended and said the boiler couldnt be repaired. 
Over the next three weeks Aviva looked into Mr Ms claim. It initially told Mr M it would have 
to replace the boiler. Because Mr Ms boiler was over seven years old Aviva took a payment 
of £500 from him towards the costs. But Aviva later told Mr M his system would need 
upgrading to enable the boiler to be replaced. Aviva said it wouldnt cover these costs. In 
mid-November, it cash settled Mr Ms claim for £1,980 which it said included a refund of the 
£500 Mr M had already paid.
Mr M asked for installation quotes from other companies and was advised it would cost him 
over £3,400. Mr M sent one of these quotes to Aviva in December 2019 and asked it to 
increase its cash settlement or replace the boiler. Aviva didnt reply. So, Mr M complained.
Aviva partially upheld Mr Ms complaint. It said it should have replied to Mr M in December 
and apologised. But it was satisfied the cash settlement already paid was fair. 
Mr M remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. He said the money hed 
received wouldnt cover the cost of replacing his boiler. Mr M said he didnt agree to cash 
settle the claim and wanted Aviva to replace his boiler. He said Aviva told him the estimates 
it received were too expensive and it didnt want to do the work. Mr M said hed offered to 
pay the extra costs, but this option wasnt given to him. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint. They asked Aviva to cover the full costs to replace 
Mr Ms boiler including the system upgrades. Our investigator noted Aviva told our service 
the cash settlement was expected to cover the upgrade costs. So, the investigator felt it was 
unfair for Aviva to change its mind now. Our investigator also asked Aviva to pay Mr M £500 
compensation for delays, poor service, additional costs, distress and inconvenience. But 
Aviva didnt agree. So, the matters been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed Mr Ms policy, I can see that if his boiler needed to be replaced, Aviva 
agreed to source, replace and install a new boiler. However, the policy also states that although Aviva will cover costs associated with boiler replacement and installation, it will not 
cover the costs of system upgrades.
Aviva told us that after sending out engineers, it established that in order to replace Mr Ms 
boiler, upgrades were required. This seems to be the opinion of relevant experts who 
physically inspected Mr Ms boiler and in the absence of other evidence, Ive no reason to 
doubt this account. So, I do think Mr Ms system needed upgrading in order to replace his 
boiler for an equivalent one. And based on the terms of his policy, Im satisfied Mr M was 
expected to cover the costs of these upgrades, with Aviva covering the costs of a new 
equivalent boiler and installation. 
Aviva clearly didnt source, replace and install a boiler in line with the policy terms. Instead, it 
cash settled the claim. And whilst theres no term in the policy allowing Aviva to do this, I 
wouldnt necessarily say this was unreasonable if Mr M was given a choice, and then agreed 
to the cash settlement. 
But Mr M told us he was given no option to pay the extra money and he didnt want to cash 
settle. Avivas notes made on the day of the cash settlement say that Mr M was told he could 
either allow their contractor to do the works and he could pay the additional upgrade costs, 
or he could cash settle the claim. The notes go on to say Mr M agreed to the cash 
settlement. So, Avivas notes indicate that Mr M was given an option of dealing with the 
claim in line with the policy but that he chose the cash settlement. Where evidence is 
conflicting, I need to decide whats more likely to have happened. 
The fact Avivas notes were made on the day does add weight to this evidence. And whilst 
Mr M told us Aviva never explained the cash was a settlement, he did say he accepted the 
cash payment. And I think any reasonable consumer would understand that receiving a cash 
lump sum for a claim was essentially a settlement and the business wouldnt be doing any 
further work. But Aviva provided our service with a summary of the claim. And in this it stated 
that there was lots of additional work required to upgrade the customers system. As a result 
of this it was established that we did not wish to install a boiler at Mr Ms properly due to 
alterations required to the system. And this is exactly what Mr M said had happened. I also 
gave Aviva the opportunity to explain these differing summaries, but it provided no further 
comment. Mr M also told us he explained to Aviva that he was willing to pay towards extra 
costs if needed, and this is reflected in Avivas claim notes before the cash settlement was 
made. Taking all of this into account, on balance, I think its likely Aviva did decide it didnt 
want to carry out the work and I dont think Mr M was given a choice when it cash settled his 
claim. 
And just because Mr Ms installation was particularly difficult (and would involve liaising with 
him to cover the costs of the upgrades), doesnt mean Aviva can simply decide not to do it. 
This resolution isnt in line with the policy terms and so I dont think Aviva acted reasonably 
here. 
Ive then thought about how to put things right. Mr M still hasnt had his boiler replaced but 
Aviva has made it clear it is unwilling to do the work. And I think theres been a fundamental 
break down in Mr Ms relationship with Aviva. So, I think the best thing in these 
circumstances would be for Mr M to ask another company to undertake the work. 
So, Ive thought about whether Avivas cash settlement is reasonable. 
Im aware our investigator was of the view that Aviva should cover the system upgrade 
costs. This was because Aviva told our service the cash settlement covered these costs. 
And I agree that had Aviva promised this to Mr M and then withdrawn that offer, this may 
have been unfair. But having reviewed the communications between Aviva and Mr M, Ive seen no evidence to suggest Aviva ever told Mr M hed be covered for these costs. Instead, 
Ive seen emails repeatedly advising Mr M hed have to pay for these himself. So, Im 
satisfied any reference to covering system upgrades was made to our service, on one 
occasion, and in error. So, I dont think this error means Aviva should cover the costs of Mr 
Ms system upgrades.
But I dont think Avivas settlement is enough  Ill explain why.
There are multiple costs detailed in Avivas claim notes at varying prices, but the only full 
quotations it provided are much higher values than the amount paid to Mr M. So, I dont have 
any clear evidence from Aviva that the figure it paid is fair. And despite asking for this, no 
further evidence was provided. 
Ive also considered that Mr M doesnt have the benefit of discounts from contractual 
arrangements. So, I think its likely the quotes Mr M can now get will be more than it would 
have cost Aviva to arrange the work. I think its reasonable Aviva cover these additional 
costs even if it couldve done the work cheaper, given Aviva wasnt willing to do the work 
itself.
Mr M sent us a quote from a company he wants to use which shows it will cost £3,676 in 
total to replace and install his boiler including the necessary upgrades. This quote isnt 
broken down in a way that you can easily distinguish upgrade from replacement costs. So, I 
asked Aviva which of these costs it considered additional. But it didnt reply. And without this 
information its impossible for me to establish what portion of these costs its fair to ask them 
to cover. Ultimately, I think Aviva has acted unfairly here. And in the absence of any 
information to help me reach a reasonable settlement figure, I think the fairest thing to do is 
to ask Aviva to cover the cost of the entire quote. Which would mean paying Mr M a further 
£1,696.
As an aside  Ive thought about the fact Aviva has since offered Mr M a boiler through their 
contractor at the same discounted rate. But ultimately, I dont think its reasonable to expect 
Mr M to suffer the hassle of trying to arrange to buy and install a boiler separately. 
Particularly given the installer Aviva recommended at the time quoted at an incredibly high 
rate and then Mr M said it stopped answering his calls. Mr M paid for emergency home 
insurance on the understanding he would be dealing with one company who would arrange 
the works. And I think its fair he now sources one alternative provider to do everything, even 
if this ultimately costs more.
So, Ive then thought about the distress and inconvenience Mr M experienced because of 
this mistake. Mr M was without a boiler throughout the winter months. Mr M had an 
immersion heater, so this didnt impact his hot water, but it did mean he had to use electric 
heaters which would have been inconvenient and more expensive to use. And Mr M 
explained to both Aviva and our service that he had a very young baby at home. So, I do 
think this would have caused him extra stress and worry. I can also see Mr M spent time 
trying to resolve this with Aviva and sourcing quotes for alternative contractors which he 
wouldnt have had to do if the claim had been dealt with as per the terms of the policy. So, to 
put things right, I think Aviva should also pay Mr M a further £500 compensation, which fairly 
reflects the trouble and upset caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've given, I uphold this complaint. I direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay 
Mr M an additional £1,696 to settle his claim and a further £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr M suffered.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman