DRN-1314499
The complaint
Mr J complains that Virgin Money plc (VM) charged him interest on his credit card when they 
shouldnt have. 
 What happened
Mr J took out an offer with VM which provided him with 0% interest for 7 months and a 2% 
fee on his credit card. However-VM incorrectly charged interest from the start of the new 
deal and a 5% fee.
When this was questioned by Mr J, VM agreed to refund the incorrect interest and charges. 
During a recorded telephone call a VM representative said that it would take a few weeks to 
rectify the interest error but in the meantime they would freeze the interest during the 
investigation period. The refund of interest took VM 4 months to correct. Mr J feels that this 
period of time represents the investigation period and all interest during this period of time 
should have been frozen. 
VM have said that Mr J should have been checking his account to ensure the correct interest 
was being applied and they were entitled to charge the interest allowing only for a short 
period when interest would be frozen. Mr J feels that he was waiting for the refund to appear 
on his account and that would represent the end of the investigation.
The case was passed to this service and our Investigator looked into the matter and 
collected all the available information regarding the complaint. The Investigator upheld the 
complaint stating that VM had been unclear to Mr J how long the freeze of interest would last 
and she felt that it was reasonable for Mr J to expect this to carry on until his initial complaint 
had been settled, in this case when the interest was actually refunded back to his account.
VM disagreed with the outcome and felt this is a service issue and have offered £75 for the 
inconvenience caused. Mr J still feels that the freezing of the interest should have been for 
the period of his complaint until the refund was made as implied by VM in its telephone call 
with him.
This has now been referred to me for a final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue in this matter isnt the original mistake made by VM which was eventually put 
right but whether it is fair that VM has applied the interest it has here. Ive taken into account 
VMs point that from April 2018, it was entitled to apply interest as it did. Thats in line with 
the agreement Mr J had with VM. But the situation isnt as straightforward as that here. So 
Ive considered whether there are any other reasons that it wasnt fair to apply that interest in 
the individual circumstances here.I accept that Mr J couldve noticed the situation with his account sooner. The set up call for 
the arrangement was clear about the terms and timescales of it. So while I realise that Mr J 
thought the arrangement was for longer than agreed, I think that was just an honest mistake 
on his part. 
But that means that the soonest he ever stood to find that contractual interest had been 
applied to his account was in August 2018.
So VM would always have applied contractual interest between April 2018 - when the 
arrangement ended and August 2018  when Mr J contacted it about what hed seen. I think 
this interest has been applied fairly and I dont think itd be fair to tell VM to refund this.
But, when Mr J contacted VM in August 2018 he was told that VM would need to investigate 
what had happened with the interest here. Mr J was told that his interest would be frozen 
whilst the investigation took place. I feel that it wasnt unreasonable for Mr J to take the view 
that the investigation period would be until he was refunded the overcharged interest he was 
entitled to. This is important as Mr J had intended to fully repay the balance of the account, 
from funds he had available, once the account had been recalculated, to avoid further 
interest.  
Mr J has shown that he had the money available to do this and this is supported by the fact 
that once the account was recalculated, he repaid the balance. So here, Im satisfied that Mr 
J was delayed from repaying the balance on the card to avoid further interest. If VM had 
correctly advised him that interest would be applied after the investigation, I think its most 
likely that he wouldve repaid the balance much sooner than he did and avoided the interest 
charged between August 2018 and December 2018.
So I agree that VM should refund the interest it applied between 18 August 2018 and 28 
December 2018. 
VM has already  paid  £75 to compensate Mr J for the inconvenience caused which I think is 
fair in the circumstances. 
 My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold the complaint .Virgin Money plc should refund the interest 
charged between 18 August 2018 to 28 December 2018. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman