DRN-3902829
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A have complained about the way Aviva Equity Release UK Limited has applied 
voluntary partial repayments (VPRs) to their lifetime mortgage.
To settle the complaint Mr and Mrs A would like Aviva to apply VPRs to the total amount of 
the loan, rather than a select part of the mortgage which is to Avivas financial benefit.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs A being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Mr and Mrs A have a lifetime mortgage taken out in April 2019, when they borrowed just 
over £115,500 at a fixed interest rate of 3.70%. They borrowed additional funds about a year 
later, in March 2020, drawing down just over £68,000 at a fixed interest rate of 3.79%. 
Because these were two separate borrowings taken on different dates and at different 
interest rates, they are treated as two separate loans held under the same account number.
Although the mortgage doesnt require Mr and Mrs A to make any payment, Aviva allows 
VPRs to be made, up to a maximum of 10% of the amount borrowed each year. The 
complaint arose because Mr and Mrs A have made VPRs to cover the interest accrued on 
both parts of their borrowing, and are unhappy that these have been applied to the most 
recently borrowed sum only.
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint, so it was brought to our service, where an investigator 
looked at what had happened. He didnt think Aviva had done anything incorrectly, and so 
didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs A asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. Mr A, who has 
dealt with the complaint throughout, says that Aviva hasnt fulfilled section 5.10 of its terms 
and conditions because it didnt explain in advance of making a VPR how the payment 
would be applied. Mr A says that by applying the repayment to only part of the loan, Aviva is 
giving itself a financial advantage, because this has the effect of extending the period of 
repayment, and thus not reducing the amount owed on the mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that Aviva has acted unfairly. I also dont think the way 
Aviva has applied VPRs has resulted in financial disadvantage to Mr and Mrs A. These are 
my reasons.
Im satisfied that the way Aviva applies VPRs is not part of  and therefore isnt governed 
by  its terms and conditions. Ive noted what Mr A has said about what he perceives to be a 
breach of the contract terms by Aviva. However, I dont have any power to determine 
whether or not there has been a contractual breach  only a court is able to determine this.
Equity release mortgages are intended to be long-term products which are meant to run for 
the lifetime of the borrower. No monthly repayments are required, as a result of which the 
pricing and structure of this type of loan reflects that Aviva has lent money on which it may 
not receive any repayment for several decades.
But Aviva has recognised there are circumstances in which a borrower might want to repay
part of their loan, and this is provided for in the terms and conditions. There is some
flexibility in allowing borrowers to repay part of their loans, to a maximum of 10% of the total
amount borrowed each year without incurring an early repayment charge. The terms give 
discretion to Aviva as to how it will apply any VPR, and Aviva says that this will be explained 
in advance of any VPR being made.
I dont have any power to tell Aviva how to run its business or what policies and processes it
should have in place in relation to its administration of its lifetime mortgages. But I am 
required to decide if Aviva has treated Mr and Mrs B fairly and reasonably.
Aviva has previously told our service its reasons for making the changes to its VPR rules in 
2019. Aviva wrote to its customers in December 2019 to explain the changes to the rules 
around VPRs. The letter explained the changes Aviva was making to the VPR rules as 
follows:
You can now make as many repayments per year as you like, up to a total of 10% of 
the total amount you borrowed
Each repayment can be a minimum of £50
Further borrowing isnt restricted after a repayment
You can make a repayment as soon as one day after taking the initial loan, additional 
borrowing or a reserve release. 
I dont know whether Mr and Mrs A received that letter in December 2019. However, when 
Mr and Mrs A came to make a VPR in 2022, they were told that this would be applied 
against the newer part of the mortgage.
Im satisfied that, taking into account the long-term nature of an equity release mortgage,
Aviva is entitled to apply a VPR to the newest drawdown first. This is a legitimate
commercial decision which Aviva is entitled to make. 
This is because otherwise some borrowers might adopt a cycle of repayment and borrowing 
in order to use the VPR flexibility to pay off an older drawdown at a higher interest rate and 
then withdraw the additional funds at a lower interest rate, use those to repay another earlier 
drawdown at a higher rate, and then withdraw funds again at a lower rate, and so on. This 
would, in effect, result in re-scheduling their borrowing until it is all on an interest rate which 
suits them better than the rates they originally agreed to at the time of their original 
drawdowns.If this was to be allowed, then inevitably interest rates would need to be increased for all
customers in order to offset the risk to Aviva of some customers re-scheduling their
borrowing onto lower interest rates. This would penalise customers who didnt intend to
make any VPRs, or customers whose initial drawdowns are on lower rates of interest than 
later drawdowns. 
So in order to avoid penalising all customers, Aviva is entitled, I find, to determine how to 
apply VPRs as part of its business operations in order to minimise the risk of commercial 
loss. In this respect, Aviva hasnt treated Mr and Mrs A differently from other customers, as 
its applied its policy consistently; in fact, it would be unfair to treat Mr and Mrs A differently 
from other customers.
But in any event, for Mr and Mrs A, the interest rate on the newer part of the loan is actually 
at a higher rate than the older part of the loan. By applying the VPR to the newer loan, the 
amount of interest charged overall on that sum (at the higher rate of interest) would be 
reduced over the lifetime of the loan. In the circumstances, Im not persuaded there has 
been any financial detriment to Mr and Mrs A in paying off part of the loan on which interest 
at a higher rate would be charged (and compounded) over the lifetime of the mortgage.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs A were hoping for, and I am sorry they have been 
waiting so long for an answer from us on this complaint. But after careful consideration of all 
the evidence, Im unable to find Aviva has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman