DRN-3341940
The complaint
Mr Z complains that a phone he obtained through a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Klarna Bank AB (publ) (Klarna) was not of satisfactory quality. He wants a full refund or a 
new phone.
His complaint is brought on his behalf by a third party. For ease, I will refer to everything his 
representative has told us as being said by Mr Z.
What happened
Mr Z obtained a mobile phone through a finance agreement with Klarna in September 2020. 
He says it didnt work from the moment he took it out of the box. He complains about the 
sound quality and air bubbles on the screen. He says hes paid for a new phone but has 
been sold a refurbished one. 
Klarna did not uphold his complaint. It said the diagnostic tests carried out in store did not 
find any fault, although some parts were replaced as a precautionary measure. It said it 
couldnt offer a refund or exchange because of the length of time that had passed since the 
phone was supplied. It suggested Mr Z contacted the manufacturer to try to resolve any 
continuing problems under the phones warranty.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He couldnt 
conclude the phone wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. He said the 
diagnostic report didnt show any issues and the air bubbles seemed to be on the screen 
protector, rather than the screen itself.
Mr Z didnt agree saying, in summary, that:
The phone has never worked correctly.
If the phone was working correctly, why did the manufacturer replace a part? And why 
was a part replaced without his knowledge or permission?
Hes paying a lot of money for a refurbished phone.
The spots are on the glass, not on the protective film.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act, if a borrower like Mr Z has a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier, they can also bring that claim against the 
lender, in certain circumstances. For me to uphold this complaint I must be satisfied that 
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Was the phone misrepresented?
Mr Z says the phone he received should have been new, but it was refurbished. The 
manufacturer says it does not sell refurbished phones through its high street stores. Mr Z 
suspects the staff at the store sold him a refurbished phone, unbeknown to the 
manufacturer. Ive not seen evidence to persuade me that this was the case. 
I find it more likely than not that the phone was new when it was supplied to Mr Z and it 
follows that I dont find it was misrepresented to him.
Has there been a breach of contract?
The relevant law says that, under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term that 
the quality of goods is satisfactory. As such, in order to uphold this complaint, I would have 
to be persuaded that the phone wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a breach of contract has 
taken place.
Mr Z has made it very clear that he thinks there is a fault with the sound quality and a fault 
with the screen. Ive considered this very carefully, but the technical diagnostic tests carried 
out by the manufacturer could not identify or replicate the faults. For that reason. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr Z, but I cant conclude a fault exists.
It follows that I cant conclude theres been a breach of contract.
The manufacturer offered to inspect the phone again, and Mr Z may now wish to consider 
this. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont find Klarna needs to take any action or pay 
Mr Z any compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman