DRN-2459357
The complaint
Mr Ys daughter, who is the executor of her fathers estate, complains that Standard Life 
Assurance Limited (SL) didnt give Mr Y sufficient information about his retirement options 
when he took out an annuity.
  
What happened
Mr Y called SL on 10 May 2017 as he was intending to take pension benefits in July that 
year. He said he wanted an annuity and SL sent him a quote as well as a retirement 
information pack about his choices. He was told once he had read everything and was ready 
to proceed he should call again and speak to a retirement consultant who would have a 
more detailed conversation and set things up for him. Mr Y spoke to SL again on 17 May 
and chose to take 25% tax free cash and he used the remainder of his funds to set up a 
single life annuity, with an RPI escalation, paid monthly in advance with SL. I have been 
provided with transcripts of both calls.
Mr Y passed away in 2019. His estate received no payments from the pension. A financial 
adviser, Mr T, complained on behalf of Mr Ys daughter. He says the option of income 
drawdown was not properly discussed with Mr Y. The conversations were tailored towards 
an annuity sale. If Mr Y had known that a drawdown plan would have allowed him to leave a 
lump sum to his family when he died, rather than losing the remainder of his pension to SL, 
he would have made a different choice. 
After SL didnt uphold the complaint, Mr T referred it to this service. Our investigator thought 
SL had given Mr Y sufficient information and it was clear that Mr Y had wanted an annuity. 
Mr T and the investigator have corresponded at length but no agreement was reached. Mr T 
requested the complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was referred to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered all of Mr Ts arguments but will focus here on what I consider to be 
the key issues. 
Its undisputed that Mr Y wanted to take out an annuity when he called SL. Its also clear 
from the transcripts that he understood his pension would die with him if he passed away 
and no further payments would be made. He was told that he could include options like 
value protection which could pay a lump sum to his estate or an income could continue 
during a guarantee period after his death. Mr Y chose to proceed with an annuity that 
stopped on his death.
Mr Ts argument is that Mr Y only wanted an annuity as he wasnt aware of all the other 
options. If he had known about the lump sum death benefit a drawdown plan could provide, 
he was convinced Mr Y would have chosen this option and his estate would have been paid 
a significant lump sum. He says SL had failed to treat Mr Y fairly and give him sufficient 
information to make an informed choice.
Having looked at the transcripts I can see that in the first call SL explained to Mr Y that he 
had the options to take all his funds as a lump sum, take an annuity or take flexible income.  
Mr Y said he preferred an annuity. He was told it was important he understood all his other 
options and the call handler asked whether he wanted him to explain anything in more detail 
before they continued. Mr Y said  No, Ive looked into everything beforehand.
Mr Y was also informed several times that he should consider financial advice. Mr Y was 
also told about Pension Wise who could give guidance for free and he was told about the 
open market option and that he would highly likely receive a higher income elsewhere. At 
several points in the conversation he was given the option to go away and rethink before he 
continued. However, Mr Y declined each time and said he was fine with what he was doing. 
Mr Y said he had already spoken to Pension Wise, had been to comparison websites and 
also had an informal chat with a financial adviser at work.
In the second call, the call handler went through the option of a drawdown plan with flexible 
income again. He asked Mr Y whether he understood this option and Mr Y replied Yes, Ive 
looked into all these options. Mr Y confirmed that he still wanted to take an annuity. The call 
handler asked him why he wanted this option and he said he wanted the certainty of a 
guaranteed income for life.
Its true that the potential death benefits in a drawdown plan werent discussed in either call. 
I think this was mainly due to the fact that Mr Y seemed to have made up his mind before he 
called. I would still expect SL to give a basic overview of the available options -which they 
did- and go into more detail if a customer isnt sure what they want or have specific 
questions or its clear something in particular is important to the customer. However, I dont 
think this was the case here.
The investigator referred to a leaflet which was included in the retirement pack that was sent 
to Mr Y between the first and the second call which set out different retirement options and 
which explained that in a drawdown plan customers could  leave a pot for your family to use 
after you die. I agree that this would have been sufficient to make Mr Y aware that a lump 
sum was available after his death. And as Mr Y didnt seem particularly interested in death 
benefits and seemed to know what he wanted, I wouldnt necessarily have expected SL to 
provide a lot more detail around this on the phone. 
However, this leaflet is dated May 2020, so Mr Y would have not received this exact 
document. The first call handler said Mr Y would receive a retirement pack which set out his 
choices and so Im satisfied he would have received some information and its possible that 
it included similar information, however I dont know exactly what it would have said about 
the death benefits of a drawdown plan.
So its possible Mr Y didnt receive enough information about this option from SL. I didnt ask 
SL if they could provide information that predated the time of sale because I dont think it 
changes the outcome here. 
I say this because even if I concluded that Mr Y didnt receive enough information, it doesnt 
mean I would automatically uphold this complaint. If a firm makes a mistake, the aim of this 
service is to put the complainant as much as possible in the position they would be in now if 
no error had occurred. In order to decide that Mr Ys estate had lost out financially as a result 
of SLs possible errors, I would need to conclude that on the balance of probabilities Mr Y 
would have taken a drawdown plan if more information had been provided about the 
possibility of a lump sum on death.However, I think the evidence here suggests the opposite. I think Mr Y more likely than not 
would have continued with an annuity even if he had known that the drawdown option might 
have offered a lump sum. I say this because he knew his pension would stop if he died and 
he declined options that could have paid out some death benefits. So whilst I appreciate that 
his daughter is adamant Mr Y would have preferred to leave a lump sum to her rather than 
the remainder of the pension being lost, the transcripts suggests death benefits werent his 
priority. 
Mr Y died only a couple of years into his retirement. So in hindsight a drawdown plan would 
have been more beneficial to his estate. However, this wasnt foreseeable. Mr Y wasnt ill at 
the time and he likely would have expected to live a lot longer. He had no spouse and his 
daughter wasnt financially dependent on him. Death benefits are a consideration for many 
people when taking pension benefits, but in the first instance benefits are meant to provide 
retirement income. Mr Y made it clear he preferred a guaranteed income for life. I 
understand Mr Ts argument that many customers dont like the idea of their pension being 
lost on death, but an annuity still offers certainty and a guaranteed income which can be 
attractive for some and can outweigh the importance of leaving behind a lump sum. 
A drawdown plan involves investment risk which Mr Y might not have wanted to take. And I 
would like to point out that if Mr Y hadnt died as early as he did or had taken larger sums 
from his pension in a drawdown plan, there might not have been enough left in his plan to 
pay a lump sum. So leaving a lump sum wasnt guaranteed. Key here is that the choice of 
how to take a pension can be driven by many factors and not only death benefits. 
Also, we dont always make logical decisions. For example, Mr Y was clearly told he could 
get an annuity of £2,069 with SL, but that Aviva offered £2,374, so over £300 more per year. 
And the call handler explained they hadnt yet received an enhanced annuity back from 
another provider which could even be more than the Aviva quote. Mr Y still wanted to 
proceed with SL. The call handler questioned this and made sure Mr Y understood he was 
taking a lower income that was available elsewhere and that he would be financially worse 
off if he proceeded this way. However, Mr Y said he understood but said he was happy with 
SL.
Of course I dont know why Mr Y took the decisions he did. However, based on what Ive 
seen I think he had done some research into his options and had made up his mind about 
what he wanted to do. He wasnt looking for advice or more information. He had spoken to 
Pension Wise and had a chat with an adviser and he had considered his options. Bearing in 
mind he declined a higher income and death benefit options with the annuity, I dont think 
telling him about a lump sum benefit in a drawdown plan would have more likely than not 
made him choose this option.
  
So on balance I think Mr Ys estate is in the position it always would have been in. And so I 
dont consider any compensation is due here.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask the estate of Mr Y to accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman