DRN-3536572
The complaint
Ms H complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) blocked her account without giving her 
advance notice, then closed it without telling her why. She thinks Metros actions were 
motivated by discrimination on the grounds of her nationality.
What happened
On 10 May 2019, Metro blocked Ms Hs account while it carried out a review. It didnt give 
Ms H notice of the block and it didnt tell her why it had done so. When Metro completed its 
review, it decided to close Ms Hs account. Metro wrote to Ms H on 12 July 2019 and gave 
her 60 days notice to make alternative banking arrangements.
Ms H complained to Metro about the block and closure of her account. She said she needed 
to spend money on food and other living expenses, but that Metro wouldnt help her. Metro 
issued its final response to Ms Hs complaint on 26 September 2019. It apologised for any 
inconvenience Ms H had experienced and explained it had closed her account in 
accordance with its terms of business. But said it couldnt tell her anything more.
Ms H wasnt happy with Metros response, so she brought her complaint to our service. She 
said the block had stopped her direct debits for things like Council Tax and her mobile phone 
going through and that she felt it had decided to block and close her account because of her 
nationality.
Our investigator upheld Ms Hs complaint in part. She said Metro hadnt acted incorrectly 
when it blocked Ms Hs account, and that it had closed the account in accordance with the 
terms and conditions, which it was entitled to do. She thought about Ms Hs allegation of 
racism, but didnt agree and thought Metro had acted fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstances of the case. And said Metro had acted in compliance with its legal and 
regulatory obligations.
But she thought Metro should have completed its review and released the block sooner. She 
said Metro should pay Ms H £250 in compensation to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience Ms H experienced during the 6 weeks Metro delayed in competing its review.
Metro accepted our investigators recommendations, but Ms H didnt. She said Metro should 
have given her advance warning of the block and that she wanted £50,000 in compensation. 
She asked for an ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account block
Firstly, as the investigator has already explained, Metro has extensive legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing account services to customers. And to fulfil those 
obligations it is sometimes necessary to review activity taking place on accounts and ask 
customers for information, for example about payments. Like all banks, Metro is entitled and 
in fact obliged to carry out such checks. And the terms of Ms Hs account permit Metro to 
review her account and ask her information to help with its enquiries.
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Metro to block Ms Hs accounts. Metro has explained that this was its standard procedure 
and, having reviewed the evidence it has provided, I accept that it was. Im satisfied that in 
doing so Metro was complying with its legal and regulatory obligations. And, while I accept, 
Metros actions caused Ms H inconvenience, I cant say its actions were unfair.
I understand why Ms H wanted to know Metros intentions in advance. But Metro isnt 
obliged to warn its customers and doing so would defeat the object of the regulations with 
which Metro was complying. So, I dont think Metro treated Ms H unfairly in blocking her 
account without notice.
Account closure
Just as a customer may close an account with a bank, a bank is entitled to close an account 
with a customer. But when it closes the account, it must do so in a way which complies with 
the terms and conditions of the account. So, Ive looked at the steps Metro took to see if it 
acted fairly.
The terms of Ms Hs account, with which both Metro and Ms H had to comply, say that Metro 
can close Ms Hs accounts as long as it gives at least 60 days notice. And I can see Metro 
gave Ms H 60 days notice in its letter dated 12 July 2019, so it complied with its contractual 
obligations. 
Further, theres no obligation, whether contractual or otherwise, for Metro to disclose the 
reasons behind its decision to close (or block for that matter) Ms Hs account.
That being the case, I see no basis upon which I can reasonably make an award in Ms Hs 
favour.
I acknowledge that Ms H has said that the bank is discriminating against her on the grounds 
of her nationality. And she believes that this is the rationale for the account closure. Whilst I 
recognise the strength of her feelings, Ive not seen any evidence to show any discrimination 
on the part of Metro. And Im satisfied it followed the correct process, for justifiable reasons, 
when it took the actions it did.
However, while Metro is entitled to carry out a review, wed expect it to do so in a timely 
manner and without undue delay. Metro initially blocked Ms Hs account on 10 May 2019. I 
can see that Metro asked Ms H to provide it with information and Ms H did so promptly. 
However, Ms Hs account remained blocked until 12 July 2020 when Metro issued its notice 
to close Ms Hs account.
Metro has accepted that it should have completed its review sooner and, having looked at all 
of the information Metro has sent our service, I agree with our investigators findings that it 
should have completed the review by the end of May. 
Metro has agreed to pay Ms H £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the delay. But Ms H says Metro ruined her life and has asked for £50,000. Ive 
considered what Ms H has said about how Metros actions impacted her. Ive no doubt this was a worrying and upsetting time for Ms H but I cant reasonably tell Metro to pay such a 
high sum in compensation. 
There isnt a set formula we use to calculate awards for particular mistakes or poor service. 
And its my role to consider what impact Metros actions had on Ms H and decide, within 
guidelines set by our service, whether compensation would be appropriate in the 
circumstances.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its fair to say the delays caused by Metro when it 
reviewed Ms Hs account caused Ms H trouble and upset. And I agree some compensation 
is appropriate for this. She said had to spend time contacting Metro, that she couldnt pay 
her bills, and that she couldnt meet her daily living expenses. So, I can understand how 
inconvenient and upsetting all of this was for Ms H. 
However, Im satisfied that £250 is a fair amount of compensation and proportionate to the 
trouble and upset Ms H was caused. So, while Ms H may disagree with me, Im satisfied that 
the compensation recommended by our investigator recognises
the impact Metros actions had in the overall circumstances of this complaint. So, I wont be 
directing Metro to pay any more.
In summary, I recognise Metros delay extended the period of inconvenience for Ms H. But, 
for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think it treated her unfairly, apart from the delay. 
And given the relatively short period of the delay, Im satisfied that £250 compensation is fair 
and reasonable. So, I wont be telling Metro to do anything further to resolve Ms Hs 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Metro Bank PLC must pay Ms H £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman