DRN-2353713
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains that Barclays Bank Plc (trading as 
Barclaycard) was slow in notifying them of a fraudulent transaction, and didnt make it clear 
to them that authorisation of a card transaction doesnt guarantee payment. S would like 
Barclays to reimburse them for the financial loss theyve incurred as a result of a 
chargeback.
 
Mr C, who is a director of S, brings the complaint on Ss behalf. Another director, Mr D, 
accepted the original agreement on Ss behalf.
What happened
In mid-2019, S entered into a contract with Barclays, who were to provide merchant 
acquiring services to them.
In November 2019, Barclays made S aware a fraudulent transaction had been processed by 
S a week earlier. Barclays told S as soon as they were made aware of the fraud by the card 
issuer of the genuine cardholder. Barclays said S had attempted to process the transaction 
on eight occasions over a four-day period, using six separate cards, which were all declined 
except for the last card.
Mr C complained to Barclays on behalf of S. Mr C said they wouldve intercepted the delivery 
if Barclays had told them it was a fraudulent transaction sooner. Mr C also said Barclays had 
never made S aware that authorisation of a transaction doesnt guarantee payment. Mr C 
asked Barclays to reimburse S for the sum of the transaction.
Barclays said the information regarding the risks of accepting card payments, chargebacks, 
authorisations and liability were detailed in both their terms and conditions and the 
merchants procedure guide, both of which S shouldve been familiar with. They said they 
had followed the correct chargeback procedure, as outlined in their terms and conditions, so 
they wouldnt be reimbursing S for their losses.
Mr C was unhappy with Barclays response, so he brought Ss complaint to this service. 
Our investigator said he didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong as they had followed 
the rules of the agreement, which both sides had signed. While the fraudulent transaction 
was unfortunate, he said it would be unfair to ask Barclays to reimburse S for the 
chargeback.
Mr C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He re-iterated that Barclays 
hadnt provided S with the full information about their liability at the time of entering into the 
agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator, for largely the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Was S given accurate information when entering the Agreement?
Mr C says S were not provided with the terms and conditions at the time of entering into the 
agreement with Barclays. They said it was not made clear to them that an authorised 
payment could be returned, nor were they given an explanation about the risks of accepting 
card not present (CNP) transactions.
Barclays said this information was detailed in their terms and conditions which were 
accepted by S at the time the agreement was signed by one of its directors, Mr D. They told 
us the terms and conditions and merchants procedure guide were easily accessible on their 
website, and this information was detailed on the agreement Mr D signed on Ss behalf.
As I cant review what was discussed at that meeting, I must look at the evidence that has 
been provided to me. Mr D, on behalf of S, signed and accepted the terms of the agreement. 
This included a section confirming he had visited Barclaycards website and downloaded the 
applicable merchant terms and conditions, which he had read, understood and agreed for S 
to be bound by.
The record of the information discussed, also signed by Mr D, confirms that the CNP fee was 
fully explained during the meeting.
Once the agreement had been signed, there was a cooling off period during which S had the 
opportunity to opt out of the agreement. So, even if the terms and conditions hadnt been 
read by the directors prior to the signing of the agreement, there was a further opportunity for 
these to be reviewed before the agreement was finalised.
As S is a limited company, I would reasonably expect the directors to be familiar with 
contracts and the importance of terms and conditions. So, I think its fair to suggest these 
shouldve been reviewed by S either prior to entering into the agreement, or during the 
cooling off period following the agreement being signed by Mr D.
While I dont doubt that S wasnt given a physical copy of the terms and conditions during 
this meeting, I think the information was available to S, and its directors had the opportunity 
to review the terms before accepting the agreement. 
In accepting the terms of the agreement, S agreed to be bound by the chargeback rules. So, 
I dont think Barclays have acted unfairly or unreasonably here.
The fraudulent transaction
In early November 2019, S accepted multiple CNP transactions from a customer. CNP 
means neither the card nor the cardholder was present at the point of sale, and the card 
details were manually input. 
Processing CNP transactions is not uncommon but it does present a higher risk of a card 
being used fraudulently, as neither a signature nor a PIN have been used to verify the 
transaction as genuine. I can see that these risks are detailed in Barclays terms and 
conditions and their merchants procedure guide.
Those terms are clear and unambiguous, and it wasnt for Barclays to advise on their effect. 
So, in deciding to accept CNP transactions, I think it was up to S to ensure it understood the 
associated risks and how to mitigate them. Several different cards were used by Ss customer over a four-day period with most of the 
transactions being declined. I think this should have alerted S that there might be an issue 
with the payments and in turn made them more cautious about releasing the goods. 
S said if they had known there was an issue sooner, they couldve intercepted the delivery. 
However, as Barclays explained, cardholders have a period of 120 days during which they 
can raise a dispute about a transaction. Barclays informed S about the chargeback on the 
same day Barclays found out there was an issue, so they wouldnt have been able to tell S 
any sooner. I can see that Barclays followed the correct process and I dont consider this to 
be an unreasonable amount of time for Barclays to inform S of the chargeback request. 
As such, I dont think its fair to say that Barclays didnt make S aware of the risks of 
accepting CNP transactions or inform S in a timely manner about the chargeback. As a 
result, I wont be asking Barclays to reimburse S for the chargeback. 
Conclusion 
Im genuinely sorry to see that S has lost money as a result of this fraud, but Im afraid I cant 
say that this is because of anything Barclays did, or failed to do, in respect of the original 
agreement or the chargeback process.
I know this will be disappointing for Mr C to hear, but I havent found that Barclays have done 
anything wrong in this situation.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained above, and I 
wont be asking Barclays Bank Plc to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C, on behalf of 
S, to accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman