DRN-4310648
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the way in which their claim has been handled by Great 
Lakes Insurance SE after making a claim on their travel insurance policy (the policy).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Great Lakes has a regulatory obligation to handle insurance claims fairly and promptly. And 
it mustnt unreasonably decline a claim.
For the reasons set out below, I dont think Great Lakes has acted fairly and reasonably in 
the way in which its handled Mr and Mrs Ms claim. And I partially uphold their complaint. 
The service received
In its final response letter dated January 2023, Great Lakes accepts that the service 
Mr and Mrs M received shouldve been better. There were unnecessary delays 
assessing and resolving their claim. Great Lakes didnt reply to emails, asked for the 
same documents supporting the claim to be provided more than once and initially 
incorrectly declined the claim. It offered to pay Mr and Mrs M £200 compensation. I 
think thats fair and reasonable to reflect the distress and inconvenience experienced. 
I accept it wouldve been upsetting for Mr and Mrs M to discover that the totality of 
their claim had been wrongly declined. Particularly after waiting many months for the 
assessment to take place. 
Mr and Mrs Ms relative was in communication with Great Lakes on their behalf and 
she was put to the trouble of having to chase Great Lakes and provide the same 
documentation on repeated occasions. However, she isnt a named beneficiary under 
the policy and so isnt an eligible complainant in respect of the complaint Ive been 
asked to decide. She hadnt entered a contract of insurance with Great Lakes. So, I 
dont have any power to direct Great Lakes to pay her any compensation for distress 
and inconvenience shes personally experienced because of what Great Lakes 
reasonably ought to have done better here.
I know Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that they were asked to submit their claim online. 
However, the policy says travel insurance claims can be made by calling a number or 
registering online. They were also being represented by a relative and it looks like 
she was able to submit documents online on their behalf. So, in the circumstances of 
this case, I dont think that Mr and Mrs Ms age disadvantaged them progressing their 
claim. And Ive seen nothing to persuade me that Mr and Mrs M were prevented from 
sending documents in support of their claim by post rather than online if they needed 
to and werent represented. However, as Ive already set out above, Great Lakes 
accepts  and I agree  that there were unnecessary delays, and their claim 
shouldve been handled better. 
The assessment of the claim
Ultimately Great Lakes agreed to cover extended accommodation costs around 
£1,220 and return flights back to the UK around £202. It deducted from the total 
amount two excess amounts in the sum of £65 each. However, I dont think it was fair 
for Great Lakes to do this because the policy says an excess isnt payable if its 
medically necessary to extend Mr and Mrs Ms stay, and extra accommodation and 
travel expenses are incurred  and thats the claim being made here. The policy also 
says Great Lakes wont deduct an excess if Mr and Mrs M use a reciprocal health 
agreement which they did in this case. So, Im satisfied the total excess deducted in 
the sum of £130 should be reimbursed to Mr and Mrs M.
From reading the contact notes it also looks like Great Lakes agreed to pay 
additional expenses claimed by Mr and Mrs M. It doesnt look like it communicated 
this to Mr and Mrs M, and payment wasnt made. This related to medical expenses 
totaling around 265 euros occurred in March 2022 and a taxi fare to the airport for Mr 
and Mrs M to take their return flight back in the UK in April 2022 in the sum of 110 
euros. Its unclear why those sums havent been paid and Great Lakes hasnt 
contested that these are still payable in response to our investigators view which 
recommended that these sums be paid to Mr and Mrs M. So, in line with section 3 of 
the policy, Im satisfied that Great Lakes should pay these sums to them.
Mr and Mrs M claimed for costs of relatives travelling to and staying in the country Mr 
and Mrs M had visited. I can, of course, understand why family would have wanted to 
be close by given the lifesaving surgery Mrs M needed and the prognosis. However, 
the policy only provides cover for extra accommodation and travel expenses for 
someone to stay with Mrs M and travel back to the UK with her if deemed medically 
necessary. Ive seen no evidence to persuade me this was the case. So, Im satisfied 
Great Lakes fairly declined these costs. 
The certificate of insurance confirms that Mr and Mrs M had comprehensive cover. 
As such, Mrs M is entitled to the hospital day benefit of £50 per complete 24-hour 
period of in-patient treatment (up to a maximum limit) if shes admitted to a 
recognised hospital abroad and treated under a reciprocal health agreement which 
was the case here. Mrs M spent several days in hospital so Im satisfied that she 
should be entitled to payment under this section of the policy. 
The policy says the hospital day benefit is to contribute towards additional expenses 
such as taxi fares and phone calls incurred during a stay in hospital. So, this goes 
some way in contributing to the taxi fees and food expenses incurred and claimed for 
whilst Mrs M was in hospital, which are excluded under the policy (except taxi costs 
for the initial journey to a hospital abroad).
The contact notes also show that Great Lakes was considering a claim under section 
2 of the policy entitled cutting shot your trip & trip interruption. Thats because under 
the policy, the definition of cutting short includes being a hospital in patient outside 
your home country for a period in excess of 48 hours. And so, it requested the 
original booking confirmation for the accommodation Mr and Mrs M were staying in. 
Its not clear whether this claim has yet to be considered. If it hasnt, I think this claim 
should be assessed without further delay and an outcome promptly provided to Mr 
and Mrs M.Putting things right
Within 28 days from the date on which our Service notifies that Mr and Mrs M accept my 
final decision, I direct Great Lakes to:
A. pay the outstanding claim for medical expenses and taxi fare to the airport incurred 
by Mr and Mrs M in March and April 2022, totaling around 265 euros and 110 euros.
B. pay Mr and Mrs M an amount to reflect simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum 
from the date on which Mr and Mrs M first made the claim under the policy with 
supporting documentary evidence of the expenses personally paid for A, to the date 
on which these expenses are settled by Great Lakes. 
C. calculate and pay the hospital benefit due to Mr and Mrs M under the policy for Mrs 
Ms in-patient stay in hospital. 
D. pay Mr and Mrs M an amount to reflect simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum on 
the amount calculated for the hospital benefit from the date on which Mr and Mrs M 
first made the claim under the policy, to the date on which the hospital benefit is paid.
E. reimburse Mr and Mrs M £130 for the excess deducted when the claim was partially 
paid by Great Lakes.
F. pay Mr and Mrs M an amount to reflect simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum on 
the excess amount deducted from the date on which Mr and Mrs Ms claim was 
partially paid to the date on which the excess is reimbursed.
G. pay £200 compensation to Mr and Mrs M for distress and inconvenience if it hasnt 
already done so.
H. assess the claim for Mr and Mrs M effectively cutting short their trip under section 2 
of the policy and confirm the outcome of that assessment to Mr and Mrs M.
If Great Lakes considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
any interest paid in respect of B, D and/or F above, it should tell Mr and Mrs M how much its 
taken off. It should also give them a certificate showing this if they ask for one. That way Mr 
and Mrs M can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs, if appropriate.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to put things right as 
set out above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr 
and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman