DRN-1109604
The complaint
Mrs D complaints that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance policy. 
Since buying the PPI Mrs D has been made bankrupt, and so the complaint is also brought 
by the Official Receiver.
What happened
Mrs D had a credit card with Lloyds which started in October 1995. The card ended in 2007. 
At some point, Lloyds sold Mrs D a PPI policy. The PPI would pay a tenth of the outstanding 
balance for up to 12 months if Mrs D lost her job or was off work sick. The cost of the PPI 
was charged to the account, and so Mrs D would have paid this extra amount, with interest, 
in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
Mrs D thinks the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, but didn't think it should be upheld.Mrs D doesn't 
agree. The complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ds case.
I've decided the PPI wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I've first considered whether Mrs D knew she had a choice to buy the policy. Mrs D says she 
wasn't told anything about the PPI when she applied for the card - and so she says she had 
no idea it was going to be added to her account. So I've thought about what Mrs D has said 
alongside the other information I've seen about the sale.
Because of the time that's passed, Lloyds can't now say exactly when the PPI was added to 
Mrs D's account. I don't think that's unreasonable, given the card opened in 1995. But I see 
that a premium for the PPI was shown on the earliest statement Lloyds has - from 2000 - so 
I'm satisfied the PPI started before then. And based on what I know of industry practice, I 
think the most likely point the PPI was added would have been when the card started in 
1995. 
Lloyds has sent us an example of the application forms it used around this time - and in the 
absence of better information I think this is the best evidence I have of the likely sales 
process Lloyds used at the time. This shows that to purchase PPI, the consumer would need 
to tick a box on a separate section of the application form.
For these reasons, although Mrs D thinks PPI was never mentioned, I think it's more likely 
she knew she had a choice about the PPI - and chose to buy it.Lloyds says it recommended Mrs D buy the PPI - and it appears to have been right for her, 
based on what she's told us about her circumstances at the time. She doesn't appear to 
have been affected by any of the main things the policy didn't cover. Although she would 
have received some sick pay and redundancy pay if she was off work sick or lost her job, 
this policy would have repaid a tenth of her balance each month for up to a year - and would 
have done so in addition to the benefits she got through work. So I think Mrs D had a need 
for the cover.
It's possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs D about the PPI wasn't as clear as it should 
have been. But she chose to take it out, so it looks as though she wanted this type of cover. 
It looks as though it would have been useful to Mrs D if something went wrong. So I don't 
think better information about the PPI would have put Mrs D off buying the PPI.
This means Lloyds doesn't have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D.
But Lloyds has paid some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D because:
 Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs D about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mrs D, 
that was unfair. 
 To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
I've thought about everything else Mrs D has said, but this doesn't change my conclusion.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasn't mis-sold, so Lloyds Bank PLC doesn't need to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mrs D.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already paid this, so I don't make a 
further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman