DRN-3308589
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the transfer of two personal pensions to a self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP) in 2015. His transfer proceeds were put into property-based investments 
that appear to have failed. He holds Wellington Court Financial Services Limited responsible 
for his losses.
What happened
In 2015 Mr S transferred the benefits he had in two personal pensions to The Orbis SIPP 
administered by Guinness Mahon Trust Corporation Limited (GMTC). He invested his 
transfer proceeds in three property-based investments that now look to have little value. 
Mr S says Wellington Court is responsible for his losses. Wellington Court says Mr S has 
never been its customer, so it has no case to answer. It says any paperwork linking Mr S to 
Wellington Court is fraudulent.
Our investigator said that an advice fee was taken from Mr Ss SIPP and paid to Wellington 
Court. She thought this was enough evidence to show Wellington Court was responsible for 
Mr Ss transfer and, therefore, that this was a complaint we could look at. As Wellington 
Court maintained it never dealt with Mr S, the matter was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision in which I outlined in detail the evidence that was available to 
me and the conclusions I drew from that evidence. I repeat what I said here so that it forms 
part of this final decision:
What I said in my provisional decision
Review of evidence
In making my provisional decision I will be referring to the following:
1. Documents provided by Mr S and GMTC
The following were provided by Mr S and GMTC:
I. An undated letter to GMTC, sent on Wellington Court headed paper, applying to the 
Orbis SIPP on Mr Ss behalf. The letter said it was enclosing an application for the 
SIPP and an invoice. It was date-stamped as being received by the PAN Group 
(administrators and trustees) on 18 March 2015. The letter is signed on the behalf of 
Mr P from Wellington Court. The signature is indecipherable.
II. The Orbis SIPP New Application Checklist. This was a series of tick boxes of the 
various documents (such as a SIPP application form and transfer discharge form) 
that the adviser had to check had been provided for the transfer to proceed. Like the 
covering letter, this was signed on the behalf of Mr P from Wellington Court rather 
than by Mr P himself. The signature is indecipherable but looks to be the same as the 
one on the covering letter. Under the signature, Mr Ps name has been printed by 
hand. Mr Ps first name was spelt incorrectly at first but was then corrected. An 
incorrect Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) reference number was also provided  
the number used was actually Wellington Courts Irish company registration number. 
The form was signed on 17 March 2015.
III. The Orbis SIPP application form, signed by Mr S on 9 March 2015.
IV. The Orbis SIPP Important Risk Notices document. This was a nine-page document 
that outlined the various risks of the SIPP. It was signed by Mr S on 9 March 2015.
V. An Adviser Remuneration Form. This set out the advice fee that Mr S had agreed to 
pay Wellington Court. It said the following:
I have appointed [Mr P] of Wellington Court Financial Services Ltd ("The Company") 
to provide me with advice in relation to The Orbis SIPP (The SIPP') and any related 
investment advice in respect of assets held within the SIPP
Initial Fee Renewal Fee Fixed Fee (£)
Transfers into the 
Scheme1% to a maximum 
of £800 plus vatNIL NIL
Single Premium NIL NIL NIL
Regular Premium NIL NIL NIL
I confirm my agreement to these charges and authorise Guinness Mahon Trust 
Corporation to debit the fees from the SIPP Bank Account and pay them on my 
behalf, this agreement replaces any existing agreement
Mr S signed the form on 9 March 2015.
VI. Two Orbis SIPP Transfer Details Information Forms. These set out the details of 
Mr Ss two intended transfers, including the policy number of the two pensions he 
was intending to transfer and their transfer values. These were signed by Mr S on 
9 March 2015.
VII. Various documents from Mr Ss transferring pension providers, including information 
showing Mr S had previously been invested in a with-profits fund.
VIII. Valuation statements showing Mr S invested £79,000 in Dolphin Capital, a German 
property scheme that has since failed, and two lots of £26,000 in two other property- 
related investments (an ABC Alpha Business Centres corporate bond and an 
Olmstead Properties bond).
2. Mr Ss recollections
Mr Ss recollections arent detailed.
3. Documents from Wellington Court
Ill come on to what Wellington Court has said in response to Mr Ss complaint later in 
my decision. But its worth pointing out at this stage that it hasnt provided any 
documents in relation to Mr Ss transfer because it says it didnt advise Mr S and that 
Mr S has never been a client of Wellington Court.Wellington Court has, however, said (in relation to several cases) that it did some 
consultancy work on behalf of GMTC relating to the transfer of pensions into the Orbis 
SIPP. It says the work was limited to checking files to ensure there were no transfers of 
safeguarded benefits into the SIPP because GMTC didnt want to receive that type of 
transfer.
We asked Wellington Court to provide us with a copy of the consultancy agreement it 
had with GMTC and further details about its work  for instance the fees it earned  but 
it hasnt done so. It has, however, said its regulator, the FCA, contacted it in 2016 in 
relation to some GMTC pension cases which led to it meeting with the FCA on 10 
August 2016. It says further evidence of its work with GMTC can be obtained from the 
FCA.
4. Payment to Wellington Court in relation to Mr S
Mr S transferred £38,295.92 from a personal pension to the Orbis SIPP on 15 April 
2015. He transferred £95,980.07 from a different personal pension on 21 April 2015. A 
1% fee on the first transfer (along the lines of the initial fee in the Adviser 
Remuneration Form described above) would equal £382.96. According to his SIPP 
transaction statement, this exact amount was taken from Mr Ss transfer value on 
23 April 2015. It was recorded on his SIPP statement as a Wellington IFA fee. A 1% 
fee on the second transfer would come to around £900. However, as outlined in the 
Adviser Remuneration Form, the maximum adviser fee was £800 meaning only £417.04 
could be taken from this second transfer once the fee from the first transfer is taken into 
account. This exact amount was taken from Mr Ss SIPP on 19 May 2015. It was also 
recorded as a Wellington IFA fee on Mr Ss SIPP statement.
The £417.04 was paid from the SIPP deposit account to the GMTC client account on 
19 May 2015. This amount was included with 30 other 1% fees for other individuals and 
the total amount, which came to £9,503.33, was then paid from the GMTC client 
account to Wellington Courts bank account on 20 May 2015. The payment reference 
that was to appear on Wellington Courts bank statement was ORBIS SIPP FEES. I 
havent seen similar payment records for the £382.96 taken from the first transfer value 
but I see no reason why it wouldnt have been paid earlier.
5. Evidence from similar cases
I am aware of a significant number of other complaints about Wellington Court which 
have very similar features to Mr Ss case. Whilst Im deciding on whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ss case, for context I think its reasonable to 
consider the evidence from these other cases alongside the evidence that has been 
collected in relation to Mr Ss case. Specifically:
I. GMTC has provided screen-shots showing the entries made into an advisers portal 
for some transfers. The portal records the details of the individual transferring (name, 
address, details of transferring scheme and so on) as well as the advisers name  
Mr P  and the name of an introducer.
II. Paperwork from other complaints show a number of introducer firms were involved in 
these transfers.
III. The recollections of the complainants in other cases havent been particularly 
detailed.
IV. Other payments to Wellington CourtInformation provided by GMTC in relation to other complaints shows that 1% 
payments along the same lines as Mr Ss were made to the same Wellington Court 
bank account in relation to many other individuals, including (but not necessarily 
limited to) the following:
£9,239.74 on 30 March 2015 in relation to thirty-two transferred policies (for 22 
individuals  some individuals transferred more than one policy). The payment 
reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts statement was GM ADVISER 
FEES.
£8,588.76 on 24 April 2015 (the number of policies and individuals this payment 
relates to isnt clear). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington 
Courts statement was OR ADVISER FEES.
£9,503.33 on 20 May 2015 in relation to 31 transferred policies (for 19 individuals). 
The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts statement was 
ORBIS SIPP FEES. This payment included Mr Ss £417.04 fee.
£8,881.16 on 16 June 2015 in relation to 24 transferred policies (for 21 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM IFA FEES.
£11,423.77 on 26 June 2015 in relation to 25 transferred policies (for 17 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM ADVISER FEES.
£7,731.07 on 15 July 2015 in relation to 23 transferred policies (for 18 individuals). 
The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts statement was 
ORBIS CLIENT FEES
£4,762.19 on 27 July 2015 in relation to 14 transferred policies (for 12 individuals). 
The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts statement was 
GM IFA FEE.
£3,091.06 on 5 August 2015 in relation to 8 transferred policies (for eight 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM IFA FEES.
£4,624.87 on 18 August 2015 in relation to 12 transferred policies (the number of 
individuals this relates to isnt clear). The payment reference that was to appear 
(and did appear) on Wellington Courts statement was GM IFA FEES.
£6,573.32 on 25 August 2015 in relation to 14 transferred policies (the number of 
individuals this relates to isnt clear). The payment reference that was to appear 
(and did appear) on Wellington Courts statement was GM IFA FEES.
£12,672.03 on 7 October 2015 in relation to 46 transferred policies (for 31 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM IFA FEES.
The above is based on information provided in Mr Ss case and other similar cases. It 
has been presented to Wellington Court in other decisions. Its not necessarily 
comprehensive. A quick review shows that there are no entries for September 2015 
for instance. So I think its fair to say the above shows that at least £87,000 was paid 
from GMTC to the one Wellington Court bank account in relation to over 200 transferred policies in a six month period. Its entirely possible that payments were 
happening before and after this six month period too.
For completeness, it should be noted that we have the records for the payments 
being made from GMTC but we dont have the records for all those payments being 
received by Wellington Court other than for the £6,573.32 payment on 25 August and 
the £4,624.87 payment on 18 August. This is because Wellington Court hasnt 
provided us with a complete set of bank statements. I see no plausible reason why 
GMTCs payments wouldnt have all reached Wellington Court and Ill proceed on 
that basis. Weve previously invited Wellington Court to provide us with 
comprehensive, unredacted, bank statements for the period under review to show the 
payments it did, and did not, receive from GMTC. It has chosen not to provide these. 
As this is a provisional decision, Wellington Court can still send them for me to 
consider.
On a similar note, Wellington Court hasnt explicitly told us what payments it does 
admit to receiving from GMTC or even referred in any detail to the payments 
catalogued above. It has said that all payments received from GMTC were for its 
consultancy work with GMTC  which suggests it admits to receiving all the 
payments catalogued above. But it also says it wasnt aware that GMTC was 
deducting 1% fees from transfer values and purportedly paying those fees to 
Wellington Court  which suggests it is only admitting to some of the payments in 
question. As I said above, Wellington Court can provide clarity on this issue by 
providing a complete, unredacted, set of its bank statements for the period under 
review. At the very least, it would be helpful it if told us categorically whether it admits 
to receiving all the payments outlined above and, if it didnt, what payments it does 
admit to receiving.
6. Other evidence
Wellington Courts financial statements show minimal income prior to 2015 followed by a 
significant increase in income for the period coinciding with the above payments.
Interpreting the evidence  what does all this mean?
I need to make findings of fact based on the available evidence in order to decide whether 
this complaint is one we can consider against Wellington Court and, if so, what the fair and 
reasonable outcome to the complaint should be. Where things are unclear or in dispute, I 
have made my findings on the balance of probabilities; that is, on what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened in the circumstances. It should also be noted that I consider it fair 
and reasonable to consider evidence and arguments Ive seen from similar cases.
In the absence of any clear evidence or persuasive arguments to the contrary, my findings of 
fact will likely be as outlined in this section.
It looks like Mr S was approached by someone  most likely an unregulated introducer  and 
as a result of those conversations, became interested in transferring his pension to the Orbis 
SIPP and investing in property, including in the Dolphin Capital scheme. His motivation was 
to improve the returns he was getting.
It looks like GMTC wanted the involvement of an independent financial adviser (IFA) before 
accepting a transfer because in its Important Risk Notices it said the SIPP was ordinarily 
offered through an IFA regulated by the FCA. It appears the paperwork described above was 
evidence enough for GMTC to have accepted the transfer as coming through an IFA. As a result, the transfers went ahead and the 1% initial advice fee was taken from Mr Ss transfer 
values and paid to Wellington Court.
Wellington Court says it has never had any direct, or indirect, dealings with Mr S and the 
evidence linking Wellington Court to Mr S is fraudulent. It says the covering letter from 
Wellington Court to GMTC to open the SIPP was faked and didnt come from Wellington 
Court. It points to the unprofessional look of the letter, as well as the fact that the letter was 
signed on behalf of the adviser in question  Mr P  rather than by Mr P himself and the 
person who signed that letter is untraceable because their signature is indecipherable. With 
regards to the application checklist, it points to an incorrect FCA reference number being 
written on the form and the adviser, Mr P, misspelling (and then correcting) his name. It also 
says Mr P worked in a marketing, rather than advisory, capacity. More broadly, there isnt 
any evidence to show any documents were sent to Wellington Court, and a lack of detailed 
testimony from complainants about their dealings with Wellington Court  all of which it says 
supports its view that the transfers were made without its knowledge.
My view is that Wellington Court was engaged in advisory business involving the transfer of 
pensions (Mr Ss included) to the Orbis SIPP and that Wellington Courts actions are not 
consistent with its allegations that it has been the victim of fraud. The following points have 
informed my provisional findings:
Mr S and many others signed an Adviser Remuneration Form which appointed 
Mr P of Wellington Court to provide advice in relation to The Orbis SIPP and any 
related investments held in that SIPP. The fee for that advice was recorded as being 
1%.
Mr Ss SIPP statement shows that a 1% Wellington IFA fee was taken from his two 
transfer values on 23 April 2015 and 19 May 2015. The fee for the second transfer 
(for £417.04) was then paid from the SIPP deposit account to the GMTC client 
account on 19 May 2015. The £417.04 was included with 30 other 1% fees for other 
individuals transferring to the Orbis SIPP and the total amount, which came to 
£9,503.33, was then paid from the GMTC client account to Wellington Courts bank 
account on 20 May 2015.
1% fees along the same lines were paid from GMTC to the same Wellington Court 
bank account in relation to a large number of other transfers to the Orbis SIPP over a 
six month period in 2015. Payments of at least £87,000 relating to at least 200 
policies were paid in this period. The payment references were GM IFA FEES or 
something equally clear. I consider it probable that the fee for Mr Ss first transfer 
(£382.96) is included in these payments.
Theres little doubt that Wellington Courts bank account was the ultimate destination 
for all these 1% fees because the account details on the payment instructions all 
match Wellington Courts bank account details as provided to us (by Wellington 
Court) in relation to a different case. Furthermore, two payments (on 18 August 2015 
and 25 August 2015) showed up on the bank statements Wellington Court has 
chosen to send to us.
Wellington Court didnt query why it was receiving these fees at the time. And its 
difficult to see how it could have overlooked the payments  they are simply too large 
to not notice. Wellington Court would also have had to have overlooked the payments 
when preparing its financial accounts which also strikes me as being unlikely given 
the impact the fees had on its income in this period. So its reasonable to conclude 
that the fees were in line with what Wellington Court had been expecting from GMTC 
for its role in the transfers.Im satisfied the above shows that many individuals  Mr S included  agreed to pay 
Wellington Court 1% of their transfer value for advice on the Orbis SIPP and their proposed 
investments. And I think the above persuasively shows that Wellington Court received, and 
accepted, the 1% payments in relation to these transfers. By extension, Im satisfied 
Wellington Court was paid a 1% advice fee for the transfer of Mr Ss pensions and many 
others like it.
Wellington Court has pointed to the consultancy work it did with GMTC. It hasnt articulated 
in detail what its argument is in this respect  it hasnt even said which payments from 
GMTC it admits to receiving. But I can only assume that Wellington Court is either saying all 
the payments from GMTC catalogued above were for its consultancy work or that it received 
some payments from GMTC for its consultancy work which meant the payments catalogued 
above could easily have been overlooked which would give credence to its argument that 
the transfers were happening without its knowledge.
I dont think the first argument stands up to much scrutiny because theres a clear audit trail 
 outlined above  that shows the payments werent for consultancy work but related to 1% 
advice fees for a large number of policies that were transferred to the Orbis SIPP. Ill 
therefore proceed on the basis that Wellington Court can only be arguing that its consultancy 
work meant receiving payments from GMTC was a normal enough occurrence that it 
wouldnt have considered any other payments from GMTC as being unusual or a sign that it 
was a potential victim of fraud.
For this latter argument to be plausible, the fees Wellington Court earned for its consultancy 
work would have needed to have been of a similar magnitude to the 1% initial fees outlined 
above, been paid around the same time and had similar payment references in order for 
Wellington Court to have considered the payments as being nothing unusual. Unfortunately, 
Wellington Court hasnt provided any evidence to support this argument. It says it no longer 
has records relating to its consultancy work with GMTC. And it has chosen to be selective in 
terms of the bank statements it has provided to us meaning I cant see whether it could, 
plausibly, have overlooked payments of nearly £90,000 from GMTC because it was  so the 
argument goes  earning so much other income from GMTC.
Im also aware that other financial advice firms that have done similar consultancy work in 
relation to transfers to GMTC charged a fixed fee of £30 per case. So for Wellington Court to 
have earned enough to have reasonably overlooked some payments from GMTC, it would 
have to have worked an unfeasibly large number of cases to make the numbers add up. 
Alternatively, it could have charged more than £30 per case. But even with this assumption, 
the numbers dont look feasible. A charge of £100 per case (unlikely in itself to just check 
whether a pension had safeguarded benefits) would still require 870 cases in order to 
produce an income in the region of £87,000.
In short, whilst Wellington Court may have earned additional sums for its consultancy work, 
its not plausible that the fees it earned for such work could, realistically, have caused it to 
overlook the 1% advisory fees it was also receiving from GMTC. Those fees must therefore 
have been in line with what Wellington Court had been expecting from GMTC for its role in 
the transfers.
Wellington Court says responsibility lies with GMTC and its associates (specifically 
unregulated firms). It says it is obvious that GMTC, and its associates, were running a 
scam and are now involved in a cover-up. It says any paperwork that links Wellington Court 
to the transfers is fraudulent, including any paperwork that looks to have originated from 
Wellington Court  which it says has been cloned. And it says GMTC being in administration 
should speak for itself.In response, I come back to what Ive said previously which is that Wellington Court received 
substantial payments from GMTC in relation to a large number of transfers. If Wellington 
Court had been the victim of fraudulent activity, I would have expected it to have queried 
these payments at the time given they were substantial and, in Wellington Courts view, 
unexpected. The source of those payments was clear too  GMTC  so I dont see any 
practical reason why it wouldnt have been able to raise the issue with GMTC (or even the 
police). The fact that it didnt do so leads me to conclude the payments werent fraudulent 
but were, instead, in line with what Wellington Court was expecting to be paid for its 
involvement in the transfers.
Wellington Court also points out that theres no evidence of there being any direct contact 
between it and the complainants (Mr S included). To support its case, it points to the 
recollections of the complainants, many of whom say they cannot remember dealing with 
Wellington Court. It has also referred to one of its clients who says Wellington Court had no 
involvement in his pension with GMTC.
I think its likely that complainants dealt primarily with unregulated introducers. So I can 
understand why they cant recall much, if anything, about Wellington Court. However, this 
doesnt preclude the possibility of Wellington Courts involvement in the transfers. GMTC 
wanted the involvement of an independent financial adviser (IFA) before accepting any 
transfers as evidenced by its Important Risk Notices document. The paperwork described 
above was evidence enough for GMTC to have accepted a transfer as coming through an 
IFA  Wellington Court. As a result, the transfers went ahead and the 1% initial advice fee 
was taken from each transfer value  Mr Ss included  and paid to (and accepted by) 
Wellington Court. So whatever the extent of Wellington Courts contact with Mr S, it was still 
nonetheless engaged in an advisory capacity in relation to his transfer and investment  and 
the transfer of many other pensions too. The absence of any of the usual paperwork one 
would expect from an advice process, and the absence of substantive testimony about 
meetings with Wellington Court, doesnt change any of this. It just means Wellington Court 
didnt properly advise Mr S, and others, despite being paid to do so.
I agree with Wellington Court when it says some of the transfer paperwork looks unusual. 
For instance, the letter that was sent to GMTC enclosing Mr Ss transfer papers was undated 
and signed on the behalf of Mr P from Wellington Court rather than by Mr P himself. The 
signature on that letter is indecipherable. Likewise, the Orbis SIPP New Application 
Checklist was signed on Mr Ps behalf rather than by Mr P himself. The signature is again 
indecipherable (but looks to be the same as the one on the covering letter). Under the 
signature, Mr Ps first name was spelt incorrectly at first but was then corrected. And an 
incorrect FCA reference number was also provided.
So there are question marks here. However, my role is to make findings of fact based on the 
available evidence in order to establish whether this is a complaint the Financial 
Ombudsman Service can consider against Wellington Court and, if so, what the fair and 
reasonable outcome of the complaint should be. My role isnt to speculate beyond that. 
Taking all the above into consideration, I make the following findings of fact:
Wellington Court was engaged in advisory business relating to the transfer of 
pensions to the Orbis SIPP. This includes the transfer of Mr Ss pension.
Wellington Courts actions are not consistent with it being the victim of fraudulent 
activity.
Wellington Courts other argumentsAs Ive said earlier, Wellington Court has made a number of arguments in response to other 
similar cases. Where applicable, Ive addressed some of those arguments above. I address 
the remaining arguments below.
Wellington Court says GMTC failed to undertake due diligence of the SIPPs intended 
investments. On a similar note, Wellington Court questions whether the Financial 
Ombudsman Service and the FCA have investigated GMTC.
As my remit here is to consider Mr Ss complaint against Wellington Court, I wont be 
investigating GMTCs due diligence or conducting a broader investigation into GMTC. 
Similarly, it is for Wellington Court, rather than the Financial Ombudsman Service, to report 
individuals and organisations to the police if it thinks doing so is warranted.
Wellington Court has said it is willing to help us get to the bottom of the claims for a fee. 
But, as Im sure Wellington Court will appreciate, we are an impartial dispute resolution 
service. Delegating an investigation to the respondent of the complaint would go against that 
impartiality. Besides, Wellington Court has already had the opportunity to provide all the 
evidence and arguments it thinks are relevant.
Wellington Court also asked for a meeting with us in order to resolve this matter. Under the 
Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules, either party can request a hearing. It is for the 
ombudsman to consider whether the issues raised in such a request are material enough to 
warrant a hearing.
Having reviewed the case carefully, I havent seen anything that makes me think a hearing is 
required. I outlined the evidence I relied upon earlier. Im satisfied theres nothing in that 
evidence that would necessitate me speaking to either party in order to better understand it. 
Much of the evidence is paper based and, to my mind, incontrovertible (pension and bank 
statements showing money flowing from GMTC to Wellington Court for instance). The 
paperwork that is more debateable  the transfer paperwork  has been debated extensively 
and I see no persuasive reason why a hearing would add significant insight to that debate. I 
also note that Wellington Court hasnt actually provided any specific reasons for why a fair 
decision can only be reached following a hearing. In the circumstances, and after 
considering all the available evidence, arguments and relevant DISP rules, Im satisfied I can 
fairly determine this complaint without a hearing.
Wellington Court has also said evidence hasnt been shared. It hasnt at any point said 
exactly what hasnt been shared which makes responding difficult. But Im satisfied 
Wellington Court has seen the transfer paperwork for numerous complainants. Indeed, its 
case relies heavily on its views about the legitimacy of that paperwork.
Im also satisfied Wellington Court has seen copies of SIPP statements showing the 1% 
Wellington IFA fee being deducted from a number of transfer values. Ive outlined in detail 
the money trail that shows a 1% fee being deducted from Mr Ss SIPP and being paid to 
Wellington Court. I have also recorded in detail the evidence that showed similar payments 
relating to other transfers being made to Wellington Court. The same payments have been 
referred to in other decisions. Wellington Court still hasnt adequately explained which of 
those payments it admits to receiving. As this is a provisional decision, it has another 
opportunity to respond on this point.
Its also worth noting that because Wellington Court didnt provide complete bank 
statements, I only had evidence of it receiving some of the payments in question. But my 
view is that its reasonable  given the available evidence  to assume all the payments 
would have been received by Wellington Court. If Wellington Court disagrees with this assumption, it is welcome to provide a more comprehensive set of its bank statements to 
show the payments it received (or didnt receive) from GMTC.
Given all the above, Im satisfied Wellington Court has been made aware of, and has the 
opportunity to respond to, all the evidence Ive relied upon in coming to my provisional 
decision.
On a similar note, Im satisfied I can come to a fair and reasonable decision based on the 
evidence Ive outlined. If Wellington Court thinks there is further evidence that would help its 
case, then its welcome to provide it. I will consider it. But I wont be carrying out Wellington 
Courts various requests to seek out further evidence from third parties. I dont consider the 
evidence to be necessary to my decision and Wellington Court has had ample opportunity to 
provide any evidence it considers important.
Finally, Wellington Court says we havent replied to a number of its emails. For the 
avoidance of doubt, I have considered everything Wellington Court has said in relation to this 
case and the many others like it  even if I have limited my findings to those areas I consider 
relevant to the complaints outcome. However, if Wellington Court thinks there is a 
substantive point in one of the emails it has listed that I should consider more thoroughly, it 
is welcome to highlight that point in response to my provisional decision.
Jurisdiction - in respect of the activities of Wellington Court
The Financial Ombudsman Service can consider a complaint under its compulsory 
jurisdiction if that complaint relates to an act or omission by a firm in the carrying on of one 
or more listed activities, including regulated activities (DISP2.3.1R).
Advising someone to set up a SIPP and to transfer rights in existing personal pensions to 
that SIPP is a regulated activity. For the reasons given above, Im satisfied there was an 
advisory relationship between Wellington Court and Mr S. There is a lack of documentation 
to show what, if anything, Wellington Court did in relation to giving advice to Mr S. Potentially 
it didnt do anything (whether that was deliberate or an oversight isnt for me to speculate 
on). It doesnt make a difference to my jurisdiction over this complaint because if there were 
omissions in the provision of its advice, that doesnt mean the activity becomes any less 
regulated as a result.
In addition, under Article 25(1) of The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated 
Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO), making arrangements for another person to buy and sell a 
specified investment is a regulated activity. The FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) 
says the following about Article 25(1):
The activity of arranging (bringing about) deals in investments is aimed at arrangements 
that would have the direct effect that a particular transaction is concluded (that is, 
arrangements that bring it about).
I consider it unlikely that Mr S would have transferred and invested in the way he did if it 
hadnt been for Wellington Courts involvement. GMTC required the involvement of an 
advisory firm before it would accept a transfer. Mr S signed up for advice on the transfer and 
investment. He paid for that advice too. So I consider it unlikely that he would have 
proceeded if Wellington Court had indicated he shouldnt do so. Im satisfied, therefore, that 
Wellington Courts actions had the direct effect of bringing about Mr Ss transfer and 
investment. In short, what Wellington Court did here constitutes making arrangements under 
Article 25(1) of the RAO.Taking everything into account, Im satisfied the activities complained about fall within our 
jurisdiction. They relate to acts or omissions in carrying on the regulated activities of advising 
on and arranging pensions and investments.
Jurisdiction  was Mr S an eligible complainant?
DISP 2.7 covers what is required for someone to be an eligible complainant. Broadly 
speaking, there are two requirements that need to be met, relating to the entity bringing the 
complaint (DISP 2.7.3) and the relationship between that entity and the business being 
complained about (DISP 2.7.6).
Im satisfied that Mr S meets the requirements of DISP 2.7.3 because he is a consumer 
(which is defined as an individual acting for purposes which are wholly or mainly outside that 
individuals trade, business, craft or profession).
With regards the second requirement, Mr Ss complaint must also arise from matters 
relevant to a relationship with the business he is complaining about (referred to as the 
respondent in the rules). DISP 2.7.6 sets out 17 different types of relationship. The first of 
these is the relevant one for the purposes of Mr Ss complaint:
To be an eligible complainant a person must also have a complaint which arises from 
matters relevant to one or more of the following relationships with the respondent:
(1) the complainant is (or was) a customer, payment service user or electronic money holder 
of the respondent
Clearly, for the reasons given previously, Wellington Court doesnt think Mr S was its 
customer. I disagree.
Mr S signed a document agreeing to Wellington Court to provide him with advice and to pay 
Wellington Court 1% for that advice. That 1% fee was duly taken from his SIPP (in two 
tranches) and recorded as a Wellington IFA fee on his SIPP statement. Ive seen nothing to 
show Mr S queried the fees when they were taken so I think its evident he wasnt, at that 
point, concerned about paying advice fees to Wellington Court. Clearly there doesnt appear 
to be any documents showing what, if anything, Wellington Court did in return for that advice 
fee. But Mr S doesnt strike me as being a particularly experienced investor so he wouldnt 
necessarily have known what to expect. So I think he would therefore have reasonably 
considered himself a customer of Wellington Court. And from Wellington Courts perspective, 
its difficult to argue Mr S wasnt its customer given it knowingly accepted the 1% payment in 
relation to Mr S and the transfer wouldnt have happened if it hadnt been for its involvement.
In short, Mr S signed up for advice. He paid for advice. Wellington Court was sent, and 
accepted, payment for that advice. And that advice  or appearance of advice  was critical 
to Mr S transferring and investing in the way he did. So all things considered, Im satisfied 
there was a customer relationship here.
I should point out at this point that I have seen similar cases where the advisory firm has had 
a relationship with another business (the introducer firm for instance) which involved it 
checking some aspects of a persons transfer paperwork. In such a situation, its likely that 
there is a business-to-business relationship (between the advisory firm and the introducer 
firm) rather than a direct relationship between the person transferring and the advisory firm. 
This has implications for the eligibility of the person bringing the complaint under DISP 2.7.6 
because the complainant doesnt appear to have been a customer of the respondent.This argument doesnt appear to apply here. Yes, Wellington Court may well have 
undertaken some consultancy work for GMTC. But, as outlined above, it hasnt provided 
enough information to establish what the exact nature of its relationship with GMTC was. 
And, for the reasons given above, there was a relationship between the complainant, Mr S, 
and Wellington Court anyway regardless of any consultancy arrangement that may have 
been in place.
There are a number of other jurisdiction tests that must also be met before I can consider the 
merits of a complaint. Broadly speaking, these are that the complaint must be made against 
a regulated business, about an activity carried on from an establishment in the UK, and be 
brought within the time limits set out in the rules. The activities in question were carried on 
from an establishment in the UK. Wellington Court is a regulated business. And Mr S 
brought his complaint to us within the relevant time limits.
With all the above in mind, Im satisfied that this is a complaint I can consider.
The merits of Mr Ss complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, my provisional decision 
is to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
It looks like the transfers to the Orbis SIPP were initiated by introducers who sourced 
potential clients and did much of the work in terms of getting clients into a position to 
transfer. And then in order to progress the transfer, GMTC required the involvement of an 
advisory firm. Wellington Court fulfilled that role. But theres a lack of paperwork to show 
what, if anything, Wellington Court did in return for its advice fee. I dont know if this was due 
to an oversight on its part  that is, it didnt fully understand what it should have done given 
the regulations in place at the time  or whether it knew its actions were negligent. Either 
way, it seems Wellington Courts involvement was little more than window dressing, 
providing the appearance of advice to satisfy GMTC in return for a 1% fee on a large number 
of transfers.
The above means there isnt any detailed documentary evidence to show what Mr Ss 
financial needs and circumstances were at the time. Nevertheless, Im satisfied the 
transaction wasnt suitable for Mr S. I say this because Mr Ss investments were non- 
mainstream, high risk and unregulated. Mr S doesnt appear to have had the degree of 
investment knowledge or risk appetite such an investment would have required given his 
transfers were from personal pensions, one of which invested in a with-profits fund. And it 
also looks like Mr S allocated a large portion of his pension savings to these high risk 
property investments which strikes me as being an unsuitable strategy even for the most 
knowledgeable and least risk averse investors. So I dont think the investments and transfer 
were suitable.
That said, it strikes me that Mr S had some interest in reviewing his investment strategy with 
a view to generating higher returns because that seems to have been behind his decision to 
think about a transfer in the first place. My provisional approach to compensation, which is 
set out below, reflects the likelihood of Mr S being a relatively cautious investor who 
nevertheless wanted at least some exposure to riskier assets.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Mr S accepted my provisional decision. Wellington Court didnt make any comments in 
relation to my findings on this specific case. However, it has responded to a number of other 
provisional decisions that cover similar ground and which relied on similar evidence. Ive 
considered what Wellington Court has said in relation to these other cases and Im satisfied 
that my provisional decision has addressed those comments. So in the absence of any 
further substantive points, and having considered the case once again, I have come to the 
same conclusions as I did in my provisional decision, for the same reasons. Ive repeated 
above what I said in that decision and it forms part of this final decision. 
It follows that I uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
In my provisional decision, I outlined my proposed approach to redress. Neither party had 
any comments on this. So my approach to redress was  and remains  as set out below.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr S should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice. I think Mr S would have invested differently. 
Its not possible to say precisely what he would have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set 
out below is fair and reasonable given Mr S's circumstances and objectives when he 
invested.
What must Wellington Court do?
To compensate Mr S fairly, Wellington Court must:
Compare the performance of Mr S's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Wellington Court should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Wellington Court should pay into Mr S's pension plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not 
be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If Wellington Court is unable to pay the compensation into Mr S's pension plan, it 
should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment 
of tax to HMRC, so Mr S wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after 
compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr S's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr S would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Wellington Court deducts income tax 
from the interest, it should tell Mr S how much has been taken off. Wellington Court should 
give Mr S a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr S asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
The Orbis Still exists For half the Date of Date of my 8% simple per
SIPP but illiquid investment: investment final year from final
FTSE UK decision decision to
Private settlement (if
Investors not settled
Income Total within 28 days
Return Index; of the
for the other business
half: average receiving the
rate from fixed complainant's
rate bonds acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where assets 
are illiquid (meaning they could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case.
Wellington Court should take ownership of the illiquid assets by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Wellington Court pays should be included in 
the actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Wellington Court is unable to purchase the portfolio the actual value should be assumed to 
be nil for the purpose of calculation. Wellington Court may require that Mr S provides an 
undertaking to pay Wellington Court any amount he may receive from the investment in the 
future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt from the pension plan.
Wellington Court will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Wellington 
Court should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal from the portfolio should 
be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Wellington Court totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting 
periodically.
The Orbis SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the Orbis SIPP to be 
closed and further fees that are charged to be prevented, those investments need to be 
removed. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Wellington Court taking over the 
investment, or this is something that Mr S can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont 
know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Wellington 
Court is unable to purchase the investment, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair 
that it pays Mr S an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees 
(calculated using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable 
period for the parties to arrange for the Orbis SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr S wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone 
who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a 
range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take 
some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr S's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr S into that position. It does not 
mean that Mr S would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 
50% in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a 
reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr S could have 
obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ss complaint against Wellington Court Financial 
Services Limited.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
The full extent of Mr Ss loss has not yet been calculated, but its possible his loss may 
exceed the £160,000 award limit.Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out above. My decision is that Wellington Court Financial Services Limited 
should pay Mr S the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000. 
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Wellington Court to pay Mr S any interest on that amount in full, as set out above. Where the 
compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Wellington Court to 
pay Mr S any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000 I recommend that Wellington Court Financial Services Limited pays Mr S the 
balance. I would additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this 
balance to be paid to Mr S.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Wellington Court Financial 
Services Limited doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr S can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr S may want to get independent legal 
advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Christian Wood
Ombudsman