DRN-4180873
The complaint
Mr O complains about the way Assurant General Insurance Limited dealt with a claim on his 
mobile phone insurance policy and the amount of compensation it has offered to him.
What happened
Mr O took out an insurance policy for a mobile phone that he bought for his wife to use. On 
17 January 2023 he called to make a claim as the phone was damaged. He was told 
someone would call him back to take the excess payment from him. Mr O said he wasnt 
aware he would have to pay an excess but Assurant explained it would need to be paid as 
set out in the policy terms
Mr O called again later that same day. He was unhappy that he hadnt heard from anyone 
about the excess payment. 
On 20 January Mr O called again as he still hadnt heard. A call was made to him later that 
day to take the excess payment and Mr O was told a courier would collect his phone. 
Mr O complained about the delay and said he shouldnt have to pay an excess. Assurant 
acknowledged there had been a delay of three days and offered £10 to compensate for this. 
But Assurant said it was clear in the policy documents that he would have to pay the excess 
and the documents had been sent to him after he took out the policy.
Mr O says he never received the email with the policy document. He also says:
When he bought the policy, he was told he wouldnt have to pay anything towards a 
claim.
He shouldnt have had to pay the excess when he didnt receive any emails about it  
this is not fair and he was very stressed and frustrated about that.
The customer service was very poor and call handlers said different things all the 
time.
Our investigator agreed there had been some failings in the way the claim was handled but 
said the offer Assurant had made was fair, given the amount of time involved and the limited 
impact. She was satisfied the policy terms had been sent to Mr O and they set out clearly the 
excess to be paid.
Mr O disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers should deal with claims promptly and fairly, and information provided to customers 
should be clear, fair and not misleading. 
An excess is generally taken when a claim is made on an insurance policy; its a way for the 
policyholder to make a contribution towards the cost of a claim. In Mr Os case, the policy 
terms say an excess may be payable and if so, this will be confirmed in the policy certificate. 
Mr Os certificate says an excess of £59 is payable. Im satisfied the policy documents are 
clear that an excess is payable when a claim is made. So it was fair for Assurant to take this 
payment from Mr O.
Mr O says he was told when he bought the policy he would not have to pay anything. But 
theres no further information about this. And, as Ive said, the policy documents clearly set 
out the excess payment. I appreciate he says he didnt receive the documents but Assurant 
has shown they were sent to him at the correct email address. I cant say why Mr O might 
not have received the email but Im satisfied it was sent. If he didnt received any documents 
after taking out the policy, he could have contacted Assurant to request them. In these 
circumstances it was fair for Assurant to take the excess payment. 
There was a delay in arranging this and Assurant offered Mr O a payment of £10 in respect 
of the distress caused to him. Mr O doesnt consider thats enough. An apology or small 
payment is generally fair to compensate for a one-off incident such as a small administrative 
error or a short delay, particularly where it causes minimal impact and is put right quickly. I 
know Mr O found it very upsetting. But the delay was only a few days and the impact was 
limited. In the circumstances I think the apology from Assurant and offer of £10 was fair. So I 
dont think it needs to do any more.
My final decision
Assurant General Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £10 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Assurant General Insurance Limited should pay £10 to Mr O.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman