DRN-2220991
The complaint
Mr R has complained about KGM Underwriting Services Limited. He isnt happy that it 
turned down a claim under his motor insurance policy.   
What happened
Mr R had an insurance policy for his classic car with KGM. When his car was stolen he 
made a claim under his policy. But KGM turned down the claim. This was because his car 
had been stolen from just outside his house overnight when his policy had a garaging 
clause. The clause said that he needed to keep his car in his garage overnight and as he 
hadnt KGM wouldnt pay the claim.
Mr R wasnt happy about this, so he complained to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. He thought that KGM hadnt acted unfairly in 
turning down Mr Rs claim as he didnt keep his car in his garage when the policy required 
him to. 
As Mr R didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Despite my natural sympathy for the position Mr R has found himself, as he has simply been 
the victim of crime, Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr R was aware that his policy had an endorsement which meant that he had to keep his car 
in his garage overnight (between 10pm and 6am). Unfortunately, at the time of theft Mr Rs 
car was parked on a street near his home address as opposed to being kept in the garage 
as it was supposed to be. In effect this meant that the theft of his car was excluded from 
cover.
I know Mr R was having a party at the time and using his garage for other purposes. And 
while this is understandable this doesnt mean that KGM should meet the claim. Insurers 
apply endorsements like this on classic cars as they are a lot easier to steal than modern 
cars. I know Mr R believes that it is possible that the car was stolen before the garaging 
clause came into effect but there isnt any evidence of this. And it is likely, on balance, that 
his car was stolen later on in the evening after all the guests had arrived and or during the 
early hours of the morning, so I cant say that KGM has acted unreasonably. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman