DRN-2927622
The complaint
Mr B complains that QIC Europe Ltd has offered a settlement figure, for a claim he made 
under this home buildings insurance, that he thinks is too low.
What happened
In August 2020 damage was caused to Mr Bs kitchen when water leaked from his bathroom 
through his kitchen ceiling. He claimed under his insurance policy, which was declined by 
QIC. The matter was referred to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Bs complaint be upheld but did recommend that 
he contact QIC again to make a claim under the accidental damage part of his policy. This 
claim was accepted by the company and a settlement offer was made.
QIC sent a surveyor to assess the damage and establish the scope and cost of repairs. This 
showed repairs were needed to the kitchen ceiling and parts of the kitchen that had been 
damaged by the water leak. The calculations included a contribution toward the cost of 
replacing matching areas of the kitchen that were undamaged. QIC offered to carry out 
repairs and also confirmed its settlement if Mr B wanted to arrange the work himself.  
Mr B wasnt happy with the settlement amount. He didnt think it covered the cost of repairing 
the damage to his kitchen. Mr B produced quotes from local trades people to illustrate the 
cost of works to replace the kitchen and repair the ceiling. 
QIC says its offer considered all applicable damage. This includes a contribution to the cost 
of replacing undamaged but matching kitchen worktops. 
Mr B maintained that the settlement offer did not correctly identify all areas of damage. He 
says the cupboard doors are damaged and need replacing. Mr B supplied photographs to 
show this. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
The investigator initially queried the schedule of works provided by QIC. Another surveyor 
was sent to Mr Bs home to review the damage. This was partly because Mr Bs tradesman 
had said there was damage to the joists that required work. This had not been considered by 
QIC previously. This was in addition to some queries around repairs that were missing from 
the costing. 
Following the second visit a slightly higher settlement quote was provided. This included 
some additions to the schedule of works.
The investigator was satisfied that the revised settlement offer fairly covered the cost of all 
repairs. And was in-line with the terms of Mr Bs policy.
Mr B disagreed. He referred to the quotes he had obtained and photographs that he said 
showed the cupboard doors were damaged and required replacement. Our investigator 
reviewed the information but decided to maintain his view that QICs offer was fair. 
Mr B asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. It has now been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint and for largely the same 
reasons as our investigator. Let me explain. 
QIC accepted Mr Bs claim under his accidental damage cover. What I have looked at is 
whether it acted fairly in its handling of the claim, specifically around the scope of the repair 
works and its settlement offer.
The schedule of works produced by QIC includes repairs to the kitchen ceiling, where the 
water had penetrated above the fridge-freezer. It includes a replacement light fitment and 
electrical check for the area directly affected by the water leak. This is in addition to 
replacing the housing unit the fridge-freezer sits within, and the plinth at the bottom of this. 
The wall and base unit next to the fridge-freezer were found not to be damaged.
QIC found the kitchen unit doors were undamaged, and so could be removed and replaced. 
Damage was found to the bottom right section of the sink unit. However, QICs surveyor 
found no evidence of water staining inside the unit, and felt this damage was more likely the 
result of its proximity to the dishwasher. This was not included in the costing.
It is fair that QIC only pays to repair the insured damage caused by the leak. Given the sink 
unit is positioned away and to the right of where the leak occurred, and QICs explanation of 
the likely cause of this damage, I find its argument persuasive that this damage was not 
caused by the leak.     
The doors to the sink unit were found to be undamaged, as was the unit to the right-hand 
side of where the sink is situated. QIC reported that all aspects of the left-hand side of the 
kitchen (from a position facing the fridge-freezer) were undamaged. This includes the unit 
carcasses, worktops and cupboard doors. 
No damage was found to the vinyl flooring, and it was reported that the fridge-freezer was 
working at the time the surveyor attended. No damage other than some staining was 
reported in respect of the joists and floorboards. No repairs were reportedly needed in 
relation to this. 
The schedule also includes costings for redecoration, including the utility room area. 
QIC also factored in a 50% contribution to the cost of replacing the undamaged kitchen 
worktops. QIC says these items were not damaged but would not match the sections of 
worktop that did require replacement. 
A lot of photographs were taken by QIC to demonstrate the condition of each part of the 
kitchen. From this I have been able to consider whether QICs description of the damage to 
the kitchen appears reasonable. 
I have also considered Mr Bs photographs. In particular, these show the cupboard doors 
that he says were damaged by the water leak. I have looked through these. I have also 
cross-referenced with where the surveyor took photographs to see if there were any areas of damage missed by QIC. Having done so I cant see that Mr B has demonstrated there is 
damage to the kitchen that wasnt factored into the schedule of works.
I acknowledge Mr Bs view that the cupboard doors were damaged by the leak. But I am not 
persuaded that this is the case.
I note the initial settlement quote QIC provided to Mr B was slightly less than the final figure. 
The first offer was confirmed as £2,668.23, which was later revised up to £2,686.51. This 
followed the second surveyors visit and the addition of a further items to the costings.   
Mr B has supplied quotes from various tradespeople. One shows the cost of repairing the 
ceiling and stripping out the existing kitchen at £3,985. Three other quotes show the cost of 
replacing the kitchen with a new one ranging from £6,690 to £8,840. 
Clearly there is a big difference between these quotes and the settlement offer provided by 
QIC. However, this is not a like for like comparison. QIC has assessed the cost of repairing 
the damaged areas of the kitchen. Its settlement offer reflects the cost it would incur to carry 
out these repairs, plus its 50% contribution to some undamaged matching items. 
Mr B has supplied quotations for significantly more work, involving an entirely new kitchen or 
for stripping the existing kitchen out in full.  
I have looked through Mr Bs policy terms to establish what is required of QIC. Under the 
heading Settling claims under building covers (page 21) it says:
When settling your claim, if we decide that we can offer rebuilding work, repairs or 
replacements, we will ask you to choose one of the following options.
- We will choose a contractor (our preferred contractor) and instruct them to carry out the 
rebuilding work, repairs or replacements.
- We will pay you a cash settlement for the same amount it would have cost us to use our 
preferred contractor. 
It is fair for QIC to rely on these terms when dealing with Mr Bs claim. I am satisfied the 
amount its offered has been shown to cover the cost of the required works. The company 
has offered to carry out the repairs using its chosen contractor. If Mr B wants to use another 
contractor, or to use the settlement offer to contribute toward the cost of replacing the 
kitchen, that option is available to him.
QICs inclusion of a 50% contribution to the cost of replacing undamaged items, is I think 
reasonable in the circumstances. I do not accept that this applies in relation to the cupboard 
doors as I dont think the available evidence shows these were damaged by the water leak. 
However, sections of the worktops will need replacing and these will not match the 
remaining sections. 
The cost of replacing undamaged items is not something that is specifically required by the 
Mr Bs policy. However, I think it is reasonable for QIC to provide a contribution toward the 
cost of retaining an overall matching kitchen.  
Considering all of this, I dont think QIC has acted unfairly in relying on the terms of the 
policy and offering Mr B a settlement payment of £2,686.51, less £300 excess or, as an 
alternative, for the works to be completed by its contractor.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Mr B can, if he chooses, contact QIC 
and either accept its settlement payment or offer to carry out the repair works.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman