DRN-1632322
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that The Share Centre Limited (Share Centre) sold shares that he owned 
without giving any notice. The shares were sold to cover administration fees that were due 
from 2017.
What happened
Mr W opened an account with Share Centre in May 2017 and used the account in October 
2017 to purchase investments. As a result of this purchase, administration fees started to 
accrue on the account. Valuations summarising the investments held were available to 
customers on a quarterly basis.
Share Centre sent Mr W correspondence on 21 October 2019 saying that they had sold 
shares in order to cover off administration fees that hadnt been paid. Share Centres normal 
procedures according to their terms of business say that they will contact the customer a 
minimum of 30 days prior to selling any investments to cover overdue fees. Share Centre did 
not follow this and shares were sold from Mr Ws account to settle the outstanding balance.
On the following day, Share Centre realised that Mr W had not been given sufficient notice of 
their intention to sell shares. They emailed Mr W to let him know that there had been an 
error on his account. They immediately purchased shares to put Mr W back into the position 
he would have been in had the error not occurred.
 
The business wrote to Mr W on 23 October to explain what actions they had taken to fix the 
initial error. They confirmed that the overdue administration fees of £48.61 remained 
outstanding and needed to be paid.
Mr W was not happy at their actions and complained that they had not informed him of the 
charges and had not kept him up to date. Mr W asked them to contribute to half of the 
outstanding fees but Share Centre did not agree to this. 
Mr W did not accept their findings and complained to the service. One of our investigators 
reviewed the case and decided that although the business had not acted in the manner set 
out in the terms of business, they had acknowledged their mistake, apologised and put Mr W 
back into the position he had been before the error. The investigator said that they had acted 
without delay to fix the error and ensure no financial disadvantage. He didnt uphold the 
complaint on this basis.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr W has asked for an Ombudsman to review the 
case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all of the available evidence to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions 
for much the same reasons. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W but I wont be upholding the complaint. I appreciate Mr Ws 
strength of feeling in this complaint. 
When an account is opened the customer is provided with the terms of business for the 
service and a tariff sheet explaining what fees and charges will be applied on the account. I 
think that it is reasonable to assume that Mr W received copies of these documents or had 
access to them online. There is nothing to suggest from the information that I have seen that 
these were not provided to Mr W.
Mr W opted to receive email correspondence and this was how Share Centre communicated 
with him. In October 2017, Share Centres records show that the email notification to Mr W 
regarding his valuation being available to view online had bounced back, or in other words, 
was not successful in reaching its destination. The procedure at that time was for them to 
send a printed valuation. Due to the length of time that has passed, its unclear if this printed 
valuation was sent and as such, Im unable to say for certain if Mr W received a printed 
valuation.
The next two emails (April 2018 and January 2019) that were sent by Share Centre alerting 
Mr W to the valuations being available appear to have reached the intended email address. 
There is no evidence that these bounced back.
The April 2019 email that was sent did bounce back and the printed valuation procedure was 
followed. Share Centres records show that this was posted to Mr W on 24 May 2019.
I think that it is reasonable to say that there is evidence that valuations did get sent to Mr W 
and on the balance of probability, he would have received them.
Mr Ws main complaint is that Share Centre sold his shares without any notice. Share Centre 
has agreed that an error was made on his account and that he should have been given at 
least 30 days notice of their intention to sell shares to cover any outstanding fees. The 
business has apologised for this error and immediately reversed the action to ensure that 
there was no financial disadvantage to Mr W. I think that the business has acted in a fair and 
reasonable manner in correcting their error and apologising to Mr W.
Mr W has asked that Share Centre contribute towards his outstanding fees as a result of 
their error but they have declined. As Share Centre promptly corrected its error when 
reversing the share sale, on balance l do not consider it reasonable to require it to waive 
some of the outstanding fees. And for the same reason, my view is that Share Centre should 
not be required to pay Mr W any other form of compensation for its error. 
In summary, I do not think that the business has done anything wrong with how they handled 
their initial error. They have put Mr W back into the position he would have been in had the 
error not occurred.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Brian Gray
Ombudsman