DRN-3312603
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Forsakringsaktiebolaget Agria (publ) (Agria) didnt tell them 
their premium had increased at renewal or that their claim was declined because it was pre-existing. 
Consequently, they want Agria to refund them six months premium at least.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M rescued their dog in May 2019. They took out this lifetime policy with Agria on 
9 May 2019. They said they never received any policy documentation either by post or by 
email. But they also conceded they never chased that up either.
They made a claim under the policy in December 2020. And they said they never heard back 
from Agria about the claim. They said they phoned several times and were told Covid was 
holding things up. 
In May 2021 Mr and Mrs M said their policy was renewed without any notice with the 
premium rising from £85 per month to £145 per month. And they said they still didnt know 
about their claim outcome. Once Agria then confirmed it had declined their claim back in 
December 2020, Mr and Mrs M cancelled their policy and asked for a premium refund from 
the renewal date and possibly the previous year.
Agria said it had declined their claim in December 2020 and didnt think they had done 
anything wrong. It said its renewal premium was calculated fairly and was not claims loaded. 
In accordance with its company go green initiative, it was trying to move towards electronic 
communications so not relying on paper so much. Its records show it had emailed the 
renewal documents on 11 April 2021 which was returned and because of this it then posted 
the renewal documents to Mr and Mrs M, which wasnt returned. It said it had previously 
posted out the renewal documents the previous year and they werent returned either. So, it 
didnt consider it should refund any premium.
It also explained that on buying the policy Mrs M said her dog had no previous illnesses, but 
he had signs of ear problems before the policy was bought according to the vet history. On 
the basis that Mr and Mrs Ms claim was for ear treatment, it believed it had done nothing 
wrong given the ear issue was a pre-existing condition which are excluded from cover on 
this policy. 
Mr and Mrs M remained dissatisfied and brought their complaint to us. The investigator didnt 
think Agria had done anything wrong. Mr and Mrs M disagreed so their complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why. 
First, I note Mr and Mrs M dont dispute that the cause of the claim was from a pre-existing 
condition and therefore was excluded. So, I wont discussing this aspect in this decision.
The remaining central issue is that Mr and Mrs M said they didnt receive Agrias decision on 
24 December and actually didnt know the claim outcome until after the policy had renewed 
in May 2022. Mr M also told us he had never agreed to pay premiums monthly by direct 
debit. 
We assess complaints based on the evidence disclosed by both parties. The evidence from 
Agria shows me that this policy started on 9 May 2019 with the premiums being paid on Mrs 
Ms card as agreed between her and Agria in the call recording of the same date. By 
September 2020 Mrs Ms card had apparently expired as Agria emailed Mrs M on 14 
September 2020 and Mrs M responded by phone on 22 September 2020 updating her card. 
Agrias email said the policy had been cancelled whereas Mrs M wanted it to continue. 
That shows me its clear Agria had the correct email address for Mr and Mrs M at that stage 
and that further Mr and Mrs M were happy to pay the premium by monthly instalments which 
Mr M himself confirmed later to Agria on 27 May 2021. So, I dont consider there is any 
question that Mrs M agreed to pay the premium and indeed continued to agree to pay the 
premium after the first renewal date in May 2020 too. So, I dont understand why Mr M said 
to us on 2 August 2021 that he had never signed a direct debit mandate as Mrs M had 
agreed for the premium payments to be taken on monthly basis from her card.
Agria has shown us it that it also posted the policy documentation in May 2019 to Mr and 
Mrs Ms postal address. Therefore, even if Mr and Mrs M said they never received it, it was 
clear it was posted, so if there was some problem with the postal service, thats not 
something which is Agrias fault. Mr and Mrs agree that they should have chased this up, but 
they didnt. Its not reasonable for me to hold Agria responsible for that, given its clear the 
policy documents were posted out to the correct postal address for Mr and Mrs M and its 
clear they werent returned by the postal service.
Agria has also shown us that it posted out the renewal documents in April 2020. Again, there 
is no evidence to show these were returned by the postal service. 
In April 2021, Agria, presumably to adhere to its green initiatives, decided to email the 
renewal documents to Mr and Mrs M. The evidence shows it used an incorrect email 
address for Mr and Mrs M. Agria has shown us that because the email bounced back as 
undeliverable, it then posted out the documents to Mr and Mrs Ms postal address. There no 
requirement for insurers to use recorded delivery to deliver policy documents. Furthermore, 
we dont tell such businesses how to issue its documents as were not the regulator the 
Financial Conduct Authority is. Its also unlikely such a costly exercise would be appropriate 
either. And because the postal service didnt return the documents as undeliverable, theres 
nothing to show me that Agria needed to do more. 
Turning now to Mr and Mrs Ms claim for their dog, Agria has shown us it received this on 17 
December 2020 from Mr and Mrs Ms vet. Its also shown us it issued its claim decision on 
24 December 2020. This makes sense to me as given the vet history it was obvious the 
claim concerned a pre-existing condition, so there wouldnt be much need to investigate 
matters which might have delayed the claims decision.  Again, this was posted to Mr and 
Mrs Ms postal address and not returned by the postal service. Obviously, it was Christmas 
time so the actual receipt of this by Mr and Mrs M might have been delayed for a few days. 
But as it wasnt returned to Agria, theres nothing to show me Agria needed to do anything 
more.Mr M is adamant that Mrs M made several phone calls to Agria following the claim 
submission. However, Agrias system doesnt show any of these calls were received. The 
investigator detailed the numbers Mrs M (following confirmation from Mr M that they were 
correct), would have used to make these calls to Agria and it has showed the following calls 
were received by it from the relevant numbers, 9 May 2019 setting up the policy, 22 
September 2020 sorting out the expired card from which premium payments were made and 
27 May 2021 chasing the outcome of the claim made in December 2020.
Agria like any other business which this service may receive a complaint about, is fully 
aware of its duties to disclose to us the information we ask for. There is nothing to show me 
that Agria has withheld any information at all to include any call recordings. Its clear to me 
that it has used the proper postal address for Mr and Mrs M and further posted the renewal 
documents in April 2021 when the email attaching them bounced back. The extent of Agrias 
duty is to email and/or post out the relevant documents or claims decisions to its 
policyholders and its clear that Agria has done this. It has no duty whatsoever to send to 
documents by recorded delivery. 
If there is any problem with Mr and Mrs M receiving their post from the postal service that is 
something which doesnt concern Agria at all. More so if it didnt know this because none of 
the documents were returned to it by the postal service, and its clear here until May 2021, it 
was unaware Mr and Mrs M werent in receipt of the claims decision or any policy 
documents. I consider it significant that Mr M said he knows they should have chased up the 
initial policy documents but didnt do so. And I consider it significant their vet had the 
relevant policy number with which to make the claim on Mr and Mr Ms behalf too.
  
So, there is no evidence to show me that Agria did anything wrong, so I dont consider its 
reasonable for it refund Mr and Mrs M any premium refund. 
My final decision
For these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman