DRN-3794395
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that New Day Ltd cancelled the payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy on her store card.
What happened
New Day wrote to Mrs B on 16 August 2021 to inform her that that it was cancelling the PPI 
on the card with effect from 31 October 2021.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint because New Day had made a business 
decision to withdraw the PPI and had provided sufficient notice of the cancellation.
Mrs B disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B says she has been paying for the PPI for a number of years and feels it is totally unfair 
that it has been cancelled. Shortly after the policy was cancelled she was diagnosed with a 
serious illness and feels that New Day should honour the sickness claim shed like to make.
New Day was the seller of the policy and was also the administrator, but it was not the 
insurer. So in this decision Im only looking at whether or not New Day acted fairly in its 
administration of the policy.
Under the policy terms, the policy can be cancelled at any time as long as 60 days notice is 
provided. Based on the available evidence, Im satisfied that New Day gave sufficient notice 
as it was required to do. 
Mrs B says she didnt receive the letter dated 16 August 2021. But it was correctly 
addressed and so, on balance, I consider it more likely than not that it would have been 
delivered. The letter signposted Mrs B to where she could find advice on alternative cover.
New Day says it sent a second reminder letter before the cancellation date, which would be 
usual in such cases, although it doesnt have a record of the date this was sent.
Im very sorry for the situation that Mrs B finds herself in. Mrs B says she has paid for the 
policy for a number of years. But during that time she could have made a claim if shed 
needed to. The timing of the cancellation has been very unfortunate for Mrs B. However, 
looking at New Days role in this matter, I consider that it has acted fairly.
I dont know the exact timing of Mrs Bs illness. I can see that it was only a couple of weeks 
after the policy was cancelled that she first complained to New Day. As has been previously 
mentioned, claims arising from events that happened prior to 31 October 2021 would be 
considered by the insurer. So Mrs B may wish to have a discussion with the insurer if her 
illness started before that date.
Mrs B has also said that the PPI should have been looked at at the point that she retired. But 
the insurer would not know she had retired unless she told them. Shed like a refund of 
premiums from that point. Again, this is also a matter for the insurer to consider and so she 
should contact them in the first instance.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman