DRN-2940334
The complaint
Mr M and Ms F are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE has declined a claim they made 
under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M and Ms F purchased an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy, which provided 
worldwide cover to them, from 20 December 2019, to 30 April 2020. This cover also included 
hire car excess waiver protection  with them paying a total premium of £327.19 in total for 
the policy. 
After purchasing this cover Mr M and Ms F booked a package holiday abroad, with them due 
to start their holiday and 16 March 2020, and return home on 30 March 2020, 14 days later. 
The trip would include staying at two different destinations  they were due to stay at the first 
location between 16 and 26 March and then travel to the second destination before returning 
to the UK. 
On 11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be a global 
pandemic. Mr M and Ms F flew out to their first destination on 16 March 2020 as expected. 
But, on arrival, they discovered that their second destination, which they were due to travel 
to later on in their holiday, was no longer admitting non-resident travellers who had been in 
the UK within the last 14 days. 
On 17 March 2020 the FCO advised against all but essential travel abroad. But they didnt 
instruct UK citizens to return home until 23 March 2020. A couple of days later, on 19 March 
2020, Mr M and Ms F say they were told that the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office 
(FCO) were advising against all but essential travel abroad. Due to this, Mr M and Ms Fs 
holiday provider arranged a change in flights for them, so they were on a return flight to the 
UK that same day, arriving home on 20 March 2020. 
Because Mr M and Ms F needed to cut short their holiday, they contacted their insurer, 
Great Lakes, to make a claim under their travel insurance policy. This was for the cost of the 
part of their holiday they hadnt been able to use, as a result of their trip being cut short.
In June 2020, Great Lakes responded to Mr M and Ms Fs claim and declined it. It said it 
wasnt able to accept the claim, because the policy didnt cover loses that were recoverable 
elsewhere. And it said Mr M and Ms Fs loses were recoverable elsewhere  because their 
holiday provider was obligated to provide a refund to them for the unused part of their 
holiday. 
I understand that Mr M and Ms F did contact their holiday provider, who offered them a 
refund, of 3,810 euros. This holiday provider said this was the cost of the unused part of their 
holiday. Mr M and Ms F didnt feel this figure was correct though. They said they had paid a 
total of 6,697 euros for the whole trip  and so the refund for the unused part seemed 
disproportionate, seeing as they had only been abroad, making use of their holiday, for a 
couple of days.
Mr M and Ms F returned to Great Lakes following this, explaining the above. And Great 
Lakes said its position on the matter remained unchanged. It reiterated that costs that are 
recoverable elsewhere arent covered by the policy. And it again noted that unused travel 
costs were something the travel provider would need to reimburse Mr M and Ms F for. It 
referred the Package Travel and Linked Travel Regulations 2018, which it said set this out.
Mr M and Ms F remained unhappy with Great Lakes position. And so, they referred their 
complaint to this service, for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that 
the terms and conditions of the travel insurance policy didnt cover costs that were 
recoverable elsewhere. And that, as far as he could see, the travel provider had already 
offered to refund Mr M and Ms F with their unused holiday costs. He accepted that the 
holiday provider hadnt given Mr M and Ms F a breakdown of the cost of their holiday, to 
show exactly why the unused part of the holiday equated to 3,810 euros. But he didnt hold 
Great Lakes accountable for this  noting that it was reasonable for Great Lakes to take this 
as the total unused cost of the holiday.
In addition to this, our investigator thought that Great Lakes had dealt with the claim 
promptly and fairly. He recognised that Great Lakes had given Mr M and Ms F some 
incorrect information about being able to refer their concerns to a travel industry dispute 
resolution service  but he acknowledged that Great Lakes may not have known whether the 
travel provider had signed up to this or not, given that it is a voluntary scheme.
Mr M and Ms F didnt agree with our investigators view. In summary, they said they didnt 
feel Great Lakes had acted fairly in the interpretation or application of the policy terms and 
conditions. They explained they had paid for 14 days holiday and not had the benefit of this, 
and their insurance policy was to cover them for unseen events. Mr M and Ms F also said 
they didnt think it was fair that Great Lakes were assuming they had received a full refund 
for the part of the holiday they hadnt used, when they hadnt been provided with a 
breakdown of costs. 
Because Mr M and Ms F didnt agree, their complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Great Lakes have a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I appreciate that Mr M and Ms F are going to be 
disappointed with this decision  and I can understand why. But Ive explained my reasoning 
below. I should say, Ive reviewed all information and evidence from both parties and taken 
this into account in my decision. But Ive only referred to information and evidence where I 
consider it necessary to explain my reasoning. 
Ive looked at Mr M and Ms Fs policy documents, to see what cover their policy provides 
them with. As is usual with this type of policy, it does provide cover for unforeseen events, 
where these fall within the terms and conditions of the policy. And I can see part of the cover 
on this insurance does Mr M and Mrs F with cover for abandonment of a trip, where it has 
been necessary to cut short the trip, for unforeseen reasons outside of their control. In this case, Mr M and Ms F did need to cut short their trip and return home as a result of an 
unforeseen event outside their control. Neither party disagrees this was the case. So, I 
havent considered this any further.
The abandonment part of the policy goes on to explain it pays for;
any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation (including excursions), and other pre-
paid charges which you have paid or are contracted to pay. 
So, Im aware that if Mr M and Ms F arent able to recover the unused part of their trip, the 
policy will step in and pay for this, up to the limits defined in the policy schedule.
In Mr M and Ms Fs case, this would be the unused part of their stay in their first destination, 
as well as the travel and accommodation for the second destination  if it hadnt been 
possible to recover the money from elsewhere. 
But, reviewing the information provided to me, its clear that Mr M and Ms F was recoverable 
elsewhere. It was recoverable from the travel insurance provider and, based on the available 
evidence, Im satisfied that the provider has provided a refund to them. So, I think Great 
Lakes interpreted and applied the terms and conditions fairly in this case. 
Ive seen a copy of emails between Mr M and Ms F and their travel provider. And these 
explain that a full refund for the unused part of the holiday was offered to Mr M and Ms F. 
This being an amount of 3,810 euros. As this shows the refund for the unused part of the 
holiday was recoverable from elsewhere, Im satisfied Great Lakes has acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy by not also offering to pay the refund. It wouldnt be fair for 
this to be reimbursed both from the travel provider, and under the insurance policy.
I appreciate Mr M and Mrs F have their doubts about whether the travel provider has really 
offered them a full refund for the unused parts of their trip. Theyve highlighted the price they 
paid for the full 14 days holiday, and that for only spending two and a half days abroad, they 
have paid just under half of the total holiday.  
I can understand why Mr M and Mrs F are disappointed with this, given the amount of money 
paid for the trip, and the intended duration of it. But, for me to expect Great Lakes to step in 
and provide any settlement here, I would need to see that Mr M and Mrs F hadnt received a 
full refund of the unused part of the trip. And everything Ive seen suggests it is most likely 
that they have. It may just be that different parts of the trip are costed differently  for 
example the outbound and return flight may be a large portion of the amount they havent 
been refunded for (given they were used). I know Mr M and Ms F did ask the travel provider 
for a breakdown of costs, and it wouldnt give this. But I dont hold Great Lakes accountable 
for this  it isnt the travel provider and has no impact on how it handles matters. 
Mr M and Ms F have noted that this services website says that a fair and reasonable way to 
provide a refund here, would be for Great Lakes to recommend a proportion of the total 
holiday cost was paid from the date the customer cut short their trip. And, that if the insurer 
didnt agree with that, then it would need to show a breakdown of the costs the customer had 
already used. But I should highlight, this only applies where the claim is covered under the 
terms and conditions of the policy. And for the reasons set out above, I dont think it is. 
Mr M and Mrs F have also explained they dont feel Great Lakes acted professionally or 
fairly when handling their claim. Our investigator said he did think Great Lakes had acted 
promptly and fairly in dealing with the loss claimed for  noting that he thought the claim had 
been progressed in a reasonable time frame. Having looked at the information provided to 
me, including at timeline of the claim, copies of communications and the claim form, I agree the claim was moved forward efficiently. And, I think the communications Ive seen were 
professional.
Great Lakes did mention Mr M and Ms F referring the matter to a travel industry dispute 
resolution scheme should they be unhappy with how their travel provider has dealt with the 
refund for unused parts of the holiday. But Im aware the travel provider isnt part of the 
scheme that Great Lakes referred them to, and so Mr M and Ms F cant go there. Great 
Lakes wouldnt necessarily have been aware of this  and I think it was attempting to be 
helpful by suggesting another avenue Mr M and Ms F might be able to take. So, I dont 
require it do so anything differently here. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. And therefore, I dont 
require Great Lakes Insurance SE to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman