DRN-2434716
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has 
unreasonably refused a claim they made under their critical illness policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs L took out a policy offering life and critical illness cover for a two-year term. The 
policy came into force in February 2018. 
In July 2019, Mr L was sadly diagnosed with a type of chronic pulmonary hypertension. In 
November 2019, Mr and Mrs L contacted L&G to make a critical illness claim, originally 
under the policy definition of Primary Pulmonary Hypertension (PPH). 
In late 2019, Mr L underwent a type of pulmonary surgery to remove chronic blood clots. Mrs 
L explained how the surgery took some 13 hours and can only be conducted at one hospital 
in the UK.  
L&G wrote to Mr Ls GP, receiving a delayed reply in February 2020, following which it had 
to seek further information.  
In March 2020, L&G rejected the claim. It said that Mr L was diagnosed with chronic 
thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension, caused by pulmonary emboli not PPH. Pulmonary 
hypertension secondary to any other known cause (like Mr Ls) was expressly excluded by 
the policy wording. 
When discussing the claim outcome with Mrs L, L&G agreed to further assess Mr Ls 
circumstances against a different policy definition of Open Heart Surgery. It therefore wrote 
to Mr Ls treating consultant for additional information. 
However, on receipt of the further information L&G said it could not pay this claim either. 
This was because although Mr Ls chest was opened via median sternotomy, the surgery 
was not to the heart itself, and that was what the definition was intended to cover.
Mr and Mrs L complained. They said on L&Gs website that the policy definition confirmed it 
covered any surgery which involves dividing the breastbone and therefore to refuse Mr Ls 
claim was unreasonable. 
L&G wasnt willing to change its view. It said that the quote Mr and Mrs L set out related to 
current wording, which had changed since Mr and Mrs L took out their policy. L&G said 
when assessing a claim it must do so against the policy wording agreed by both parties at 
the outset. It also explained that Mr and Mrs Ls policy summary confirmed how for a claim to 
pay out, the illness suffered must meet L&Gs definition.  
So, Mr and Mrs L referred their complaint to this service. They explained that Mr L had faced 
several complications and has needed critical care support. The surgery he had is far more 
serious than many of the other covered surgeries within the critical illness policy terms.  
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and agreed with L&G that the policy 
wording hadnt been met for Open Heart Surgery. By this time, Mr and Mrs L had accepted 
that the other definition didnt apply. 
He realised that Mr and Mrs L had pointed out the rarity of Mr Ls condition, but that of itself 
didnt mean a claim was valid. He explained that insurers cost policies to include defined 
conditions and policy terms; claims outside those terms cannot be paid. As no policy 
definition had been met, he could not say that L&G had done anything wrong in declining the 
claim.
Mr and Mrs L said they wanted the matter to be passed to an ombudsman. In summary, they 
said Mr L had been unable to work for over a year because of his health, and he now cannot 
obtain life and critical illness insurance elsewhere since their cover ended. They remain of 
the view that Mr Ls rare and serious circumstances should be taken on their own merit 
because his surgery was far more complex than is usual with a median sternotomy.  
L&G confirmed it had no further comments to make.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was very sorry to learn of Mr Ls condition and I send my best wishes to Mr and Mrs L  I 
can see theyve been through a difficult time. Having reviewed all of the information carefully, 
I am also of the view that this complaint cannot succeed. Ill explain my assessment below.  
I can see that both parties recognise that a claim cannot be pursued for Mr L under the PPH 
definition as that wording expressly excludes Pulmonary Hypertension secondary to any 
other known cause i.e. not Primary  and that applies to Mr L since his condition is caused 
by pulmonary emboli rather than being of primary arterial origin. 
However, Mr and Mrs L believe a claim could have been met under the policy wording for 
open heart surgery. Their policy wording says:
Open heart surgery - with median sternotomy. The undergoing of surgery requiring 
median sternotomy (surgery to divide the breastbone) on the advice of a consultant 
cardiologist to correct any structural abnormality of the heart.
I recognise that Mr L underwent a serious and involved type of cardiothoracic surgery and 
that this surgery did indeed require median sternotomy. However, to satisfy the policy 
definition above, the surgery must be for the purpose of correcting a structural abnormality of 
the heart. Mr L had a pulmonary thromboendarterectomy to remove pulmonary emboli from 
his lungs. 
Though this procedure may be more serious than other types of heart surgery, Mr and Mrs 
Ls policy wording doesnt have the latitude to accept claims for different levels of severity or 
to disregard part of the wording. The policy sets out that one of the lives assured must be 
diagnosed with a condition (or event) as set out in the policy terms.  
The decision an insurer makes to include some conditions and not others in a critical illness 
policy isnt something we can look into or make awards about. Thats because our service is 
not the regulator; that duty falls to the Financial Conduct Authority.
It simply isnt possible for an insurer to provide insurance for every conceivable critical illness a person may suffer from, because the cost would be inherently unaffordable for most 
people. What critical illness policies provide is insurance against being diagnosed with the 
most common instances of severe illnesses.
Aside from including mandatory conditions of stroke, heart attack, and cancer, insurers can 
decide what illnesses they will cover. Industry guidance from the Association of British 
Insurers proposes model wordings for insurers to use in critical illness policies, and the 
guidance expressly says how insurers are free to decide on the conditions and exclusions 
applicable to their products. L&G has decided to offer cover for open heart surgery as a 
matter of its choosing; it is not one of the model conditions suggested by the ABI.  
What we can determine is if, in the circumstances, a business has been fair and reasonable 
in carrying out a contract of insurance. I know Mr and Mrs L feel strongly about the matter. 
But in my view, the refusal of a claim for a condition or event which isnt provided for in the 
policy terms is a reasonable action for an insurer to take.
I know Mrs L feels it is particularly unfair that L&Gs website suggests it has now adopted a 
wider definition of open heart surgery. I realise that is frustrating, but I cannot require L&G to 
assess the claim against terms it may offer now. It has to do so against the policy wording 
provided to Mr and Mrs L for their agreed premium. 
Life insurance and critical illness policies are generally long-term products, for example, they 
are often taken out alongside mortgage lending. Insurers do make periodical changes to the 
products they offer and though it may be good practice to notify policyholders of these 
changes, it wouldnt be fair to retrospectively apply these to existing terms already agreed by 
the parties. 
If insurers were able to vary the conditions during the policy term, policyholders would need 
to be re-underwritten based on their health. This could lead to some customers losing 
valuable cover as their health may have deteriorated. Or, it might be that certain listed 
conditions could be removed or amended based on changes to medical expertise or where 
certain conditions were no longer seen to have the same severity. On that basis, terms are 
agreed from the outset. Unfortunately, the surgery Mr L had was not a claimable event.    
My final decision
Though my decision will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs L, I cant order L&G to pay their 
claim. It has fairly assessed that Mr Ls surgery was not covered under the policy terms.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman