DRN-2873022
The complaint
Ms P complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) took too long to pay her the 
proceeds of one of her shareholdings after it had been compulsory purchased. She wants 
HSDL to pay her interest for the period she was without the money and to compensate her 
for the distress and inconvenience shes been caused.
What happened
Ms Ps shares were compulsory purchased in January 2020. Ms P received the proceeds on 
15 September 2020. She says she wasnt contacted by HSDL during this period and she 
spent time on the phone trying to find out what was going on.
HSDL said it had chased the registrars throughout this period and that it credited Ms Ps 
account on the same day it received the proceeds.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that 
the delay had been caused by the registrars and he didnt think HSDL had done anything 
wrong.
Ms P didnt agree. She said, in summary, that:
The registrars still needed information from HSDL in June  HSDL had sent letters with 
the wrong signatories.
HSDL didnt successfully provide this information until August.
For nine months she couldnt access her money and didnt know if it was secure. HSDL 
seem to be at least 50% to blame.  
My provisional decision
I thought HSDL should pay Ms P £150 compensation and I explained why. I said: 
HSDL supplied a letter of acceptance which did not meet the registrars 
requirements. Weve asked HSDL for some more information about this, as its not 
clear whether the requirements hadnt been made clear or if HSDL made a mistake. 
HSDL has not responded to our questions about this. In the absence of further 
information, Im minded to concluded its more likely than not that HSDL made a 
mistake.
Whilst this led to some of the delay, I find that HSDL did contact the registrar 
regularly to find out when the payment would be made, and it was the registrar who 
didnt respond. So I cant hold HSDL responsible for all the delay here. And I can see 
that as soon as it received the payment, it paid it to Ms P.
Ms P says she had to juggle her finances and that she missed out on investment 
opportunities. I accept that she may have taken the opportunity to reinvest the 
compulsory purchase proceeds, but shes not provided evidence of anything specific 
that she was trying to do. I can only award compensation for an actual financial loss, 
rather than compensating Ms P for something that she might have done.
We also asked HSDL why it didnt contact Ms P during this period to keep her 
informed of what was happening and why the payment had been delayed. But it 
hasnt responded. Its disappointing that Ms P had to phone HSDL on a number of 
occasions to find out what was going on and that these calls were relatively lengthy. 
I think HSDL could have done more here to keep Ms P informed.
Whilst Ive found HSDL more likely than not made a mistake here, its not clear how 
much this delayed the payment because delays were also caused by the registrars. 
So it wouldnt be fair to award interest on the payment because I cant say with any 
certainty when the payment would have been made if HSDL hadnt made an error. 
But I think a payment of £150 would fairly reflect the trouble and upset Ms P has 
been caused.
HSCL hasnt provided the information we requested. Its possible my decision will 
change if HSDL provides evidence to show it wasnt at fault.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided any new evidence or information in response to my provisional 
decision. So I find no reason to depart from my earlier conclusions.
My final decision
My final decision is that Halifax Share Dealing Limited should pay Ms P £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman