DRN-2889275
The complaint
Mr K complains about how Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) handled his loan account, 
and about the incorrect information it gave him.
  
What happened
Mr K took out a loan with Tesco for £33,000. In May 2020, he contacted Tesco to make an 
overpayment of around £14,500 to his loan. When asked, Mr K said he wanted the 
overpayment to reduce the amount of his monthly repayments rather than the term of his 
loan. There was some confusion around whether Mr K wanted an illustration of how the 
overpayment would affect his monthly payments moving forward. This confusion led to Mr K 
being dissatisfied with the call and asking to be transferred to a manager. 
On the next call, the manager Mr K spoke with gave him a breakdown of how the 
overpayment would affect his monthly repayments moving forward. Mr K also wanted to 
know the early settlement figure, which the manager also gave him. During the call, the 
manager let Mr K know that the overpayment hed attempted on the previous call hadnt 
gone through and asked whether hed like to attempt the payment again. But Mr K was 
happy with the early settlement figure hed been provided instead and thought that making 
this payment would work out better for him. So, he said he would rather not make the 
overpayment and said hed await a letter in the post confirming the early settlement figure 
before paying the amount.
On receipt of this letter, Mr K realised that the figures quoted were different to what he was 
told on the phone. So, he raised a complaint with Tesco about the information hed received. 
Tesco investigated matters and agreed that Mr K had been given wrong information. He had 
incorrectly been advised that the overpayment hadnt been processed, when it in fact had. 
So, the figures he was quoted were wrong. Additionally, due to a poorly written note on 
Tescos internal systems, the overpayment had been used to adjust the loan term rather 
than the monthly repayment amount, as Mr K had originally requested.
In Tescos final response letter, it acknowledged these errors, and also some further errors 
as it appeared Mr K was given more incorrect information when he continued speaking with 
its advisers. Overall, it paid Mr K £150 for the wrong information it gave him. Mr K didnt think 
the amount reflected the impact that the matter had on him. He said the situation caused him 
considerable distress and anxiety. So, he brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators reviewed things and agreed that the information provided by Tesco 
had been unclear. But he was satisfied that the information Tesco had since given Mr K 
about his account was correct. He also thought the £150 compensation it had paid was 
enough to recognise the impact caused.
Tesco didnt challenge our investigators findings, but Mr K did. He didnt think £150 fairly 
reflected the stress and anxiety that the matter caused him. Since our investigator issued his 
opinion, Mr K has also told us he has further concerns about his account. Amongst other 
points, he complains that Tesco is responsible for funds leaving his account in 
October 2020, which he hadnt authorised. So, he thought this was a breach of General Data 
Protection Regulation (GDPR). He also complained that Tesco didnt apply a payment break 
to his account when hed asked it to, in March 2020. Tesco didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint 
and referred him to our service.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has come to me to decide. I reviewed the 
case and issued a provisional decision explaining that I was intending to direct Tesco to pay 
an additional £200 compensation to reflect the distress the matter caused Mr K. Mr K didnt 
provide any further arguments in response to the decision. Tesco disagreed with the 
decision. In summary, it said that whilst it understood Mr K had experienced mental health 
issues, it had resolved the matter within 10 calendar days of the errors coming to light, whilst 
acting sympathetically, and therefore mitigated any potential long-lasting effects. It also 
pointed out that the errors had no financial impact on Mr K.
Additionally, Tesco said whilst it recognised that Mr K was experiencing other stresses at the 
time such as losing his job as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, the focus of the 
compensation award should be on the stresses Tesco caused. It also pointed out that some 
of the details of how Mr Ks mental health was affected only came to light after the complaint 
had been referred to our service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I havent changed the opinion I expressed in my provisional decision.  Ive 
explained my reasoning below. But before I do so, I want to say that I have taken on board 
all of the additional comments Tesco raised in response to the provisional decision.
Its not in dispute that Tesco gave Mr K incorrect figures when he asked how much it would 
cost to settle his loan in full. And, from the information Ive seen, Mr K was given confusing 
information about his account multiple times. Additionally, Tesco said there were errors 
made during the process, such as applying the overpayment initially to reduce the term of 
the loan, instead of reducing the monthly repayments as Mr K had requested. Taking all this 
into consideration, I can understand why Mr K wouldve been confused about the status of 
his account, and why he wouldve been disappointed with receiving incorrect information  
particularly considering the size of the loan, and the fact that these errors wouldve therefore 
had a significant impact on what wouldve happened with the loan moving forward.
Matters have since progressed, and Mr K paid the balance of the account in 
November 2020. Ive also considered that some of the errors that were made happened 
whilst Mr Ks payment break was in force. And, Im persuaded that Tesco was able to adjust 
the account accordingly during the payment break to ensure Mr K didnt get charged more 
interest than he should have. And Mr K paid the balance of the loan shortly afterwards. 
However, whilst I recognise that these errors didnt cause any financial detriment to Mr K  
as Tesco pointed out in response to the provisional decision  I think the incorrect 
information that Tesco gave him, on multiple occasions, still had a considerable impact on 
his wellbeing, and this is what Ive gone on to consider next. 
In his testimony, Mr K has detailed how the misinformation from Tesco affected him. He says 
that he had always made the correct repayments on time, and he contacted Tesco in good 
faith to make payment towards his loan account, but instead came away feeling confused 
and anxious about his account. Mr K says these errors and conflicting information caused 
him a lot of stress and had a considerable impact on his overall mental health. Ive also considered that Mr K had lost his job as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, so was 
trying to limit his outgoings at a time when he was in a difficult position financially  
something Mr K made clear to Tesco in phone calls with its advisers. Whilst I acknowledge 
this isnt something Tesco was responsible for, I consider that it wouldve been aware that 
Mr K was in a vulnerable position at the time, and therefore misinformation about a large 
amount of money he owed was likely to have a greater impact on his wellbeing.
Tesco has already paid Mr K £150 compensation, but I dont think this fully reflects the 
impact caused to him. From all the evidence Ive seen, Im persuaded that the errors and 
incorrect information caused Mr K distress as well as disappointment. The loan was a large 
one and therefore any errors made would have significant implications on what wouldve 
happened with it moving forward. I can understand why this wouldve been distressing for 
Mr K, particularly as all he wanted to do was pay off his loan balance as quickly as possible.
Tesco has said the errors made in relation to Mr Ks account were resolved within 10 
calendar days of them coming to light. However, as I understand it, Mr K appears to have 
been given conflicting information about his account for longer than this. Tescos final 
response letter  dated 8 July 2020  acknowledges the error made in relation to the 
overpayment in May 2020. And, from the calls Ive listened to, this was brought to Tescos 
attention by at least early June 2020. But the final response letter also makes reference to 
another issue noticed on the account, which resulted in Mr K being quoted wrong figures 
again in July 2020. Therefore, by Tescos own admission, it appears that Mr K continued to 
be given wrong information, certainly for longer than the 10 days it has referenced. And, I 
can understand why this wouldve left Mr K feeling confused about the status of his account.
With this in mind, I think Tesco should pay him more compensation. Having considered this 
carefully, I think £350 in total fairly reflects the impact the matter had on Mr K.
As I understand it, Mr K raised concerns that Tesco didnt apply a payment break from when 
he originally requested it, at the end of March 2020. Having listened to a call with one of 
Tescos advisers, it was explained that Mr Ks request hadnt been received in time to affect 
Aprils monthly payment. On this call, the adviser asked Mr K whether hed like the payment 
break to be backdated for April, but Mr K then said hed rather that this didnt happen. 
Therefore, Im not persuaded that Tesco has treated him unfairly here.
I understand Mr K was unhappy that there was a direct debit taken from his account to make 
a payment to the loan in October 2020, which left his current account overdrawn by around 
£50. From the information on file, Ive not been presented with enough to persuade me that 
Mr K did cancel his direct debit during his payment break. Additionally, Mr K was informed in 
phone calls with Tesco that his next contractual payment was due in October 2020 as this is 
when the payment break ended. Therefore, it was Mr Ks responsibility to ensure he could 
make a payment, in line with the terms of his agreement. And, it follows that I dont think 
Tesco has done anything wrong here.
Overall, I do think Mr K was given confusing information by Tesco and I can understand why 
he wouldve found the matter distressing. I think Tesco should pay him an additional £200 
compensation to put matters right.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Tesco Personal Finance PLC to pay Mr K £200, in 
addition to the £150 it has already paid him.
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman