DRN-3346257
The complaint and background
Ms H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc ought to have done more to protect her from falling 
victim to what she claims was an investment scam.  
In short, Ms Hs complaint concerns five online transactions, for a total amount of £24,000, 
which took place between 15 September 2020 and 18 September 2020. They were all made 
to the same payee. Ms H says this company, which for the purposes of this decision Ill refer 
to as B, used bullying, manipulation and scare tactics to entice her to make investments.
HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. It said B operates in the contracts for differences (CFD) 
investment market, and the bank didnt think its operation consisted of fraud. Because it 
wasnt in dispute that Ms H authorised these payments, HSBC was unable to refund them. 
When bringing the matter to our service, one of our investigators wasnt satisfied B was 
fraudulent. They therefore thought that HSBC couldnt fairly be held accountable for Ms Hs 
loss. Because Ms H disagrees, the case has been escalated to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant legislation, plus various principles of good practice, make it clear that banks do 
have a duty to protect consumers from the risk of financial harm, including fraud and scams. 
Also, as a firm regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), HSBC has a regulatory 
obligation to counter the risk that its accounts might be used to further financial crime. 
Still, this must be balanced with HSBCs other duties. Theres a provision that delaying a 
payment instruction could lead to a breach of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSRs), which set requirements for the timing of payments such as the ones that Ms H made 
to B. Whats more, while the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would not necessarily 
constitute unauthorised investment advice, in circumstances such as these, there is a 
general prohibition that HBSC should not be providing investment advice pertaining to where 
a consumer should choose to invest (or not invest) their money.
In other words, its possible that HSBC could have warned Ms H about the dangers of falling 
victim to investment fraudsters, without providing her investment advice. But these 
obligations should only reasonably have been engaged under the PSRs if there were 
sufficient grounds for suspecting the payee (i.e. B) was a fraudster; meaning that HSBC 
could have delayed the payments while concerns about B were discussed with Ms H. 
Hence, why I would need to be satisfied that B was operating a scam when these payments 
were made in September 2020 in order to expect HSBC to have done anything further here. 
When determining this, Ive borne in mind that certain high-risk investment traders (such as 
CFD merchants) may use sales methods, or communication styles that can be seen to be 
unfair. Especially, when considering the financial losses incurred because of a disappointing 
return on an investment thats been promoted. Even so, not all complaints to us involving 
CFD merchants are in fact a scam. While the ways and means of these businesses can be 
viewed as unreasonable or even unethical  that doesnt necessarily mean they amount to 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud. 
The FCA and other powers regard the use of industry intelligence as critical to detecting and 
preventing investment fraud. Accordingly, Ive paid particular attention to the official 
organisations that publish warnings about merchants that operate in the UK and abroad. Ive 
depended on the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO), the international body that brings together the world's securities 
regulators. And Ive relied on the FCAs own warning list, which is in place to share alerts 
and insight about merchants that have been identified as potentially being fraudulent.
These watchlists, along with other reputable sources, lead me to believe that there were no 
such warnings about B at the time these payments were made in 2020. Rather, the evidence 
demonstrates that Ms Hs money went to a legitimate business, that was actually regulated 
in another jurisdiction at the material time (and continues to be so now). Suffice to say, 
illegitimate or illegal firms set up with the intention of scamming consumers are highly 
unlikely to submit themselves to regulatory oversight. To that end, Im satisfied theres strong 
evidence B wasnt fraudulent or operating a scam.
Overall, Im not convinced B was the perpetrator of investment fraud  and this has been 
confirmed by authoritative sources covering cross-industry forums and various jurisdictions. 
While Ive paid due regard to the concerns Ms H has raised about the techniques B 
employed, I must follow the evidence and, ultimately, Ms H hasnt persuaded me otherwise. 
As Ive concluded that the payments Ms H made to B were not fraudulent, HSBCs duty to 
intervene wasnt triggered. There was the inevitable risk of Ms Hs investments returning a 
loss, based on market performance. But as Ive explained, HSBC isnt required to protect its 
consumers from the risk of financial loss due to investment advice/choices, or bad bargains. 
Therefore, HSBC did not act unfairly by not undertaking counter measures. Consequently, I 
cannot safely hold it liable for these payments, or Ms Hs loss that ensued. It follows that I do 
not require HSBC to do anything beyond what it has already for this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022. 
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman