DRN-4055367
The complaint
Mr V complains TSB Bank plc stopped his debit card for online services which meant he lost 
income through work.
What happened
Mr V says that he received a text message from TSB informing him they were suspending 
his debit card for use with online services. This was because his card was compromised as 
a result of potential fraud, which was reported to TSB from the third party payment processor 
that they use for their debit cards. Due to Mr Vs job, he needed his card to make payments 
online. But once his card was suspended for online payments and another card ordered, he 
was unable to use his card online until he received a replacement card.
Mr V rang TSB on Friday 26 August and he says he was told the new card would arrive the 
first working day of the following week, and despite him stressing the importance of him 
needing to use his card for work, he feels TSB couldve taken steps to help him but they 
didnt. As there was a bank holiday, he expected the card to be delivered Tuesday, but it 
didnt arrive and despite the potential loss of income he had, the card didnt arrive until 
Thursday 1 September. Mr V made a complaint to TSB.
TSB paid Mr V £50 for the complaint and they said they were pleased that they had been 
able to put things right for him. But Mr V does not feel that this resolved his complaint as he 
wants TSB to pay for his lost wages. Mr V brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator partially upheld Mr Vs complaint. He said TSB should pay Mr V £150 as 
they shouldve done more to support Mr V and they didnt. He said TSB couldve got Mr V 
the card by the next working day, so they didnt treat him fairly. 
TSB asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. They said they do not provide a next 
day card service, so as they had no way to replace the card sooner, there was nothing 
further they could have done after the payments processor told them to cancel the card.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to explain to Mr V that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their security procedures (such as when to suspend a card for use on online and when they 
should reissue a card or what their procedures should be in sending out a new card). It 
would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to 
instruct TSB to make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. Our service 
acts as an informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. We 
look at the circumstances of individual complaints and, on a case by case basis, taking into 
account relevant industry guidance for example, make findings about whether a financial 
business has failed their customer.
TSBs terms and conditions show that there are occasions where they can stop Mr V using 
his debit card or his security details if they are worried about the security of his card or his 
security details and if they think there is a risk of someone else using his card or his security 
details. Here, TSB received a notification from a third party payments processor that his 
debit card had been compromised. So they stopped his card being used online or remotely 
and issued him a new debit card. This is what I would expect TSB to do here. I know this 
would greatly inconvenience Mr V especially due to what hes told us about how he works, 
but TSB would have a duty of care to keep his account safe from fraud. 
The actions TSB took meant that Mr V could still make in person payments while waiting for 
his new card. Again, I appreciate that due to Mr Vs job he needed to make payments online. 
TSB did try to make suggestions of how this could be done on a call he had with them on 26 
August, such as making a faster payment to somebody who could use their card to make the 
payment online, and Mr V himself says there is an easier solution, which would be to give 
someone cash instead of a faster payment to make the payment online for him, but he also 
acknowledges that this may be difficult and he likes to take control of his own finances and 
not to rely on other people. He is also urged to contact the company who he needs to make 
online payments to, to see if they can accept an in person payment, but Mr V dismisses this 
as he says the company doesnt care and hes tried to talk to them before about things, but 
they werent interested. 
So although Mr V didnt want to use the workarounds which TSB suggested, Im persuaded 
that they did try and help him here. Ive also considered the time it took him to receive his 
new card. TSB have told us they dont offer next day deliveries on their debit cards and they 
are unable to send cards via their internal mail. Ive looked at their terms and conditions and 
this also doesnt stipulate that a card could be sent the next day, so although I have a lot of 
sympathy for Mr Vs circumstances here, Im not persuaded there was much more TSB 
could have done in this instance when his card was compromised. They have confirmed that 
there is no way of producing a card quicker and in terms of treating customers fairly, they do 
not delay other customer orders by prioritising others. Mr V would have been able to use his 
card in person, however, I appreciate he regularly had to pay online, which he was unable to 
do while waiting for the new card.
On the call on 26 August the call handler does say that his card should be delivered by the 
Tuesday (30 August). But the call handler would have no control over the delivery of the 
card. This is because TSB do not deliver the cards themselves. The call handler did not 
guarantee the card would get delivered on Tuesday, just that it should get delivered that day. 
But even if the call handler told Mr V that the card would be delivered by 1 September, there 
would be nothing else which could have been done during this time as they had already 
suggested alternative solutions, but Mr V did not want to rely on other people to help him out 
as he did not believe this was practical due to the number of times he would generally make 
the online payments. 
It also appears that there were also a number of strikes which took place with the delivery 
company TSB used between 26-30 August which also could have affected the delivery of 
the card which would be outside of TSBs control. The terms and conditions for the account 
do not document a timescale for a new card to be sent. But the terms and conditions do 
state on page 60 that were not responsible for losses caused by: some unusual or 
unforeseeable things outside our control. These might be things like a strike. The terms and 
conditions also state We also arent responsible for any business losses you suffer. So I 
cant hold TSB liable for any losses Mr V had as a result of the delivery of his card being 
delivered when it was.
Ive also listened to a call on 30 August. Mr V says the post had been delivered that day, but 
they didnt deliver his card. The call handler explained that the card should be delivered on 1 September due to the weekend and the bank holiday, but she did also say it could be the 
next day. The call handler explains that if they could get the card issued quicker than this 
then they would, but they were unable to. Mr V says that TSB shouldnt have stopped his 
card in the first place, but the call handler explains that this was due to suspected fraud as 
they were notified his card was compromised. Again, the call handler suggests he asks 
someone to make the card payments for him and he could transfer them the money and Mr 
V tells her that the fact of the matter is he didnt really want to get people to deal with his 
problems when he can deal with them himself.
Mr V asks the call handler if TSB would compensate him for not working and the call handler 
confirms they wouldnt. She confirms it is in the terms and conditions that they can stop the 
card if fraud is suspected. The call handler does pay Mr V £50 into his account for him 
expecting the card on the Tuesday. She then raises a complaint and tells him that he could 
send information about his loss of earnings and they would look at this as part of his 
complaint. But ultimately, TSB did not feel a bank error was made in the delivery of the card, 
so they took the decision not to pay Mr V anything for any potential loss of earnings.
Mr V received his new card by 1 September as the call handler confirmed on 30 August he 
should receive his card by this date. I say this as I can see the activity on his new card on 
this date. As the new card was ordered on 25 August and TSBs terms and conditions show 
that weekends and bank holidays arent working days, then Mr V received the card within 
four working days after it was ordered. This is in line with industry standard timescales.
In summary, TSB took actions based on information they received to protect Mr Vs account. 
Unfortunately this impacted how Mr V works, but I cant evidence that they TSB were wrong 
to take this action. They followed their processes which on this occasion was fair to do so 
based on the information they received, and they acted in line with their terms and conditions 
in doing so to protect his account. I think the £50 compensation that TSB paid him was fair 
for the call handler saying the card should be delivered on the Tuesday, but she did not 
guarantee that it would be. The card could not be produced quicker and TSB did try and 
offer reasonable adjustments to work around the issue. So it follows I dont intend to ask 
TSB to do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. TSB did not respond to my provisional decision. Mr V did not accept the provisional 
decision, but he did not provide any further information for me to consider about the merits of 
his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider about the merits 
of this complaint, then my decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman