DRN-3778955
Complaint
Mrs W complains she was mis-sold two investments she made in a bond issued by Basset 
& Gold Plc (B&G plc). She would like to be compensated for the loss of capital suffered 
by the investments.
Background
The B&G Plc Bond
Mrs W invested in two B&G Plc 3 Year Fixed Monthly Income IFISA Bonds. Sales of these 
bonds were dealt with by Basset Gold Ltd (BG Ltd), a separate business from B&G Plc, the 
issuer of the bonds. BG Ltd arranged applications for investments in the bonds. And it was 
responsible for advertising and marketing the bonds. Potential investors were also able to 
call BG Ltd, to discuss the bonds.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited 
(Gallium). B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 
February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Mrs Ws investment in the bonds
In March and June 2017, Mrs W invested a total of £20,000 (2 x £10,000) the bonds. BG 
Ltds records show only one application  on 21 March 2017. And they show it recorded   
Mrs W as being an Everyday Investor. 
Mrs Ws representative says Mrs Ws late husband, Mr W, interacted with BG Ltd  by email 
and phone - and Mr and Mrs W made identical investments at the same time. The 
representative says Mr and Mrs W were led to believe there was no risk associated with the 
bonds and that neither of them would have knowingly taken any risk. They had no 
investment experience other than Premium Bonds and cash ISAs.  
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG 
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that 
nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay day 
lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck went into administration 
in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Mrs W 
has not had her invested capital returned to her.
The application process
I have seen screen prints of each stage of BG Ltds online application process. These show 
the application journey that potential investors underwent. This consisted of two stages, 
designed to meet the rules restricting who the bonds could be promoted to and on how to 
test whether the investments were appropriate for the potential investor. The first was 
certification. The second was the appropriateness test. 
Galliums response to Mrs Ws complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mrs Ws complaint. It said Mrs W had been given sufficient 
information and risk warnings about the investments. It then made further submissions, once 
Mrs Ws complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also 
considered what Gallium described as its position statement, which sets out general 
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mrs Ws complaint and concluded it should be upheld. 
They said, in summary:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Mrs W as a restricted 
investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bonds for her - was 
misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the FCAs rules.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Had it done so, Mrs W wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have 
concluded that it shouldnt allow Mrs W to invest. For these reasons, both 
cumulatively and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint and for Gallium to 
compensate Mrs W for the loss she has suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary: 
Regardless of label, Mrs W was required to confirm that she met the requirements of 
a restricted investor and confirmed that she did. It is not fair or reasonable to 
conclude that the use of the word everyday contributed to Mrs W giving an incorrect 
declaration, and it was reasonable for it to rely on the declaration. 
The appropriateness test answers and these confirmations were sufficient for Gallium 
to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and experience of 
the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Mrs W made the investments on the understanding they had risk associated with 
them, and did not choose to surrender them when receiving the email in 2019 which 
warned of the concentration risk. So she would have proceeded with the investments 
regardless. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on 
behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bond. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are 
relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
As mentioned, the bonds were non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules 
restricting who they could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was 
appropriate for the potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 
10.2 and 10.3. I have considered the relevant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered 
these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for the similar reasons. In summary:
There is limited evidence as to how Mrs W came to be recorded as a Everyday 
Investor in relation to the bonds. In the absence of any evidence to the contrary, it 
seems likely she completed the online application process in relation to the first 
investment. But there is no record of any process being completed in relation to the 
second investment. 
So it is not completely clear how Mrs W came to be categorised as an Everyday 
Investor or if she was categorised at all in relation to the second investment. But, like 
the investigator, I think it is fair and reasonable to say that if Mrs W did complete an 
online application (or two online applications) BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, 
misled her into certifying herself as belonging in a category to which she did not 
belong (a restricted investor) by changing the term used in the rules to everyday 
investor and describing the category as being one anyone could fall into. This was 
not treating Mrs W fairly or acting in her best interests. Had BG Ltd followed the rules 
and not misled Mrs W, it is unlikely she would have certified herself as being a 
restricted investor.
And, if Mrs W did not complete online applications its not clear how Mrs W was 
categorised as being potentially eligible to receive a direct offer promotion of the 
bonds. In that case, there is no evidence of Mrs W being categorised as per the 
relevant rules at all  and therefore no basis on which BG Ltd could have proceeded 
beyond this point. 
In any event, Mrs W still had to pass an appropriateness test, as set out in the 
relevant rules, to be eligible to receive a direct offer promotion of the bonds. And the 
appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet the 
requirements of the rules. Had it done so, it would have been apparent the bonds 
were not an appropriate investment for Mrs W. In the circumstances Mrs W would 
either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have 
concluded it should not promote the bonds to Mrs W.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Mrs Ws complaint 
should be upheld. I am also satisfied Mrs W would either not have proceeded to make the 
investments or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to 
compensate Mrs W for her loss.
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put     
Mrs W as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not invested in the 
bonds.
I take the view that Mrs W would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mrs W's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mrs W fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of each of Mrs W's investments with that of the 
benchmark shown below.
A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Pay Mrs W £300 for the distress caused by the total loss of her investments.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameBenchmark From (start 
date)To (end date) Additional interest
3 Year Fixed 
Monthly 
Income IFISA 
BondsAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my final 
decision8% simple per year from final 
decision to settlement (if not 
settled within 28 days of the 
business receiving the 
complainant's acceptance)
For each investment:
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mrs W agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take ownership, 
then it may request an undertaking from Mrs W that she repays to Gallium any amount she 
may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Gallium totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If 
any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, 
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs W wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mrs W's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mrs W would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mrs W in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
John Pattinson
Ombudsman