DRN-1393567
 
The complaint
Mrs M complains that MBNA Limited (MBNA) defaulted her account which adversely 
affected her credit file when she had an agreement in place with them to repay her 
outstanding balance.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mrs M and MBNA, so there is no need for me to repeat them again here in 
any great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its 
relevant to the issues I need to deal with. 
In June 2018 Mrs M notified MBNA she was in financial difficulties and was unable to make 
the minimum payments to her credit card account. A review of her income and expenditure 
revealed that she had a negative income. Mrs M asked MBNA how she could avoid her 
account being defaulted, and she was told that MBNAs default process was to default 
accounts which went more than 6 months in arrears. She was also told that if she paid the 
oldest arrears every month then that would stop the arrears period increasing.
MBNAs procedures then changed, and they wrote to Mrs M in February 2019 asking that 
she pay the arrears off in full, or that she enter into a repayment plan. Mrs M did not receive 
that letter and a default was entered in March 2019.
Although Mrs M complained that MBNA had acted unfairly, because it defaulted her account 
when she had an agreement in place and had stuck to it, MBNA said it hadnt been unfair 
because there had been no such agreement, and it had followed its new procedures. 
Mrs M was unhappy with MBNAs final response and so brought the complaint to this service 
and our investigator looked into it. Having done so, the investigator didnt think that MBNA 
had done anything wrong.
Mrs M didnt agree with that and asked that the complaint be passed to an Ombudsman for a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  I have taken into 
account both sides views in considering whether MBNA acted fairly and reasonably. Ive 
looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. Where evidence is not 
complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the light of the evidence 
which is available. I have to make an independent decision about what I think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here. And in this case, I dont think that MBNA has 
done anything wrong. Ill explain why.
When Mrs M was in financial difficulty she contacted MBNA to discuss her account. There 
was no formal repayment plan agreed at that time but MBNA did freeze interest for 30 days. 
MBNA explained how their process for defaulting accounts worked. It is accepted that their 
advisor also explained that if Mrs M paid off the minimum amount each month that would 
keep her account at 5 months in arrears and stop any default. But although that information 
was incorrect MBNA did later correct it by telling Mrs M that she would actually need to pay 
off the oldest arrears every month to stop going more than 6 months into arrears. Being 
worried she might not pay the right amount Mrs M asked MBNA to let her know what the 
next 6 months of payments would be, which they did. They also had her complete another 
income and expenditure review as a result of which they reduced interest to 0%
When a bank knows their customer is in financial difficulties they are obliged to treat that 
customer sympathetically and fairly. The Lending Code sets out some things banks can do 
when a customer is in financial difficulty and that includes freezing interest on the account. 
So I can see from this that MBNA did treat Mrs M sympathetically and fairly. But what is 
important here is that Mrs M wasnt able to enter into a formal repayment agreement 
because her negative income position showed it was unaffordable.
This is an important point because if Mrs M had entered into such an agreement I would 
have found MBNA were bound to honour it. But what actually happened was they simply 
gave Mrs M the information she asked for and explained the procedure as it then was. It was 
following that point in time that MBNAs procedures changed. MBNA are entitled to change 
their procedures and policies whenever they wish, and this service doesnt have the power 
to make rules governing them, or direct that they change them. We only look at what 
happened in the circumstance of the individual complaint and check that the business 
followed its rules and procedures and is applying them fairly to all customers. 
In this case MBNAs new policy mirrored that of the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) 
which says that if a person falls into arrears on their account, a default may be recorded, and 
that usually occurs between 3 and 6 months in arrears. So in the absence of any formal 
repayment plan MBNA were entitled to issue the default notice to Mrs M. They wrote to her 
at the address they held on file, and which was her correct address. I appreciate she did not 
receive that notice and I have no reason to doubt her, but by the same token, I have no 
reason or evidence to doubt that MBNA sent it. 
So, Im satisfied that MBNA acted fairly in issuing the default notice to Mrs M because at that 
time her account was 5 months in arrears, and in the absence of a response that was a 
reasonable step to take in accordance with their policy. And as businesses are obliged to 
report factual information to the credit reference agencies, I can't say MBNA acted unfairly in 
doing so because as a fact Mrs M's account had. 
So, although Mrs M will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say MBNA has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against MBNA Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2020.
Jonathan WillisOmbudsman