DRN-4411921
The complaint
Mr M complains about the annual charges being levied by iPensions Group Limited 
(iPensions) on his self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the annual charge is now 
£640 which will mean the charges will outstrip the remaining value of the plan at maturity. He 
would like the charges to be refunded or at least reduced as he says iPensions isnt carrying 
out the required administrative tasks to justify its fee.   
What happened
In May 2018 Mr M took out a SIPP, with an initial investment of £30,529, through an adviser. 
The SIPP was invested across several assets  which unfortunately are no longer trading. 
The original provider noted the SIPP carried a £400 set up fee and an annual administration 
charge of £400. 
But the provider subsequently went into administration and all its SIPPs were transferred to 
iPensions in December 2021. When his SIPP was transferred Mr M became aware that it 
had a current value of £1,872.98, up to that point hed received valuations of around 
£25,000.  However Mr M noticed that annual SIPP administration charges of around £640 
were being applied so he asked for the assets to be dissolved from his SIPP so that he could 
either withdrawn any remaining cash or have the plan closed.
Unfortunately iPensions said it was unable to close the SIPP while assets remained within it 
and Mr M would have to wait until the companies he had invested in were wound up and 
their shares could be removed from the SIPP.
It said it needed to continue to monitor the assets and to do so its policy was to try to retain 
£3,000 in a SIPP to cover any ongoing costs pending a resolution. It also explained to Mr M 
that he might want to consider lodging a claim with the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS) as his original SIPP operator and financial adviser had previously gone into 
administration. 
Mr M brought his complaint to us explaining his position. He said he is required to hold the 
(worthless) stock within his SIPP until it matures in 2031. Meanwhile annual fees are 
accruing at (currently) £640, which will mean that his current balance of £1,640 will be 
eroded soon and he could owe the new provider over £5,000 at maturity. He said the 
charges were applied based on a SIPP value of £26,000  which he thought wasnt fair.
One of our investigators looked into matter but didnt think we should uphold the complaint. 
He first explained that he thought we could consider the complaint as iPensions had 
suggested that it should be looked at by the Pensions Ombudsman instead. 
He went on to explain that, while he had sympathy for Mr Ms position, he thought iPensions 
had applied charges in line with its fee schedule, and that those fees could be applied 
irrespective of the value of the SIPP. He confirmed that he thought iPensions had carried out 
the administrative tasks it said it would do in relation to its annual SIPP fees. 
The investigator also confirmed that iPensions had waived an additional yearly fee of £300 
plus vat which it usually charged for holding non-standard assets within a SIPP  which 
Mr Ms shares were. So he thought iPensions had made some form of concession to Mr M in 
this case, which it wasnt obliged to do. 
Mr M said he wasnt happy with how iPensions had handled his complaint and its lack of a 
final response letter. He said this was part of the administration it was required to carry out 
when looking after his SIPP  so he didnt think it had justified the fees it applied in this 
instance. He though iPensions lack of engagement with him (and this service) was 
disrespectful considering that he will have to pay it around £4,500 in fees from now until his 
SIPP plan matures. He asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman, so its been 
passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator  which I know is 
an outcome Mr M will be disappointed with. So Ill explain my reasons below.
In its submission to us iPensions thought that this complaint ought to be considered by 
another Alternative Dispute Resolution entity. The investigator explained why he thought it 
was within our jurisdiction to consider the complaint and, as no response was received by 
iPensions following his assessment, I went on to consider the merits of Mr Ms complaint.  
Mr Ms SIPP was taken out through a provider which subsequently went into administration. 
All the providers SIPPs were then transferred to iPensions so that it could save the SIPP 
members benefits and offer them a way forward with their investments. Unfortunately, the 
investments that Mr M made into his SIPP through his original financial adviser went into 
administration too  so that when iPensions took over his plan the new investment manager 
established its value to be less than £2,000. This was as opposed to the approximate 
£26,000 valuation Mr M said he was given during the time he held it with the original provider 
and investment manager.  
Can Mr M claim for unsuitable investment advice?  
Mr M is aware that iPensions didnt give him any investment advice when it took over the 
administration of his SIPP. He accepts that advice was given by a previous adviser who is 
no longer trading. Mr M says he isnt complaining about the investments he held as he 
understands they simply didnt work on this occasion. But Mr M has clearly lost a significant 
sum of money from the investments, so our investigator set out how he could make a claim 
against the original adviser using the FSCS. 
I know the investigator has provided detailed information to Mr M on how he can make his 
claim  so Ill leave it up to Mr M to advance a complaint if he so wishes. But I need to be 
clear that iPensions hasnt provided any investment advice, so Im not considering any claim 
of unsuitable advice against it on that basis.
The ongoing annual SIPP fees eroding the SIPP fund
Mr M has told us that his complaint is essentially about the fees hes being charged for the 
administration of his SIPP. He says that within a couple of years they will erode the small 
amount of cash left in the SIPP and will eventually leave him owing around £5,000 when the 
assets within the SIPP mature and allow him to access/close the plan. He doesnt think this is fair and wants iPensions to at least reduce the annual fee it applies. Mr M has also 
suggested that the fees were based on his original SIPP valuation of around £26,000. 
When Mr M took out his SIPP originally, he was provided with documentation which set out 
the charges that would be applied. Ive seen evidence of emails between Mr M and his 
adviser in 2018 which set out the annual fees for two SIPPs he was considering. The one 
that was recommended had a set-up fee of £400 and an ongoing annual fee of £400 plus 
VAT. So Mr M was aware of the fee and that it was a fixed fee rather than a percentage 
based on the value of his SIPP.  
On taking over his SIPP iPensions also set out its fees for administering Mr Ms plan. Ive 
seen a copy of its fee schedule which noted the annual trust (SIPP) fee was £550 per 
annum. It also stated in its terms and conditions that it could revise its fees as long as it 
gave Mr M notice of any changes. So that in its statutory money purchase illustration dated 
31 December 2022, which set out a projected fund value and pension benefit at retirement 
and noted the charges for the SIPP, it showed that the current pension fund value was 
£1,879.56 and the annual trust (SIPP) fee was £660 per annum. So again I think iPensions 
made Mr M aware of its charges and from what I can see it has levied them in line with what 
it said it would charge.
Unfortunately because his investments are now of little value and cant be dissolved or 
withdrawn from the SIPP at this time, Mr Ms outstanding SIPP balance is only sufficient to 
pay two or three more annual charges - and he is right to point out this could leave further 
charges applied to account for the remaining term which cant be offset by any outstanding 
balances. 
I note the original SIPP terms and conditions state that, Where you have insufcient funds 
to cover any charges that you owe us, and you have not taken steps prior to one month 
before the due date of these charges to create sufcient liquidity to cover these charges, we 
reserve the right to sell part or all of any asset to cover these charges. We do not accept any 
liability for any charges, penalties or otherwise which your plan may receive as a result of 
these actions. Once such actions have been taken to create liquidity, you will continue to 
be liable for any outstanding balance which the sale could not cover.
I have some sympathy for the position Mr M now finds himself in through no fault of his own, 
and I can understand the frustration and concern that he has. I can also understand why 
Mr M has looked at a range of possible solutions for his predicament, including asking 
iPensions to reduce the fees so that the outstanding balance might cover the remaining 
charges. But I cant reasonably say that iPensions has done anything wrong here nor is it fair 
or reasonable for me to tell it to change its fee structure. Its for iPensions itself to decide if it 
wishes to negotiate with Mr M over its ongoing fees or whether any changes can be made to 
the underlying assets in order that he might be able to close the SIPP. 
iPensions hasnt done anything wrong in applying its fees in the way it has even if Mr M 
believes them to be excessive for the size of the fund. But Mr M has also said that he 
doesnt think iPensions has carried out the administrative duties its required to - in order to 
justify its annual fees. 
He cites the example of it not providing a final response letter to his complaint as a 
dereliction of one of those duties  which he says doesnt justify charging its fees. So Ive 
gone on to look at iPensions administrative duties as set out in relation to its annual fee.  
iPensions duties as administrator of the plan.
The SIPP terms and conditions set out iPensions responsibilities as an administrator.Clause 5 states that, the Provider sets up the Scheme and the Scheme Administrator 
carries out the day to day administration of the Scheme, including but not limited to 
regulatory reporting requirements and tax returns.
 
While Clause 16.1 goes further in explaining the charges in relation to its duties. It states the 
Annual Trust Fee covers the basic provision of a standard administration service. This 
includes the following:
 
i. Record keeping, including your personal details, transaction reconciliation and 
annual statements. 
ii. Processing Member and their Appointed Adviser requests in relation to the standard 
administration of your SIPP and investment. 
iii. Dealing with contribution and transfer requests and, where applicable, issuing a 
pension savings statement. 
iv. Provision of banking facilities.
I understand this list isnt exhaustive, but it sets out the main areas that iPensions is 
responsible for. And I havent been presented with any evidence to support the claim that 
iPensions hasnt carried out these tasks, so it wouldnt be fair to say it hasnt justified the 
annual trust fee that it has already applied and will continue to do so. 
The lack of a final response letter
Ive seen the strength of feeling Mr M has over the matter of a lack of response to his 
complaint/request for help from iPensions. It was his main reason for asking us to review his 
complaint following the investigators assessment. And I can understand how frustrated this 
would have made him, when all he wanted was to be able to negotiate a lower SIPP fee so 
that his funds werent exhausted by the annual charges leaving him with a possible 
outstanding balance which he could be personally liable for when the SIPP matures.
But looking at the duties iPensions had as an administrator that Ive set out above, I havent 
seen anything to suggest there was a direct responsibility for it to provide a final response 
letter following any complaint that it might receive. I would expect iPensions to investigate a 
complaint as part of its normal functions, but any failure to issue a response to his complaint 
within the prescribed time limits doesnt prevent Mr M from bringing his complaint to this 
service  which is what he did in this instance. 
But, even if I am wrong in my assumptions about that, the handling of a complaint and failure 
to provide a final response letter isnt a regulated activity. So its not a matter we can 
investigate or make any determination upon. 
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman