DRN-2629526
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way PRAC Financial Limited has pursued a debt in his name. He 
would like PRAC to write the debt off and amend his credit file.
What happened
In 2016, PRAC bought a debt in Mr Bs name and appointed a law firm to deal with 
collection. For ease I will continue to refer to PRAC although I appreciate that some of the 
actions were taken by the law firm on behalf of PRAC.
PRAC mistakenly told Mr B that his account had been closed when he tried to settle the 
debt. Mr B made further offers to settle which werent accepted. And Mr B didnt accept any 
of the offers that PRAC made to him.
Mr B wanted PRAC to write the debt off as the original lender paid him compensation for 
irresponsible and unaffordable lending.
Mr B was also unhappy that PRAC hadnt defaulted his account when it took it over. Mr B 
says that arrears get added each month which has had a negative impact on his credit file.
The investigator issued two recommendations. In the first, he asked PRAC to pay £100 
compensation and apply a backdated default. After considering PRACs response, the 
investigator thought that compensation was no longer needed, but he still wanted a default 
to be backdated.
PRAC says that a default would be worse for Mr B than the current situation. It says Mr Bs 
account will be removed from his credit file by April 2022 even if he makes a payment in the 
meantime.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Mr B wont mind if I dont go into every detail of his complaint. Its not that I 
havent taken account of everything thats been said  I just want to focus on what is left to 
resolve. I agree with the investigator that PRAC shouldnt be required to write the debt off 
and that although mistakes were made, compensation isnt appropriate in the circumstances. 
So, I just need to consider whether its appropriate to require PRAC to default Mr Bs 
account.
The Information Commissioners Office guidance says that a default will generally be 
recorded when an account is three or more months in arrears. Mr Bs account was opened in 
April 2016 and no payments were ever made. By the time PRAC bought the account in late 
2016, Mr B was several months in arrears. In the absence of any payments by Mr B, Id 
reasonably have expected his account to be in default.
I take PRACs point that it has a duty to treat its customers fairly and that theres no 
obligation on it to report a file as being in default from the date it buys a debt. But in Mr Bs 
case, a repayment plan failed, and no agreement was reduced on a reduced settlement. I 
dont consider that it was in Mr Bs best interest to delay defaulting the account. Particularly 
as PRAC says Mr B told it he didnt intend making any payments towards the debt.
Mr Bs account was already significantly in arrears when PRAC took it over. I agree with the 
investigator that the fairest way to resolve things for Mr B is to require PRAC to issue a 
default notice. If Mr B doesnt respond or payment terms arent agreed, PRAC should 
backdate the default to the date on which it bought the account. I consider this to be an 
accurate reflection of the way Mr B has managed his account.
PRAC points out that as things currently stand, all information about Mr Bs account will be 
removed six years after the date that he opened it - even if he makes a payment towards the 
balance. Although this may be the case, Mr B says he would rather PRAC record the default. 
Putting things right
PRAC Financial Limited should issue a default notice and if the debt isnt settled, it should 
backdate the default to the date on which it bought the account.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct PRAC Financial Limited to take the 
steps outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman