DRN-3694865
The complaint
Mr E complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) failed to refund money he 
says he lost to an investment scam.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
Mr E has told us that after seeing adverts in financial online journals and carrying out further 
online research he contacted ET Finance (ETF) to discuss investment opportunities. Mr E 
had also that ETF were regulated by Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission (CySEC) 
and validated their FCA cross boarder trading licence.
Mr E told ETF that he had limited trading experience, but ETF built confidence with Mr E and 
persuaded him to invest more and more of his money.
Mr E made the following payments from his NatWest account using his Visa debit card:
1. 3 October 2019 - £10,000
2. 3 October 2019 - £10,000
3. 3 October 2019 - £5,000
4. 3 October 2019 - £7,000
5. 4 October 2019 - £7,000
6. 4 October 2019 - £10,000
7. 7 October 2019 - £10,000
8. 7 October 2019 - £4,000
9. 7 October 2019 - £8,000
10. 8 October 2019 - £5,000
11. 8 October 2019 - £10,000
While trading with ETF Mr E upgraded his account to a gold account following advice ETF 
gave him, and when his funds were depleted, he was offered a goodwill payment of £20,000 
to invest further. Mr E agreed to the offer and signed to accept the funds, but he later found 
that the document he signed was an agreement that acted to resolve any dispute he had 
with ETF. Mr E then went on to lose these funds though ETF as well.
Despite the large losses Mr E endured he did receive some amounts from ETF over the time 
he was trading with them that were of significant amounts. But overall Mr E did lose a 
significant sum.
Our Investigator considered Mr Es complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He said he 
didnt think the option of requesting a chargeback for the payments Mr E had made was 
viable and didnt think NatWest was able to prevent Mr E incurring the loss he had.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment trading scam is in fact
a scam. Some cases simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in disappointing
returns or losses.
Certain high-risk investment traders may have promoted these products using sales
methods that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who
lost out may understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not
necessarily meet the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud; i.e. dishonestly making
a false representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a
gain for himself, or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud
Act 2006).
In simpler terms, some merchants may have used sales and promotional methods that could
be seen to be unfair by consumers considering the losses theyve incurred  but this does
not always amount to fraud.
When considering this for Mr Es case, Ive paid particular attention to the official 
organisations that publish warnings about merchants that operate in the UK and abroad. Ive
searched the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities
Commissions (IOSCO), the international body that brings together the world's securities
regulators. And the FCA (as the UK regulator) also has its own warning list, which is in place
to share alerts and insight about merchants that have been identified as potentially being
fraudulent.
Upon checking these, its my understanding that ETF had no adverse information
reported about them at the time Mr E authorised his payments to them. What I have noted
is that they were regulated by CySEC at the time of Mr Es payments with passporting
rights through the FCA - which meant they could offer services to UK customers. Ive noted
the FCA issued a supervisory notice to ETF on 28 May 2020 and on 1 June 2020 removed 
its passporting rights concluding ETF (amongst others) had operated scams. The FCA 
removed ETFs ability to provide services to UK customers.
However, this note was published after Mr E made all his payments, so I dont think
NatWest could reasonably have known  based on the recipient details alone  that ETF 
was operating a scam. So, I need to consider whether NatWest ought to have suspected 
that Mr Es account was being subjected to unusual or uncharacteristic activity.
Its clear from viewing Mr Es bank statements that the frequency of payments he was 
making to ETF, and the large amounts were unusual compared to the way he usually ran his 
account. So, I think it would have been reasonable for expect NatWest to have checked the 
payments were genuine quite early on.
However, had NatWest stepped in it would have seen that ETF was a legitimate business. 
Had it asked Mr E what the payments related to I think its likely Mr E would have said he 
was making investments through ETF, and if NatWest had probed further, it would have 
found that Mr E had carried out due diligence on ETF before deciding to invest. I think its 
unlikely this would have raised any concerns with NatWest. The types of investments a 
customer makes is not something NatWest would be expected to get involved in or advise 
on.So, even though I think the payments should have alerted NatWest to contact Mr E, I dont 
think NatWests intervention would have made a difference as Ive said above NatWest 
would have likely found ETF were a legitimate business and Mr E was investing with it after 
carrying out his own detailed research about the business. So, I dont think NatWest would 
have been able to prevent Mr Es losses by stepping in at the time the payments were made.
I can see that NatWest decided not to try to recover Mr Es losses by requesting a 
chargeback.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
In basic terms, Mr E made payment to ETF for it to invest for him. While Mr E lost a lot of the 
money he had invested with ETF, it did arguably provide this service. Mr E says this is not 
the case and that ETF said it was going to provide a service that he never received.
I can see Mr Es view on this. But other rules also apply to the chargeback process.
The chargeback dispute reason code (13.5) required Mr E to provide dated evidence that 
he had available balances in his trading account on the same day that withdrawal requests 
were made  and that these requests werent honoured.
I have not seen anything to suggest Mr E would have evidence to support this. So, I dont 
think NatWest acted unfairly by choosing not to process his claims for him.
Mr E has told us he has been successful in receiving a refund of payments he made on two 
separate credit cards. But the rules that apply to credit card payments differ from those that 
apply to debit card payments and so cannot be applied in this case, in the same way.
Overall, while I appreciate Mr E feels NatWest should have done more to prevent his loss, 
for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think NatWest is responsible and I wont be 
asking it to provide Mr E with a refund of any of the payments he made using his NatWest 
debit card. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman