DRN-3544771
The complaint
Ms G complains about issues she encountered when attempting to trade online, with 
AEGON Investment Solutions Ltd (AEGON).
Ms Gs also unhappy AEGON failed to deal with the transfer of her accounts to another 
financial institution in a timely manner.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
One of our Investigators looked into what happened and thought the extra £400 
compensation offered by AEGON, in addition to what theyve already paid, was a fair and 
reasonable way of resolving the complaint.
Ms G disagreed with our Investigators opinion, so the complaint has come to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the opinion of our investigator about Ms Gs complaint for the 
following reasons. 
But first, both parties have provided a lot of information about this complaint. Im aware Ive 
summarised this complaint in far less detail than has been provided, and Ive done so using 
my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think 
are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts.
If theres something Ive not mentioned, or if I dont comment on any specific point, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every detail to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. This is because whilst I consider all the detail, I also need to think about things 
overall and as a whole.
I think its also relevant and important to emphasise that The Financial Ombudsman Service 
isnt the industry regulator. That means we dont set the processes a business puts in place, 
enforce changes upon them or set out to punish them. My role is instead to consider 
individual disputes and if I dont think the business acted appropriately, to look at everything 
that has gone wrong as a whole and decide a fair and reasonable outcome.
Its clear Ms G hasnt received the service she was entitled to expect when dealing with 
AEGON.
I consider the crux of this complaint to consist of two key points. Its these Ill focus on.
Issues when trading online
Whilst on one occasion AEGON required Ms G to provide information in order to comply with 
Markets in Financial Instruments Directive guidelines, Ive seen from the information 
provided by both parties, she contacted AEGON, on multiple times over a prolonged period, 
attempting to resolve the issues she faced. And on occasions, had to place trades manually 
which werent actioned as quickly as online trades wouldve been.
Ms G wouldve naturally been frustrated when receiving repeated error messages whilst 
trying to trade mustve caused. She told our service this continued for many months, 
sometimes working and sometimes not.
Ms G further disputes AEGON acted swiftly to put sound communication protocols in place 
following the lockdown caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, meaning she couldnt give trade 
instructions even manually straightaway. 
I acknowledge there may have been a delay in AEGON putting alternative processes in 
place  but given the unprecedented and unforeseeable circumstances of the worldwide 
events at the time, I dont think the delay was unreasonable. I say this because from the 
evidence Ive seen, the first trade placed manually after the start of the pandemic was done 
so on 8 of April 2020.
Ms G says she was repeatedly blocked from buying funds. I dont doubt Ms G was unable to 
complete trades on occasions and Ive considered this when thinking about what fairly 
compensates her. But Im only able to direct AEGON to put Ms G back into the position she 
wouldve been in if Ive seen evidence, she lost out directly because of their error.
And from the evidence Ive seen, on the occasions Ms G suffered a financial loss by having 
to place a manual trade as opposed to completing it online, AEGON acted fairly and 
reasonably by adding a total of £620.43 to her accounts. This meant she was put Back in the 
position she always wouldve been had she been able to complete those trades online. This 
is what Id have expected them to have done.
On two further occasions, the delays in processing the manual instructions resulted in Ms G 
gaining financially by £989.68. Because these errors put Ms G in a better financial position, 
AEGON took no corrective action.
Ive not seen any further evidence of actual trades; Ms G has suffered a loss from across 
any of her accounts. I simply cant know for sure what trades Ms G mightve made had no 
errors occurred.
By way of apology for the distress and inconvenience their errors may have caused, AEGON 
initially paid Ms G £350 compensation. And after Ms G continued to experience issues, 
AEGON offered her a further £400 compensation. 
I understand this isnt what Ms G wants. But Im satisfied, in addition to AEGON taking the 
right action by ensuring Ms G hasnt lost out where a manual instruction was required, this 
amount is fair and reasonable when taking into consideration the issues she experienced as 
a whole. 
Ms G was affected by AEGONs actions and I think their offer of £400 extra compensation is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. This is in addition to the £350 
compensation shes already been paid, the £620.43 added to her funds by AEGON and the 
£989.68 financial gain AEGON allowed to remain in the funds. 
Transfer of accounts
Next, Ive considered the delays caused to the transfer of Ms Gs account to another 
financial institution. It isnt in dispute AEGON were responsible for the delays. Theyve 
admitted fault for multiple errors  so Ive looked at what theyve done to put things right.
Ms G has raised that she had to continue paying fees to AEGON, despite the transfer taking 
longer than it should. While I acknowledge this mustve been frustrating, I dont think she has 
financially lost out.I say this because AEGON were still holding her funds, so I think its reasonable fees 
continued to be charged. And whilst Ms G was incurring fees with AEGON, she wasnt 
paying fees to her new provider  which she would have been had the funds been 
transferred earlier.
In their final response letter AEGON said they would usually look to review a customers 
position following the completion of a transfer, but at the time Ms Gs transfers hadnt 
completed. AEGON confirmed should she feel their errors caused her a loss; theyd be 
happy to review her position as a new complaint. This is what Id expect them to do should 
Ms G bring her concerns about the delay causing a potential loss to their attention.
AEGON paid Ms G £350 to apologise for any inconvenience caused in this aspect of the 
complaint. In addition to their offer to review any potential loss, Im satisfied this amount 
compensates her fairly and reasonably for the overall delays in completing her transfers.
Summary
In summary, for the reasons Ive explained above, in addition to the corrective action 
AEGON have either taken or offered to review, I think AEGON should pay Ms G a further 
£400 in addition to the £700 already paid. Im satisfied this compensates Ms G fairly and 
reasonably after taking into consideration all the issues shes experienced as a whole as a 
result of AEGONs errors.
Putting things right
AEGON Investment Solutions Ltd (AEGON) should pay Ms G an extra £400 above the 
payments already made for the inconvenience of what happened. This is a total of £1,100 
compensation for the trouble and upset and this is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
My final decision
AEGON Investment Solutions Ltd has already made an offer to pay Ms G a further £400 to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that AEGON Investment Solutions Ltd should pay Ms G £400.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman