DRN-2121400
The complaint
Ms H and Mr W complain that Santander UK plc (when it was trading as Abbey) mis-sold a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Ms H and Mr W in 1999 in connection with 
a mortgage. The policy provided Ms H and Mr W with cover if they couldnt work because of 
accident, sickness or unemployment. Ms H and Mr W paid a monthly amount for the PPI.
I issued a provisional decision for the complaint on 9 July 2020. I said I wasnt minded to 
uphold the complaint, and Ive summarised my provisional findings below:
Our adjudicator had recommended the complaint should be upheld because Ms H 
told us she had a medical condition when she bought the policy. So she may not 
have been covered by the policy if shed had to take time off in connection with that 
condition.
But Ms H had then told me she hadnt taken any time off work in connection with her 
condition when the policy was sold.
When I took account of what Ms H had told me about her condition, and the extent to 
which it had affected her ability to work, I wasnt persuaded that Santanders 
recommendation to take out the PPI was unsuitable. Thats because I thought the 
likelihood of Ms H needing to make a disability claim in connection with her condition 
was relatively low.
I couldnt be sure Santander pointed out the exclusion that affected Ms H when she 
and Mr W bought the policy. But even if the bank had pointed it out to them, I thought 
it was unlikely they wouldve made a different decision about buying the policy. That 
was because I thought Ms H wouldve considered it unlikely that she would need to 
take time off work in connection with her condition.
From what Id seen of Ms H and Mr Ws other circumstances, it didnt look like the 
policy was unsuitable for them.
From what Id seen, there was nothing to suggest that Santander didnt make it clear 
to Ms H and Mr W that the PPI was optional. On balance, I thought they wouldve 
realised they had a choice about buying it.
It was possible the information Santander gave Ms H and Mr W about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it shouldve been. But I wasnt persuaded that they wouldve made a 
different decision about buying the PPI if better information had been available.
When I took account of all these points, overall I wasnt persuaded that the complaint 
should be upheld.
Ms H and Mr W didnt make any further representations in response to my provisional 
decision.
Santander said it didnt have anything to add in response to my provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms H and Mr Ws case.
In the absence of any further representations from the parties, I see no reason to depart 
from the position set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman