DRN-3686212
The complaint and background
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) ought to have done more to 
protect him from falling victim to what he claims was an investment scam.
The complaint initially involved three payments to a contract for differences (CFD) trading 
platform, PatronFX, that Mr B made using his Halifax credit card. Two of these three have 
already been refunded by PatronFX, meaning the complaint now only concerns the £5,000 
that was paid to PatronFX in January 2021 which has not been reimbursed. 
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint. Given Mr B authorised the payments in question and 
went on to receive money back from PatronFX, the bank didnt treat what happened as a 
valid fraud claim. The bank said that it could explore means of recovering the outstanding 
payment. Including, by raising a claim for Mr B under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (CCA). This would be on the basis that Mr B fulfils the requisite procedure. 
Meanwhile, Mr B brought the complaint to our service. One of our investigators reviewed the 
available evidence and wasnt satisfied PatronFX was operating a scam at the time Mr B 
made the payments, so they didnt agree Halifax should be liable for his loss. They held that 
Halifaxs offer to consider the applicable recovery methods including a Section 75 claim 
was reasonable in the circumstances and could not be further commentated on yet.  
Mr B does not accept that Halifax did enough to protect him from going ahead with the 
payments in the first place; he maintains that Halifax failed in its duty to prevent the 
transactions on account of PatronFX being a scam. Because Mr B is not in agreement, the 
matter has been escalated to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator explained to the parties that Mr B hadnt yet fully explored a Section 75 
claim with Halifax as his credit provider, meaning that this could not be credibly drawn into 
the findings of this complaint  which Mr B has provided no counter argument to. 
Pursuant to Section 75, Mr B may have a like claim against Halifax as a creditor, meaning 
the bank could be joint and severally liable for the outstanding £5,000. There are procedures 
in place to investigate a like claim, including establishing whether the necessary conditions 
have been met. As far as I am reasonably aware, such a claim hasnt concluded because 
Halifax first requires certain steps to be taken by Mr B. 
Therefore, all I will say is that, should Mr B complete a Section 75 claim, Halifax ought to 
duly consider its merits under the CCA. Additionally, while our service cannot provide any 
advice in this regard, for completeness Ill also note that there may be potential recourse for 
Mr B by contacting PatronFX and or the relevant regulator, being the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) and/or the Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission (CySEC). 
Within this complaint, whats left for me to determine is if Halifax failed to take reasonable 
measures to prevent Mr B making payments to PatronFX using his Halifax credit card. 
The relevant legislation, plus various principles of good practice, make it clear that banks do 
have a duty to protect consumers from the risk of financial harm, including from fraud and 
scams. Also, as a firm regulated by the FCA, Halifax has a regulatory obligation to counter 
the risk that its accounts might be used to further financial crime. 
Still, this must be balanced with Halifaxs other duties. Theres a provision that delaying a 
payment instruction could lead to a breach of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSRs), which set requirements for the timing of payments such as the ones that Mr B 
made. Whats more, while the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would not necessarily 
constitute unauthorised investment advice, in circumstances such as these, there is a 
general prohibition that Halifax should not be providing investment advice pertaining to 
where a consumer should choose to invest (or not invest) their money. 
In other words, its possible that Halifax could have warned Mr B about the dangers of falling 
victim to investment fraudsters, without providing him investment advice. But these 
obligations should only reasonably have been engaged under the PSRs if there were 
sufficient grounds for suspecting the payee (i.e. PatronFX) was fraudulent; meaning that 
Halifax could have delayed payment while concerns were duly discussed with Mr B. Hence, 
why I would need to be satisfied that PatronFX was operating a scam when these payments 
were made in order to expect Halifax to have done anything further here. 
When determining this, Ive borne in mind that certain high-risk investment traders (such as 
CFD merchants) may use sales methods, or communication styles that can be seen to be 
unfair. Especially, when considering the financial losses incurred because of a disappointing 
return on an investment thats been promoted. Even so, not all complaints to this office 
involving CFD merchants are in fact a scam. While the ways and means of these businesses 
can be viewed as unreasonable or even unethical  that doesnt necessarily mean they 
amount to the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud. 
The FCA and other powers regard the use of industry intelligence as critical to detecting and 
preventing investment fraud. Accordingly, Ive paid particular attention to the official 
organisations that publish warnings about merchants that operate in the UK and abroad. Ive 
depended on the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO), the international body that brings together the world's securities 
regulators. And Ive relied on the FCAs own warning list, which is in place to share alerts 
and insight about merchants that have been identified as potentially being fraudulent. 
Both the IOSCO and FCA watchlists, along with other reputable sources, lead me to believe 
that there were no such warnings about PatronFX at the time these payments were made in 
early 2021. I have noted that PatronFX was regulated by CySEC at the time of Mr Bs 
payments (and continues to be so now). It had passporting rights through the FCA, 
meaning it could offer services to UK customers. Suffice to say, illegitimate or illegal firms 
set up with the intention of scamming consumers are highly unlikely to submit themselves to 
regulatory oversight.
Im aware the FCA removed the passporting rights in April 2021. In January 2022, PatronFX 
refunded two of the three payments Mr B made, which I understand was in keeping with the 
instruction to close all trading positions and return the money to consumers. I accept that there was no return of the £5,000 payment. However, this does not mean 
PatronFX was operating a scam and is a matter that would need to be raised with CySEC 
and/or the FCA, as it would be subject to what PatronFX was specifically required to do for 
its UK consumers (which cannot fall into the remit of this complaint against Halifax). Besides, 
this regulatory action came after Mr B had sent these payments. Therefore, Ive not seen 
sufficient evidence to be satisfied that PatronFX was a scam company at the material time. 
My conclusions are reinforced by the fact that Mr B received considerable credits back from 
Patron FX in a separate account he holds (in addition to the instructed refunds Ive 
mentioned). Its without question that these credits which reflected the performance of his 
trading activity conflict with typical fraudulent behaviour that normally seeks to extract and 
retain as much money as possible from victims. Such repayments are more akin to an 
investment scheme that has paid out based on pervasive market conditions. 
So, overall, Im not convinced PatronFX was a perpetrator of investment fraud and this has 
been reinforced by authoritative sources covering cross-industry forums and various 
jurisdictions. As Ive concluded that the payments Mr B made to this firm were not the 
proceeds of fraud, Halifaxs duty to intervene wasnt triggered. 
There was the inevitable risk of Mr Bs investments returning a loss, based on market 
performance. However, as Ive explained, Halifax isnt required to protect its consumers from 
the risk of financial loss due to investment advice/choices, or bad bargains. It follows that 
Halifax did not act unfairly by not undertaking counter measures. To that end, I cannot safely 
hold it liable for these payments, or Mr Bs loss that ensued. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman