DRN-2423322
The complaint
Mr R says Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr R took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1996. Mr R paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered him in case he was off work sick or 
lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Rs case. 
Ive decided that this PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr Rs mortgage application had a section for PPI. It explained that Bradford & Bingley were 
offering the policy with the first six months free, if Mr R was interested. It offered him the 
option to take out PPI or turn it down. Its recorded that Mr R wanted the policy. He then 
checked he was eligible and chose what kind of cover hed like. Mr R says he didnt 
physically fill in the form himself. But the staff member would need to have gone through 
Mr Rs personal details, financial details, preferences and so on to fill out the form, so I think 
its most likely they went through his choice for PPI, too. Further, Mr R specifically signed the 
form to confirm his choices  and there was an onus for Mr R to read what he was signing.
The mortgage offer then confirmed the details of the policy Mr R had chosen, setting it out as 
a separate product to the mortgage itself with a separate cost  it wasnt part and parcel of 
the mortgage. Ive not seen any wider problems with Bradford & Bingleys sales process 
from the time, nor any evidence which shows that Mr R was misled into buying PPI here. As 
far as I can see, the brochure and documents set out the PPI as an optional extra. So 
overall, I think that Bradford & Bingley made Mr R aware he had a choice about buying the 
PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time.
Its not clear whether Bradford & Bingley recommended the PPI to Mr R, or not. The 
requirements were stricter on Bradford & Bingley if they did recommend it  so to be fair to 
Mr R, Ive assumed they did. That means Bradford & Bingley had to check the policy was 
right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was.
For example, it looks like Mr R was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its 
main exclusions or limitations. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of his work benefits and 
covered him for longer. And according to the financial information he gave at the time, he 
only had very limited savings. Though even if I accept he had more savings, the PPI meant 
he could effectively protect those and use them for other things, instead of potentially having 
to sacrifice one asset to save another. Indeed, here Mr R told us that he needed those 
savings for a long trip and a new car not long after, so it makes sense he protected them. 
I also understand Mr Rs partner may have been happy to help, but there was always the 
chance theyd be unable to help when needed. And this mortgage was Mr Rs responsibility, 
not anyone elses, so I dont think it wouldve been suitable if Bradford & Bingley had 
recommended he rely on other individuals to pay it. Ultimately, this mortgage was a very 
significant, long-term commitment, and if Mr R had fallen behind on his payments he 
couldve lost his home. So the PPI could have really been useful for Mr R in protecting his 
home and providing some peace of mind.
If Bradford & Bingley didnt recommend the PPI to Mr R, they still had to give him clear 
information about the policy. 
Its possible that the information Bradford & Bingley gave Mr R about PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed his mind. Here, it looks like Mr R chose to take out PPI, which indicates he wanted 
this type of cover. As I explained above, Mr R wasnt affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for him in case something went wrong. 
The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. And the PPI 
was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr R could cancel it at any time without a penalty. 
Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put him off taking out the 
cover.
Mr R pointed out that many other PPI policies were mis-sold, and I understand why he 
raised this. But different policies worked in different ways, were suitable in different 
circumstances, were sold using different methods at different times, and so on. So though 
some policies were mis-sold, others were not. Ive explained above why I have not found this 
particular policy to have been mis-sold.
Lastly, Mr R raised some other concerns, such as about what happened with the policy later 
on and about some shares. In this complaint Im only considering the sale of the PPI, and 
not what came after or what happened with the mortgage itself. Mr R may be able to 
complain separately about those things, and may be able to ask our service to look into them 
as separate cases.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about the sale of this 
particular PPI policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman