DRN-2875555
The complaint
Mrs H says Abbey Financial Services (N.I.) Ltd (Abbey) misled her in the course of her 
attempt to move her invested Personal Pension (PP) into cash.  
What happened
The main events happened in 2020. Mrs H says on 26 February, and because of emerging 
news about the COVID-19 outbreak (the pandemic) at the time, she developed a concern 
about the potential problems that could eventually be caused by the outbreak in the financial 
markets (and caused to her invested PP). She was in her 60s and she says her PP is her 
only source of income. She had previously, in 2019, transferred her Occupational Pension 
(OP) to the PP, and the PP was held by a third-party pension provider.
Mrs H telephoned Abbey, her financial advisers, on the same date. She shared her concerns 
and confirmed that she had decided to move her invested PP into a wholly safe holding (like 
cash). Both parties agree that the adviser she spoke to tried to convince her against the 
decision and advised her to allow the PP to remain invested. She was not convinced, and 
she insisted on moving the PP into cash. Both parties also agree that the adviser returned to 
Mrs H, on 28 February, and told her that he had looked into her request, had obtained 
information from the pension providers webinar and had established that it disallowed such 
a change within the PP, so her instruction could not be met.
Mrs H repeated her request to Abbey on 18 March. This time, the adviser reported that the 
pension provider had agreed to execute the move to cash within her PP, and it was 
subsequently done. She says its value was less than what it was at the time of her initial 
request. 
Mrs H and the adviser spoke again on 11 August, and they recapped on the events of 
February and March. She says the discussion left her with the impression that the pension 
provider viewed her move to cash as an exception and as one that could be reversed 
because it did not usually operate cash funds. She says the adviser assured her that there 
was no cause to worry, but she remained concerned and confused about the matter, so she 
contacted the provider directly thereafter.
Mrs Hs summary of what the provider told her is as follows:
She had always been free to move her PP to cash at any time after the transfer.
Abbey had conveyed no request to move her PP to cash in February (2020) and the 
only record it had of such a request was that of 18 March, which was granted.
She has also shared with this service an email from the provider, to her, dated 14 August 
which includes the following:
Following our call 
You couldve switched your investment into cash at any time, even before received, so it 
wouldnt have invested at any time, we cannot see any reason why this would not be 
possible.
I can also confirm that the request to switch your investment to cash was received from your 
adviser on 18/03/2020 
Mrs H complained to Abbey and it responded. It broadly agreed with her account of the 
facts. It also conceded that the adviser was  under the impression  that her request 
was not possible and that it was his mistake to have done so. Nevertheless, Abbey argued 
that the invested PP was suitable for Mrs H so, essentially, no wrongdoing had occurred by 
advising her to keep it invested. It further argued that had it remained invested its value 
would have been over £16,000 higher in September than the cash holding was at the same 
time. It concluded by offering Mrs H £1,000 as compensation for loss in value and for the 
trouble and upset caused to her.
Abbey has also highlighted evidence that the provider would not have allowed the transfer of 
Mrs Hs OP to the PP if she had disclosed that it was to be held in cash.
Mrs H referred her complaint to this service and one of our investigators looked into it. The 
investigator concluded that it should be upheld. He mainly found that suitability of the 
transferred invested PP is not an issue in the complaint; that the issue is the fund switch that 
Mrs H asked for and Abbeys adviser should have known about how funds could be switched 
in the PP; that if he was unsure he should have sought clarification and he had the 
opportunity to do so between the two calls in February; that even if it was he disagreed with 
her insistence to move the PP into cash, he could at least have referred Mrs H to the 
provider, for her to instruct the switch directly (which she would have done); and that she 
should be compensated for loss, to date, that she has incurred and should receive £350 for 
the trouble and upset caused to her.
Abbey disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It referred to 
evidence from the pension provider which it says confirms that moving the PP to cash would 
be disallowed following the transfer to the PP; it objected to Mrs H recording the August 
telephone conversation without  its knowledge and consent; and it repeated the argument 
that she would have been better off, to date, if she had followed its advice to retain the 
investments in the PP. It considers that the complaint seeks, unfairly, to make it responsible 
for financial loss resulting from Mrs Hs decision (and her decision to go against its advice). 
The investigator was not persuaded to change his view and the matter was referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigators for broadly the 
same reasons. I uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
I understand Abbeys arguments about suitability of the invested PP, but I consider them 
irrelevant to the complaint. Mrs H does not allege that the investments were unsuitable. She 
has been clear in saying that, in February 2020, she took a different view on holding the 
investments and decided to liquidate them (in order to move to cash) because of how she 
anticipated the emerging pandemic affecting the markets. Her complaint is about the 
request/instruction she passed to Abbey to have the PP moved to cash. 
It follows that, in addition to its arguments on suitability of the investments, Abbeys arguments about the transfer (and about what would or would not have happened if an 
intention to move to cash was known at the point of transfer) are also irrelevant. The transfer 
appears to have happened in 2019. The PP remained invested as of February 2020 when 
Mrs H made her request. There is no available evidence of an intention to move to cash at 
the point of the transfer or prior to February 2020 when she contacted Abbey about doing so. 
She shared her reasons with Abbey and those reasons are credible, given that it is a fact 
that the seriousness of the pandemic did start to emerge around February 2020 and given 
that it would have been reasonable for an investor (direct or indirect) in the markets to 
foresee, at the time, an impact on the markets caused by it. 
Furthermore, the same correspondence evidence that Abbey relies on provides clarification 
of where the pension provider stands. It explained to Abbey that it has a wealth 
management function that is distinct from its investment function; that the former advised 
the OP to PP transfer (and investments) and it would not have advised the transfer if an 
intention to move to cash was disclosed at the outset; and that, however, after a transfer has 
taken place the wealth management function has no ongoing relationship or role to play and 
the PP holder (like Mrs H)  is free to instruct fund switches as they wish . The provider 
also said it would not advise a switch away from its own recommended investments  but 
this is arguably redundant given that Mrs Hs decision in February 2020 was wilfully taken 
without advice  and she does not claim otherwise.
Earlier above, I quoted from the providers email  from its investment function  
confirmation that Mrs Hs request could have been granted and actioned at any time after 
the transfer. Despite Abbeys arguments, it remains the case that the request would have 
been granted and actioned in February if its adviser had conveyed the request to the 
provider. He did not and he wrongly assumed  which Abbey concedes was a mistake  that 
it would not be granted, without verifying this. This is the basis on which the complaint is 
upheld. Abbeys avoidable error in February 2020 deprived Mrs H of the switch to cash she 
wanted at the time. Abbey was her adviser, so it was reasonable for her to seeks its help in 
achieving the switch and to believe what it told her. Abbeys advice, at the time, to retain the 
investments is yet another irrelevant element. She did not accept its advice and she was 
entitled to behave in that way. Instead, she insisted on the switch and, until her second 
attempt in March 2020, Abbeys avoidable mistake prevented her from achieving it.
For the above reasons, I uphold Mrs Hs complaint and I agree with the investigators 
findings that she should be compensated for financial loss, to date, that resulted from 
Abbeys mistake and that Abbey should pay her £350 for the trouble and upset the matter 
has caused her. For the sake of completeness, I consider that Abbeys point about an 
alleged secret telephone recording has no bearing on the merits of the complaint; and that 
compensation for Mrs Hs complaint is for loss (to date) caused by Abbeys mistake, not for 
any loss resulting from her decision to move the PP to cash.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is to put Mrs H as close as possible to the position she would now be in if Abbey had 
not unreasonably deprived her of the switch to cash she asked for in February 2020. I 
consider that she would have behaved differently and proceeded with the move to cash, as 
she did in her second attempt in March 2020. As such, the natural benchmark to use in 
calculating redress for her is the PPs cash fund  that is, redress is based on the difference 
between the PPs value at present and what it would be if it had been in the cash fund from 
26 February 2020 (when Mrs H first asked for the switch).Mrs H should engage meaningfully and co-operatively with Abbey to provide it with all 
information and documentation, relevant to its calculation of redress, which it does not 
already have.
What must Abbey do?
To compensate Mrs H fairly, Abbey must do the following:
Compare the performance of Mrs Hs PP with that of the benchmark shown below. If 
the fair value is greater than the actual value the difference must be paid to her in 
compensation. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Pay interest, if set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If 
Abbey is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the interest, 
it must tell Mrs H the deduction amount and give her a tax deduction certificate if she 
asks for one, for her to reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Pay the compensation into Mrs Hs pension plan, to increase its value by the amount 
of the compensation. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation should not be paid into her pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. If the compensation cannot 
be paid into her pension plan, pay it directly to her. Had it been possible to pay it into 
the plan, it would have provided a taxable income, so the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should be calculated using her actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at her selected retirement age. For example, if she is likely to be a basic 
rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current 
basic rate of tax. If she would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Pay Mrs H £350 for the trouble and upset caused to her. 
Provide the calculation of the compensation to Mrs H in a clear and simple format. 
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to     
(end date)additional 
interest
  Mrs Hs 
Personal 
Pension 
Portfoliostill 
existsThe Personal 
Pensions Cash 
Fund 26 
February 
2020date of 
settlementnot applicable
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
fair valueThis is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations 
simpler, I will accept if Abbey totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end 
instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
As stated above, I consider that Mrs H would have moved her PP into the cash fund on 26 
February 2020 had Abbey not unreasonably prevented her from doing so. The above 
remedy reflects this.
compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the
complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I
consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the respondent
firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of my 
determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before
deciding whether to accept the decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Hs complaint and I order Abbey Financial 
Services (N.I.) Ltd to pay her compensation as set out above and to provide her with a 
calculation of the compensation in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman