DRN-4186463
Complaint
Mr D is unhappy Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream.co.uk) provided him with a 
high-cost short-term credit instalment loan. He says he should never have been given this 
loan as a check of his credit file would have shown debts, missed payments and that he 
already owed other creditors.
Background
This complaint centres around the provision of a high-cost short-term credit instalment loan
for £880, which Lending Stream provided to Mr D in October 2015. The loan was to be paid 
in six monthly instalments.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ds complaint and she didnt think that Lending Stream 
had done anything wrong or treated him unfairly. So she didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. 
Mr D disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his case.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including the
key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive referred to this
when considering Mr Ds case.
Having carefully considered everything, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint. Id like to explain 
the reasons for my decision in a bit more detail.
Lending Stream needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Lending Stream needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr D could afford to make the repayments he was committing to before providing 
this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Lending Stream provided Mr D with a single loan which was due to be repaid in six monthly 
instalments. From what Ive seen, Lending Stream asked Mr D to confirm his monthly
income and expenditure. The information recorded suggests the loan repayments were
comfortably affordable.
Mr D says the information Lending Stream based its decision on didnt accurately reflect
his actual financial position. He says he was significantly indebted but has only been able to 
provide information from 2017 which was two years after this loan was taken out. And while 
Lending Streams records from the time do indicate that Mr D had a couple of defaulted 
accounts the amount he owed didnt appear to be excessive.
Furthermore, I have to think about what Mr D has said in the context of this being an 
application for first loan. While Mr D says he entered his gross salary rather than his net 
salary by mistake and might have made and error in his expenditure declaration, in these
circumstances, I dont think that it would have been proportionate for Lending Stream to
have carried out the degree of verification Mr D has suggested.
 
In my view, there wasnt anything immediately obvious in the information that Lending 
Stream had, including Mr Ds existing indebtedness bearing in mind his declared income, 
which meant it shouldve asked Mr D to prove supporting evidence, such as payslips or bank 
statements, before providing a first loan for this amount. 
So, while Im sorry to hear that Mr D has had difficulty repaying this loan, I think that Lending 
Stream was reasonably entitled to rely on the information it had been provided with and 
therefore its decision to lend wasnt unreasonable. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Lending Stream did anything wrong when deciding to 
lend to Mr D - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out 
which suggested the repayments were affordable. And Im therefore not upholding Mr Ds 
complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr D. But I hope hell understand 
the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman