DRN-2584619
The complaint
Ms L says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Ms L opened a credit card account with Lloyds (trading at the time as TSB) in 1998. At the 
same time she took out a PPI policy to protect her monthly credit card repayments against 
accident, sickness and unemployment. Ms L applied for the credit card and PPI at a face-to-
face meeting in a branch of the bank.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Ms L disagreed with 
the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the mis-sale of PPI on our website, 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ls case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of Ms Ls singed application for the credit card. It includes a section on 
PPI, with a box to tick if the applicant wished to take the cover. Ms L ticked the box to 
indicate that she wanted to take PPI. Im satisfied that it was clear from the way PPI was 
shown on the application form that it was optional. And I think Ms L decided to take it, 
knowing that she had a choice  although I can understand how she may no longer 
remember this more than 20 years later.
Ms L says Lloyds didnt recommend the PPI to her, or give her any advice about it. 
Lloyds says that a recommendation would have been made. For the purposes of this 
decision, Ive assumed that Lloyds did recommend the PPI to Ms L. This is to her 
advantage when it comes to my consideration of her complaint, as it means Lloyds had a 
responsibility to check that the PPI was suitable for her. But it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of Ms Ls circumstances at the time.
I acknowledge that Ms L has told us shed have been entitled to six months full pay, 
followed by six months half pay from her employer at the time if shed been off sick. 
Shes also told us shed have been entitled to some redundancy pay, although shes not 
sure how much. But if shed made a successful claim on the policy for accident or 
sickness, it would have paid out for up to 12 months. Thats longer than Ms Ls told us 
shed have been entitled to full sick pay for. And it would have paid the same level of 
benefit if shed made a successful unemployment claim. Whats more, the policy would 
have paid out in addition to any payments Ms L received from her employer. So she 
could have used those to meet other day-to-day expenses. And she wouldnt have had 
to use her limited savings to make her monthly credit card repayments. 
Ms Ls also mentioned that she had life insurance. But thats a different type of cover, 
and wouldnt have paid out in the same circumstances as PPI. And although shes told 
us she could have sold her car, theres no guarantee that she could have done this 
quickly or easily. And having the PPI would have meant she didnt have to sell her car to 
make her credit card repayments. So taking everything into account, I think Ms L could 
have found the PPI useful.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Ms L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Im satisfied that Ms L chose to take out the policy. So it looks as if she 
wanted this type of cover, even if shes understandably forgotten this now, so many 
years later. And from what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, she wasnt affected 
by any of the main things the policy didnt cover- for example, unusual working 
arrangements, or existing medical conditions.
The policy was competitively priced, and Ive seen nothing to suggest that Ms L couldnt 
afford it. And as she was paying for it monthly, she could have cancelled it at any time if 
her circumstances changed, or if she decided she no longer wanted the cover.
So taking everything into account, I think its unlikely Ms L would have made a different 
decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I think shed still have 
taken out the PPI.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms L. But Lloyds 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms L because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms L about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Ms L, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think thats fair in this case.My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Ms L.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Ms L any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman