DRN-4095837
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Santander Consumer Finance was of an 
unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 29 September 2022, Mr R was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale 
agreement with Santander. He paid an advance payment of £1,000, and the agreement was 
for £14,200 over 60 months; with monthly repayments of £298.07. At the time of supply the 
car was just over eight years old and had done 106,282 miles.
Mr R complained to Santander on 26 October 2022 that the car had a number of faults, 
including that it was jolting, the USB port wasnt working, the wheels were out of alignment, 
and that the car wasnt achieving the advertised fuel economy. 
Santander arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the car. The inspection took 
place on 8 November 2022, when the car had travelled 109,044 miles. While the engineer 
said the USB port wasnt working, they said the car was otherwise performing satisfactorily. 
Given this report, Santander didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R complained to Santander again in December 2022 about the costs hed incurred to 
correct the wheel alignment, and to fix an issue with the amplifier. But Santander said the 
engineer hadnt identified any problems, and they hadnt authorised any repairs. So, they 
wouldnt be reimbursing the costs.
On 10 January 2023 Mr R complained to Santander again. He said the car had lost power 
and broken down on the motorway. Santander again arranged for an independent engineer 
to inspect the car. This inspection took place on 20 January 2023, when the car had 
travelled 112,915 miles. The engineer identified multiple faults with the cars engine, but said 
these werent present or developing when the car was supplied to Mr R. As such, Santander 
didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr R wasnt happy with Santanders response, so he referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation. And he said he believed the issue of the car jolting, 
which hed complained about in October 2022, was related to the eventual engine failure. He 
also said that Santander shouldnt have financed the car, as it had done more than 100,000 
miles, and he believed the supplying dealership had lied to Santander about the mileage.
Our investigator agreed there was a fault with the car. But she said the evidence shed seen 
didnt indicate that the faults were present or developing when the car was supplied to Mr R 
 hed been able to drive the car for more than 6,000 miles before the engine failed, and if 
the fault was present at supply, then the engine would likely have failed much sooner.
With regards to the jolting, the investigator said this couldve been caused by a number of 
different reasons, and that jolting doesnt automatically mean an imminent catastrophic 
engine failure. And that the engine failure was likely caused by wear and tear. Whats more, 
because the engine failed after around 112,000 miles, the investigator didnt think the engine 
could be classed as being insufficiently durable. 
Although Mr R had incurred costs in realigning the wheels, the investigator said this had 
happened after the independent engineer had said there was no misalignment. The 
investigator thought that misalignment could happen at any time i.e. if the car hit a pothole or 
mounted the kerb, and that this would form part of routine maintenance. So, she didnt think 
Santander should reimburse Mr Rs costs. And she said there wasnt enough evidence to 
show whether the water ingress that damaged the amplifier was present or developing when 
the car was supplied. But she didnt think this would make the car of an unsatisfactory quality 
even if that was the case. So, she didnt think Santander needed to take any further action.
However, the investigator said the issues Mr R had raised about the DPF and the 
misrepresentation of the mileage on the finance application hadnt been raised with 
Santander. And we arent able to consider complaints when a financial business hasnt had 
the opportunity to resolve them first. So, because of this, these werent issues we are 
currently able to look into.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigator. He didnt think that the investigator had properly 
considered the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) and said that nobody in their right mind 
would expect to pay £15,200 for a motor vehicle that was going to have a major fault within a 
short period of its purchase. As such, he believed the investigators view to be incorrect in 
law and he didnt think it was reasonable to rely on the independent engineers reports, as 
these were inherently flawed. 
Mr R also said that the car had a full service history, so he didnt think it was reasonable for 
the engine to fail after 100,000 miles, and that wear and tear can be classed at 20,000 miles 
[sic]. Given the nature of Mr Rs comments, Im presuming he meant 200,000 miles.
Finally, Mr R has again raised the issue that the car had done over 100,000 miles at the 
point of supply, and he believes the contract for the car is also void because of this. He 
said there has been a clear misrepresentation by the supplying dealer [and] the car has 
been sold by the dealer to me and [Santander] under the promise that the car has only 
travelled 98,000 miles. 
Because of this, Mr R has asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr R was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it. The CRA says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality 
when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Santander are responsible. Whats 
satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant circumstances. In a case like this, 
this would include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale, and the vehicles 
history and its durability. 
The CRA also says goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where a 
fault is identified within the first six months, it implies the fault was present when the car was 
supplied, unless Santander can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after the first 
six months, it implies that its for Mr R to show that it was present when the car was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr R took possession of it, and this made the car not 
of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Santander to put this right.
Ive seen a copy of the independent engineers report for the inspection that took place on 8 
to 10 November 2022. The mileage at the time of the inspection was 109,044 miles - 2,762 
miles more than when it had been supplied to Mr R.
During this inspection the car was test driven for 427 miles. The engineer noted that the car 
needed to be topped up with 750ml of oil before the testing took place, although there was 
no external leakages from the engine bay compartment or from underneath the vehicle.
The engineer said that, during the extensive road test, there was no jolting, there was no 
steering bias, and that the recorded data for the fuel economy showed the car was 
averaging 40mpg. The engineer also said that the vehicle had performed in a satisfactory 
condition with there being no evidence of any excessive oil consumption.
However, the engineer did say there was a fault with the USB port in the centre console 
which can occur at any time during the service use of the vehicle and it can fault at any time 
due to it being an electrical component. In conclusion, the engineer thought the car was of a 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr R.
The engineer confirmed that their duty is to the courts, and not to the person who instructed 
and/or paid for the report. As such, Im satisfied this report is reasonable to rely upon.
Given the contents of this report, Im satisfied that the car was of a satisfactory quality when 
supplied to Mr R. While the failure date of the USB port is unknown, had the USB port failure 
been present or developing at the point of supply, while annoying and inconvenient, it is only 
a minor issue. And, given the age and mileage of the car at the point of supply, I dont think 
this makes the car of an unsatisfactory quality.
Mr R has provided a photograph of a screen showing a misalignment of wheels on a car of 
the same make and model as the car supplied to him. I have no reason to believe that this 
doesnt relate to the car thatd been supplied to Mr R.
The date in the corner of the screen shows 14 November 2022. While this is only four days 
after the independent engineer concluded the test drive, this was an extensive test drive 
which found no evidence of any misalignment. Wheels can become misaligned at any point, 
and this can easily be done by hitting an object such as a pothole or speed bump, especially 
at speed. Given this, and the extensive test drive, Im not satisfied that the misalignment 
photograph makes the engineers report unreasonable to rely upon.Mr R has also provided a receipt dated 27 November 2012 (when the car had done 110,773 
miles) which said that the amplifier on the car had been damaged due to water ingress. Ive 
noted that the car had travelled almost 1,800 miles since the independent engineers report, 
and this report didnt make any reference to either any water ingress, or any damage to the 
amplifier. Whats more, theres nothing in the information Mr R has provided that says the 
water ingress was either longstanding or was present when the car was supplied.
Given this, Im satisfied that the water ingress that resulted in the damage to the amplifier 
most likely happened after the car was supplied to Mr R, and after the independent 
engineers report. And I wont be asking Santander to cover the costs of any repair.
A second independent engineers report was done on 24 January 2023, when the car had 
done 112,915 miles  6,613 miles more than when it was supplied to Mr R. This report was 
done after an engine failure, and the engineer said there was a constant rotational rubbing 
type noise which was producing smoke from the offside of the engine. The engineer also 
said that (unlike the previous report) an oil leak was now present. However, the engineer 
didnt think that the fault with the engine was present or developing when the car was 
supplied.
The engineer again confirmed that their duty is to the courts, and not to the person who 
instructed and/or paid for the report. As such, Im satisfied this report is also reasonable to 
rely upon.
Mr R had the car inspected by a manufacturer main dealer on 7 February 2023. While this 
report didnt specify the exact issues, it said there were problems with the cylinders and 
potentially the timing chain. It also said that a replacement engine may be required. This was 
sent to the independent engineer for comment.
As a follow up to this report, on 10 February 2023, the independent engineer confirmed I 
have reviewed the inspection findings  it appears very likely that the engine has been 
exposed to high performance settings throughout its life and this had led to the deterioration 
identified  however, the vehicle has covered some considerable mileage since the point of 
sale, in the 103 days  that it has been with its current owner in excess of 6,000 miles and as 
such the engineering evidence simply will not support that this condition is pre-existing. Had 
the fault been present, we would have expected it to be noted within the first 1,000 miles of 
use.
Taking all of the above into consideration, and while I appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr R, I think its more likely than not that the engine failure was as a result 
of in-use wear and tear. And I dont think the car having a full-service history, or that Mr R 
would expect the engine to last 200,000 miles, changes this. Im satisfied the evidence 
shows the car was of a satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr R, and that the faults 
with the engine werent present or developing at supply.
As such, I wont be asking Santander to do anything more.
Mr R has also said there was a misrepresentation, as the car had been sold to him with the 
promise that it had only done 98,000 miles. When considering misrepresentation, Im looking 
to see if there was a false statement of fact and if that false statement of fact induced Mr R 
to purchase the car.I havent seen anything to show me that Mr R was told the car would only have 98,000 miles 
at the point of supply. Whats more, from the odometer and the MOT certificate, Mr R 
wouldve known at the point of supply that the car had done over 106,000 miles. And theres 
nothing to show me that Mr R complained to the dealership about the milage when the car 
was collected, nor did he raise this within his initial complaint to Santander.
Given this, Im satisfied that this doesnt meet the threshold for misrepresentation.
Turning to what the dealership told Santander, I havent seen anything in the application 
form or the agreement that refers to the mileage at the point of supply. While Mr R said 
Santander shouldnt have financed the car because it had done more than 100,000 miles, 
Santander are able to set their own rules as to what vehicles they finance. And its not the 
role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to say what rules they must have in place  this is 
something Santander will agree in line with their regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.
As such, I wont be commenting further on this point, except to say that if Santander believe 
the finance was misrepresented to them by the dealership, then this is something that 
Santander should be taking up directly with the dealership. Its not a matter for ourselves.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc trading as Santander Consumer Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman