DRN-2425305
The complaint
Mrs L has complained about her home insurer Fairmead Insurance Limited because she 
believes one of its contractors stole an expensive watch from her home whilst carrying out 
insured repairs.
What happened
Fairmead began dealing with a claim on Mrs Ls policy in 2018. In late 2019 there were 
some repair issues still outstanding. A plumber attended Mrs Ls home on 29 November to 
resolve a concern that had been raised about a radiator. Mrs L says he left suddenly without 
doing the job he was there to do and an expensive watch that had been on a shelf, in a 
bedroom which hed had access to, was gone. Mrs L called the police to report the theft and, 
on 2 December 2019, she reported it to Fairmead too.
Farimead noted the watch belonged to Mrs Ls sons girlfriend who didnt live at the property. 
This meant it couldnt log a theft claim on the policy. But it made enquiries with its contractor. 
Fairmead noted the police werent taking any further action and the plumber denied going 
into the room where the watch was reported to have been stolen from. 
On 8 January 2020 Fairmead wrote to Mrs L. It said there was no evidence that its 
contractor had stolen the watch. It said there was nothing further it could do. Mrs L 
complained to us.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She explained there was no 
evidence to show the plumber had taken the watch. 
Mrs L disagreed. She said the plumber had lied about not going into the room where the 
watch was. This showed his word could not be trusted and so her word should be given 
more weight.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not minded to uphold this complaint. Whilst I understand Mrs L believes 
she knows what happened, I have no way to know that is most likely what did happen. I cant 
take one persons word over anothers. Not without any corroborating evidence that gives 
me cause to place more weight on one of the accounts than the others. Mrs L stating that 
the plumber must have gone into that room, meaning he lied about not going in there, which 
means he must also have lied about not taking the watch, is not corroborative evidence. It is 
Mrs Ls view of things based on an assumption. And Ive seen nothing to indicate the police 
concluded that this theft likely happened in the way reported.
I also have no way to cross examine either party under oath, in the way the courts would. As 
such, it isnt possible for me to determined which persons account of the events is more 
likely to be correct. In order to uphold this complaint I have to be satisfied, as I mentioned 
above, that its most likely that the plumber did steal the watch. I cant reach that conclusion 
based on the evidence that is available to me.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Fairmead Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman