DRN-3485227
The complaint
Ms O complains about delays and problems caused by HSBC UK Bank Plc when trying to 
get information about a closed account. 
What happened
Ms O had a current account with HSBC when she left the UK. Ms O has told us she also had 
a credit card and business account with HSBC around this time.  The current account had an 
associated overdraft balance and closed in 2016 at default by HSBC. 
In 2020 Ms O returned to the UK and has explained she asked HSBC for evidence of her 
accounts so she could access support and benefits. Ms O says HSBC initially failed to 
respond. And when HSBC did respond, around eight months later, HSBC initially said it 
couldnt trace Ms Os accounts. Ms O made a complaint in August 2021 and details of her 
bank account were found. 
HSBC didnt uphold Ms Os complaint and said it had no record of her earlier requests to 
trace accounts. HSBCs final response said Ms O had initially used a third party business to 
trace her account. HSBC also said Ms Os difficulty opening another bank account may 
relate to the default recorded on her credit file. 
An investigator at this service looked at Ms Os complaint and said there was no evidence 
HSBC had received enquiries prior to August 2021. The investigator thought HSBC had 
dealt with Ms Os complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Ms O asked to appeal and said she needed evidence of her old account to complete a Home 
Office residence application, access government support, open another bank account and 
rent a property. As Ms O has asked to appeal her complaint has been passed to me to make 
a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties involved 
and Ive done so in my own words. I want to assure both parties that Ive read and 
considered all the information provided in reaching my decision. Im not going to respond to 
every point made by all the parties. No discourtesy is intended by my approach. Ive focused 
on what I think are the key issues in this complaint. 
My approach is in line with the informal nature of this service as a free alternative to the 
courts and the rules we operate under. If I havent mentioned something it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every argument made to be 
able to reach what I think is the fairest outcome. 
Ms Os response said HSBC directed her to use the third party business to try and trace her 
account following her return to the UK. And Ms O explains she chased that business on 
several occasions before she contacted HSBC directly in 2021. But the link to HSBCs 
website Ms O provided says If you think you had an account with us you can no longer 
access, contact us so we can try to locate it. If we cant find it for you try visiting Third 
Party HSBCs website asks customers to make contact directly in the first instance to try 
and trace an account. It says to contact the third party business she used if its unable to 
trace the account. I appreciate Ms O took the step of contacting the third party first, but 
theres nothing from HSBC that shows it delayed responding to information requests about 
Ms Os account.  
Ms O has told us she was advised she couldnt contact HSBC directly about her account. 
But thats not what HSBCs website says. And whilst I understand services were limited 
during the pandemic and branches were closed at times, HSBCs phones were working and 
Im satisfied customers could contact it to ask about their accounts. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms O but Im satisfied HSBC provided clear guidance on how to try 
and trace old accounts on its website and requested direct contact in the first instance. 
I also think its fair to note that when Ms O did make direct contact in 2021 and complained, 
HSBC was able to trace her old account and provide information to her. 
Ms O has told us about significant difficulties she faced accessing government support, 
renting a property and opening a bank account. I dont doubt what Ms O has told us and how 
stressful the situation has been. But I havent seen evidence that shows HSBC unreasonably 
delayed her request for information about the closed account. Im very sorry to disappoint 
Ms O, but I havent been persuaded there were unreasonable delays caused by the actions 
of HSBC.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman