DRN-3442795
The complaint
Miss D says Shelby Finance Ltd (trading as Dot Dot Loans) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about two instalment loans Shelby provided to Miss D between April 2021 
and August 2021. Miss Ds lending history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 16/04/2021 12/06/2021 6 £500 £163.22
2 16/08/2021 23/02/2022 6 £600 £190.23
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Miss Ds complaint should be upheld. Miss D 
disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Shelby needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss D could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Shelby should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Shelby was required to establish 
whether Miss D could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ds complaint.
Shelby asked Miss D for information about her income and expenditure and it carried out 
credit checks for each loan. I think these checks were sufficient and proportionate for loans 
taken at this stage of Miss Ds relationship with Shelby.
Miss D said for loan one, her monthly income was £1,300 which Shelby adjusted to £1,126 
and her outgoings totalled £285 which Shelby adjusted to £631. For loan two, she said her 
income was £1,600 and her outgoings totalled £1,015. From what I can see, there was 
nothing untoward in Shelbys credit checks that should have prompted further checks. These 
didnt show that Miss D had any other outstanding loans and she didnt have any defaults on 
her record. 
So, from Shelbys checks, Miss D looked to have sufficient disposable income to repay her 
loans sustainably and there were no signs that she was in financial difficulties. 
Miss D said her income for loan two was lower than she had stated. She also said she had 
other short-term loans. Miss D also thought the two month gap between repaying loan one 
and taking loan two should have prompted further checks. I accept that Miss Ds actual 
circumstances werent reflected either in the information she provided, or the other 
information Shelby obtained. And Miss Ds actual financial position might well have been 
apparent if further information  such as bank statements  had been obtained. 
But Shelby could only make its decision based on the information it had available at the time. 
And as it was in the early stages of a lending relationship with Miss D, I dont think it had 
reached the stage where there was a greater risk of the loans being unsustainable for her. In 
these circumstances, I dont think Shelby needed to take further steps to verify the 
information provided. 
Equally Im only able to uphold a complaint where I can safely say that a lender has done 
something wrong. And, in this case, I think Shelby carried out reasonable checks even 
though it looks like the information it was provided wasnt reflective of Miss Ds actual 
financial position. 
Shelby relied on the information it was provided with and given the amount of the 
repayments involved, together with Miss Ds declared income and Miss D only taking two 
loans, I think that this wasnt unreasonable. As this is the case, Im not upholding Miss Ds 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Phillip BerechreeOmbudsman