DRN-2896872
The complaint
Mr D is a sole trader, trading as T. He complains that HANDEPAY LTD. mis-sold a hire 
agreement for a card payment machine.
What happened
Handepay sold Mr D an agreement for T to hire a card machine from another company, M. 
When Mr D received the machine, he complained. In summary he said:
Handepays representative pressurised him into signing the agreement
He didnt get to read the agreement before signing it
He didnt get to see the machine before signing the agreement
He wanted a wireless machine but received a corded or countertop version
Handepay said:
The machine wasnt mis-sold
Mr D was provided with the relevant information before signing it
The representative discussed Mr Ds card machine needs in person but its not 
Handepays process to show the machine
Mr D could swap to a different corded machine for the same cost or to a wireless 
machine for an increased cost  both for the same duration as the agreement Mr D 
signed. Handepay would cover the swap fee.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She wasnt persuaded the agreement had been 
mis-sold and was satisfied the options Handepay suggested were reasonable.
Mr D disagreed. He said he hadnt received what he expected to. He was prepared to accept 
a wireless machine but not at an increased cost. Handepay said an agreement to hire a 
wireless machine would have cost more from the outset. As it didnt think it had done 
anything wrong, it wasnt prepared to pay for the difference in cost between the two models. 
Mr D also questioned whether the agreement should have a cooling off period.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Handepay is responsible for selling the agreement. A separate company, M, is responsible 
for the agreement itself, including the terms within it, and the performance of the agreement, 
such as the condition of the machine and the options to end the agreement. In this decision 
Ill only be considering how Handepay sold the agreement.
Mr D says he was pressurised into signing the agreement because the Handepay 
representative visited at least seven times. Mr D says these visits were uninvited and he told 
the representative he wasnt interested.
Handepay says its representative visited in 2019 but Mr D didnt take things further. It visited 
again around a year later and Mr D provided information about his current card machine 
usage and cost. This led to a few further visits to discuss his needs, what Handepay could 
offer, and then for Mr D to sign the agreement.
Handepay accepts its initial visit in 2019 was a cold call. And I think that was the case again 
a year later. A gap of around a year doesnt indicate Mr D was put under pressure initially.
After that, Mr D shared information with Handepay to see if it could offer a better deal or 
service than he already had. Hes described wanting a more modern machine. It was 
around this time Handepay sent him an e-mail to outline its offer. Mr D forwarded this e-mail 
to a friend and asked for advice about changing card machines. Theres no indication he felt 
under pressure at this point. Rather it seems he was interested in what Handepay had to 
offer and wanted to explore it further.
I understand some further visits followed and around a fortnight later, Mr D agreed to the 
offer. He says he found the representative persistent and basically gave in. There are no 
records of the conversations between Mr D and the representative, which isnt uncommon 
for a face-to-face sale. So I dont know exactly what was said or how the sale was 
conducted. That means I must consider the evidence available to me, including what Mr D 
and Handepays representative have said, to make my decision.
Im satisfied Mr D was interested in changing his card machine to the type Handepay could 
provide through a hire agreement. So whilst Mr D says he found Handepay persistent and 
pressurising, Handepay considers it was following up on its offer with a potential customer 
who had shown genuine interest.
Ive only seen one e-mail from Handepay, which is its offer. Its in a standardised style and 
doesnt come across as pressurising  it sets out the offer and what Mr D can do to accept it. 
I havent seen any other evidence of Handepays communication from the time of the sale. 
Nor have I seen anything to suggest Mr D was unhappy with Handepay at that point  his 
complaint arose after he received the machine. So overall, Im not persuaded Handepay 
pressurised Mr D into signing the agreement.
Amongst other things, the e-mail Handepay sent Mr D specified the machine model and 
cost. I cant see anything to indicate the model is wireless. It also included links to the 
Handepay website. Ive checked the website and its clear the model is countertop or 
corded rather than wireless. And there are images to show what it looks like. So Im 
satisfied Handepay made Mr D reasonably aware of what model its offer was based on.
Ive seen a copy of the agreement Mr D signed. It states the same model and cost as in the 
e-mail, as well as the duration of the agreement. It also contains a key information box 
which says the agreement cant be cancelled by Mr D. Theres no mention of a cooling off 
period or similar.
I cant consider under this complaint whether the terms of the agreement were fair as the 
terms are set by M. But Handepay made it clear Mr D had no right to cancel the agreement 
under the terms. And I havent seen any evidence to suggest Handepay told him there was a 
cooling off period. So I think it highlighted this key feature of the agreement and allowed 
Mr D to make an informed decision about whether to sign it. The full terms where included in the document Mr D signed, so Im satisfied he was able to read them before committing to 
the agreement.
Its clear Mr D feels badly let down by Handepay. And this has come at a time when its been 
more difficult than normal for his business to trade. But I havent been persuaded Handepay 
treated him unfairly. Handepay has offered to cover the swap fee if Mr D would like to 
change models, which I think is reasonable. And as I think Handepay acted fairly, Im not 
persuaded it should fund the difference between the corded and wireless models.
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold Ts complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman