DRN-3995837
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain that Aviva Insurance Limited acted wrongly when it responded to 
a leak at their home. They want Aviva to acknowledge that their engineer ought to have fixed 
a secondary leak.
What happened
Mr M and Mrs M held home emergency insurance. This was issued by company S and was 
underwritten by Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva). For the purposes of this complaint, I will 
treat all actions by Aviva or their agents as coming from Aviva.
In Summer 2022, Mr M and Mrs M reported a leak under their kitchen sink to Aviva. Aviva 
sent an engineer to their home.
The engineer noted a leak coming from the wastewater pipe of the sink. The engineer also 
noted a broken kitchen tap.
The engineer repaired the wastewater leak but advised Mr M and Mrs M that they would 
need to log a further claim regarding the tap for it to be considered.
Mr M contacted Aviva and was told that the home emergency cover did not cover dripping 
taps.
Mr M and Mrs M had the tap replaced at their own cost and complained to Aviva.
Aviva sent its final response re-iterating that the cover did not extend to dripping taps which 
need repair. Mr M and Mrs M complained to us.
Our investigator looked into this matter and did not recommend upholding the complaint. 
They felt that the available evidence showed that the tap was dripping or seized and was 
therefore not covered.
Mr M and Mrs M did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
I made some enquiries in respect of this matter and, based on the responses to those 
enquiries, issued a provisional decision in February 2023. 
In my provisional decision I explained that I thought that the complaint ought to be upheld 
and Aviva ought to have repaired the leaking tap at the same time as the waste water pipe. I 
therefore thought that Aviva should reimburse Mr and Mrs M for the costs they incurred in 
repairing the tap, and should pay them £75 compensation for their distress and 
inconvenience.
 
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to 
comment. 
Mr and Mrs M have responded making clear that they were not seeking reimbursement of 
their repair costs but wanted an apology for the way the tap issue was rejected, seemingly 
too hastily. 
Aviva has responded, arguing that it does not accept that the tap was leaking into the 
cupboard or that it should have been covered, and arguing that the receipt for the 
replacement tap is not sufficiently detailed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In respect of Avivas comments first, I have previously set out my reasons for accepting the 
account of Mr and Mrs M that the base of the tap was leaking, and that water from this was 
going into the cupboard below at times. I explained why I thought this ought to have been 
covered under the claim and repaired by the engineer during the visit. 
Aviva has provided the engineers notes and the initial call recording. The call simply shows 
that Mr M reported a leak in the kitchen so this does not affect my previous view that this 
description could have included water coming from the tap connection as well as from the 
waste water pipe.
Similarly, the engineer noted a broken tap, but didnt specify anything more about it than this, 
so I consider that they could have been referring to the leak at the base of the tap. 
Aviva says that the engineer checked the cupboard underneath when running the tap after 
his repair multiple times and confirmed that the wastewater pipe was sealed. I understand 
this, and accept that the evidence does not show that water dripped from the base of the tap 
into the cupboard during the period of the engineers visit, but I do not consider that it 
disproves Mr M and Mrs Ms account that the base of the tap was otherwise leaking into the 
cupboard. 
Aviva has argued that it ought not reimburse the cost of the tap because the receipt is not 
detailed enough. It also says that if the connection was at fault then Mr M and Mrs M ought 
to have only replaced the connection. 
I do not accept this. The receipt is from a hardware shop from the relevant time and I accept 
that it is evidence of a replacement tap being bought. I do not think it fair or proportionate to 
scrutinise the choices of the repairer  as to whether it was more practical to replace just the 
connection or to replace the whole tap  this long after the repair. 
I therefore remain of my previous view and the additional information from Aviva does not 
alter this. 
Responding then to the comments from Mr and Mrs M, they have explained that they do not 
wish to pursue the repair costs as they did not ask for evidence at this time. I accept their 
choice on this. 
They also indicate that they were mainly concerned that Avivas dismissal of the tap issue 
was not clear in the terms and that these terms ought to have been clearer. 
Mr and Mrs M recognise that it is beyond my role to comment on the terms, but I have 
agreed that the particular circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ms claim ought to have been 
included within a repair claim. I hope this addresses their concerns as far as this service can. As a result, I remain of the view expressed in my provisional decision, and adopt that 
decision as my final decision, with the exception of removing the reference to further 
consideration of repair costs. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr M and Mrs Ms 
complaint and direct Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Reimburse to Mr M and Mrs M £35.99; and
Pay to Mr M and Mrs M £75 compensation for their distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman