DRN-3692766
The complaint
Ms B complains that she was mis-sold a personal pension in 1990 and should have joined
her occupational pension (OPS) instead. The advice was given by the Cooperative
Insurance Society (CIS).
The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (RL) has since taken responsibility for
the advice by CIS and this complaint, so Ill refer to RL for ease of reading throughout this
decision.
What happened
Ms B joined the NHS and their OPS scheme in 1980. In 1984 she says she opted-out. The
circumstances of how exactly this happened and whether an adviser was involved are
unclear. Ms B said she took out her superannuation as you were advised you could then.
In 1990, she was advised by RL to contribute to a personal pension. The application form
from the time recorded that Ms B was not a member of an OPS.
In 1994, the regulator established an industry-wide review of particular pension business
which included advice where customers werent recommended to join an OPS if they were
eligible to. RLs system notes show Ms B was included in this review and was sent
invitations letters to have the advice reviewed in March 1996. She responded to an initial
letter but didnt respond to further information requests, questionnaires and reminder letters
which were sent in 1997, so eventually she was recorded as a non-responder in spring
1998 and no review was carried out.
During this time, in May 1996, RL set up a top-up personal pension for Ms B. RL provided
Ms Bs signed declaration at the time which said:
My decision not to join the occupational pension scheme is in no way as a result of advice
received from a CIS representative. I confirm that I have been advised that membership of
an occupational pension scheme is likely to lead to higher and wider-ranging benefits than
the alternative of a personal pension policy.
In 2020, Ms B complained that she should have been advised to join her OPS. She
says in 2007 her father found out she wasnt member of her OPS and she transferred her 
personal pension into the NHS pension around 2007 which only bought her three additional 
years of service.
This service cant look at every complaint and there are time limits during which a complaint
can be considered by us. As RLs advice happened such a long time ago, one of our
investigators asked RL whether they would consent to us considering Ms Bs complaint if it
was made too late and they did consent. I note RL later wanted to retract from this, but our 
investigator explained that once consent is given, its not reasonable to take it back at a later 
stage.
The investigator considered the merits of Ms Bs complaint and upheld it. She thought RL
needed to consider Ms Bs financial position and all relevant circumstances including any
right to join an OPS back in 1990. Given they knew she worked as nurse for the NHS the 
option for her to join an OPS would have been fairly obvious.
RL would have been expected to encourage her to compare the benefits and make her 
aware that that an OPS would likely provide better benefits than her personal pension. On 
the very limited evidence available the investigator wasnt persuaded that RL did any of this.
The investigator recommended that RL should compensate Ms B for the loss she suffered
as a result of not joining her OPS in 1990. RL disagreed and so the complaint was passed to 
me for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision not upholding Ms Bs complaint. Both parties were given 
opportunity to respond. Ms B didnt reply and RL did not have any further comments. As no 
new evidence or comments were provided I see no reason to change my decision. Ive set 
out my findings again below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The advice in question happened many years ago and so its not surprising that the
documents available from the time are very limited. In my view Ms B brought her complaint
outside the regulators time limits, but like the investigator Im satisfied I can consider her
complaint as RL consented to us doing so.
I dont know what was discussed in 1990. Ms B says the adviser told her she would be better
off with a personal pension, however theres nothing to support or contradict her testimony
due to the limited paperwork. And I find it unfair to blame RL for this lack of paperwork more
than 30 years after the advice took place when Ms B could have had her pension reviewed
back in the mid 1990s.
During the time the advice was given the regulator had concerns about consumers who
could have been members of an OPS not being properly advised, so its possible that RL
failed to provide appropriate advice in 1990.
However, even if assume RL didnt provide Ms B with appropriate advice in 1990 and failed
to point her towards her OPS, Im not persuaded that she would have joined her OPS at that 
point.
I say this because Ive seen records of pension review letters and reminders being sent to
Ms B in 1997. Ive seen templates of these letters which very clearly said that membership of
an OPS was generally considered to be a better option than a personal pension. It said it
was likely to lead to higher and wide-ranging benefits, in particular the employer paying 
contributions to the OPS but not towards a personal pension. The letter said in bold:
Therefore we believe that if you have not already joined your employers occupational
pension scheme and are able to do so, it is highly likely to be in your best interests to join as
soon as possible. Accordingly, we recommend that you discuss this option with your
employer who will be able to advise you of the benefits which the occupational scheme can
provide for you.
Based on the evidence Ive seen Ms B more likely than not received these letters but didnt
respond. And Ms B signed a declaration in 1996 when she topped up her personal pension
confirming she had been advised that membership of an OPS would likely lead to higherbenefits.
So even if RL didnt provide her with this information in 1990 like they should have, Im
satisfied she would have known that joining her OPS was advisable by 1996/1997 at the
latest. Despite this Ms B didnt join her NHS scheme until 2007.
Im not persuaded she would have acted differently if she had been given this information a
few years earlier. I dont know why Ms B didnt join her OPS until 2007. However, I dont
think RLs potential poor advice in 1990 (and its not clear they actually gave poor advice),
has led to Ms B missing out on benefits from the NHS scheme.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman