DRN-1556975
 
The complaint
Mr O has complained Santander UK Plc won't refund £8,350 for a transaction didn't make.
What happened
On 1 December 2019 Mr O noticed a transaction he didn't recognise on his Santander 
account. He contacted Santander immediately. £8,350 had been spent in a jewellers on an 
expensive watch.  Mr O said he still had his debit card in his possession and it hadn't been 
him.
After reviewing the evidence which showed the genuine card and PIN had been used to 
make the purchase, Santander believed Mr O must have authorised the transaction. They 
couldn't see how Mr O's card could have been taken, replaced and the PIN compromised.
Mr O brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.  The loss of this money was having a 
real impact on him.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence.  She came to the same conclusion as Santander.  
She also discussed with Mr O that although he may not have made the transaction in the 
jewellers, that didn't mean he hadn't authorised it.
Mr O remained concerned at this outcome.  He's asked an ombudsman to consider his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator.  I'll explain why.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations are the relevant law here. These primarily require banks 
to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Certain other 
circumstances do apply but nothing thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making 
here. So when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud 
complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer made the transactions 
themselves or allowed them to be made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank 
to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transaction, as well 
as what both Santander and Mr O have shared with us. I raised further questions with both 
Santander and Mr O when reviewing this case.  We got no response from Mr O.Firstly I can see the timeline of events, each partys testimony and how the 
transaction was made were covered in our investigators view of 7 February 2020. I dont 
intend to repeat everything that was said there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects which 
form the basis of my decision. I can reassure Mr O and Santander Ive read the file 
thoroughly and considered all the issues raised.
The following summarises what Ive considered:
There's no dispute the purchase of an expensive watch on 29 November 2019 was 
made using Mr O's genuine card and PIN.  Mr O has told us his card wasn't missing. 
He still had it in his possession after this transaction. I know he had the card in his 
possession the previous day as there was a food purchase using his card that 
evening.  Mr O hasn't disputed he made that transaction.
No check was carried out with the card in advance to see what the balance was in Mr 
O's account.  This shows that whoever used the card knew there was more than 
enough money in the account to make a payment for £8,350. I say this because it's 
unlikely a random fraudster would have assumed - without checking - they'd be able 
to use Mr O's card to make a purchase of this value.
The correct PIN was used first time for the disputed transaction showing whoever 
used the card was confident they knew the correct PIN.  Mr O has said he hasn't 
written the PIN down.
Nearly two months before this disputed transaction, Mr O received two payments of 
£7,500 and £1,268 from another individual. Mr O has said this was to help with his 
rent.  The money had remained untouched in his account.  It was this money that 
meant there were sufficient funds in Mr O's account to enable an expensive watch to 
be bought.
Mr O had spent the week before the disputed card payment abroad where he'd used 
his card frequently.
Santander had contacted the merchant where the watch was bought to verify who'd 
made the transaction. It sounds very much as if this wasn't Mr O, nor was the 
address given Mr O's. It's unclear what ID check was made by the jewellers.
Mr O has said CCTV should be checked to show it wasn't him.  Mr O's certainty on 
this matches other evidence that the person in the jewellers wasn't Mr O.
That alone doesn't mean Mr O didn't give someone else his card and allow them to 
make the purchase. Mr O has also told us fake ID was used to make the purchase. 
He said he got this information from the jewellers himself.  But this doesn't actually 
match what Santander were told.
 
The test under the PSRs isnt whether there was an opportunity for the card and PIN to be 
compromised; rather whether the payment services user (Mr O in this case) authorised these 
transactions. Its not my role to decide how someone else could have got hold of Mr Os PIN, 
made these transactions or to investigate who that potential fraudster may be. 
I do need to believe there are scenarios which explain how someone could have used Mr Os 
card and PIN without his consent. This is difficult when I note Mr O believes the card 
remained in his possession. I cant see how someone would have known his PIN either. 
Coupled with the information that whoever used Mr Os card knew what money was 
available, this suggests to me its more likely Mr O authorised this use.
I appreciate Mr O is not going to agree with this outcome but overall I think this lays out the 
most likely scenario.
Taking all the evidence into consideration, I believe Mr O authorised these transactions. I wont be asking Santander to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I've given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr O's complaint against 
Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman