DRN-3454677
The complaint
Miss S has complained that Metro Bank PLC registered a marker against her at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database.
What happened
In December 2018, there was an attempt to pay around £1,100 into Miss Ss Metro account. 
The payment attempt had come from a victim of fraud whose online banking had been 
compromised. Their bank stopped the payment, so it never reached Miss Ss account.
Someone also tried to make a test payment of a small amount from Miss Ss account to a 
different bank, but this was declined too.
Around the same time, Miss S found that shed been locked out of her own online banking 
and her security details were no longer working. She had to have a lengthy call with Metro to 
get her account unlocked.
The sending bank reported to Metro that someone had tried to pay fraudulent funds into 
Miss Ss account. Metro did not speak to Miss S about this, nor tell her about the attempts to 
pay money into or out of her account. Instead, they blocked her account, later closed it, and 
registered a marker against her at CIFAS.
Miss S was unable to keep a bank account after this. After declining her, one bank advised 
her to check her CIFAS records, and so Miss S found out about the marker. She 
complained. She explained shed been unaware of the attempt to pay fraudulent funds into 
her account, she hadnt been expecting the payment, and as far as she knew she only 
received her regular student finance.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. They noted 
Metros lack of investigation and that they never got Miss Ss version of events. They found 
nothing substantial to show that Miss S was aware of the attempts to pay money into or out 
of her account. They proposed that Metro remove the marker.
Metro didnt respond to our investigators assessment, nor provide any further evidence to 
back up the marker. The complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Miss S and Metro a provisional decision on 14 April 2022, to explain why I thought 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
I need to consider whether this report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Metro needed 
to have more than just a suspicion or concern. They need to be able to show that they had 
reasonable grounds to believe that fraud or a financial crime had been committed or 
attempted. And this all needed to be backed up by evidence so rigorous that Metro could 
confidently report it to the authorities.
At present, I cant see that Metro had reasonable grounds to believe that Miss S had 
attempted a crime, nor that they had much evidence at all to back up such a suspicion  let 
alone evidence rigorous enough for a CIFAS marker.
Metro appear to have assumed that since Miss S was having trouble with her online 
banking, it must mean she had something to do with the use of the victims online banking 
and the attempt to pay money out. But Metro have not provided any evidence to show that it 
was Miss S who attempted either the payment into her account, nor the test payment out. 
And on the face of it, without any supporting evidence their assumption doesnt seem to 
make much sense.
For example, given that the fraud victims online banking was accessed without any clear 
point of compromise, and given that Miss S lost access to her own online banking around 
the same time with her security details no longer working, the most obvious explanation 
would be that Miss S was also hacked  not that she was the hacker. Indeed, it seems odd if 
Metro think that Miss S was so technically skilful that she could access the victims online 
banking without any clear point of compromise, but also so technically illiterate that shed 
lock herself out of her own online banking at the same time. Again, it would make much 
more sense if someone had tried to gain access to Miss Ss online banking without her 
consent and locked her out in the process.
Further, the fact that there was an attempted test payment out of Miss Ss account tends to 
suggest that her account was being used to pass on the funds, rather than that she was the 
one who would profit. And from the timeline Metro provided, it appears that Miss S was 
locked out of her online banking around the time of the fraud. So if she was unable to access 
her online banking, how exactly do Metro think she was able to make the outwards test 
payment? Again, a more reasonable explanation would be that someone else was trying to 
move money without Miss Ss permission.
Metro never asked whether Miss S was entitled to or expecting these funds  for some 
reason they only checked her entitlement to her regular student finance payment. And 
Miss S has never claimed she was expecting or due the attempted inward payment. She 
said the only money she was expecting was her regular student finance.
Miss Ss account otherwise looked very much genuine. By December 2018, it had been 
open for some time and she had used it for normal, regular spending. So Im reasonably 
satisfied that this is not a case where the account was opened in order to commit fraud. 
Theres nothing about Miss Ss usage that seems to be a good basis for concern.
Lastly, Ive not seen any evidence which actually substantiates that Miss S authorised, knew 
about, or otherwise consented to the attempted inward or outward payment.Metro argue that they added this marker in good faith. But based on what theyve sent me so 
far, I cannot agree. I struggle to see on what basis Metro think they had enough evidence to 
report this to the authorities, given that they simply added this marker without speaking to 
Miss S or trying to clarify the situation, and given that they dont appear to have carried out 
any appropriate investigation. This is a point of serious concern. CIFAS markers can have 
severe effects on a customer, and should not be added without serious consideration.
Here, Miss S has detailed her trouble getting or keeping a regular bank account over the 
years, and she sent us evidence of her declined applications. This caused significant 
disruption to her life for a long time. She also told us about the considerable distress, upset, 
and worry this all caused her, and the impact it had on her mental health over many months 
 not least as the marker would affect her upcoming career. Metro need to put that right.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it before 
28 April 2022. But neither Miss S nor Metro sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons as set out in 
my provisional decision above.
Putting things right
I direct Metro Bank PLC to:
remove the CIFAS marker in dispute; and-
pay Miss S £750 compensation for the trouble and upset they caused.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Ss complaint, and direct Metro Bank PLC to put things right in the way I set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman