DRN-3124514
The complaint
Mr R complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly and provided him with 
loans that were unaffordable.
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided loans to Mr R as follows:
Date taken Amount TermMonthly 
repaymentDate repaid
6 August 2019 £500 18 months £114.28 12 August 2019
9 December
2019£1,000 18 months £228.56 Outstanding
Mr R told us that when Loans 2 Go provided the loans it didnt properly check affordability 
and had it done so it wouldve seen his evident gambling problem and realised he couldnt 
afford the loans.  
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. She said the first loan had been cancelled 
at no cost or charge to Mr R  so she didnt need to investigate that further as he hadnt lost 
out financially. But she didnt think Loans 2 Go should have provided Mr R with loan 2 and 
so she upheld that part of the complaint and set out the steps Loans 2 Go should take to put 
things right.
Loans 2 Go didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. 
It mainly said:
it didnt think that the results of its credit report were sufficient evidence to suggest 
that further checks were necessary
it recognised that Mr Rs credit report showed he had some arrears but felt that the 
remaining balance was insignificant. And whilst he had been in an arrangement in 
arrears previously with a utilities provider, on the whole the account was up to date 
and there was insufficient evidence to suggest that Mr R was under financial duress
Loans 2 Go didnt feel that the loan application should have been rejected because of 
problems in the past
it was unfortunate that Loans 2 Go wasnt made aware of Mr Rs gambling, but it 
wasnt required to ask for bank statements and so it couldnt say that the checks it 
made werent proportionate. Also, Loans 2 Go didnt think it was something it would 
have discovered from doing proportionate checks
Mr R knew he had problems but deliberately withheld the information in order to gain 
a pecuniary benefit. So Loans2Go didnt feel it can be held responsible.
Loans 2 Go requested that the case be referred to an ombudsman for review. So it comes to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
There are some key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
 Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr R 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If so, did Loans 2 Go make a fair 
lending decision?
 If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
 Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation. 
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
 the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
higher repayments from a particular level of income) the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact that the total 
cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make repayments for 
an extended period).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R seems happy with what our adjudicator said about loan 1 and so I dont think I need to 
say any more about the first loan  except to say that Ive reviewed this as part of my overall 
consideration of this complaint and I agree with our adjudicator.
So I will concentrate in my decision on loan 2.
Loans 2 Go asked Mr R about his income and expenditure and did some credit checks  
which it has sent me. Loans 2 Go hasnt explained in detail how it worked out its affordability 
calculation but I've taken into account the information Loans 2 Go gathered from Mr R. 
I think its fair to say that the figures Mr R declared seemed to suggest he had ample 
disposable income after taking into account his monthly expenditure and it appeared that he 
should have been able to comfortably afford the monthly repayments for this loan.
But given what it saw in the credit report it acquired showing details of Mr Rs credit history, 
I think our adjudicator was right to be concerned about Loans 2 Go making its lending 
decision without doing more in-depth checks or taking steps to verify the information it was 
relying on. I say this particularly bearing in mind that Mr R was signing up to repay the loan 
for the next 18 months. I think that was a long enough loan term to go beyond what would be 
a reasonably foreseeable period to expect complete stability in his finances. And it was 
evident that he had some hallmarks of a person in serious financial difficulty apparent on his 
credit report. 
I dont agree with Loans 2 Go that the information it saw wasnt enough to impact on its 
lending decision. What Mr R had told Loans 2 Go about his income and expenditure looked 
to be clearly at odds with what Loans 2 Go saw on its own credit checks, which showed 
clear indications that Mr R hadnt yet resolved his money problems. 
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be 
reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application. But Loans 2 Go was 
aware that Mr R had active court debt and it saw clear signs of payment problems on other 
accounts. So thinking about all the information Loans 2 Go had gathered, I dont think it was 
able to be satisfied on the information it had in front of it that it could safely conclude that its 
loan would be sustainably affordable for Mr R.
I think Loans 2 Go should have realised that it was no longer reasonable to base its lending 
decision on information Mr R was providing. I think it would have been proportionate for 
Loans 2 Go to have taken steps to independently verify the true state of Mr Rs finances and 
it needed to do more in-depth checks to ensure it properly understood his financial situation 
before agreeing to provide this loan. 
So, Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown. Mr R has 
provided his bank statements so Ive looked through these to see what Loans 2 Go was 
likely to have found out. 
To be clear, Im not suggesting the lender should necessarily have done this. But, in the 
absence of other evidence, I think these give a reasonable guide as to Mr Rs finances at the 
time. And had Loans 2 Go looked in depth at Mr Rs finances it would likely have seen that he was 
facing serious problems managing his money. 
I think it would have learnt that Mr R was regularly spending significant amounts on what 
appear to be gambling transactions. 
So I dont think it was reasonable for Loans 2 Go to conclude that it was likely Mr R would be 
able to repay this loan in a sustainable manner. For these reasons, I am planning on 
upholding Mr Rs complaint that he should not have been given the loan.
Putting things right
I havent seen anything which makes me think that Loans 2 Go acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr R in some other way. So I havent identified any reason for me to 
award any additional redress. 
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr R to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. 
But he has paid extra for lending that should not have been provided to him. In line with this 
Services approach, Mr R shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he borrowed.
If Loans 2 Go has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then 
take the following steps. 
Otherwise, Loans 2 Go should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined 
below and do the following:
 add up the total amount of money Mr R received as a result of having been given loan 2. 
The repayments Mr R made should be deducted from this amount.
 If this results in Mr R having paid more than he received, then any overpayments should 
be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the overpayments were 
made until the date of settlement).
 If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Loans 2 Go should attempt to arrange an 
affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr R keeping in mind the need to treat him positively 
and sympathetically if he needs further time to pay. Loans 2 Go shouldnt pursue 
outstanding balances made up of principal already written-off. 
 remove any negative information recorded on Mr Rs credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
should give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to take the steps I've set out above to 
put things right for Mr R.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 Susan Webb
Ombudsman