DRN-3821884
The complaint
Mr N is complaining that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has recorded a default marker on his 
credit file.
What happened
Mr N took out a buildings and contents insurance policy with UKI. He was introduced to the 
policy by his banks relationship bank manager. During a subsequent review with this 
manager, it became apparent the policy was no longer suitable for him as hed moved 
address so the manager advised him to cancel his direct debit.
UKI then wrote to Mr N by post to the address it had on file advising him that it would cancel 
the insurance policy if he didnt reinstate the direct debit. Mr N didnt respond so UKI 
cancelled the insurance policy and it wrote to him to advise him as such, but also said he still 
owed £14. It sent further letters asking him to pay the £14 otherwise it would default the 
account. Mr N didnt respond, so UKI applied a default.
Mr N later learnt about the default when he was declined for a mortgage application. He 
complained to UKI and said he hadnt received the letters as hed moved house. And he 
asked it to remove the default. UKI didnt think it had done anything wrong, so it didnt agree 
to remove the default.
Our investigator upheld the complaint as it thought UKI should have used more than one 
method of communication  such as email or telephone  to alert Mr N, firstly of the 
impending cancellation, and secondly that he still owed money. So she thought UKI should 
remove the default from his record.
UKI didnt agree with the investigators opinion. It said the terms of the policy entitled it to 
cancel the insurance policy. It said the industry regulator didnt require it to use a different 
communication method. So it asked for an ombudsman to review this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Firstly, its not disputed that UKI was entitled to cancel the insurance policy under the terms 
of the insurance policy and Mr N hasnt complained about this. His issue is that UKI has 
defaulted his credit file.
Mr N took out a buildings and contents insurance policy provided by UKI. Mr N was required 
to pay an annual premium which was payable at the start of the policy. Mr N wanted to pay 
for the premium in monthly instalments. To enable him to do so, he took out a separate 
finance agreement - also provided by UKI. The annual premium was financed by this finance 
agreement and Mr N agreed to repay it in monthly instalments under the terms of the finance 
agreement.
When the insurance policy was cancelled, a premium refund was generated and applied to 
the outstanding balance on the finance agreement. However, this left a remaining amount to 
pay of around £14. UKI asked Mr N to pay this but, as he didnt, UKI applied a default. I dont 
UKI was entitled to do this due to the lack of communication from Mr N, but I need to think 
about whether UKI is responsible for Mr N not responding. I think it is.
UKI has said the FCA doesnt require it to use more than one method of communication, but 
I also need to think about whats fair and reasonable. Owing to the potential significant 
implications of having an insurance policy cancelled and having a default recorded on a 
credit file, I would expect an insurer/finance provider to take reasonable steps to contact a 
consumer. 
I think they should be wise to the fact that one of the reasons why someone may not be 
responding to communication is that they arent receiving the correspondence. UKI asked 
Mr N to provide a telephone number and email address when he first applied for the 
insurance policy. I dont think its fair that UKI only used post to communicate with Mr N and I 
would have expected it to also look to try and contact Mr N by email and/or telephone. Had it 
done so, Im satisfied Mr N would have responded immediately and paid the outstanding 
balance before the default was issued. 
So I think UKI has treated Mr N unfairly and hes lost out as a result. And I think UKI should 
remove the default marker and any late payment markers from his credit file. I dont hold UKI 
responsible for the policys cancellation and any implications that may have arisen from this. 
Mr N should raise this with his bank manager if he feels he was given misleading advice in 
this regard.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require U K Insurance Limited remove the default marker and also any late payment markers 
from Mr Ns credit file. I dont award anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman