DRN-3935485
The complaint
Mr O complains about the handling of his account by American Express Services Europe 
Limited (AESEL) following a purchase he made.
What happened
In January 2022 Mr O wanted to make a purchase worth around £46,000 and planned to use 
his charge card with AESEL to do so. He agreed with the merchant that hed make six 
monthly payments of approximately £7,749.83. He spoke to AESEL to ensure things would 
go smoothly. He explained the merchant would submit a preauthorisation request for the full 
amount and once agreed, would then request an actual payment for the agreed monthly 
amount. Each month the same pattern would follow but with a smaller preauthorisation 
amount to take account of the payments made.
AESEL told Mr O that at the time he spoke to it, his limits allowed the purchase to go ahead 
but this could change. Mr O went ahead with the purchase and the first two payments went 
through successfully. At the end of February 2022 however, AESEL reviewed Mr Os 
account and placed a spending limit of £4,600 on it. AESEL said it had taken this action in 
line with the terms and conditions of the account which allowed it to review spending limits. 
Mr O spoke to AESEL and said it would put him in an awkward position as the agreement 
hed reached with the merchant would fail and the full amount of his purchase would fall due. 
On 16 March 2022, the merchant put through a preauthorisation request for £30,999.34 (the
amount outstanding after the two completed payments) but this was refused by AESEL. The 
merchant then put through an actual payment request for the full amount which AESEL paid. 
As Mr Os account is a charge card, it has to be paid in full each month. This meant AESEL 
expected Mr O to pay £30,999.34 when hed been expecting to pay £7,749.83.
Mr O complained to AESEL. He said the decision to decline the preauthorisation of the 
amount and then accept the actual payment had left him in financial difficulties  he could 
not pay the required amount in one go.
AESEL said it was entitled to review limits at any time and had notified him of the reduction 
in his spending limit in advance. It said it could find no error and rejected Mr Os complaint.
Mr O didnt accept what AESEL said, so he referred his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. He said the terms and conditions of the account allow AESEL to 
review spending limits on the card. Our investigator felt AESEL had been entitled to 
complete the review, and decrease the spending limit in line with its process.
AESEL accepted what our investigator said but Mr O didnt. As there was no agreement, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I didnt agree with our investigator. I issued a provisional decision saying:
There is no dispute that the terms and conditions of Mr Os agreement with AESEL allow it 
to review  and reduce  spending limits without notice. So it wasnt unreasonable for 
AESEL to review Mr Os account and reach the decision to reduce his spending limit. But 
what happened after that put Mr O in a difficult position and AESEL hasnt been able to 
satisfactorily explain the actions it took after the reduction took place.
Mr O contacted AESEL at the time of the purchase to explain the transaction he wished to 
make and how it would work. AESEL agreed that at the time the transaction due would be 
approved but warned him the limits may change. AESEL was aware of the transaction Mr O 
had entered into and had seen the payment method in action, with the first payment on 
3 February 2022 being apparently trouble free and repaid on time. After that payment, the 
following appears to have taken place:
25 February 2022  a preauthorisation was agreed ahead of payment on 3 March.
27 February 2022  AESEL reduced Mr Os spending limit to £4,600.
3 March 2022 - £7,749.86 was debited from Mr Os account.16 March 2022  a 
preauthorisation of £30,999.34 was refused.
21 March 2022  Mr O paid the £7,749.86 in accordance with the account terms.
23 March 2022 - £30,999.34 was debited from Mr Os account.
Given that AESEL had reduced Mr Os spending limit on 27 February 2022, it isnt clear why 
it then allowed the debits of £7,749.86 and £30,999.34 to take place after that - especially as 
it had refused a preauthorisation just a week earlier.
Throughout this period, Mr O spoke to numerous members of staff and explained the 
situation. Hed explained that the merchant would be putting through a preauthorisation 
request for the full amount every 1821 days, followed by the instalment amount on or 
around the 3rd of the month. He explained that if the merchant was unable to process the 
preauthorisation, it would claim the whole amount due. This would cause Mr O difficulties as 
the account is a charge card so the balance must be paid in full each month.
AESEL staff appeared to understand what was happening and the position that refusal of the 
preauthorisation would place Mr O in. But they appeared to be bound by the system telling 
them what could or couldnt be done. There was no dispute that Mr O had run his account in 
accordance with the terms and hed made the repayments under this purchase on time.
From 23 March 2022, Mr O found himself in the position of being asked to pay the full 
balance of £30,999.34 in a lump sum rather than the smaller instalments AESEL was aware 
hed agreed. Furthermore, AESEL refused to speak with Mr O about this issue because hed 
referred his complaint to us which undoubtedly heightened his distress. There is nothing to 
prevent AESEL from speaking to any of its customers while a complaint is with us. 
It might have been reasonable for AESEL to reduce Mr Os spending limit when it did as it 
may have had concerns about him being able to repay the debt (although it has provided 
nothing to show that was the case). But if that were so, its not clear why it thought it was fair 
and reasonable to allow a large payment to go through that it knew Mr O would struggle to 
pay off in line with the account terms.
I think its clear that AESEL understood the transaction Mr O was involved in. Ive seen 
nothing persuasive showing AESEL had reasonable grounds to think he wouldnt be able to make the payments hed discussed. It was aware agreement of the preauthorisation would 
have led to £7,749.86 being debited, and the consequences its refusal could have for Mr O. 
So I think it was reasonably clear that AESEL knew its refusal of the preauthorisation would 
place Mr O in a very difficult position and it could have taken steps to prevent that. For this 
reason, I dont think AESEL has treated Mr O fairly and it should look to put matters right for 
him. I intend to uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
When we uphold a complaint, we aim to put the consumer in the position they would have 
been in had the problem not occurred. In this instance, if the transaction had gone as 
planned, I think its more likely than not that Mr O would have paid each instalment in full. 
But Im aware that because of the problems he experienced, he withheld the payments. This 
has had a knock-on effect of causing charges and interest and affected his credit file. His 
account with AESEL has now been closed too, but with the debt outstanding.
It's clear Mr O entered into a contract to make the purchase he did and has received the 
goods, so its right that he should repay AESEL as it has provided the finance. However, for 
the reasons Ive mentioned, I dont think he should suffer in terms of interest or his credit file 
being affected while this dispute was being resolved  he would not have suffered those 
consequences if AESEL had not treated him unfairly.
So, to put matters right, I think:
Mr O should pay AESEL £30,999.34 either
oin one lump sum or, if he prefers,
oin 4 monthly instalments of £7,749.83 without any addition of charges or 
interest. This option should begin within one month of Mr Os acceptance of 
my final decision.
AESEL should remove any charges and interest accrued on the account from the 
date they were levied.
AESEL should remove any adverse information it has placed on Mr Os credit file to 
date and while the instalment plan (if this is Mr Os preferred repayment option) is in 
place. If the instalment plan fails, then it would be reasonable for AESEL to begin to 
register late payment markers from the point of failure as necessary. Once the 
balance is repaid, AESEL should accurately record the closure date of the account 
on Mr Os credit file.
AESEL should pay Mr O £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
AESEL has accepted my decision but Mr O hasnt responded. That being so, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional decision. AESEL should put matters right for Mr O as 
Ive recommended in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. American 
Express Services Europe Limited must put things right for Mr O as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman