DRN-2938241
The complaint
Mr M has complained about U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill. He isnt happy that it 
turned down a claim under his vehicle insurance following the theft of his van. 
What happened
Mr M made a claim under his vehicle insurance after his van was stolen. Mr M had left his 
van parked on his friends driveway over the weekend and when he returned, he realised it 
had been stolen. Mr M reported the theft to the police and Churchill. But Churchill turned 
down the claim as they didnt believe the vehicle could have been stolen based on what Mr 
M has told them.
Mr M was unhappy with this so he complained to Churchill, but it maintained its position and 
wouldnt pay the claim. So Mr M brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He disagreed with Churchills stance that an 
additional fob couldnt be added because the forensic report Churchill submitted said an 
additional fob can be added without the coded fob but the process takes longer. So he 
thought the vehicle could have been stolen based on what Mr M had said. He also felt 
Churchill had unfairly questioned Mr Ms testimony which is partly why theyd declined the 
claim. Our investigator concluded Churchill should settle the claim.
As Churchill didnt agree, they asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the case was passed 
to me. I issued a provisional decision, Ive included an extract of that below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive reached the same outcome as our
investigator but my provisional decision sets this out in further detail.
On Saturday 15 February 2020 Mr M left his van on his friends driveway. Mr M said he
locked his van, took away the key and didnt return until Monday 17 February 2020 when he
discovered the van was missing.
Mr M said his friend didnt hear or see anything during the weekend and that hed last seen
the van on Sunday 16 February 2020 at approximately 7pm. So it seems that the van was
stolen between Sunday evening and Monday morning. There is no CCTV available.
Its not for me to decide what happened to Mr Ms van. Instead I need to decide whether I
think Churchill made a fair and reasonable decision thats in line with the terms of the policy.
Having done so, I dont think Churchill were fair to decline Mr Ms claim.
Ive looked at the forensic report which considered the possible options as to how Mr Ms
van could have been taken. This says additional fobs can be added without the original fob.
Although this can take 20-30 minutes, I think this is a possible explanation as to how the
vehicle was accessed. So I therefore think it could have been stolen in the way Mr M
described or by some other means and that Churchill should have upheld the claim when Mr
M got in touch to report the theft.
Mr Ms van was recovered by the police. Mr M explained when he collected it the number
plates had been changed and the keys didnt work. He also explained the other damage that
was caused to the van such as the doors and panels being heavily dented, the electric
handbrake being broken, tyres that needed replacing, that the dash cam had been ripped
out and that the van had battery failure. So I think this further strengthens the suggestion
that this was a genuine theft.
Churchill are aware that Mr Ms vehicle was recovered by the Police but they confirmed this
didnt alter their stance on the claim. I think Churchill should have used this opportunity to
check the van in order to confirm whether they were right in declining the claim, and Im
surprised they didnt take this action so I think they couldve done more here. And had they
looked at the vehicle they wouldve been able to confirm whether there was any theft
damage or whether there was any confirmation a genuine key had been used to steal the
vehicle.
I note that Churchill questioned Mr Ms testimony and used this as part of their reason to
decline Mr Ms claim. But I dont think it was fair of them to do so, Ill explain why.
During the course of Churchills investigation, they asked Mr M whether he had a spare key,
to which he replied he wasnt sure and would have to check. He also said hed keep the key
in the hope that the vehicle would turn up as hed have preferred this than having to proceed
with a settlement via Churchill. Whilst Churchill have questioned this and highlighted it as a
concern, I dont think its unreasonable for Mr M to have responded in the way that he did. I
note Mr M willingly provided his log book once he was instructed to do so and once Mr M
was aware he needed to return the key he was agreeable to this.
Mr Ms costs
Once Mr Ms vehicle was discovered it was taken to a police compound where charges were
incurred. Mr M provided a receipt showing the compound storage fees and a release fee of
£270. Hes also provided a receipt showing the tow fee to the dealership was £120. Had
Churchill settled the claim initially Mr M wouldnt have incurred these costs so I think
Churchill needs to cover these in line with the claim.
Mr M took the van to a dealership where repairs had to be carried out, in particular a new
key had to be coded which suggests something had happened to his vehicle, Mr M also
explained he paid further costs to ensure the van passed its MOT, and since this time he
decided to also take the van to a body shop so that it is in a presentable sellable state.
Mr M provided an invoice showing the cost for the broken hand break was £99, and an
invoice showing costs including the battery totalled £799.60. In addition to this Mr M showed
that he paid £185.40 to replace some tyres. I think its likely the thieves caused this damage,
so I think Churchill needs to speak with Mr M about dealing with these costs in line with the
claim. I notice the invoices were addressed to Mr Ms friend so I think Churchill would be
within their rights to ask Mr M for further evidence showing he has incurred these costs if
they wish.
Mr M provided an estimate of costs of £6,100 that hed need to pay to repair his vehicle.
However, my understanding is that although hed like to get the vehicle into a sellable state
he hasnt paid this yet. So because he hasnt incurred this cost yet I dont think Churchill
needs to cover this but Ive explained in the next section below what Churchill need to do to
put things right.
During the time that this has been ongoing Mr M said he also incurred costs paying for asecond vehicle on finance that he felt forced to take out. Mr M has said he was left without a
vehicle for 15 weeks as he didnt purchase a vehicle until 2 June 2020. On 17 February 2020
Mr M realised the vehicle was missing and in April Churchill issued a response. So based on
what Mr M said it does seem he was without a vehicle for 15 weeks. And I dont think it was
unreasonable of him to wait until this time before purchasing a vehicle as he was pursuing
his complaint against Churchill.
As Ive explained above, I dont think Churchill were right to decline the claim and had they
upheld it, Mr M wouldnt have been without a vehicle for this length of time. So in order to put
this particular aspect of Mr Ms complaint right, I think Churchill need to pay £1,050 to reflect
this loss of use (approximately £10 per day).
Mr M says to date hes paid £1,084.82 for his car finance. Had Churchill paid out Mr Ms
claim, he wouldnt have had to get a new vehicle on finance and would have therefore
avoided this cost. So I think Churchill needs to speak with Mr M about settling the amount
paid in line with the claim. I notice Mr M hasnt provided us with a full finance agreement so
Churchill may wish to see this before settling this aspect of his claim.
This experience has undoubtedly been very stressful for Mr M whilst he has been pursuing
his claim which Churchill declined. I can see that Mr M has spent a lot of time contacting
Churchill and other third parties to try and get things resolved and his vehicle fixed. Had
Churchill paid the claim from the outset Mr M wouldnt have had to deal with all of this so I
think they also need to pay £350 in compensation to reflect the lengths Mr M has had to go
to and the general stress and inconvenience he has faced.
Putting things right
In summary U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill needs to do the following to put
things right:
Settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. If it
decides to write the vehicle off it should add 8% simple interest from the date of claim
until the date of settlement. Mr M and Churchill will need to liaise in order to get the
vehicle back into Churchills possession.
Pay the costs Mr M has incurred in line with the policy terms, along with 8% interest
from the date of payment to settlement date. Mr M and Churchill should arrange this
between themselves.
Pay the total Mr M has paid towards his finance agreement (as at the date of my final
decision), in line with the policy terms. This is for Mr M and Churchill to arrange
between themselves.
Pay £1,050 for the loss of use of Mr M not having a vehicle for 15 weeks.
Compensation of £350 to reflect the trouble and upset Mr M has experienced.
Both sides responded to my provisional decision. Mr M accepted the position while Churchill 
said it wasnt happy and in the main restated its position. 
Churchill did bring some new information and said they spoke to Mr M after the vehicle was 
discovered and that the wrong key had been given to the garage who had possession of Mr 
Ms vehicle. And this led to some confusion as the garage initially said the key wasnt coded 
to the vehicle, but this was prior to them realising the wrong key had been provided. However, Churchill have said once the right key had been provided there wasnt an issue 
with the coding, and the garage confirmed in July 2020 the key was working.
Churchill re-iterated the forensic report and said again that Mr Ms version of events meant 
the vehicle could not have been taken in the various scenarios highlighted. They said the 
only way additional fobs could be programmed is through access to the on board diagnostics 
which suggests the vehicle was not secured when Mr M left it. If this is the case, Churchill 
explained he would not be covered under his policy. 
Churchills conclusion remains that they dont believe the vehicle was taken in the manner 
described by Mr M. And they said again that they were concerned that the vehicle was taken 
a few hours after the policy was incepted and prior to this the vehicle had been without 
insurance. 
Churchill explained they hadnt been privy to much information about the condition of the 
vehicle or any subsequent action taken by Mr M so they feel they should be given access to 
all new information/documentation to comment on this further.  They noted some of the 
damage is to tyres which is typically a wear and tear item  especially considering this 
vehicle was previously used for Mr Ms business. Churchill have queried why some of the 
invoices are not in Mr Ms name and why after having possession of the vehicle for a long 
time he is now looking to sell it. 
Churchill said if they accept the decision they have issues with the redress in the decision. 
This is because they feel Mr M will be in a state of betterment because Ive asked them to 
pay the finance on his new vehicle as well as repair the old one. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into consideration Churchills comments, but I dont think these change my 
opinion, and Ill explain why.
As Mr M has accepted my provisional decision and Churchill have, in the main, restated their 
position. I dont propose to rehearse the arguments again here. Instead I will focus on some 
of the key points Churchill have raised. 
I think its important to note that Mr M doesnt know how his vehicle was stolen and it isnt for 
me to decide what happened to Mr Ms vehicle. But I need to decide whether I think Churchill 
made a fair and reasonable decision thats in line with the terms of the policy. And given the 
information before me I still dont think Churchill has enough to fairly decline Mr Ms claim.
As outlined previously I looked at the forensic report which considered the possible options 
as to how Mr Ms van could have been taken. And there is the possibility that an additional 
fob couldve been added. Although this would take a short period of time it is still a strong 
possibility. Churchill has suggested that the vehicle must have been left unlocked for this to 
happen. But, as Churchill knows, thieves can access vehicles quickly and easily and if they 
were looking to steal Mr Ms vehicle then I think they would have gained entry. And there are 
a number of ways the vehicle could have been stolen in addition to this method. 
Ultimately, what troubles me in this case is that Churchill had the opportunity to check Mr 
Ms vehicle once it was recovered after being stolen and yet it failed to do so. And this has 
prejudiced Mr Ms position. I say this, as had Churchill inspected the stolen and recovered 
vehicle they could have looked to see how the vehicle was stolen and survey any theft damage caused, but they didnt. And I think their failure to act here and confirm one way or 
another how the vehicle was stolen means they should pay the claim/meet the claim.
I can see that Churchill also raised a point about the wrong key being provided to the garage 
in response to my provisional decision. It is a shame that this wasnt raised earlier but I dont 
think this makes any difference because the vehicle couldve been stolen in way Mr M 
described. And as Churchill decided not to inspect it upon recovery, theyve been unable to 
support their position further.
Turning to the costs Mr M incurred and the damage caused to his vehicle. I would expect Mr 
M to evidence his position and Churchill can advance this with him direct and if it decides to 
write his vehicle off then it can simply arrange collection of his vehicle. I know Mr M has 
looked at getting estimates for the repair of his vehicle and Churchill feel they werent privy 
to all of this information but if Churchill wishes to repair the vehicle (which could be 
expensive and difficult given the passage of time) it can advance this with its own repairer. 
And I know Churchill has questioned why Mr M would want to sell the vehicle but given it 
was stolen and recovered in a state of disrepair I dont find this surprising.
Churchill have queried why some of the invoices are not in Mr Ms name. As I explained in 
my provisional decision, I think Churchill would be within their rights to ask for evidence that 
Mr M has paid these costs himself before making a payment.
Churchill also said even if they accept the decision, they have issues with the redress as 
they feel Mr M will be in a state of betterment because Ive asked them to pay the finance on 
his new vehicle as well as repair the old one. 
But I dont think Mr M should have to pay for the costs of repair to his vehicle as this should 
have been covered under his policy and I think Churchill were wrong to decline the claim at 
the time Mr M contacted them. Mr M only paid the additional finance on the car as Churchill 
declined his claim in the first instance and he shouldnt be out of pocket because of 
Churchills error, which is why I think they also need to cover this cost. This should mean Mr 
M is placed back into the position he would have been in had Churchill accepted the claim 
from the outset, which is what I think should have happened.
So, although I know Churchill has questions surrounding Mr Ms claim, I dont think it has 
sufficient information to support its position and its failure to check Mr Ms van after it was 
recovered after the theft has impacted this significantly and prejudiced Mr M. It is clear that 
Mr M reported his vehicle stolen to the police and it was recovered with damage at a later 
stage. As such I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of 
this case, is to uphold Mr Ms complaint and to take the steps outlined in my provisional 
decision.
Putting things right
U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill needs to do the following to put
things right:
Settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. If it
decides to write the vehicle off it should add 8% simple interest from the date of claim
until the date of settlement. Mr M and Churchill will need to liaise in order to get the
vehicle back into Churchills possession.
Pay the costs Mr M has incurred in line with the policy terms, along with 8% interest
from the date of payment to settlement date. Mr M and Churchill should arrange this
between themselves.Pay the total Mr M has paid towards his finance agreement (as at the date of my final
decision), in line with the policy terms. This is for Mr M and Churchill to arrange
between themselves.
Pay £1,050 for the loss of use of Mr M not having a vehicle for 15 weeks.
Compensation of £350 to reflect the trouble and upset Mr M has experienced.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill 
needs to put things right as Ive explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman