DRN-3798790
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, defaulted his account and with 
the service he received from Halifax leading up to that default.
What happened
Mr M had a Halifax credit account that was in arrears. In January 2022, Mr M spoke with 
Halifax about the position of his account and a 30-day hold was agreed. Shortly afterwards, 
Mr M was diagnosed with a serious health issue which required immediate attention. Mr M 
later discovered that when the 30-day hold hed agreed had expired, Halifax had defaulted 
his account. Mr M wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Halifax looked at Mr Ms complaint. They noted that Mr Ms account had been in arrears for 
several months and that theyd sent several letters and text messages to Mr M about this. As 
such, they didnt feel theyd acted unfairly by defaulting the account as they had. Mr M 
wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel Halifax had acted unfairly 
in how theyd managed the situation and didnt feel this complaint should be upheld. Mr M 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by offering my sympathies to Mr M for the difficult personal 
circumstances he faced surrounding his medical diagnosis in January 2022.
However, Mr Ms Halifax credit account fell into arrears several months earlier. This was 
following the end of a three-month payment holiday agreed between Mr M and Halifax that 
began in March 2021, with the requirement for Mr M to begin making the contractually 
required payments on the account following that payment holiday resuming in June 2021.
But Mr M didnt make a payment towards the account in June 2021, and only made one full 
payment and two partial payments over the next eight months. This meant Mr Ms account 
fell into a position of sustained arrears. And Halifax sent several letters to Mr M informing 
him of those arrears and the need to clear the arrears that had accrued on this account. 
Importantly,when Mr M didnt clear the arrears on his account for a prolonged period, Halifax 
sent a default notice to him dated 1 September 2021. This default notice explained that if Mr 
M didnt clear the arrears that had accrued on his account in a timely manner that Halifax 
might terminate his credit agreement and default his account. Further letters from Halifax to 
Mr M about the continuing arrears followed, including what amounted to a last chance 
letter, sent by Halifax to Mr M dated 1 December 2021.
All of the events described above took place before Mr Ms medical diagnosis in January 
2022, and while I dont doubt that Mr M may have had concerns about his health for some 
time leading up to the diagnosis, I feel that Halifax did give Mr M a reasonable amount of 
time to clear the arrears, as well as a fair amount of ongoing correspondence about it.
Mr M has explained that the reason his account fell into arrears was because the direct debit 
that was set up to make monthly payments from his bank to the credit account was 
cancelled. But Halifax have been able to demonstrate that they didnt cancel the direct debit, 
and notably they received notice from Mr Ms bank that the direct debit had been cancelled 
shortly after the payment plan was agreed between Mr M and Halifax in March 2021.
Direct debit cancelation notices such as this are generally provided to the recipient bank  in 
this case, Halifax  by the sending bank, when the account holder instructs the cancelation 
of the direct debit themselves.
Mr M has also explained that he didnt receive the letters that Halifax were sending because 
hed temporarily moved out of the address that Halifax held on file for him. But it was Mr Ms 
responsibility to ensure that Halifax were kept updated as to where to send letters and 
correspondence to him, and so if Mr M wasnt receiving letters because he hadnt updated 
Halifax as to his whereabouts, then this isnt something Id consider holding Halifax 
accountable for. 
Mr M also feels that Halifax should have telephoned him about the arrears on his account as 
well as sending letters. But its for Halifax to decide how theyll provide arrears notices to 
their account holders, and theres no requirement for Halifax to telephone Mr M as he would 
have liked. However, I do note that Halifax did send a series of text message to the mobile 
phone number they held on file for Mr M during the time his credit account was in arrears.
Ultimately, it was Mr Ms responsibility as the account holder to monitor the status of his 
account by whatever means necessary and to ensure that the contractually required monthly 
payments to his credit account were paid, and this was regardless of whether he was 
receiving letters and correspondence from Halifax or not. Im also satisfied that Halifax didnt 
act unfairly in how they managed this situation, including in how they sent letters to Mr M at 
the address Halifax held on file for him, but which Mr M hadnt updated.
Mr M did speak with Halifax in January 2022, and Halifax agreed to a 30-day hold on the 
account at that time. Mr M then received his medical diagnosis, and its understandable that 
all his time and energy would have been directed to that issue immediately following this.
Mr M has stated that he feels Halifax didnt act fairly by defaulting his account when he didnt 
make a payment towards it within the 30-day notice period, and feels Halifax should have 
given him more time and further warnings before taking the action that they did. 
But while I do sympathise with the difficult circumstances Mr M faced in regard to his medical 
diagnosis, I feel it must be reiterated that Halifax sent letters to Mr M about the arrears on his 
account in June, July, and August 2021, and sent a default notice in September 2021. This 
means Im satisfied that Halifax didnt default Mr Ms account immediately after Mr M didnt 
make one payment that hed agreed to make, but that the default was the culmination of a 
fair and reasonable account arrears process that had begun several months earlier. 
Mr M was able to delay the defaulting of his account at the very last instant, after receiving a 
last chance letter, by agreeing to make a payment before the 30-day hold period was up. 
But he then didnt make that payment, for understandable reasons. 
However, given that this last chance was at the end of a long account arrears process, as 
described above, I dont feel that Halifax acted unfairly by then defaulting Mr Ms account as they did  even in consideration of Mr Ms circumstances at the end of that long process at  
the time the default took place.
All of which means that I dont feel that Halifax have acted unfairly towards Mr M here as he 
contends, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
Halifax to take any further action. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr M was wanting here, and I hope hell understand, 
given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman