DRN-3158917
The rules about complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. In my decision, Ive explained what this means for Mr Js complaint.
Summary and background to complaint
Mr J said Shop Direct Finance Company Limited mis-sold him payment protection insurance 
(PPI) with a catalogue account in 2006.
Shop Direct didnt agree we could look at a complaint about how the PPI was sold - because 
it said Mr J had referred the complaint to us too late.
But Shop Direct did pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 
50% of Mr Js PPI premium. It did this because it didnt tell Mr J about the high level of 
commission and profit share hed pay  which was unfair.
Our adjudicator looked at all of this  but didnt think we could help with Mr Js complaint 
about how this policy was sold. And they thought Shop Directs payment was a fair way to 
resolve the complaint.
Mr Js representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
My findings
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that  
where a business doesnt agree  I cant look into a complaint if its been referred to us more 
than six months after the business sends the consumer its final response letter, telling them 
they can refer their complaint to us. This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(1)  and it can be 
found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Shop Direct sent its final response to Mr J on 16 August 2016. So Mr J had until 16 February 
2017 to refer his complaint to us. But he didnt do this until March 2019. So the complaint 
was referred out of time under the rules I have to apply.
I can look into complaints referred outside the usual time limits where Im satisfied the failure 
to comply with the time limits was because of exceptional circumstances.
But Mr J hasnt raised any exceptional circumstances, so I dont think that any apply here. 
And with nothing to suggest otherwise, I see no reason why Mr J couldnt have referred his 
complaint to us by February 2017. So Im sorry that were unable to help Mr J with his 
complaint about how this policy was sold.
Non-disclosure of commission
But I have considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-
disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  
and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Shop Direct should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Shop Directs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
Was there an unfair relationship?
Shop Direct didnt tell Mr J about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Shop Direct and Mr J was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Shop Direct didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share 
in this case 
I dont think Shop Direct acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr J because it failed 
to disclose the high commission and profit share.
Redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Js representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary they have said Mr J should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: Shop Direct failed to tell Mr J about the high commission and profit-share rates 
paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. 
Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr J wouldnt have 
taken out the policy had he known about the level of commission and he should receive a 
refund of all the premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipwould automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman in this case is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair 
compensation for Mr J in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Shop Direct not 
disclosing the high level of commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Js representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Shop Directs failure to disclose the level of commission for 
the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Shop Direct to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance 
and return some of the money Mr J paid for his PPI policy - I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness. 
So I consider that Shop Directs payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
As Shop Direct has already paid Mr J compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should 
do anything further. 
My decision
Im unable to consider Mr Js complaint about how his policy was sold, because it was 
referred to us too late  and Im not persuaded the failure to comply with the time limits was 
because of exceptional circumstances.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Shop 
Direct Finance Company Limited should pay Mr J an amount equivalent to the commission 
and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable).  As Shop Direct Finance Company Limited has already paid compensation on 
this basis, I do not consider that it should do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision about the commission aspect of the complaint before 4 February 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman