DRN-4074131
The complaint
Miss S complains that she had to book a repair for her vacuum cleaner over the phone 
rather than through Domestic & General Insurance Plcs on-line system.
What happened
Miss S has an insurance policy underwritten by D&G which covers her vacuum cleaner. She 
made a claim in November 2022 when her vacuum cleaner needed repairing.
Miss S tried to book the repair on-line, but the on-line form asked for the model number. 
Miss S says she didnt have this, so had to abort the on-line request. 
She then phoned D&G, the same day, and they booked in a repair for the vacuum cleaner.
Miss S complained to D&G. She said shed been inconvenienced by having to make the 
phone call. She also said she wasnt happy that the repairs werent carried out at her house.
D&G didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint. They said the model number was useful when 
booking in the repair  and it was Miss Ss responsibility to provide that information.
Miss S wasnt happy with this and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and didnt think D&G had done anything wrong.
Miss S disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S could have booked a repair on-line if she had the model number of her vacuum 
cleaner. That number appears on the user manual, but if that has been lost, it also appears 
on the device itself.
I dont think its unreasonable for D&G to ask for that information when a customer is 
booking a repair on-line. It clearly helps them to plan the repair in a timely and effective 
manner.
When she rang D&G, the same day, Miss S was able to describe the vacuum cleaner to 
D&G, so they could book it in for repair knowing what generic model it was.
In short, Miss S had to make the call because she didnt know the model number, not 
because of any error or failure on the part of D&G. Even if they had been responsible, the 
inconvenience to Miss S was minimal and there was no delay in the repair service.
D&G have also explained to Miss S why they choose to take vacuum cleaners in for repair, 
rather than repair them at the customers home. Theres nothing unfair or unreasonable in 
D&G choosing to operate that way. And they do that because they believe it makes the 
repair process quicker in many cases.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman