DRN-3189324
The complaint
Miss G complains that Nationwide Building Society placed a default marker on her credit file 
in May 2021 in relation to her unsecured personal loan account. Miss G says this was unfair 
because Nationwide had already accepted, in April 2021, that theyd defaulted her account 
incorrectly.
Miss G also complains that Nationwide sent her a notice of sums in arrears in August 2021, 
three months after shed settled the account.
What happened
In October 2016 Miss G took out a fixed sum loan with Nationwide for £12,000. The term of 
the loan was 60 months and the monthly payments around £217.
In March 2020 Miss G requested some help as her income was disrupted by the Covid-19 
pandemic. A nil-payment plan was agreed initially, but when Nationwide started offering 
Covid-19 payment holidays Miss Gs plan was converted to a three-month payment holiday 
 this would prevent negative information being reported to her credit file.
In August 2020 Miss G asked for an extension to the payment holiday. Nationwide agreed a 
three-month nil-payment plan for September 2020 to November 2020 but later (in May 2021) 
recognised that this should have been a Covid-19 payment holiday extension.
In November 2020 Nationwide contacted Miss G to discuss her situation. Nationwide offered 
her a nil-payment plan covering December 2020, January and February 2021. They also 
explained that this would show on her credit file. Miss G agreed.
On 13 January 2021 Nationwide wrote off the loan and reported a default to credit reference 
agencies. There was no advance notice of this given to Miss G and she wasnt informed at 
the time.
In February 2021 Nationwide wrote to Miss G advising that her current payment plan had 
ended.
Nationwide called Miss G on 22 February 2021. Ive listened to a recording of this call. 
Miss G said she was starting to get some work again and the future was looking brighter 
but she didnt have the money to make any payments at that moment, particularly as her 
freezer had just broken. Miss G asked Nationwide to consider giving her a further three-
month payment holiday.
Nationwide said they wouldnt be prepared to do this due to the level of arrears. They said 
the best option, to give her more time, would be to default the loan, freeze the balance and 
send the outstanding amount to a debt collector to arrange a longer-term repayment plan. 
Miss G wasnt happy to accept that the account would default; she asked Nationwide to 
consider re-writing the loan over a longer term. Nationwide explained that wouldnt be 
possible as Miss G couldnt demonstrate that would be affordable. Miss G said shed try to 
bring the account up to date before the default notice expired. She made it clear she wanted 
to avoid a default as she was worried about how it would impact her job.
Miss G attempted to make a payment towards the arrears a few days later but was unable to 
locate her account online. Miss G raised the disappearance of her account as a complaint. 
Nationwide then discovered that the account had been defaulted in January 2021 and 
outsourced to a debt collector (they had passed the loan to them on 5 March). They asked 
the debt collector to put the account on hold.
Miss G contacted Nationwide on 10 March 2021 as shed received a letter from the debt 
collector. Ive listened to a recording of this call. Miss G was extremely upset. She said from 
her conversation on 22 February she believed shed have until 15 March to clear the arrears 
before a debt collector would become involved. She wanted to know why her account had 
been sent to a debt collector well before the default notice had expired. She said shed been 
lied to about what was going to happen, and that Nationwide had broken the law by 
defaulting her account without notice. Nationwide told Miss G this looked to be a system 
error.
Later in the call Miss G said shed like to pay £2,800 off what she owed. She was advised to 
pay £2,392.39 to clear the arrears and bring the account up to date, and was told that the 
system would require her to rewrite the remaining balance as a fresh new loan because of 
the current, incorrect, default status. Miss G described what had happened as victimisation 
She made the payment but declined to go through her income and expenditure for the 
purposes of rewriting the loan. The agent told Miss G shed have to pay £266.77 a month if 
she wanted to keep to the original loan term. Miss G said this shouldnt be necessary as 
shed brought the account up to date and should be able to resume her monthly payments of 
£217 without rewriting.
Miss G complained to Nationwide that her loan had been transferred to a debt collection 
agency before the default notice had expired, and that her credit file had been affected.
Nationwide upheld Miss Gs complaint. They accepted that the default had been reported in 
January 2021 in error due to the failure within the collections system, offered her £300 
compensation, and apologised for the anxiety and distress caused by their errors. They 
also explained that to clear the arrears on 10 March 2021 she ought to have been advised to 
pay £2,827.37 (the payment shed made had only brought her account up to date to the end 
of January 2021). Nationwide said theyd request for the credit file to be amended, but also 
said your existing loan requires to be closed and a new loan opened before any amendment 
can be made to your credit file.
Miss G didnt want to rewrite the loan. She said she felt Nationwide were using the default as 
a punishment until she agreed to rewriting the loan.
On 15 April 2021 Nationwide sent an amendment to credit reference agencies about the 
default.
On 16 April 2021 Nationwide told Miss G that theyd requested the removal of the default. 
But they said the process for making a lasting amendment to the credit file would mean 
rewriting the loan and allowing the existing loan to redeem. They said this would be 
necessary because, so long as the existing loan remained unredeemed, a default would 
return to the credit file each month. Nationwide said, The process for the removal of the 
default is complex, however this process is based on the capabilities of the loan 
management system.
On 7 May 2021 Miss G checked her credit report and noticed the following message: A 
Unsecured loan account will be changed to a negative status on your May report.Miss G complained to Nationwide about what had been added to her credit file.
On 14 May 2021 Miss G paid off the remainder of the loan.
On 27 May 2021 Nationwide responded to Miss Gs complaint about the reapplication of the 
default in May. Nationwide confirmed what theyd previously said about the default 
repopulating everything month until the loan is rewritten or redeemed. They also noted that 
Miss G had paid off the loan on 14 May. They said theyd check the credit file to make sure it 
updated correctly on 1 June.
In July 2021 the Information Commissioners Office asked Nationwide to do more to respond 
to Miss Gs complaint regarding the information theyd reported to her credit file.
In response to the ICOs involvement, Nationwide issued a further response to Miss G in 
August 2021. They confirmed that as of 2 August 2021 the loan was showing on her credit 
file as settled and there was no default.
In August 2021 Nationwide sent Miss G a Notice of Sums in Arrears which began: We are 
sending you this notice because you have failed to make the required payments under this 
loan agreement. If you have not contacted us, this notice is a formal demand for payment of 
the debt. The letter gave a closing balance for the account as £0. Miss G described this 
letter as threatening and said she felt this was a deliberate act against her, not a mistake.
What Miss G told us
When Miss G brought her complaint to this service she said she felt Nationwide were 
attempting to bankrupt her. She told us in June 2021 that the second default Nationwide 
had reported (May 2021) was still showing on her credit file. Miss G explained that when 
shed called Nationwide in February 2021 shed intended to pay off all the arrears and 
recommence with her monthly payments; she had no reason to rewrite the loan.
Miss G was unhappy that Nationwide said the only way to remove the default from her credit 
file was to re-write the loan. She said, [they] expected me to sort out their error by going 
through a further Credit Score process; which would have obviously declined and shown as 
a further negative on my Credit File. It would have not been difficult for Nationwide to 
reconstruct my personal loan and confirm to me what the payments were.
What Nationwide told us
Nationwide said theyd made a mistake by applying the default in January 2021. The loan 
was defaulted by the system and allocated to a collection agent without Nationwide realising 
the error. Nationwide confirmed this was not unique to Miss G.
Nationwide further explained that theyd advised Miss G to rewrite the loan - shift the 
outstanding balance to a new loan account and close the defaulted one - because once an 
account defaults it will continue to report as defaulted every new reporting month until it is 
closed, even if it should not have defaulted to begin with. They said if shed agreed to 
rewrite the loan, she would have been able to continue paying the same monthly instalment 
so long as the term ended on the appropriate date for this to ensure the full balance was 
paid.
With regard to the notice of arrears letter sent to Miss G in August 2021, Nationwide said 
this was sent because when a loan in collections is paid off and closed it needs to be 
manually set so that it does not send any further letters but Miss Gs account had not been 
added to the relevant spreadsheet. They apologised for sending the notice of sums in arrears letter incorrectly and said theyd taken steps to make sure it didnt happen again.
Information received from third parties
In August 2021 our investigator requested and received information from one of the main 
credit reference agencies. This confirmed that on 11 April 2021 the status of Miss Gs loan 
account was showing as Default but by 12 July 2021 the status was Settled.
Our investigators view
Our investigator upheld Miss Gs complaint. She said the default which appeared on her 
account in May 2021 was a direct result of Nationwide incorrectly defaulting the account in 
January 2021 and then insisting that Miss G rewrite her loan to prevent the default 
repopulating on her credit file. She said that it shouldnt have been necessary to rewrite 
Miss Gs loan because shed wanted to, and had the means to, bring the account up to date 
in March 2021. She said she should have been allowed to pay what she owed (the only 
reason she hadnt was because Nationwide had misadvised her as to what amount was 
outstanding in March 2021) and resume her monthly payments until the end of the loan term.
She said Nationwides process of monitoring and repeatedly amending Miss Gs credit file 
was not a suitable solution when the original default was their error. She noted that the 
rewrite became necessary to fit Nationwides processes, but this shouldnt have been a 
precondition to them removing the default.
Our investigator also said that Nationwides further error  sending Miss G a notice of 
arrears in August 2021  was regrettable and a demonstration of the handling of the account 
as a whole.
Overall, our investigator thought Nationwide should pay Miss G a further £250 for the 
distress caused to her by their further mismanagement of her account.
Nationwide accepted the investigators findings but highlighted that in most cases it was 
appropriate for them to require members to rewrite their loans at the end of the Covid-19 
payment holidays. They said, Miss G was in an uncommon situation in that she had the 
funds to clear the arrears after the holiday ended.
Miss G didnt accept the investigators view  she provided a detailed response. Whilst she 
thought the investigator had acknowledged what had happened, she didnt think the level of 
compensation was fair. She suggested increasing the award to £1,500. She highlighted the 
impact on her credit rating, the embarrassment and distress shes suffered, and the time its 
taken her to sort out. She said Nationwide shouldnt have insisted she rewrite the loan or 
tried to pressure her into taking out a new loan, and that their reasons for saying this was 
necessary kept changing.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has come to me to decide.
The scope of this decision
Before I explain my findings on this complaint, I want to provide some clarity about what 
issues this decision will, and will not, address. Between April and September 2021 Miss G 
brought numerous complaints to this service which relate to Nationwides management of 
her personal loan account between March 2020 and August 2021. As they all relate to the 
same loan account and series of events, the complaints overlap, but theyve been handled 
separately until this point and so Im issuing four separate decisions addressing different 
aspects. In summary, Miss G has complained that:1. Nationwide unfairly marked her loan account as defaulted in January 2021 and 
passed it to a debt collector.
2. Nationwide reported missed payments to credit reference agencies whilst she was on 
payment plans and didn't offer her appropriate support in relation to her financial 
difficulties during the Covid-19 pandemic.
3. Nationwide reported the following adverse entry to her credit file in May 2021 - "A 
unsecured loan account will be changed to negative status on your May report".
4. Nationwide reported a 2nd default in May 2021, advised her that the only way to fix 
the incorrect default was to re-write the loan, and sent her a notice of arrears letter in 
August 2021.
In this decision, Ill address Miss Gs complaint that Nationwide reported a 2nd default in 
May 2021, advised her that the only way to fix the incorrect default was to re-write the loan, 
and sent her a notice of arrears letter in August 2021.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators findings that the default Nationwide reported 
in May 2021 was a direct consequence of their previous error of defaulting the account in 
January 2021 (an error which Ive addressed in a separate decision and awarded 
compensation for). I also agree that, in the circumstances, the solution to correcting this 
error and stopping the default repopulating Miss Gs credit file shouldnt have required 
Miss G to rewrite a loan that she was happy to bring up to date on 10 March 2021. The 
rewrite became necessary not because there was a financial need for Miss G to rewrite the 
loan, but because of the limitations of Nationwides loan management system. I dont think 
insisting Miss G rewrite a loan shed brought up to date (or tried to) was treating Miss G 
fairly.
Thats not to say that requiring customers to rewrite their loans following a Covid-19 payment 
deferral period would always be unreasonable. There will be circumstances where a 
customer is unable to clear the arrears that have accumulated during a Covid-19 payment 
deferral. Firms are permitted to reach bespoke arrangements with borrowers who have 
accumulated increased balances (as typically interest will have continued to accrue) in this 
way and, subject to an appropriate creditworthiness assessment, it may be appropriate to 
rewrite the balance as a new loan over a new term in certain circumstances. But in Miss Gs 
case a rewrite of the balance that remained once shed paid the deferred amounts (arrears) 
in March 2021 should not have been necessary. Nationwide should, in my view, have been 
able to correct their default error and simply allowed Miss G to resume her monthly 
payments of £217 from April 2021. As they couldnt achieve that within the capabilities of 
the loan management system, I think Nationwide caused Miss G further distress. The 
incorrect default returned in May 2021, Miss G knew that the default would keep reappearing 
every month until the loan was complete, and the state of her credit file became entirely 
dependent on Nationwide staff making a manual amendment each month. I dont think that 
was fair or reasonable.
With regard to the notice of arrears letter Nationwide incorrectly sent Miss G in August 2021, 
theyve already accepted this was an error caused by the account not being added to the 
relevant spreadsheet. In the circumstances of what had already happened with this account I 
think this was a highly regrettable error which, understandably, caused Miss G further unnecessary upset. However, I dont agree with Miss G that the compensation payment our 
investigator recommended should be increased. I think £250 is a fair reflection of the further 
distress caused to Miss G by Nationwide re-reporting the default in May 2021 and sending 
her an unnecessary notice of sums in arrears letter in August 2021. Whilst I acknowledge 
Miss Gs frustration that Nationwide hadnt permanently removed the default theyd placed in 
error in January 2021, I think the majority of her distress was caused by the initial error for 
which Ive already awarded £500 compensation in a separate decision.
Putting things right
Im upholding Miss Gs complaint. I dont think it was fair or reasonable of Nationwide to re-
report Miss Gs account as defaulted in May 2021, to insist that the only way to remove the 
default was to rewrite the loan, or to send Miss G a notice of sums in arrears letter in August 
2021. These failings added to the distress and inconvenience Miss G was caused by 
Nationwides initial error of defaulting the account in January 2021. To put this right 
Nationwide should:
Pay Miss G £250 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Gs complaint. Nationwide Building Society should put 
things right in the way I set out in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman