DRN-4499932
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Smile wont refund payments 
which they have said they didnt authorise.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Between 2 February 2023 and 7 March 2023, Mr and Mrs Cs son made several transactions 
totalling approximately £753.12 using debit card details connected to their Co-operative 
account. The payments were made to various gaming sites, and their son didnt realise the 
payments were debiting his parents account.
Mr and Mrs C discovered what had happened when they tried to pay a bill and the 
transaction was declined. They complained to Co-operative Bank because they felt it should 
have identified the payments as unusual for the account and intervened to prevent their loss.
Co-operative accepted the account hadnt previously been used for gaming transactions, but 
it explained its systems consider other factors before blocking payments and it considered its 
fraud prevention systems had worked as expected. So, it didnt accept it had made a 
mistake in allowing the payments to be made. It explained it was Mr and Mrs Cs 
responsibility to monitor and manage their accounts and that they should check their account 
regularly to prevent the matter reoccurring.
Mr and Mrs C werent satisfied and so they complained to this service. They said they didnt 
give their card details to their son to purchase games. The only time the card details were 
used was in the play store at the initial setup of the game, and had they known about the 
implications of doing so, they would never have done it. They said this had never happened 
before and they maintained transactions were very unusual for the account. 
Co-operative Bank said its fraud analysts had reviewed the disputed transactions and 
confirmed that because the payments debited the account sporadically over a number of 
weeks, and were all low value, they wouldnt have triggered on its fraud prevention systems. 
It said Mr C had allowed the card to be used for age verification on the gaming sites and in 
doing so he gave permission for payments to be debited from the account, so the payments 
werent fraudulent. It accepted Mr C didnt intend for his card to be used that way and that 
his son was unaware that he was using the card when making purchases within the games, 
but he gave the merchants permission to debit his account, so it was unable to assist him in 
recovering the funds. 
It also said it looked at the possibility of raising a chargeback claim and had asked Mr C to 
email its Disputes Team with a list of the transactions he wanted want to dispute, along with 
information about the type of gaming device used to make the purchases, the specific 
games the purchases were made on, and any other relevant information, but he didnt 
respond. It also offered to raise a claim in accordance with the Visa International Dispute 
Rule, but it was unable to guarantee the claim will be successful. 
Our investigator noted that the genuine and correct card details were used to make the 
transactions and she explained that a consumer can be bound by the acts of a third party 
which appear to have been made without the consumers authority, which is known as 
apparent authority. She noted Mr C had saved his card details onto his play store account 
and that he likely shared his play store account details with his son, which then enabled him 
to make the disputed transactions. 
She was satisfied that by sharing his play store account with his son, which had his card 
details saved on there, Mr C had given his son apparent authority for all the transactions that 
were carried out.  So, she thought the disputed transactions were all authorised for the 
purposes of the PSR 2017, and Co-operative Bank didnt do anything wrong in processing 
the transactions.
Our investigator also commented that the disputed payments were spread out over a period 
four weeks, so she didnt think they were unusual enough to have prompted Co-operative 
Bank to intervene.
Finally, she noted that Co-operative Bank had offered Mr and Mrs C the option of pursuing a 
chargeback claim upon receipt of further information, but the time for raising one had most 
likely expired and she didnt think a claim would have been successful because payments 
were made to legitimate businesses, and services were received.
Mr and Mrs C have asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. They 
disagree that 40 transactions in a four week period wasnt unusual as they had been 
customers of Co-operative Bank for nearly 25 years and had never made gaming purchases 
in that time. They also said the payments were unusual when compared to the other 
transactions on the account as they were only spending money on food and bills. 
They have further argued that Mr C didnt authorise their son to make the transactions, and 
he didnt share his play store details, therefore he didnt give apparent authority for any of 
the transactions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr and Mrs C feel strongly about this complaint and this will come as 
a disappointment to them, so Ill explain why. 
Ive thought about whether Co-operative Bank could have done more to recover the 
payments when Mr and Mrs C reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme 
run by Visa whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and 
customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is 
subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback 
can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or 
scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. Co-operative Bank) 
acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on 
behalf of its cardholder (Mr and Mrs C).Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the merchant that received the disputed 
payments. Its most likely that the gaming sites would have been able to evidence theyd 
done what was asked of them. So, any chargeback was destined fail, therefore Im satisfied 
that Co-operative Banks decision not to raise a chargeback request against any of the 
merchants was fair.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain other circumstances do apply  like the 
issue around apparent authority, which has an impact on this complaint.
Mr C has described that he inputted his debit card details into his play store account at the 
initial set-up of a game and that this was necessary for age verification purposes. From 
there, their son unintentionally used those details to make purchases from various gaming 
sites without their knowledge.
A payment out of someones account can only be treated as authorised if the payer has 
consented to it. So, Ive gone on to consider here whether I think Mr and Mrs C consented to 
the transactions and therefore whether they were authorised or not.
The PSRs say that someone acting as an agent on behalf of Mr C can be treated as acting 
with apparent authority when making transactions on their account. Authority consists of two 
elements. The transactions must be authenticated, and Mr and Mrs C need to have 
consented to the payments being made. 
Im satisfied the payments were authenticated from the information provided to us by Co-
operative. In other words, their genuine card details were used to make them. And Mr and 
Mrs C dont dispute that Mr C inputted his card details into his play store account.
Mr and Mrs C dont accept that they consented to their son using their debit card details to 
make purchases or that Mr C shared the details of the play store account with him. But Im 
satisfied that Mr C inputted his debit card details into his play store account and then 
permitted his son to use a PC, which enabled him access to those debit card details. Having 
inputted the debit card details to the play store account, Mr C could have withdrawn 
apparent authority by deleting the details or securing them with a password, but he didnt do 
that. So, having considered the issues around authority, I believe Mr B granted apparent 
authority to his son to use his card details.
Because of this, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs C authorised the payments for the purposes 
of the of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, 
although they didnt intend for their son to make purchases using their card details, under the 
Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of the bank account, they are presumed 
liable for the loss in the first instance.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether Co-operative Bank could have done more to prevent Mr and Mrs 
Cs son from making the payments altogether because if there are unusual or suspicious 
payments on an account, Id expect it to intervene with a view to protecting them from 
financial harm due to fraud. 
The payments didnt flag as suspicious on Co-operative Banks systems. Ive considered the 
nature of the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of 
how Mr and Mrs C normally ran their account and while I accept there were no previous 
payments to gaming companies, these companies were legitimate companies, none of the payments were high value and they were spread out over a period of 34 days, so I dont 
think Co-operative Bank needed to intervene.
Recovery
Im satisfied that Co-operative Bank also told Mr and Mrs C it could attempt to recover the 
funds from the beneficiary accounts but it would need more information. As this information 
wasnt provided, it was unable to attempt to recover the funds.
Overall, Im satisfied Co-operative Bank took the correct steps prior to the funds being 
released  as well as the steps it took after being notified of the disputed payments. Im sorry 
to hear that Mr and Mrs C werent aware that their son was making payments on their 
account and the effect this has had on them. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think 
Co-operative Bank is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to 
resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman