DRN-1933706
 
The complaint
Mrs B complains that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in 
connection with a home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Where I refer to British Gas, I refer to the insurance company of that name and I include 
other companies and individuals insofar as I hold that insurance company responsible for 
their actions.
Mrs B or her daughter owned a property that was let to tenants. Mrs B had a British Gas 
policy that covered central heating and plumbing and drainage and home electrics.
Mrs B called for help with a leak of water. British Gas made visits but didnt fix a leak. Mrs B 
complained that British Gas shouldve fixed a leak. She says British Gas was responsible for 
increased water damage and an increased cost of getting someone else to fix the leak. She 
says British Gas should reimburse her.
British Gas sent a final response dated 8 July 2019. Mrs B brought her complaint to us in 
August 2019.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that 
the leak was caused by something covered under the policy.
Mrs B disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
British Gas did no test for the leak 
She was given reassurance that there was no problem in her flat. 
That lack of care cost her a lot of stress, time and money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms excluded repairs to seals and grouting. They also excluded water damage 
unless British Gas caused it.
From the photographs, Ive seen a bath with a mixer tap and a hose for a shower.
After Mrs B called for help, British Gas visited on 30 January 2019. The British Gas records 
say that it advised Mrs B about the seals. From this I find it likely that British Gas told Mrs B 
the seals between the bath and the tiling needed attention - but that wasnt covered by the 
policy.
From some of the photographs, I find that there was an obvious problem with the grouting 
and sealant.
By early May 2019, water from the bathroom was leaking onto the ceiling below. British Gas 
visited on 7 May 2019. Its records say that poor grouting and sealant was causing the leak to 
downstairs.  
British Gas visited again on 21 May 2019. Its records say it tightened the shower lead and 
noted that the tiles and seals needed renewing.
British Gas visited again on 29 May 2019. Its records say that Mrs B asked only for 
photographs to be taken. 
Some of the photographs show re-tiling and re-grouting. Mrs B says that she paid someone 
to do that work but she hasnt provided any invoice.
From its records and the photographs, I find that from January 2019 British Gas correctly 
identified poor seals around the bath and correctly told Mrs B her policy didnt cover putting 
this right. British Gas didnt cause the escape of water.
Therefore I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to reimburse Mrs B what she 
says she paid the third party  or to do anything further in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2020.
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman