DRN-2194108
The complaint
Mrs O says Western Circle Ltd, trading as Cashfloat (Cashfloat), irresponsibly lent to her. 
Mrs O says she already had short-term loans with other credit providers. Cashfloat would 
have seen this if it had asked her for copies of her bank statements. 
What happened
This complaint is about three short-term loans Cashfloat provided to Mrs O between July 
2018 and August 2019. There were two chains of borrowing. Mrs Os borrowing history is as 
follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 07/07/2018 14/09/2018 2 £200.00 £144.08
Break in lending
2 18/04/2019 14/06/2019 2 £200.00 £133.74
3 01/08/2019 15/01/2020 3 £400.00 £216.15
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs Os complaint and didnt think any of the lending should have 
been given. They thought that the information gathered by Cashfloat prior to agreeing to loan 
one showed that Mrs O was have problems managing her money. She had other 
outstanding short-term lending and an outstanding home credit account. There was also a 
short-term loan in default. Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs O would be able to sustainably 
repay the loan and any subsequent lending. 
Cashfloat disagreed with the adjudicator. It said it went beyond the basic requirements by 
carrying out a credit search. This was to check whether Mrs O had any adverse credit 
markers that would indicate she was not a good credit risk. It didnt carry out a detailed 
review of Mrs Os outstanding balances as it wasnt required at the earlier stages of a 
lending relationship. The debt showing as a county court judgment was being steadily paid 
off as was the home credit balance. The lending looked affordable for her. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs O 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mrs O could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Os complaint. After doing so, Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint. Ill explain why. 
I should first say that I agree there are two chains in lending. There was a break of seven 
months between loan one being repaid and loan two being taken. Because of this I dont 
think its unreasonable for Cashfloat to have assumed that Mrs O had overcome whatever 
the financial circumstances were that caused her to take high-cost credit in the first instance. 
A break in a chain of lending, in effect, starts the clock ticking again on what we would 
consider to be proportionate checks a business should carry out when taking into account 
the length of the borrowing relationship with a consumer. 
Cashfloat has told us about the checks it carried out before approving the borrowing. It 
asked Mrs O about her employment status and she confirmed she was employed and had a 
monthly income of between £1,963 and £2,050 (plus other income of between £138 and 
£295 per month). Cashfloat also asked about Mrs Os normal monthly living costs and these 
ranged between £1,490 and £2,040. Cashfloat has told us it also used real-time data from 
credit reference agencies, other third-party data and checked for defaults, IVAs or CCJs.  Cashfloat has given us copies of the credit check reports it carried out before agreeing to 
each of the loans. I can see for loan one Mrs O already had other outstanding debt 
comprising of short-term and other lending, home credit, credit card accounts in default and 
an active CCJ from two years earlier in August 2016. 
Cashfloat has said it doesnt look at the credit reports in such detail at the earlier stages of a 
lending relationship, but I see the summary provided in that report showed a high number of 
active accounts (19), a high balance to limit ratio and the active CCJ. So, I think this 
headline information was significant enough to have indicated Mrs O was having problems 
managing her money and should have caused Cashfloat to consider the credit report in 
further detail. If it had done so it would have been able to build up a bigger picture of Mrs Os 
financial circumstances and I think it would have concluded that it wouldnt be right to have 
given Mrs O loan one. 
Similarly, the summary of the credit report for loan two showed that Mrs Os financial 
circumstances hadnt really improved. Her balance to limit ratio had improved slightly but 
was still very high. The active accounts Mrs O had had increased to 21 and more delinquent 
accounts were recorded. So like loan one I dont think loan two  and loan three  should 
have been given as I think Cashfloat had sufficient information to show that Mrs O was 
having problems managing her money and would struggle to make the loan repayments. 
So, I dont think any of the lending should have been given and Im upholding the complaint 
about loan one and loans two and three and Cashfloat should put things right.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mrs O paid on loans one to three;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans one to three from Mrs Os credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
must give Mrs O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mrs Os complaint. Western Circle Ltd should 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman