DRN-3178622
The complaint
Mr C complains about the deductions made by IG Markets Limited (IGML) to his account 
for overnight funding of his spread bets.
What happened
Mr C opened an account with IGML in 2006 and has traded since then. On 8 September 
2020 he spoke to his client manager about a deduction to his account balance which his 
statement indicated was for three days interest for a spread bet he had opened in IGMLs 
natural gas daily funded bet (DFB) contract.  
His client manager told him that that the costs are not applied to the account but are to 
balance the front and back futures contracts. Mr C understood this to mean that his account 
wouldnt be affected. 
The following day Mr C contacted IGML because a deduction had been made to his account. 
He emailed his client manager about this who emailed back confirming an amount had been 
deducted but that this wasnt a charge. He pasted an example of how IGML charged interest 
and a link to one of its webpages where this is explained. There was thereafter a telephone 
conversation between Mr C and his client manager which included a discussion about 
whether the deduction was or wasnt a charge.
Mr C thereafter complained that whilst IGMLs website did contain information about 
overnight funding it is difficult to find and given the potential for massive charges to apply this 
should be clearly visible. He also said the client manager had been dishonest in the way he 
dealt with the enquiry made. Mr C calculated that IGML should repay a total of just short of 
£5,000 for overnight funding deducted from his natural gas trades between July and 
September 2020.
IGML didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. In its final response letter (FRL) it explained that the 
client manager had not misled Mr C about the nature of the deduction from his account. It 
said that this was an adjustment and not a fee, as the client manager had said. It explained 
that its cash commodity markets are priced from the two closest underlying futures contracts 
 referred to as the back month and front month. 
IGML said that as the expiry of the front month contract approaches its price will move 
towards the back-month contract so that there is a natural movement in its price without an 
external influence. It refers to this as the movement along the futures curve and said that 
without any adjustment this would leave room for unfair arbitrage. 
IGML said that as the movement along the curve is predictable and the prices of each 
contract are known it makes an adjustment to the clients cash balance each night to account 
for it and that a 2.5% charge is incorporated in this. It said that the charges or commodities 
pages in its website provides a wealth of information.
Mr C didnt agree with IGML and referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered it but didnt think it should be upheld. He said that there was 
enough information provided by IGML for Mr C to be able to find out what he needed to 
know about overnight funding. 
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator and in summary made the following key points:
The information concerning the adjustments based on futures prices was hidden in 
the help pages at the time he made the trade and was difficult to find.
He did look in the additional information page on natural gas at the time but found no 
reference to adjustments due to futures prices. IGML has since added information to 
the additional information page. This is irrefutable proof that it didnt provide clear 
information about charges at the time. 
It was not clear that natural gas was a futures contract as there is no expiry date as 
would be expected, so it was reasonable to assume it was a spot price contract.
His client manager was disingenuous when he called in suggesting no money had 
been taken from his account.
As Mr C didnt agree with the investigator the matter has been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not persuaded that IGML did anything wrong regarding the information 
it provided about the overnight funding for natural gas positions. In short, I agree with the 
investigator that IGML provided the information needed for Mr C to be aware of what 
happened when his natural gas positions remained open overnight.
There is no issue about the fee of 2.5% that IGML charged for positions held overnight. Mr C 
says he was aware of this and doesnt dispute this was payable. What he does take issue 
with is what IGML refers to as the basis adjustment IGML applies as part of overnight 
funding for its natural gas DFB contract.
This adjustment is because the spot price for natural gas is based on the two nearest (liquid) 
futures contracts. As explained by IGML in its FRL, the adjustment is to account for the 
natural movement of the price along the futures curve between the two contracts. 
Mr C said he wasnt aware IGMLs natural gas DFB contract was a futures contract, but it 
wasnt. It doesnt become a futures contract simply because the spot price is derived from 
the two nearest futures. 
I accept Mr G didnt actually know how overnight funding worked at the time and that seeing 
the adjustment to his account will have been a shock to him, especially as he believed his 
account wouldnt be affected following the initial discussion with his client manager. 
However, I cant hold IGML responsible for his lack of understanding, as I think it provided 
the information necessary for Mr C to be aware of how overnight funding worked. 
In making that finding I have taken note of the suggestion from Mr C that because IGML 
have now included information about overnight funding in the learn more link in the deal 
ticket this is irrefutable proof it didnt provide clear information at the time of his trades.
However, improving the provision of information to clients in the face of a client suggesting that certain information isnt easily seen is a sensible thing to do to help reduce the 
possibility of further complaints. It doesnt amount to an admission there was something 
wrong with the information provided when he opened his spread bet. Put simply, making a 
system better does not mean it wasnt adequate in the first place. 
Mr C doesnt argue that the information about overnight funding wasnt available at all but 
that it was hidden away in the help pages. If the help pages were the only place that 
provided information about overnight funding I might have been persuaded there was merit 
to the argument he has raised about IGML not providing him with clear and fair information.
However, IGMLs website also provides information about overnight funding in its costs and 
charges webpage. This provides dropdown boxes for how this is calculated dependent on 
what product is being traded. If commodities is selected this provides the formula for 
overnight funding which makes clear that this is made up of the price of the front and back 
futures contracts and IGMLs fee of 2.5%.
The landing page also has a link to Commodities which includes an explanation of its 
undated commodity markets and refers to a fee being payable if left open overnight, which 
is a link back to the costs and charges webpage.
The commodities webpage also has link to a webpage about IGMLs natural gas market 
which has a view all our charges link which again takes you to the costs and charges 
webpage.
In addition to the above webpages, IGML provide a costs and charges document through a 
link on the landing page. This sets out the costs and charges for commodity DFB spread 
bets and explains in detail the way overnight funding is calculated, with both a formula and 
worked example provided. 
In the circumstances I am not persuaded that IGML did anything wrong so far as the 
information it provided about overnight funding is concerned. The information was available 
on its website both through the help pages and on its costs and charges webpage - 
accessible through various links on other webpages which Mr C could be expected to have 
considered in the course of trading.
I have considered what Mr C has said about his client manager being disingenuous in the 
discussions about overnight funding. It seems to me this arises from a disagreement about 
terminology, with Mr C referring to the deduction from his account as a charge and the client 
manager saying it wasnt. 
I think this probably arose because IGML doesnt view the basis adjustment as a charge as 
such. In any event, whilst Mr C may have found this annoying I dont think anything really 
turns of it. He had been made aware of how overnight funding worked and wasnt misled by 
what the client manager said.
My final decision
I dont uphold  this complaint for the reasons I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman