DRN-2518216
The complaint
Mr W complains on behalf of A, a limited company, that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to send 
him bank statements in his capacity as company secretary, and failed to keep this complaint 
confidential from another director of the company.
What happened
Mr W is one of the directors of A. He is also the companys secretary, and always has been. 
He holds 50 per cent of the shares. He brings this complaint on behalf of A. There are other 
directors, who are not involved in bringing this complaint. One of them holds the rest of the 
shares, and I will call him Mr X. Mr X received HSBCs final response letter for this 
complaint, and Mr W also complains about that, because he had asked HSBC not to tell 
Mr X that he was bringing this complaint. He says this was a breach of confidence.
The issue Mr W originally raised with HSBC is that he was not receiving the companys bank 
statements. He discovered that HSBC was sending bank statements to Mr Xs home 
address, instead of to the companys address as registered at Companies House, and that 
they were addressed to the Secretary. He complained that as he was the secretary, they 
should have been sent to him instead.
As Ive said, HSBC sent its response to Mr X. It said that it could not send the bank 
statements to Mr W, not could it send him its final response, because he was not a signatory 
on the bank accounts signature mandate. It was sending the statements, and the final 
response, to Mr X because he was a signatory on the account (along with one other 
director). It did not make a difference that Mr W was the secretary. However, HSBC said it 
had made a mistake by addressing the statements to the secretary, and so it updated the 
recipients contact details accordingly, and paid A £50.
Some time after that, Mr W brought this complaint to our Service. (Since then, the company 
has gone into liquidation, but the insolvency practitioner has consented to this Service 
continuing to consider this complaint. The bank account is now closed.)
One of our investigators looked into the matter, and found that there had been two signature 
mandates. The first, dated 2011, named Mr X and his wife as the signatories. Mrs X was 
described on the mandate as the company secretary, but in fact she was not an officer of the 
company and never has been. Once this came to light, Mr W complained that HSBC would 
have seen this if it had checked As entry on the Companies House website, and he said that 
HSBC had been negligent in failing to do so. That mandate was superseded by a new 
mandate in 2016, in which the signatories were Mr X and another director. That mandate 
remained in force until the account was closed. Accordingly, our investigator said that HSBC 
had done nothing wrong (other than by continuing to address correspondence to the 
secretary after the 2016 mandate), because Mr W had never been an account signatory.
Mr W did not accept that opinion. He argued that Mr X had committed fraud, and that HSBC 
had allowed that to happen by failing to carry out proper anti-money laundering checks in 
2011. He said that as the company secretary, he was entitled to receive the bank 
statements. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I consider the merits of this complaint, I must first deal with my jurisdiction to consider 
the complaint about the 2011 signature mandate, because it was so long ago. My jurisdiction 
is curtailed by time limits, which are set out in rules made by the Financial Conduct Authority. 
In general, a complaint must be brought within six years of the matter being complained 
about. That time limit therefore expired in 2017.
There are two exceptions to that rule. The first is that a complaint may be brought later than 
that if it is still brought within three years of the date on which the complainant first knew, or 
ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause to complain. I accept that Mr W only 
recently found out that the 2011 mandate was irregular. However, Mr W is not the 
complainant here; the company is. Mr W represents the company in his capacity as one of 
its directors, but Mr X is also a director (and always has been), and he has known who was 
on the 2011 mandate all along. Therefore the company, being attributed with the knowledge 
of Mr X, cannot avail itself of the three-year rule.
I can also consider a late complaint if it is late as the result of exceptional circumstances. 
I think that ground is made out here. One of As directors knew about the complaint issue all 
along, but he was also the person responsible for that issue, so it is not surprising that he did 
not bring a complaint about it. Mr W does so now only because he has just found out about 
it. I think that does amount to an exceptional reason for why this complaint is late, and so 
I find that I do have power to consider this matter.
According to HSBCs records, HSBC actually did check As record with Companies House. 
I have checked that record myself, and I have verified that Mrs X was never the company 
secretary and that the secretary was always Mr W. I presume that HSBC didnt notice that. 
So I find that Mr Ws criticism of HSBC in connection with the 2011 mandate is justified. But 
to decide whether to uphold this complaint, I must go on to consider what impact, if any, this 
error had on the company, bearing in mind that the complainant is the company, not Mr W. 
I cannot award compensation for any inconvenience or distress that may have been caused 
to an officer of the company as an individual; only for trouble caused to the company itself.
The main consequence was that HSBC did not send bank statements to Mr W, and that he 
first complained about that in 2019, some eight years later. (By this time, the position had 
been regularised by the 2016 signature mandate, under which two of As directors were 
made the signatories.) So I infer that Mr Ws duties as secretary did not actually require him 
to see the companys bank statements, or else he would have asked to see them in 2011. 
For that reason, I find that there has been no impact on A.
When the mandate was updated in 2016, HSBC continued to address the bank statements 
to the secretary, even though the mandate no longer purported to have the secretary on it. 
That error does appear to have caused some confusion. It seems to have given Mr W the 
impression that HSBC was sending statements addressed to the secretary because HSBC 
meant to send them to the secretary, in that capacity. Since the secretary was, in fact, Mr W, 
he inferred that he was really the intended recipient, and that HSBC had sent the statements 
to someone else by mistake, not knowing the true identity of the secretary.
I can see why Mr W thought that, but it is incorrect. HSBC was sending the statements to 
another person  initially to Mrs X, and then to another director  only because they were 
named as signatories, not because it thought that either of them was the secretary. Neither of the signatories on the 2016 mandate was described on that document as the secretary, 
and the description of one of them in correspondence as the secretary was just an oversight; 
this salutation should have been updated in 2016, but was not. HSBC was only writing to 
them as signatories. It wasnt trying to write to Mr W.
HSBC accepted that was a mistake, and paid A £50. I think that is fair compensation for that 
issue, and I wont require HSBC to do more than that.
Finally, HSBC was not obliged to honour Mr Ws request that it keep this complaint secret 
from Mr X, nor was it even entitled to do that. As a signatory on the companys account, 
Mr X was the proper person to receive HSBCs final response letter.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W, on behalf of 
A, to accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman