DRN-3888613
The complaint
Mr M complains that Monzo Bank Ltd failed to refund a transaction he didnt recognise.
What happened
Mr M was travelling abroad and reported to Monzo on 8 September 2022 that hed lost his 
debit card which was linked to his account. After reviewing his account, Mr M didnt 
recognise one particular transaction that had taken place on 2 September 2022.
Mr M told Monzo that he hadnt visited the area where the transaction had taken place and 
asked for a refund. Monzo checked their records and found that the transaction was made 
using the contactless feature of the card which meant the physical card itself was used to 
make the purchase.
Monzos records showed that Mr M had made other transactions using the same card which 
occurred after the disputed one and prior to Mr M realising it was lost. The later transactions 
werent disputed and Monzo declined to refund Mr M.
Mr M made a complaint to Monzo about the refund and maintained that he hadnt made the 
transaction, believing that his card may have been copied. Monzo didnt change their 
position and Mr M then brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an 
independent review where it was looked into by one of our investigators. During the 
complaint process, Monzo issued Mr M with a notice to close his account.
After reviewing evidence supplied by both parties, the investigator thought that Monzo had 
acted reasonably and the transaction was likely authorised by Mr M. He disagreed and 
asked for a further review of his complaint, continuing to state that he wasnt responsible for 
the transaction.
As no agreement could be reached about the complaint, its now been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Monzo can hold Mr M liable for the disputed payment if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them. 
Monzo can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mr M authorised the 
transaction, but Monzo cannot say that the use of the contactless card conclusively proves 
that the payment was authorised. 
Unless Monzo can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Mr Ms account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transaction. It shows that the transaction was authenticated using the payment tools issued 
to Mr M. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to determine 
whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Mr M responsible for the disputed transaction or 
not.
The disputed payment was made using the genuine card issued to Mr M which meant that 
whoever used it to make the transaction was in possession of it at the time. Mr M believes it 
may have been somehow copied, but the technical evidence provided by Monzo shows it 
was the genuine card, so I dont think thats the answer here.
If it was somehow copied, I would expect a thief to maximise their use of it while there were 
funds in the account or the bank closed access to the card. That didnt happen here, and I 
noted that the disputed payment was for a modest amount  about £75.00.
Ive thought whether the card could have been taken from Mr M, used and then replaced 
without his knowledge, but that seems unlikely given he was visiting abroad which would 
seem to make returning it a problem. Also, if someone did manage to get hold of the card, 
why would they make a modest transaction and return it  rather than maximise what was 
available on the card with multiple purchases?
Mr M said he didnt visit the area where the payment was taken but looking at the map of 
where he was visiting, the area of the transaction is effectively next door, so I dont think its 
implausible that the card was used there.
Because Mr M had the card after the disputed transaction was made to make other 
undisputed payments, its more likely than not that the disputed transaction was carried out 
by him or someone he allowed to use the card. In either of these cases, its reasonable for 
Monzo to hold him liable for it and I wont be upholding this complaint.
Mr M questioned the closure of his account after lodging the original complaint. It doesnt 
appear that Monzo have been approached specifically about the closure, so its difficult to 
make any determination about this point until Monzo have had an opportunity to answer the 
complaint. But, in general terms, if Monzo provided the appropriate notice to close the 
account then the terms of the account allow this. If Mr M believes the terms werent followed 
and he was treated unfairly, then he can make a separate complaint to Monzo about the 
closure and if necessary to bring that to our service for a review.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman