DRN-3774625
The complaint
Mr B complained about the service provided by Octopus Investments Limited. He said 
the information it provided to him was incorrect and that he should have received 
financial compensation for the distress and inconvenience this has caused him.
What happened
Mr B is a shareholder with Octopus and was provided with a prospectus from it 
regarding a new shares offer. This was in relation to Octopus Titan VCT plc. Mr B 
complained that there were errors within the prospectus. He said there was a mistake in 
relation to a discount that was available to existing customers and a further discount to 
any potential investor that bought shares early. He said, in addition, there was an error 
relating to a dividend. Mr B complained to Octopus about the errors and said he would 
like financial compensation for his time spent clarifying matters, that he said was 
wasted. 
Octopus replied to Mr B on 8 December 2021. It said it agreed that the prospectus had 
errors in it. Octopus said it was clear it didnt communicate accurately what discounts were 
available to potential investors. It referred to information about the dividend being in the 
document. It said though that it would discuss the mistakes it made with staff and would 
propose measures to minimise the chances of it happening again in the future. It said 
making an ex-gratia payment for what it had done was not something it would normally do, 
or it felt, it was expected to do. It also made the point that it replied promptly to Mr Bs emails 
about the prospectus and clarified its position. 
Mr B wasnt happy with Octopus response so referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint and didnt recommend that it be upheld. He said Mr 
B didnt suffer any financial loss and if everything had gone as it should, he would be in the 
same position financially. He summarised that he could see why inaccurate information 
would cause Mr B inconvenience. But he concluded, looking at the error, impact and time 
taken for Octopus to respond he felt the response from it was sufficient.   
Mr B didnt agree. He said he did not accept the conclusion drawn by the investigator. He 
said it was not correct to say investors would not make a different investment decision in 
the knowledge of the correct discounts. He said the whole reason VCT companies gave 
discounts would be to sway investment decisions from investors. He said it was also not 
correct to imply it took little time to ascertain the correct position from Octopus. He said it 
took him several hours to ascertain what it was. He said he believed he was entitled to 
financial recompense for the time wasted in him ascertaining what was correct with 
Octopus.
He asked for an ombudsman review and so his complaint comes to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld Mr Bs complaint, and these are my findings that explain why:
Mr B contacted Octopus and sought clarification over what he saw as errors in its 
Titan VCT prospectus. 
Mr B sent two emails: the first one on Sunday 24 October 2021 about dividends 
and then the second one on Monday 25 October 2021 about discounts. I can see 
that Octopus responded to both promptly, sending replies to Mr B on Monday 25 
October 2021. Ive read these emails and can see that Octopus clarified on both 
occasions what its position was. 
Mr B says that he believes he is entitled to financial recompense for the time 
wasted ascertaining the correct position. But as I have already concluded, 
Octopus gave clarity to the issues he raised on 25 October 2021, on the first 
working day that it could respond to his emails. After it had done this, Mr B then 
engaged in an exchange with Octopus. I can see why Mr B would say a lot of 
time was spent doing this. But I cant hold Octopus responsible for how much 
time Mr B put into emailing it after 25 October 2021, seeing as it had clarified the 
issues so quickly after he had contacted them.
Mr B was given the clarity he needed so that he was aware about the discount on 
offer by Octopus for existing and early investors. He was also given information 
about the dividend and dates that he would need to invest by to receive it. So, Mr 
B had the answers he sought, to decide for himself whether he wanted to invest 
or not. For this reason, I dont think Mr B was financially disadvantaged and I 
dont think the error that Octopus has said it made - not putting the correct 
information about the discount in the prospectus  has made any difference to Mr 
B.  
I can see also that Octopus has agreed with Mr B that there were errors in its 
prospectus relating to the discounts it was offering to existing and early investors. 
It also referred to information that it had provided regarding the dividend. It gave 
Mr B a full response and said it would look to not make mistakes again in the 
future. I dont think Octopus response is unreasonable in anyway. 
Mr B has made some comments about how investors would be disadvantaged by 
not having information in front of them in the prospectus. I have only looked at Mr 
Bs individual circumstances, his complaint and how Octopus actions have 
impacted on him. And in doing so, I dont think Octopus needs to do any more 
than it has already done, in its response to his complaint.
Looked at overall, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. I am satisfied that Octopus has replied 
to Mr Bs complaint, admitted its error, and suggested ways to put things right in the future. 
I can also see that it responded promptly and provided answers to Mr Bs emails so that he 
had the information he needed to make an informed decision. So, with all this in mind, I 
dont think it would be fair to ask it to do any more than what its already suggested. 
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr B but I hope he will at least feel that 
his complaint has been fully considered and that the way I've set things out helps to explain 
how I've reached my conclusions.My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman