DRN-2979534
The complaint
Mr E complains as a director of M, a limited company, that Chubb European Group SE 
refused a claim on Ms business protection insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2016 M took out a business protection insurance policy with Chubb. The policy was 
renewed for another year in May 2017 but when it expired in May 2018 M didnt renew the 
policy again.
In June 2020 M received a letter of claim from another business threatening legal action over 
a dispute related to work carried out by M in 2016 and 2017. M contacted Chubb to make a 
claim on the policy.
Chubb rejected the claim. Chubb said the policy only covered claims that were made while 
the policy was in force and as Ms cover ended on 30 May 2018 it wouldnt cover a claim 
made in June 2020.
M complained about the decision saying, amongst other things:
the policy had been mis-sold as it was not clearly defined and was now shown to 
have not been fit for purpose;
it was impossible for it to have reported the claim between May 2016 and 2018
rejecting the claim was unreasonable under Insurance: Conduct of Business (ICOBS) 
rules and unfair contract terms as the term claims-made is onerous.
Chubb didnt uphold Ms complaint; it maintained the policy was a claims made policy so it 
only covered claims that were made during the period of insurance. In this case the period of 
insurance ran from May 2016 to 2018, but the claim was raised in June 2020, so Chubb said 
it was outside the period of cover.
Mr E brought Ms complaint to us but our investigator didnt think it should be upheld.  He 
said he couldnt consider the sale of the policy in this complaint, only Chubbs decision to 
reject the claim; any complaint about the sale would need to be made against the broker that 
sold the policy to M. And he thought Chubbs decision to reject the claim was fair, because 
the policy documents were clear that cover was only provided for claims made while the 
policy was in force.
M disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision. 
On behalf of M, Mr E says under ICOBS rules an insurer should not reject a claim 
unreasonably, and this can only be construed in one-way  even if this was a claims made 
policy, M couldnt inform its insurer of a claim in that period it they didnt know about it. He 
says by definition, this is unreasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the underwriter of the policy Chubb is responsible for any claims and so I can consider 
whether its decision to reject this claim was fair. I cant consider the sale of the policy in this 
decision as Chubb wasnt responsible for the sale. Any complaint about the sale would need 
to be considered against the business that sold the policy to M.
Mr E has referred to the relevant industry rules and guidance (ICOBS). This says an insurer 
must deal with a claim promptly and fairly; provide reasonable guidance to help 
a policyholder make a claim and appropriate information on its progress; and not 
unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken this into account when considering the complaint.
The policy does potentially provide cover for the type of claim M wanted to make. But the 
policy is whats known as a claims made policy. This is not unusual with this type of 
insurance. It means cover is only available for claims that are made while the policy is in 
force  regardless of when the incident that leads to the claim happens.
The policy schedules for 2016-17 and 2017-18 both say:
THIS IS A CLAIMS-MADE POLICY. EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED, IT COVERS
ONLY CLAIMS FIRST MADE DURING THE POLICY PERIOD.
The terms and conditions of the policy confirm this is how the policy works. A claim is 
defined as:
(a) for the purposes of Insuring Clause 5.1:
(i) a written demand for specific monetary compensation or specific non-pecuniary relief;
(ii) a civil proceeding including third party proceeding, counterclaim or arbitration proceeding; 
or
(iii) a criminal proceeding made against an Organisation
Organisation is defined as the policyholder and the defence costs which are covered under 
the policy are defined as:
that part of Loss consisting of reasonable costs, expenses, charges and fees (including but 
not limited to lawyers' fees and experts' fees) incurred in defending or investigating a Claim 
(as defined in (a). (c) or (d) in the definition of Claim), HS Prosecution or Data or Information
Prosecution first made during the Policy Period (other than internal corporate expenses of an 
Organisation)
So the policy documents set out that there is cover for the losses caused by the defence of a 
claim brought against M under the policy  but only where the claim is made during the 
period when the policy was in force.
M has said it couldnt have made the claim sooner than it did because it only received the 
letter of claim in June 2020, so it wasnt aware of any claim before then. And it says under 
ICOBS, its unreasonable for Chubb to reject the claim for non-disclosure when it couldnt 
have informed Chubb there was a claim against M while the policy was in force, because it 
didnt know there was a claim at that point.
I appreciate the point M is making  it couldnt make a claim on the policy until it knew there 
was a claim to be made. But I dont think Chubb rejected the claim for non-disclosure or late 
notification of the claim against it, as suggested by M. It rejected the claim because theres  
no cover for a claim unless its made while the policy is in force.This policy ended in May 2018. So, apart from any claims that had already been made then,  
any cover under the policy ended at that time. The ICOBS rules M has referred to about 
unreasonable rejection of a claim wouldnt apply here. Those rules might apply where, for 
example, an insurer rejects a claim because it was notified outside a time limit set in the 
policy terms  but only where the claim would otherwise be covered. And in this case the 
period of insurance had ended and the terms dont provide cover after this period. So its not 
covered by this policy. Chubbs decision was fair and in line with the policy terms.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman