DRN-4433209
The complaint
Mr C complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds handling of his buildings 
insurance claim.
All references to Admiral also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for these reasons:
Admiral have offered Mr C £600 compensation. I think this is fair in recognising the 
distress and inconvenience its actions have caused.
Mr C provided statements that show in 2021 he had the funds available to pay for his 
proportion of the repairs. However, he was unable to proceed due to avoidable 
delays which Admiral has acknowledged it made during the claim. 
Its not in dispute costs have risen over the last couple of years. However, Admiral 
has only agreed to meet the increase in costs for its proportion of the settlement. But 
Mr C has been unable to proceed with works due to Admirals actions, so these 
increased costs will impact his contribution too. Therefore, its reasonable Admiral 
should meet the total rise in costs.
Mr C has provided the original quote for underpinning the front of the property in 
2021. He has also provided a revised quote, from the same contractor, in May 2022. 
The work quoted is identical but shows the increased costs in the latter quote. As Ive 
set out above, as the works did not proceed due to Admirals actions, its reasonable 
it should pay the total amount the costs have increased by. 
Admiral have provided their investigation notes which confirm underpinning is no 
longer required to the rear of the property. I wouldnt expect Admiral to provide 
anything further. However, if further issues present themselves, Mr C can approach 
Admiral to reconsider whether this work is now necessary.
Mr C hasnt provided any quotes to support the rise in costs of other works. Admiral 
increased its proportion of the settlement by a further 15%, in line with inflation. I 
think this sounds reasonable in the absence of sufficient evidence from Mr C. 
However I think Admiral, due to its delays, should be responsible for the total rise in 
costs. Which means Mr Cs contribution should remain the same as it would have 
been in 2021 with Admiral meeting the rest. 
Admiral has included the windows and doors as part of its settlement offer  and Ive 
not seen anything that persuades me the amount offered at this point is 
unreasonable. Admiral said it would consider any information regarding additional 
costs if further damage were identified during repairs. I think this is reasonable in the 
circumstances, and if Mr C is not satisfied with Admirals response, he may consider 
bringing a further complaint to our service.
Putting things right
To put things right Admiral should:
Meet the increased costs for Underpinning the front of the property
Cover increased costs of the repairs covered under the policy in full, not just its 
proportion of the settlement.  
Pay Mr C £600 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint.
To put things right I direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman