DRN-3565229
The complaint
Mr B complains that One Insurance Limited (OIL) declined his claim following an accident
and avoided his motor insurance policy back to the renewal date.
What happened
Mr B was involved in a car accident in July 2021. He made a claim, which OIL declined as it
became apparent the incorrect date of birth had been provided when the policy was agreed.
Mr B says his father made the application online and had mistakenly entered his own year of
birth instead of Mr Bs. This meant OIL thought Mr B was 30 years older than he was.
The policy was agreed in December 2019 and renewed in 2020. Mr B says it was 18 months
before the error was noticed, even though his driving licence number had been provided to
OIL which confirms his correct date of birth. He says the cost of repairs following the
accident is close to £5,000. He has paid the cost of the third-party repairs but cant afford the
repairs to his car.
Mr B cancelled his policy when his claim was declined and obtained insurance elsewhere.
He then received a notice from OIL saying it was cancelling his policy. He says it told him
that as hed already cancelled the policy, he wouldnt have to inform future insurers of the
cancellation. Mr B then requested a refund of premiums. OIL subsequently told him his
policy had been avoided and that he must declare this to future insurers.
Mr B thinks the avoidance of his policy only happened because he requested a refund. This
will now cost him many thousands of pounds in increased premiums over the coming years,
as well as the cost of the declined claim. He doesnt think this is fair.
OIL says at renewal in December 2020 full documentation was sent to Mr Bs online
customer portal. His date of birth is set out in these documents. OIL says customers are
advised that failure to provide accurate information may result in no cover and a claim not
being paid. It says it wouldnt have offered cover had Mr B provided his correct date of birth.
Mr B thought this was unfair and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt
uphold his complaint. He thought OIL had shown it wouldnt have provided cover if Mr B had
given his correct date of birth. Because of this he thought its decision to decline the claim,
avoid the policy back to the renewal date and refund premiums to this date was fair.
Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in April 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
OIL says Mr B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he gave
an incorrect date of birth. Its clear the wrong date of birth was provided, which Mr B accepts
was the result of his father entering the wrong year. OIL has supplied its underwriting criteria
that shows it wouldnt insure Mr B as he was under 25 years old. So, Im satisfied Mr Bs
misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
OIL considers this was a careless misrepresentation as opposed to it being reckless or
deliberate. In the circumstances described I think this is fair.
As Im satisfied that Mr Bs misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at
the actions OIL can take in accordance with CIDRA. In these circumstances OIL can avoid
the policy, declining any claims and refund the premiums paid. This is what it has done here
by refunding premiums back to the renewal date, when the new policy year began. If this
payment hasnt been received Mr B can contact OIL to query this.
OIL says it isnt refunding premiums back to the inception of the policy in December 2019,
although the wrong date of birth was provided from the outset. It says the policy ran its full
term from 2019 to 2020 and it was liable for cover for this period. It says should a third party
inform it of a claim occurring during this period, it would be liable to pay the cost to the third
party.
I acknowledge OILs point. It has obligations under the Road Traffic Act to pay the cost of
third-party claims. So, it would be liable for a third-party claim if one should arise. It could
then seek to recover its costs from Mr B. But this also applies to the second term following
the renewal. I cant see that there is a difference between the first year of the policy and the
renewal in this respect. So, its difficult to see how a refund is justifiably limited to just the
second year of the policy.
CIDRA says:
If the insurer would not have entered into the consumer insurance contract on any terms,
the insurer may avoid the contract and refuse all claims but must return the premiums paid.
I think OIL has shown that its decision to avoid the policy is reasonable. But according to
CIDRA it must avoid the policy back to its inception and refund the premiums in full.
I acknowledge Mr Bs concern that he cancelled the policy prior to OILs notification to
cancel. I also acknowledge his concern that it only avoided the policy because he had
requested a refund of premiums. I have thought about whether OIL acted fairly here.I accept Mr B cancelled his policy and sought insurance elsewhere once he learned OIL had
declined his claim. There was a delay while it investigated the matter, prior to taking the
action it eventually did. But once it had completed its investigation it avoided the policy in line
with CIDRA. I think this was reasonable as a qualifying, careless misrepresentation had
occurred. Its correct that this is recorded, and Mr B should have to declare this to any future
insurer. I sympathise that this will likely impact on future premiums he has to pay, but I dont
think this means OIL has treated him unfairly.
Finally, Mr Bs father says OIL quoted for his daughters car insurance, even though she is
under 25. He says this is at odds with what OIL says about its underwriting criteria only
providing cover for the over 25s.
I have considered the information Mr B supplied. This shows a quote was obtained from a
broker for a policy underwritten by another insurer. This isnt OIL. I understand it can be
confusing when different insurers and brokers are involved. But I dont think this shows that
OILs underwriting criteria insures those under 25.
In summary I think OIL reasonably avoided the policy meaning cover didnt exist at the time
of Mr Bs claim. I understand he is upset about its decision, but I dont think Oil acted
unreasonably in avoiding the policy and refunding the premiums. But I dont think OIL treated
Mr B fairly in not refunding the premiums from the first year of the policy. In line with CIDRA
it should now refund the premiums in full plus 8% simple interest.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint and One Insurance Limited should:
refund the premiums Mr B paid in the first year of the policy plus 8% simple interest,
from the date these payments were made until the refund is provided. If One
Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also
give Mr B a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
OIL responded to say it disagrees with my provisional decision. It says whilst it appreciates 
my view that Mr B is due a refund of the first-year premium it acted in his best interests by 
only voiding the second year and not the first. It says had it voided the initial policy Mr B 
would need to declare two voidances to future insurers. It also says he wouldnt have earned 
any no claims bonus for the initial year.
OIL says it can refund the premiums for the initial year and declare the policy void due to the 
invalid risk details originally declared. But it says its comments here should be taken into 
account. 
Mr B didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge OILs comments that it believes it is acting in Mr Bs best interests by not 
avoiding the first years policy and therefore not refunding the premiums. I have thought about this point when considering my final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained the relevant law here is CIDRA. It says:
If the insurer would not have entered into the consumer insurance contract on any terms, 
the insurer may avoid the contract and refuse all claims, but must return the premiums paid. 
I think its clear cover wouldnt have been provided had Mr B given his correct date of birth. 
So, according to CIDRA the contract can be avoided, all claims refused, and the premiums 
returned. 
I cant see there is a limitation to the current policy year. So, in this situation the premiums 
should be refunded back to the inception of the policy and OIL should avoid the contract 
back to the start. Otherwise it is saying the policy was valid for the first year but voidable in 
the second with no changes. 
I accept OILs comments that it was acting in Mr Bs best interests. He can of course choose 
to reject my decision. But in these circumstances, with reference to CIDRA, I think a fair and 
reasonable outcome is that the policy is avoided back to inception, for the qualifying 
misrepresentation, with a refund of the premium plus 8% simple interest.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. One Insurance Limited must:
refund the premiums Mr B paid in the first year of the policy plus 8% simple interest,
from the date these payments were made until the refund is provided. If One
Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also
give Mr B a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman