DRN-4273281
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Ltd (HLAM) are unable to 
offer fixed-term cash investment products within the Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) 
he has with them.
What happened
Mr M has had a self-invested SIPP with HLAM for a number of years. He approached them, 
asking to transfer cash funds in his SIPP into fixed term interest bearing accounts. HLAM 
advised this wasnt possible. 
They explained that, whilst it was possible for Mr M to retain cash in his SIPP (earning 
variable interest), they didnt offer fixed term interest bearing accounts within the SIPP. Mr M 
complained to HLAM about this, as he felt their restriction prevented him from making 
multiple investments in the manner he wished, but they didnt uphold his complaint. 
HLAM explained, whilst they offered Active Savings accounts (a type of fixed term interest 
bearing account), these are separate investment products that HLAM didnt offer within their 
SIPPs at that time  albeit that position may be reviewed at some point in the future. And 
they said Mr M was still benefitting from interest on his deposits at their current standard 
variable rate. They also believed Mr M should have been aware Active Savings accounts 
werent available within his SIPP, as this was clearly stated on their website. Accordingly, 
HLAM felt they hadnt acted in error.
Unhappy with HLAMs response, Mr M brought his complaint to this Service. He wanted us 
to compel HLAM to provide access to the relevant accounts within his SIPP. However, one 
of our Investigators concluded HLAM hadnt done anything wrong here, for essentially the 
same reasons as outlined by HLAM. 
Mr M made further representations to our Investigator, broadly summarised as follows:
- HLAM, by only allowing Mr M to hold his cash deposits in lesser interest-bearing 
accounts (without FSCS protection), are forcing him to make riskier low-yield 
investments than if the Active Savings accounts were capable of being held in his SIPP.
- SIPP providers arent passing on market rates for cash savings to their customers  an 
industry wide problem  meaning SIPP holder are being denied access to certain 
investments due to the greed of the SIPP providers.
- Presumably the Government would want to ensure SIPP investors have access to all 
suitable investments, and it was not in line with general regulatory principles and good 
industry practice to deprive SIPP owners of safe and simple investment products which 
would otherwise be available to non-SIPP owners.
- Mr Ms dispute was an individual one with HLAM  and that the rest of the SIPP industry 
engages in this unfair practice does not excuse HLAMs individual business decisions.
Mr M asked for his complaint to be considered by an Ombudsman, and so its been passed 
to me to consider and issue a Decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And, having done so, Im not upholding this complaint, for broadly the same reasons. I 
acknowledge the strength of Mr Ms feelings on this matter and appreciate this will come as 
a disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Firstly, I should explain the role of our Service. Were an informal dispute resolution service, 
set up as a free alternative to the courts  our role is to resolve individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses. And where we think a business has made an error or treated 
the consumer unfairly, well ask that business to put things right. 
However, our powers dont extend to being able to tell a business how they should manage 
their operations, or more specifically  as is the case here - tell them what products to offer 
their consumers. Any business is entitled to choose what products to offer/provide  that is 
their commercial decision, and it isnt one we can influence or dictate. Any complaint(s) 
about how a (financial services) business operates, and whether their product offerings 
accord with good industry practice  are better directed to their regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). 
I appreciate Mr M suggests I should consider his relationship with HLAM in isolation, 
ignoring as he puts it that the rest of the SIPP industry engages in this unfair practice. And 
hes right that I must (and can) focus only on his interactions with HLAM in his individual 
capacity as an investor within their SIPP product. And I do understand his frustrations that 
hes not able to  at least within the HLAM SIPP his cash funds are held in  invest them 
within what he believes would be a more financially attractive, and secure, product. 
So, whilst I cant consider HLAMs decision not to offer a particular product within their SIPP, 
I can still look at whether HLAM have treated Mr M fairly in how theyve dealt with him. 
Here, I think HLAM have been clear in their dealings with Mr M that they dont offer the 
Active Savings Accounts within their SIPP. I think theyve provided him with a clear 
explanation as to why that is. And theyve explained they may be reviewing that decision and 
may consider offering such accounts within their SIPP in future. Ive seen nothing to suggest 
Mr M has been treated differently to any other HLAM customer in relation to this matter. I 
think HLAM have been clear and consistent in explaining which products can sit within their 
SIPP account.    
Further, I havent seen any evidence to suggest HLAM misled Mr M or provided any 
documentation that could have caused him to believe they were able to offer such accounts 
within their SIPP at any time. So, I cant reasonably conclude HLAM have done anything 
wrong here in terms of how theyve dealt with Mr M on an individual basis. 
So, while I realise its not the answer Mr M wanted, for the reasons set out above, I dont 
think HLAM have acted unfairly here, and I wont be asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman