DRN-3902219
The complaint
Mr M complains that ReAssure Limited gave him unsuitable advice to transfer his 
occupational pension to a personal pension plan. 
Mr M is represented in this complaint but, for ease, Ill refer to all actions and comments as 
those of Mr M. 
What happened
Mr M met with a representative from a predecessor business of ReAssure in 1992. He was 
advised to transfer his occupational pension to a personal pension plan. The pension fund, 
valued at £4,470.35, was transferred in June 1992. 
Several years later, in 1994, the then Regulator set up an industry-wide review  known as 
the Pensions Review  of particular pension business carried out by authorised firms 
between 1988 and 1994. 
ReAssure contacted Mr M and carried out a review of his pension. This was completed in 
2001, during Phase 2 of the Pensions Review. ReAssure compared the benefits of Mr Ms 
personal pension plan with that of his former occupational pension and no cause for concern 
was identified. 
Mr M complained to ReAssure in 2021 that the advice to transfer his pension had been 
unsuitable. He also complained that his pension transfer wasnt included in the Pensions 
Review when it should have been.  
ReAssure responded and said Mr Ms complaint was made out of time. It said rules set by 
the Financial Conduct Authority meant this Service could only consider complaints made 
within six years from the start date of Mr Ms plan, or, if later, within three years from the date 
he realised, or ought to have reasonably become aware, that he had cause for complaint. 
ReAssure said it invited Mr M to take part in the historic Pensions Review exercise. It said it 
wrote to him in October 2001 requesting information about his previous employers and had 
no record of a response from him. It mistakenly suggested Mr M hadnt been included in the 
Pensions Review. It went on to say Mr M would have been alerted to the fact that his 
pension plan might not have suited his needs as early as October 2001 and so it said this 
matter was raised after the deadline for bringing complaints. 
Mr M remained unhappy and so brought his complaint to this Service. He said that, back in 
2001, he was not at the address listed in ReAssures recent complaint response letter. Mr M 
said that when he was provided with the advice back in 1992, he was not informed of any 
benefits that might be lost if he transferred out of his occupational pension plan. He said if he 
had been, then he would not have taken the advice. 
When this Service contacted ReAssure, it confirmed that the 2001 letter was sent to a 
different address to Mr Ms current address. ReAssure also provided this Service with 
additional information which it said showed that Mr Ms pension was in fact reviewed back in 
2001. ReAssure said it should have dealt with Mr Ms complaint as having previously been 
investigated during the Pensions Review, and not as a complaint that was made out of time. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. He said he thought ReAssure had already 
reviewed the advice given to Mr M as part of the Pensions Review and didnt need to do this 
again. 
Mr M was unhappy with what our Investigator said, so this came to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr M contacted ReAssure in 2021 it was to complain that the advice he received back 
in 1992 to transfer his pension was unsuitable. He also thought the transfer of his pension 
should have been looked at as part of the Pensions Review and said this hadnt happened. 
ReAssure initially said the complaint was brought out of time and that the letter it sent to 
Mr M in 2001 about the Pensions Review should have alerted him that the personal pension 
plan might not have suited his needs. ReAssure then provided this Service with additional 
information which it said showed that Mr M had responded to it in 2001, that he was taken 
through the Pensions Review process and it was found that he hadnt suffered a loss as a 
result of transferring his occupational pension. So ReAssure said Mr Ms pension advice has 
previously been investigated as part of the Pensions Review process and shouldnt be 
looked at again. 
The approach this Service takes is that the Pensions Review was a one-off exercise, and if a 
consumer responded to an invitation to take part in the review, and the business involved 
carried out a review of the pension transfer advice in line with the then Regulators 
guidelines, then this Service would not expect a business to look at this matter again. So Ive 
looked at whether Mr M was included in the Pensions Review some years ago.
ReAssure havent been able to provide all of the paperwork in relation to Mr Ms participation 
in the Pensions Review, so I havent seen the questionnaire that ReAssure says was 
completed by him or copies of all letters sent to him. But Im satisfied that the screenshots of 
ReAssures system notes show that Mr M was contacted during both phase 1 and phase 2 
of the review; that he responded prior to the letter sent to him in October 2001 and at that 
earlier point in time provided ReAssure with a completed pension review form; that 
ReAssure included him in the Pensions Review and concluded that Mr M hadnt been placed 
at a financial disadvantage by transferring from his occupational pension. 
Its not clear whether ReAssure sent Mr M an outcome letter at the end of the Pensions 
Review process. By the time it concluded the review Mr M had moved to a different address 
and doesnt appear to have informed ReAssure of his change of address. So I appreciate 
Mr M might well not have known that ReAssure included him in the Pensions Review. But, 
as outlined above, I am satisfied the advice he received was taken through the process and 
so Im not asking ReAssure to consider this matter again. 
From what I can see, Mr M hasnt complained about the accuracy of the information used to 
carry out the review or the review outcome. But I dont think hes been provided with all of 
the available information about the review that was carried out in 2001. Nonetheless, for 
completeness, Ive considered whether I think the review was carried out correctly.ReAssure has provided information about Mr Ms pension review and a copy of the loss 
assessment it carried out in November 2001. Ive checked the key details that were input 
into the review documents and I cant see that any of the information used is obviously 
incorrect. Its also the case that pension review calculations were subject to supervision and 
sampling at the time by the then Regulator. Taking all of this into consideration, I think its 
more likely than not ReAssure carried out the review correctly. 
As I said, it's important to note that under the industry wide Pensions Review, businesses 
only needed to carry out the review once, using the standards and assumptions the then 
Regulator told them to use. This is because the assumptions or predictions they used were 
considered reasonable at the time to assess any future loss. The Regulator intended that the 
review would draw a line under any pension mis-selling and would put things right at the 
time. Once a business carried out a pension review for a customer, they werent required to 
carry out another review.  
I realise my decision will disappoint Mr M, but I am not asking ReAssure to take any further 
action here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman