DRN-4005380
The complaint
Mr A complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax caused delays to his 
remortgage. He says this meant he ended up paying a higher interest rate and additional 
fees. 
What happened
Mr A held a mortgage with Halifax. The property was originally leasehold, but Mr A later 
purchased the freehold. In 2019, with the help of a solicitor, Mr A applied to substitute the 
security for the mortgage deed as a result of now owning the freehold. Mr A says that due to 
delays in Halifax providing information, this process stalled.
On 23 June 2022, Mr A says his solicitors again wrote to Halifax for further information to 
complete this process. Mr A says his solicitors chased this again on 1 August 2022. On 
12 October 2022, Mr As solicitors called Halifax to say they hadnt received a response to 
their requests for information. Halifax incorrectly told the solicitors in this call that a response 
had been sent that day  it had in fact been sent on 26 August 2022.  On 24 October, Mr A 
got in touch with Halifax saying his solicitors were still waiting for information. A further 
response was sent on 28 October providing all of the information required.
Mr A complained to Halifax about this on 4 November and his mortgage with Halifax was 
redeemed on 12 December 2022. Mr A said he was left paying Halifaxs standard variable 
rate for longer than he shouldve, and that hed incurred additional legal fees.
Halifax looked into Mr As complaint. It said it had provided his solicitors with incorrect 
information during the call on 12 October 2022 when it said it had responded to their queries 
on that same day. But it had in fact already responded on 26 August 2022, so clearly this 
had been lost in the post. 
Halifax said that because of this, it wasnt until Mr A got in touch on 24 October 2022 to say 
the documents still hadnt been received that it realised these documents must have been 
lost in the post. So, Halifax reissued the documents which were received by Mr As solicitors 
soon after. Because of this, Halifax accepted it was responsible for a delay of about two 
weeks. Halifax offered £100 compensation for this but didnt accept that it was responsible 
for any further losses.
Unhappy with this response, Mr A referred his complaint to our Service and one of our 
Investigators looked into it. Our Investigator didnt think Halifax were responsible for delays 
beyond the two weeks it had agreed, and he thought the £100 compensation was fair in the 
circumstances. 
Mr A didnt accept this. He said that this stemmed from Halifaxs errors in not responding to 
his solicitors in 2020. Our Investigator wasnt minded to change his opinion, so Mr A asked 
for his complaint to be considered by an Ombudsman. Its now been passed to me to review 
and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find myself coming to the same conclusion as our Investigator, and for the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
Mr A first started to apply to substitute the security for his mortgage deed in 2019 and this 
was still ongoing in 2020. Mr A thinks that delays caused by Halifax here have led to him 
being unable to remortgage when he wanted to in 2022.
From the records provided to me by Halifax, I can see that Halifax did respond to Mr As 
solicitors in 2020. I cant see any requests from Mr As solicitors on Halifaxs records that 
werent responded to. And if there were still outstanding documents which meant that the 
solicitors were unable to complete this transaction, I cant understand why the solicitors 
waited until 2022 to take further action. Had this been completed in a timely manner, then it 
seems to me that there wouldve been no delay in Mr As remortgage in 2022.
Mr A says his solicitors wrote to Halifax on 23 June 2022 requesting further information to 
complete this process and chased this, again by post, on 1 August 2022. Halifaxs records 
show that it only received the second letter, and this was responded to on 26 August 2022. 
Whilst this is outside the deadline the solicitors set of 14 days, I dont think that this is an 
unreasonable timeframe to respond. I understand Mr As solicitors didnt receive this 
response. But we have evidence to suggest it was sent. And I cant hold Halifax responsible 
for errors with the postal service. Id also note that Mr As solicitors had written to request 
these documents twice and didnt choose to call to chase them until 12 October 2022. If this 
matter was urgent, I think the solicitors couldve chased this on the phone sooner.
It was at this stage that I do agree that Halifax made a mistake. On this call, it told 
Mr As solicitors that the response had been sent out that day, when it had in fact been sent 
almost a month earlier. Had Halifax realised this, it wouldve seemed likely that the 
documents had been lost in the post and it couldve resent them sooner. It wasnt until Mr A 
got in touch on 24 October 2022, that these documents were resent. So, I agree that Halifax 
is responsible for a delay of around two weeks. 
Ultimately, I think the main reason that the completion of Mr As remortgage to another 
lender was delayed was due to the fact that the legal work for the deed of substituted 
security was not completed in 2020. I cant see that anything further was requested by 
Mr As solicitors to proceed with this until June 2022. Mr As mortgage offer made it clear 
when his mortgage interest rate would end, and it was for him and his solicitors to ensure 
that any remortgage was able to take place in a timely manner if he wished to avoid paying 
Halifaxs standard variable rate. I think the solicitors shouldve been aware that the 
outstanding legal work from 2020 would likely have delayed any potential remortgage.
As Ive said, I do accept Halifax caused delays of around two weeks. However, I dont think I 
can fairly hold Halifax responsible for any time Mr A spent paying the standard variable rate, 
given the wider context of the delays. I do accept this misake has caused some 
inconvenience to Mr A in having to chase a response from Halifax. And I think the £100 its 
offered to recognise this is fair, so Im not going to ask it to pay anything further.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman