DRN-2675281
The complaint
Ms T complains to IG Markets Limited about positions they closed on her contracts for 
difference (CFD) trading account. She also complains about the customer service following 
the closure.
What happened
In March 2020, Ms T was trading currency pairs with IG. On 9 March, she had 13 contracts 
in US dollar and New Zealand dollar, and 2.45 contracts of US dollar and Australian dollar. 
Unfortunately, the market rapidly moved against Ms T  though she had almost £129,000 
cash on account, her losses quickly increased to -c£135,000. 
As Ms T then didnt have enough margin on account, her positions were closed which 
crystallised the losses. While this left a negative balance of -c£8,000 this was cleared given 
Ms Ts status as a retail client. Ms T says the money was her life savings and had been 
wiped out within minutes.
Shortly after Ms Ts positions were closed, there was some recovery in the market. Ms T felt 
it was unfair IG had closed her positions during what she described as a brief swing. Ms T 
used live chat to raise her concerns with IG. She was waiting to speak to her account 
manager but as shed said she was struggling physically and mentally, IG decided to close 
her account.
Ms T made a complaint as she thought her positions had been unfairly closed without 
warning and she wasnt happy with how IG had handled the matter  shed asked for a call 
which took some time, and then thought IG had spoken to a family member instead of her 
and discussed mental health. 
IG looked into what Ms T had said but didnt agree theyd done anything wrong. They said 
her positions were correctly closed due to margin requirement and copied the live chat to 
show why theyd closed the account. Unhappy with this, Ms T asked for our help.
One of our investigators had a look into whatd happened but he didnt think IG had done 
anything wrong  he said the positions were closed as the equity on account fell below 50% 
and he wasnt concerned about IGs decision to close the account given what Ms T had said. 
He also didnt think IG had spoken to anyone other than Ms T.
Remaining unhappy, Ms T asked for her complaint to be referred for a decision  she said IG 
had failed to call on her correct phone number, shouldnt have judged her during what was a 
stressful time, hadnt sent a margin notification and ultimately hadnt shown any care 
towards her  instead she felt shed been bullied as she was a retail customer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Id like to say I appreciate how strongly Ms T feels about her complaint. Shes 
provided detailed submissions which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their entirety. 
And I appreciate shes lost a lot of money which has considerable impact on her future. But 
taking everything into account, Im afraid I dont think it would be fair to hold IG responsible 
for her losses or require them to pay her any compensation. Ill explain why.
The terms of Ms Ts agreement with IG say her account is execution-only which, among 
other things, means shes responsible for the positions she opens, the suitability of each 
trade, to monitor her account and to ensure shes got enough margin to maintain her open 
positions. And its the final point thats been the issue in Ms Ts case. 
Last March, Ms Ts account fell into margin deficit  or in other words, the amount of cash 
she had in her account, combined with the open profit or loss on all her positions, came to 
less than the amount of margin she needed to keep all her positions open. This is noted 
within the customer agreement at 15. (3) which said: Where we have categorised you as a 
Retail Client and only to the extent required by Applicable Regulations, we may close or part 
close any open Transactions on your account if your account balance, taking into account 
P&L, is equal to or less than 50% of the total Initial Margin requirement for your open 
Transactions.
IGs right to close positions flowed from the nature of the trading account  IG were allowing 
Ms T the opportunity to profit from speculating on exchange rates. In return, she had to 
provide a proportion of the value of the position, in the form of margin. When her account fell 
into margin deficit, Ms T was no longer providing the margin she needed to maintain her 
positions. Ive seen Ms Ts account balance during the early hours of 9 March and can see 
her cash balance was to be offset against her positions which ran at a £135,000 loss. Ms T 
needed to have over £6,400 on account, but in fact had -£6,500. So I dont think IG did 
anything wrong, unfair or unreasonable by closing her positions out.
I appreciate Ms T feels it was unfair for IG to take action given the brief swing to which she 
refers. But the terms dont work in this way. IG isnt to know how long a market move may be 
sustained, so if they left clients positions open for longer than they ought to, they could 
make things worse. It was for Ms T to maintain sufficient margin in her account if she didnt 
want to risk getting closed out. I acknowledge that its unlikely shed be able to monitor her 
account 24 hours a day, but by choosing to trade and leave positions open through the night 
she was accepting the risk that she wouldnt be able to monitor her margin or take action 
and add funds. 
Contrary to what Ms T alleges, IG wont have closed her out because they wanted to prevent 
her trades from being successful  instead, they had to close positions as the regulator 
adopted the restrictions set by the European Securities and Markets Authority for retail 
customers. This included the requirement for positions to be closed when funds fall to 50% 
of the margin needed. The restrictions were intended to protect retail customers from losing 
so much of their money, so its unfortunate that on 9 March the price movement was so fast 
that the 50% was quickly passed. 
Ms T also said she felt IG were wrong not to have let her know about the margin issue. But 
its not always the case that IG notify clients about this sort of thing  especially when the 
market moves as rapidly as it did when Ms T was closed out. Its likely that by the time any 
notification is sent, read and acted upon that it will be too late. This is also noted within IGs 
customer agreement at 15. (7) which said: We are not under any obligation to keep you 
informed of your account balance and Margin required (i.e. to make a Margin call) So from all Ive seen, Im satisfied IG closed Ms Ts positions correctly and that forewarning 
wasnt required. 
In considering the customer service provided by IG on the same morning, I have reviewed 
the live chat transcript, read the emails and listened to the calls. Its clear from the live chat 
transcript that Ms T was very distressed by what had happened. Some of the concerning 
comments she made were: I am really upset, please help I am sick  this is my life saving 
 I feel like dying  please help me I am so desperate I am going to collapse  this is my 
life saving, my whole life I just feeling really unwell  may get stroke or heart attack soon  
I am feeling sick is cause by IG unfair action to cut my position too quick, all this stress and 
shock make me physically sick  I am feeling so dizzy just have little lie down  I am very 
stressed.
Given what Ms T shared, IG decided to close her account and I think this was reasonable of 
them. As their member of staff explained on the phone, they were trying to act in Ms Ts best 
interests and due to the considerable effect the loss appeared to have on her physical and 
mental wellbeing they didnt think it would help for her to continue trading  especially if Ms T 
then tried to win back what shed lost, as there was the risk shed lose even more money. 
I can see that Ms T was anxious to speak with her account manager too and sent several 
emails  she wasnt able to speak with them as soon as shed have liked, but it would be 
unfair of me to find IG at fault for this, especially when she first got in touch before 6am. 
Given the market movement that day the account manager did explain that the team were 
especially busy, so I dont think theres more they could have done here as contact was 
made before midday.
I can see the account manager emailed and called Ms T  Ive listened to two occasions he 
left a voicemail and one occasion where he spoke with someone who answered to Ms Ts 
name. Ms T says that this was a family member and not her, but if this was the case I cant 
say IG could have known this given the account manager asked if it was Ms T and the 
person confirmed it was. 
Ms T raised her concerns about this by email and IG made the decision not to speak with 
her on the phone due to the data protection risk which I think was reasonable. I also dont 
think the issues IG had with verifying they were speaking to Ms T would make any difference 
to the substantive outcome of her complaint or her financial position. I say this as I note 
Ms Ts emails to IG did say that she just wanted to speak to someone to get her money back 
 but even if shed been able to have the conversation she wanted to on that morning, it 
wouldnt have resulted in her getting her money refunded. 
I do sympathise with Ms Ts situation as I can see shes lost a lot of money and I dont doubt 
this sum will have a significant impact on her. But from everything Ive seen and for the 
reasons Ive explained above, I dont think the way IG handled her margin call was unfair or 
unreasonable. So it follows that her losses are not something for which IG can be held 
responsible for.
 
 
My final decision
I do not uphold Ms Ts complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman