DRN-3057404
The complaint
Mrs Y complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) didnt provide 
account information when it should have done. Mrs Y says this had a financial impact on her.
  
What happened
Mrs Y says that in November 2017 she was involved in a matter that was subject to court 
proceedings. Mrs Y says that she was required to demonstrate her financial independence 
as part of the case. To do so, Mrs Ys solicitor made a request from Halifax, whom Mrs Y 
used to bank with, to supply the court with her account information. However, on 28 
November 2017, Halifax responded to Mrs Ys solicitors to advise that they were unable to 
find any of Mrs Ys account details.
Mrs Y said that she believes her court case was lost as a result of Halifax not providing the 
account information to the courts. Mrs Y provided a court document detailing that she 
needed to pay £70,000 in relation to the outcome of the court case.
Mrs Y says that in August 2019 she found some account statements from Halifax. This 
prompted Mrs Y to make a data subject access request (DSAR) from Halifax. Mrs Y said that 
in response to the DSAR, Halifax sent her full banking file to her.
Mrs Y says that this proves Halifax had her information all along and could have provided it 
in 2017 when shed needed it to support her court case. 
Mrs Y complained to Halifax, and in October 2019 Halifax provided their final response to 
her complaint. Halifax didnt uphold her complaint. Halifax explained that as her accounts 
had been closed for more than six years, they were no longer required to hold her 
information and couldnt locate it from the details that had been provided in the request. 
Unhappy with Halifaxs response, Mrs Y brought her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into her concerns and upheld her complaint. They felt that Halifax 
should have provided the information, although they couldnt determine how that would have 
affected the court case, so they recommended that Halifax pay Mrs Y £300 in compensation 
for the inconvenience caused.
Halifax accepted the view, but Mrs Y disagreed with it. Mrs Y said she should have been 
awarded more compensation for the financial loss and for the pain and suffering that had 
been caused. Mrs Y asked that her complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point is that Mrs Y requested account information from Halifax in 2017. This isnt 
in dispute and is agreed by both parties. Halifax confirmed in a letter to Mrs Y solicitors that 
they werent able to trace any of Mrs Ys account details. However, in 2019, following a 
DSAR from Mrs Y, Halifax were able to provide her with what Mrs Y has described as her 
full banking file. 
Having considered Halifax had Mrs Ys information, Ive thought about whether it was fair 
that Halifax didnt provide her with the information in 2017, and whether she was financially 
impacted as a result. 
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) are the UKs independent authority set up to 
uphold information rights in the public interest. They promote good practice in handling 
personal data and giving advice and guidance on data protection. Given their governance 
and oversight in relation to the management of personal data, Ive referred to their guidance 
within my decision as to whats considered good practice in this instance.
In a letter dated 28 Nov 2017 Halifax explained that they couldnt trace Mrs Ys account 
details from the information provided. In relation to retrieving personal, data the ICO says: 
You should also consider whether further information from the individual will help you find 
the information they have requested.
Ive seen no evidence that Halifax tried to gather more information from Mrs Y in order to 
help them find her account details, and given what the guidance says, I think Halifax could 
have done more to ensure they had enough information to base their search upon.
In their final response, Halifax also advised that as the account had been closed for more 
than six years, they werent required to retain the information. They also explained to us that 
following changes within their organisation Mrs Ys information was held on different 
platforms not available to all staff. 
The ICO says that technology isnt an exemption from the right of access. They also say that 
procedures should be in place to find and retrieve personal data. Given that Halifax were 
able to retrieve the information when they received a DSAR from Mrs Y in 2019, I find that 
they could have done so when Mrs Y had made the request in 2017. Particularly in the 
specific circumstance of the request, that it was in relation to a court case, I think its fair for 
Mrs Y to expect that Halifax would have made reasonable efforts to retrieve the information. 
So, having considered all the information from both parties along with whats expected from 
organisations in relation to personal data, I dont think Halifax acted fairly in the 
circumstances. I think they should have done more to try and retrieve Mrs Ys account 
information.
I recognise Mrs Ys strength of feeling that Halifaxs actions negatively affected her court 
case. However, on review of the court documents provided by Mrs Y, Ive seen no reference 
to the absence of Mrs Ys Halifax account details. Ive also seen no reference to what the 
outcome could have been had that information been provided. So, in consideration of the 
evidence provided, I dont think its fair to conclude that the outcome of the court case would 
have been different had the account information from Halifax been provided. And so, I wont 
be asking Halifax to pay for any costs or financial losses in relation to the court case.  
Putting things right
Given that Halifax could have done more to provide Mrs Ys account information in 2017, I 
think its fair that Mrs Y is compensated for this. Particularly in light of the sensitive and 
urgent nature of the request. Mrs Y has described her emotional distress of Halifaxs actions; 
and although I think its fair to say that the outcome of the court case would be a significant 
factor in how Mrs Y is feeling, I think Halifaxs actions would have contributed to this.So, in consideration of the above, Im in agreement with our investigator that £300 
compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, Ill be instructing Halifax to 
pay Mrs Y £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
My final decision
Having thought about everything above, along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I uphold this complaint and instruct Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
to:
Pay Mrs Y £300 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 January 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman