DRN-4355198
The complaint
Mrs H has complained about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited. She isnt happy about 
the valuation of her car after it was deemed a total loss after a claim under her motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs H made a claim under her motor insurance policy and her car was eventually deemed a 
total loss. When Admiral looked to settle the claim Mrs H wasnt happy with the valuation of 
her car. 
Admiral looked to value Mrs Hs car after it was written off by looking at two of the various 
trade valuation guides in order to gauge the market value of her car. It offered Mrs H around 
£15,065 (which was the average of the two guides) less the policy excess. But Mrs H wasnt 
happy about this as she thought her car was worth more and so she complained to this 
Service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs H and upheld her complaint. He looked at the 
various motor trade valuation guides available for Mrs Hs car from around the time of claim 
and thought that Admiral should pay slightly more for Mrs Hs car (£15,385 as opposed to 
Admirals offer of £15,065). This was because he had got valuations from all four available 
guides (Admiral only used two) and the average of those was a few hundred pound more, so 
our investigator thought this was fairer.
Admiral accepted the investigators findings but Mrs H didnt, suggesting that just the highest 
valuation guide should be used. So, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree the complaint should be upheld in line with the investigators view. I 
know it will come as a disappointment to Mrs H who only wants the highest guide used, but I 
think an average of all four guides feels fair. Ill explain why.
I can understand Mrs Hs position, as she clearly feels her car is worth more than Admiral 
offered her, and our investigator agreed. I know Mrs H feels the way her car has been 
valued has left her out of pocket. But this Service has an established approach to valuation 
cases like Mrs Hs. When looking at the valuation placed on a car by an insurance company 
I consider the approach they have adopted. And decide whether the valuation is fair in all the 
circumstances. 
It isnt the role of this Service to come to an exact valuation of a consumers car. But we do 
look to see if insurers have acted reasonably in looking to offer a fair market value of the car. 
I pay attention to the various trade valuation guides used for valuing cars. And I look at any 
other evidence provided by both sides. This evidence might include advertisements for the 
sale of similar cars. But I generally place less weight on these than on the trade guides, as 
the guides give an up-to-date estimate of the value of the car in question. The condition of 
the car at the time of the incident is also an important factor to consider. And I must 
emphasise that I will only ask a business to increase its valuation if I consider it is unfair.
I know Mrs H doesnt agree with this approach and feels her car is worth more than Admiral 
initially offered or the increased valuation our investigator suggested should be paid. But, 
while I understand her position and why she wants a higher value for her car, Im satisfied 
that an average of the four valuation guides (£15,385) feels fair.
I understand that Mrs H feels the guides Admiral relied on, and formed part of the 
investigators valuation verification process, are solely auction based and so shouldnt be 
used, but that isnt the case. All the guides are based on extensive nationwide research of 
likely selling prices and use advertised prices and auction prices to work out what the likely 
selling value of a car like Mrs Hs would have been. And so, I dont think it would be fair to 
just rely on one valuation guide as opposed to another and an average of all four feels fair. 
Plus, it is clear the make, model and details of Mrs Hs car were used to value her vehicle 
and so Im satisfied the correct details have been used to gauge the value of her car.
Ultimately, valuing second-hand cars is far from an exact science and it isnt my role to value 
Mrs Hs car. Im just looking to see if Admiral has acted reasonably in providing a fair market 
value and I agree that its initial valuation was slightly low. And I dont think it would be fair to 
just use one guide valuation although I can understand why Mrs H would like more money 
for her car. 
Given all of this, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of 
this case, is for Admiral to increase its valuation offer for Mrs Hs car to £15,385. And it 
should pay simple interest for the time shes been without the shortfall in valuation.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Mrs H £15,385 for her car and pay 8% simple interest 
for the shortfall from the date of claim until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before .
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman