DRN-4202662
The complaint
Mr B complains about MBNA Limiteds response to a claim he made under the connected 
lender liability provisions of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
Mr B is a carer for his mother, Mrs B who is hard of hearing. In December 2019 Mr B 
arranged for a third party H to supply Mrs B with hearing aids. He paid £1,190 using his 
MBNA credit card. Mr B describes that as part of the arrangements H undertook to provide 
fitting and testing once the aids were supplied.
However, while the hearing aids were received the follow-up actions never took place, 
despite Mr B chasing up the service. H subsequently ceased trading. Mr B says he 
approached other providers and audiologists to see if they could recalibrate the aids and 
provide aftercare service, without success. He says as a result the hearing aids were 
rendered effectively useless. He eventually bought alternative aids from a different supplier.
Mr B raised a section 75 breach of contract claim against MBNA, seeking to hold his credit 
provider liable for Hs failure to meet its contractual obligations. But MBNA declined to meet 
his claim. It told Mr B it was unable to use the chargeback process to recover payment as 
the claim was brought outside the applicable time limit. And MBNA said that section 75 
liability didnt apply because Mrs B and not Mr B was the beneficiary of the contract with H. 
Mr B complained to MBNA but it maintained its stance and he referred matters to us.
Our investigator approached MBNA to see whether in the circumstances of this case it would 
be willing to change its position. MBNA declined to do so, and our investigator told Mr B she 
didnt think the necessary section 75 relationship was in place between the parties to enable 
her to uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed and asked for this review.
I recently issued my provisional conclusions setting out the events leading up to this 
complaint, and how I thought it should be resolved. Ive reproduced my provisional decision 
below, and it forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision
I dont think theres anything wrong with MBNAs stance in respect of chargeback, which is a 
process card providers are sometimes able to use to assist cardholders to resolve disputes 
with suppliers. The chargeback rules are set out by the relevant card scheme and require 
(among other things) that a claim is made within a given time limit. I find that MBNA has set 
out the position correctly in this respect and that the rules support its position that it was 
unable to raise a chargeback claim.
On the question of whether Mr B is able to bring a claim under section 75 (which is the basis 
of MBNAs reason for declining to meet his claim), I consider the position to rather less clear-
cut than MBNAs response suggests.
Under section 75 there are several criteria that must be met for a successful claim against 
the creditor (or lender), which include that:
the agreement with the lender is a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within 
section 12(b) or (c) of the Consumer Credit Act 1975 (CCA)
the agreement with the lender is not a non-commercial agreement
the debtor has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, a claim against 
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract
that claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a cash price 
of more than £100 but not more that £30,000
Here, theres no question that the financial limits apply to the transaction. Mr B paid the full 
cost of £1,190 for hearing aids for both ears. I consider this was an overall package rather 
than the purchase of two individual aids, but even if that isnt right, no individual item within 
that total was £100 or less. And Mr Bs credit agreement with MBNA is not a non-commercial 
agreement; that is, its not a consumer credit agreement not made by MBNA in the course of 
its business.
So the remaining questions here are a) whether the agreement with MBNA meets the 
definition of a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) of the 
CCA, and b) whether Mr B has, in relation to the arrangements with H, a claim against H in 
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract.
Section 12(b) of the CCA says that a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement being a restricted-use credit agreement which falls within 
section 11(1)(b) and is made by the creditor under pre-existing arrangements, or in 
contemplation of future arrangements, between himself and the supplier. And section 
11(1)(b) says that a restricted-use credit agreement is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier) other 
than the creditor.
As I understand it, Mr Bs agreement with MBNA is a regulated consumer credit agreement. 
It was used to fund the transaction with H. But was that a transaction between H and Mr B 
as required by section 11(1)(b), or between H and Mrs B?
The document relating to the supply of the hearing aids and associated services is itself 
silent as to the identities of the contracting parties. It doesnt offer much in the way of 
conclusive evidence in this respect, and as such I dont think was entirely right for MBNA to 
place the level of reliance on that document as its response to the claim suggests it did. Id 
expect MBNA also to have taken into consideration Mr Bs first-hand evidence of the way in 
which the contract was formed.
On the one hand, Mrs B is clearly intended to be the beneficiary of the arrangements made 
with H. She was the person needing the hearing aids and the person to whom the aftercare 
service was to be provided. And Mr B doesnt seek to argue that he himself was a benefiting 
party. He says his mother wasnt physically capable of making such arrangements.
Mr B was undoubtedly the person who set up the arrangements with H. He sought and 
obtained the services of H, to be directed towards his mother. It is Mr Bs signature on the 
document that has been supplied. So there is also an argument that this was a transaction 
between H and Mr B. He was certainly rather more than the mere provider of consideration 
under the contract with H. Mr B was, in essence, contracting with H to provide goods and 
services directed towards his mother Mrs B.With this in mind Im currently minded to find that the necessary elements of section 75 are 
met, such that Mr B can bring a breach of contract claim against MBNA. The extent to which 
that claim might be successful wasnt addressed by MBNA in its responses, presumably 
because it had concluded that section 75 didnt apply. Rather than direct MBNA to 
reconsider the claim as if section 75 applied, I think at this stage it would be more helpful to 
suggest the way in which I think matters are best resolved.
Ive thought about the basis of Mr Bs claim. The hearing aids themselves dont appear to 
have been defective; theres no suggestion that they didnt work. Rather, the claim is that 
any use Mrs B was able to make of the hearing aids was impaired because H failed to 
provide the fitting and aftercare services that were part of the contract arrangements. The 
contract reads:
After the purchase of your hearing aid system [H] will arrange an additional 
appointment to fit the system and give you advice and guidelines on its use, how to 
look after it, what to expect during the early and later stages of hearing rehabilitation, 
together with information regarding the supply of batteries and additional ongoing 
services that are available from [H]. Shortly after delivery of your hearing system we 
shall contact you to assess your progress and ensure that you achieve the very best 
from the product and [H].; and
After your initial familiarisation with your hearing system, [H] will contact you 
periodically to offer free of charge checkups on your hearing and hearing aids to 
maximise long term benefit.
I think its reasonable to infer from this that the arrangements extended beyond just the 
supply of the hearing aids. From Mr Bs submissions it appears that none of the additional 
services set out above went ahead, and that the expected benefit of the hearing aids was 
impaired as a result.
Based on this, I think theres a reasonable possibility that MBNA might be liable to Mr B in 
respect of his claim. I dont think that means MBNA is responsible for paying the full sum 
Mr B paid for the hearing aids; rather that it should recognise the impairment to their value. 
Having carefully considered what Mr B has said in this respect, Im currently inclined to 
propose a payment of £700 as a fair way of settling matters to avoid the need for any further 
action.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments they wished to make in response 
to my provisional conclusions.
Both MBNA and Mr B accepted my findings and proposed resolution. With this in mind, I see 
no reason to depart from what I said in my provisional decision. Im conscious MBNA has 
asked for details of where to send Mr Bs payment. Mr B can provide that information to us 
along with his acceptance of this decision, assuming hes comfortable doing so.
My final decision
My final decision is that to settle this complaint, MBNA Limited must pay Mr B £700.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman