DRN-3505405
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold Mr J a 
packaged bank account and both of them a Tech pack. Their account history is as follows:
Fee-free Current account taken out in October 1989
Upgraded to a fee-paying Additions account in May 1996
Migrated to a fee free current account with a fee-paying Tech pack in January 2017
Mr and Mrs J say that Mr J was told that the Additions account would save him money and 
they went on to never use the benefits of either the account or the pack.
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked into this complaint and they didnt think the Additions account 
or the Tech pack had been mis-sold. Mr and Mrs J disagreed and so the complaint has been 
referred for an ombudsmans decision.
Mr and Mrs J have also mentioned that Mr J tried to downgrade the account in 2007 but was 
prevented from doing so. If Mr and Mrs J remain unhappy with this we would need to look 
into this matter separately.
I also note Mr and Mrs J have said that they feel that a claim for a broken iPad was unfairly 
declined. If they remain unhappy with this, they would need to direct their concerns to the 
policy provider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me deicide this case. I think it might help to explain that where 
matters are in dispute and evidence is incomplete, I have to base my decision on what I 
think was most likely to have happened, based on everything that is available.
Firstly, I have considered whether Mr J was given a fair choice to take out the Additions 
account. 
When this account was taken out, it cost £5 per month and came with an interest free 
overdraft buffer zone of £100. (At this point the Additions account did not come with 
insurance benefits) And by having the Additions account, Mr J no longer had to pay the £5 
monthly overdraft usage fee (which was applicable to fee free accounts). 
I can see from the earliest statements that we have been provided, that Mr J did regularly 
use his overdraft at this point. So having the Additions account meant that Mr J was likely to 
have saved money on a monthly basis when it was initially taken out, compared to what he 
was being charged in interest and charges to use the overdraft on the existing fee-free 
account. As Mr J claims that he was told that the account would save him money and this 
seems to have been correct at the time the account was taken out, I cant say Mr J was mis-
led.
When selling the Additions account, Barclays was required to give Mr J enough information 
about the account so he understood what he was agreeing to. And based on Mr Js 
recollections of the sale, it seems highly likely that the overdraft features were discussed. I 
also cant see anything that he was not told that may have changed his decision to take out 
this account. 
I note that Mr and Mrs J now say that due to Mr J being dyslexic he would not have been 
aware of what he was agreeing to. I note though that in their initial submissions they said 
that all the benefits were explained, they also have not said what exactly Mr J was not told 
that wouldve changed his decision to agree to the account. Especially as when it was taken 
out the main benefit would have saved him money on a monthly basis.
Therefore, based on everything I have seen, I dont think the Additions account was mis-
sold. The account mayve changed in terms of cost and benefits over the time they held it, 
and I appreciate that Mr and Mrs J may now believe the account to have been poor value for 
money as they may not have frequently used the benefits that were later added to the 
account. But that does not mean it was mis-sold, or that Barclays was wrong to have sold it 
to Mr J when it did.
In relation to the Tech pack added to the account in 2017, I should highlight that the Tech 
Pack was not sold to Mr and Mrs J. What actually happened was in 2017 Barclays decided 
to change the products it offered and withdrew the Additions account. Barclays replaced the 
Additions account with a fee-free current account that included a Tech pack. This was to 
ensure that account holders were able to continue to receive similar insurance benefits that 
the Additions account provided. Barclays did however give all account holders the option to 
opt out of adding the pack to the account, if they no longer needed the insurance benefits 
that they provided.
This means that Barclays did not need formal consent to for the pack to be added, as they 
were in essence essentially a change to the structure of the benefits that previously came 
with the Additions account, rather than a sale of a totally new product. I say this because 
previously Mr and Mrs J had an account that came with benefits whereas after the change, 
they had an account that had an additional pack added that came with similar benefits.
Barclays was entitled to make these changes. However, when taking these actions Barclays 
needed to notify its customers in good time and explain the changes clearly and explain 
what options its customers had.
Barclays has provided a copy of a letter it sent to Mr and Mrs J before it changed their 
account in September 2016. I note that the letter was personally addressed to Mr and Mrs J 
at the address it held for them at the time. The letter gave Mr and Mrs J information on the 
upcoming changes that would be happening on their account. The second page of the letter 
gave several options, including opting out of the change and choosing to have a fee-free 
account without the pack instead. It gave Mr and Mrs J the option of calling to make this 
change or visiting a Barclays branch to do so.Given this, I think that Barclays did enough to highlight that Mr and Mrs Js account was 
changing from an Additions account to a fee-free current account that came with a Tech 
pack. And that it highlighted to Mr and Mrs J that they could opt out of having this pack, if 
they wished to do so. I also think that Barclays had given Mr and Mrs J a reasonable amount 
of time to consider the changes being made to the account, before they came into effect. I 
cant see that they contacted Barclays to either opt out of the change or query it. So, I cant 
say that Barclays did anything wrong in relation to the changes that happened on the 
account, or that it needs to refund the fees Mr and Mrs J paid for the Tech pack since it was 
added to their account.
I appreciate that this may come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs J, but overall, I dont 
think that the Additions account was mis-sold or that Barclays did anything wrong in relation 
to the migration to the Tech pack. I do hope however that they understand the reasons why I 
have reached this outcome.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman