DRN-1139524
Complaint
Miss R took out a mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax. She says that 
during this application, a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy was mis-sold 
to her because MPPI was never discussed as being optional and she didnt need this type of 
cover.
Background
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told Miss R its unlikely to be 
upheld. She disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
I certainly dont doubt that Miss R now honestly and genuinely feels the MPPI was mis-sold 
to her. But these events were a long time ago. She was sold the MPPI in 1996 and the policy 
concerned has been cancelled for around 18 years too. So I dont think its unreasonable 
that Halifax hasnt been able to show us the actual paperwork that was used during the 
actual sale after such a long time.
Nevertheless, Ive seen quite a few similar sales from this time and I can draw on that 
experience. From what Ive seen, it was usual for Halifax to seek the consent of the 
consumer before adding these types of policy on to a mortgage and the consumer would 
also have had to agree to the policy being set up.
Ive also seen some screen shots on Halifaxs computer system which in my view tend to 
show that MPPI was discussed and that Miss R agreed to have it. On this basis I think its 
more likely that Miss R agreed to the MPPI and would have probably known she had a 
choice.
Halifax accepts it recommended this cover to Miss R when they met, so it had a duty to 
make sure it was suitable for Miss Rs situation. Overall, I think it was.
This is because Miss R appears to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any 
of the main exclusions we sometimes see in these policies. The price seems to me to be 
comparable with similar policies from around that time and Ive seen nothing that suggests it 
wasnt affordable for her. 
Miss R said she didnt need the cover because she also had sickness protection with her job 
and that her parents would always have helped, if needed. Ive thought very carefully about her job and the benefits Miss R told us about. But I dont 
think they made the MPPI unsuitable. The mortgage was secured against Miss Rs home 
and so the consequences of her not being able to keep up payments could have been 
serious. In the event of a successful claim, the cover she bought was payable for up to 12 
months and this would have been in addition to any other means she already had in place at 
the time. 
Im also sure her parents would have wanted to help if needed. But relying on this over the 
term of a mortgage isnt a sustainable plan in my view and it would obviously rely heavily on 
their ability to pay over a long time period. So although I cant say why Miss R decided to 
buy this policy, I dont think Halifax recommending it to her was unreasonable. I think the 
policy was suitable.
Halifax also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Obviously I cant confirm if she was told everything she ought to have been. But I know the 
costs of the cover were usually set out on the forms, as were some brief details about what 
was covered. So I think she probably had enough information on which to make an informed 
decision.
Im very sorry to disappoint Miss R, but this sale was over 23 years ago now. To uphold her 
complaint Id need to think she wasnt given a choice or that the policy wasnt suitable. As 
Ive explained I think its unlikely that either of these things happened. I therefore dont have 
enough to say this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint. And I dont direct Bank of Scotland plc to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman