DRN-4096917
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund an international payment of 
£21,600 he lost to an investment scam in October 2019.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it for the following reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr C authorised the disputed payment he made to the scammer 
from his HSBC account. The international payment was requested by him using his 
legitimate security credentials provided by HSBC, and the starting position is that banks 
ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments 
to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether HSBC should have done more to prevent Mr C from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character.
Its accepted that the payment Mr C made was considered unusual given that it did 
trigger the banks fraud prevention systems and was automatically blocked pending 
further enquiry. Accordingly, its just a question of whether the bank went far enough in 
all the circumstances with its intervention.
Mr C was under the impression that he was investing in forex through a broker. 
However, when HSBC spoke to him about the payment on 30 October 2019, he misled 
the bank and said he was paying a builder for work completed on his house. I accept that 
HSBC could have arguably gone further in its questioning of Mr C. But even if it had, Im 
not persuaded it would have likely uncovered the scam as Mr C wouldnt have given 
honest answers about what he was doing. Mr C also lied as to the purpose of the loan he 
took out with HSBC to fund the investment, as he said he was borrowing the money for 
home improvements, so this would have appeared consistent with the reason he gave 
for making the payment. Therefore, I dont consider HSBC can fairly or reasonably be 
held liable for Mr Cs loss in these circumstances, because even if it had probed further, 
it seems likely he would have continued to provide false information in order to make the 
payment. 
HSBC are also under no obligation to refund the money to Mr C under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) either, as the Code only applies to transfers made 
between GBP-denominated UK-domiciled accounts. In this instance, the payment was 
made to an international account, so the CRM Code would not apply.
Ive also considered whether HSBC did enough to try and recover the funds after the 
fraud was reported. I can see that it contacted the international beneficiary bank and was 
told that no funds remained. And given the fraud wasnt reported until April 2020, I dont 
think there wouldve been any reasonable prospect of it being able to recover the funds if 
it had acted any sooner. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr C, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded HSBC can fairly or reasonably 
be held liable for his loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman