DRN-4074325
The complaint
Ms M has complained that St Andrews Insurance Plc ended a sickness claim she made in 
2020 after three months and that it is requiring evidence of job searches to progress a claim 
for unemployment she made in 2021.
What happened
Ms M had a mortgage payment protection insurance policy that had the potential to cover 
her mortgage repayments for a maximum of 12 months per claim.
Ms M was signed off work in August 2020 due to anxiety. St Andrews paid the claim for 
three months until 23 November 2020 but ended it at that point as Ms M had not been 
referred to a specialist, as required under the policy terms.
Ms M was later made redundant in August 2021. But she says she didnt know that St 
Andrews would require evidence that she was looking for work. St Andrews wont progress 
the claim until she provides the necessary information.
Our adjudicator thought that St Andrews had acted reasonably, in line with the policys 
terms and conditions, when assessing both claims. Ms M disagrees with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at the policy terms, it states:
Payment for psychological illness will be limited to daily benefit equivalent to three 
consecutive monthly payments of mortgage repayments benefit unless you have been 
referred to an appropriate specialist and remain under the care of this specialist.
A specialist is defined as:
A psychiatrist, psychologist or member of any mental health nursing team.
Ms M says her illness happened during Covid and she was barely able to get an 
appointment with her GP, let alone a consultant. I appreciate Ms Ms point and agree with 
our adjudicator that we would expect St Andrews to show some flexibility in the 
circumstances. However, at the time of referring the complaint to this service in June 2022, 
Ms M said that she was still on medication. So, it seems clear that she remained under the 
care of her GP. But, as far as Im aware, they still havent found it necessary to refer her to a 
specialist.
Its not in dispute that Ms M remained off sick beyond November 2020 and it must have 
been a very difficult time for her. But unfortunately, the policy contains a limitation that 
restricts payments to three months in circumstances such as hers. If Ms M can provide 
evidence of a referral to a specialist, then I would expect St Andrews to look at the sickness 
claim again. But based on the available evidence, Im satisfied that St Andrews assessed 
the sickness claim correctly and has paid the maximum amount due under the policy terms.
With regard to the unemployment claim that Ms M made in August 2021, she says her 
understanding was that, if you got made redundant, then the policy would pay out for 12 
months.
The policy terms state:
Being out of work involuntarily. You must be:
actively seeking work
The intention of the policy is to provide support to policyholders during a difficult time when 
they have found themselves without work, until they hopefully find work or otherwise receive 
the maximum 12 months benefit. Therefore, I consider it is fair and reasonable for St 
Andrews to require Ms M to provide evidence that she was seeking permanent employment. 
The current position is that St Andrews hasnt declined the claim and will continue to assess 
it if it receives the relevant evidence. If Ms M was trying to get a new job it shouldnt be too 
difficult for her to provide that information. So, she may wish to forward any details to St 
Andrews now for it to re-look at the unemployment claim.
Based on the above, it follows that I do not uphold Ms Ms complaint in relation to her 
sickness or unemployment claims.
I will now cover off another few things that Ms M has mentioned.
Firstly, shes said that she became a carer for her mother between her sickness and 
unemployment claims and this might be another reason that shed have been able to claim 
on the policy. However, this didnt form part of her original complaint and so I cant look at it 
as part of this decision. Also, it appears that Ms M didnt actually approach St Andrews 
about making a carer claim. So, she may wish to consider doing so now.
Secondly, Ms M has talked about feeling the policy was mis-sold to her. As our adjudicator 
has explained, the deadline for making a mis-sale complaint has passed. However, there is 
a limited exception for mis-sale complaints which are made as a result of a claim being fully 
or partially rejected by the insurer on the grounds of ineligibility, exclusion or limitation. That 
means that Ms M might be able to complain to the business who sold her the policy. But the 
seller would only have to look at the reasons why the claims were declined to determine 
whether the policy was mis-sold or not.
Thirdly, although Ms M thought the policy was replicating an existing critical illness policy 
that she had, from looking at the policy schedule, Im satisfied that the policy does not 
include critical illness cover.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023. 
Carole ClarkOmbudsman