DRN-3371770
The complaint
Mrs W complains about delays and poor service from Financial Administration Services 
Limited (trading as Fidelity) when transferring ISA funds.
 
What happened
In January 2021 Fidelity received an ISA transfer request from Mrs W. Fidelity sent a 
transfer request to Mrs Ws existing ISA provider (N) but made various mistakes. As a result 
of errors by Fidelity, Mrs Ws ISA transfer was substantially delayed. 
Fidelity received Mrs Ws ISA funds on 23 April 2021, around three months after it received 
her request.
Mrs W complained to Fidelity and it issued a final response and apologised for what had 
happened. Fidelity paid Mrs W £250 in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused by 
its actions. Mrs W referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. 
They thought Fidelity had dealt with Mrs Ws complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything 
else. Mrs W asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background above as all parties broadly agree 
about the overall timeline for Mrs Ws case. Its clear Fidelity made a number of mistakes 
that delayed Mrs Ws ISA transfer for an extended period. Mrs W has told us she had to 
repeatedly contact Fidelity and thats also shown in its contact records. And its clear Fidelity 
repeatedly wrote to Mrs W to explain there were delays with her ISA transfer. I can see how 
frustrating the situation was for Mrs W and agree the service provided was poor. 
Im pleased the ISA transfer was ultimately received. I need to decide how to fairly resolve 
Mrs Ws complaint. The ISA transfer was received on 23 April 2021 and contact notes show 
Mrs W spoke with Fidelity on 12 May 2021. Mrs W has also sent us a copy of a letter from N 
that confirmed her existing ISA was closed the day before. At that point, Mrs W was aware 
her funds had been received. But there was no request to move the funds into an investment 
until early August 2021. As no investment instructions for the transferred ISA funds were 
given until August 2021, I dont think it would be fair to tell Fidelity to pay additional interest. 
Fidelity paid Mrs W £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Ive read and 
considered everything Mrs W has told us about what happened and how she was affected 
by Fidelitys delay. As Ive said above, I can see it was a frustrating time and distressing for 
Mrs W. Whilst I dont doubt how upsetting the situation and delays were for Mrs W, Im 
satisfied the £250 compensation Fidelity has already paid is a fair way to resolve her 
complaint. The compensation paid by Fidelity is very much in line with what I wouldve 
awarded had no offer been made. 
Whilst I agree the service provided by Fidelity was poor, Im satisfied its dealt with Mrs Ws 
complaint fairly. As a result, Im not telling Fidelity to increase its offer or take any other 
action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint because Financial Administration 
Services Limited trading as Fidelity has already paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman