DRN-3775449
The complaint
Mr K says the advice given and the arrangements made by Portal Financial Services LLP 
(Portal), to transfer his Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) benefits into a Transact Self-
invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and recommend investments in specialist holdings was 
unsuitable.
Mr K is represented by Money Redress Limited (MRL).
What happened
Mr K says he was approached by Portal in 2012 to discuss his pension arrangements. He 
says he never met the adviser and that all contact took place over the phone. He says Portal 
told him that given his age, there was potential for him to take a tax-free cash (TFC) lump 
sum from his pension. He was thinking about paying off some debt at the time, so he says 
the proposal seemed timely, but wasnt essential.
Portal issued a suitability report dated 23 October 2012, it recorded Mr Ks objectives in the 
following terms:
- Use your existing pension plans to provide an income at a later date and to take your 
[TFC] entitlement immediately.
- Retain a residual fund that remains invested until such a time that you require an 
income in your retirement.
- Ensure that you have a good awareness of investment opportunities available to you.
- Ensure your portfolio reflects your current Risk and Reward profile.
- Have access to a system which will monitor the performance of your investments.
- Be kept informed of the performance of your portfolio.
Mr K had deferred benefits from an OPS he was a member of with a former employer. Hed 
accrued around 12 years of service between 1978 and 1990. His benefits had a transfer 
value of around £59,700.
Portals recommendations were recorded in the following terms:
I would normally recommend that you leave your pension benefits where they are as this 
will be most beneficial to you in retirement. However, during our telephone conversation you 
advised me that you are aware of the downfalls in taking your benefits now but due to your 
current circumstances you would like to take your benefits immediately; in accordance to 
your wishes, I recommend:
-That you transfer your existing pension fund to a Transact Self Invested Personal 
Pension.
-That you take your full 25% [TFC] entitlement from your arrangement.
-You leave the residual fund invested until such a time when you require an income.
The reason I have recommended a pension switch to the selected provider is because the 
potential benefits available at retirement with them look likely to exceed the benefits 
available with other possible providers once you have taken your [TFC] lump sum from your 
pension. By following this recommendation, you will:
-Receive your [TFC] lump sum of circa £14,920.
-Repay your personal debts and purchase a newer car.
-Structure your portfolio to match your current Risk and Reward profile. 
-Have greater long-term flexibility to maintain your pension in line with your 
risk/reward profile.
Portal assessed Mr K as having a balanced attitude to risk. It recommended he invest 87.5% 
of his residual pension pot in a series of unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS).
Mr K accepted Portals recommendations. On 6 December 2012 his OPS funds of £59,680 
were transferred into his new Transact SIPP. Portal charged him 5% (£2,984) of the fund 
value for its initial advice. And most of the residual pot was invested in accordance with its 
recommendations between 19 and 31 December 2012.
MRL approached Portal in April 2021. It raised a number of concerns about what had 
happened to Mr K in 2012. For example, it said Portal had failed to meet its regulatory 
obligations when advising on the transfer of OPS benefits. The rationale for the transfer had 
been weak. And the investments made had been inappropriate. Essentially the transaction 
had been unsuitable.
Portal sent Mr K its final response to his complaint on 21 June 2021. It argued hed brought 
his complaint too late and so it wouldnt look into the specifics of his case.
An Investigator considered Mr Ks complaint and set out why we could look into it, but Portal 
disagreed. So, the matter was passed to an Ombudsman for review. She also concluded 
that we could look at Mr Ks complaint.
Portal didnt respond to the Ombudsmans decision. But to be clear, whenever a case comes 
to an Ombudsman for a decision on the merits of a complaint, they must still consider 
jurisdiction. Having done so I agree with the findings and conclusions set out by the 
Ombudsman in her letter of 4 October 2022. Theres little point in me rehearsing those 
arguments in full again.
Portals main argument hinged on a series of documents it said Mr K was sent and shouldve 
put him on notice of problems with his investments and therefore gave him cause to 
complain much earlier than he did. I think the following extract from the ombudsmans 
decision neatly summarises the position:
Ive looked at the letters Portal sent Mr K and, overall, I dont think he ought to have felt 
overly concerned by these. Ill explain why.
While Portals letter dated 22 February 2017 said that the performance of Mr Ks 
investment funds raised some issues and that due to the illiquid nature of these it was 
waiving its advice fee, it also said that since 2016 there had been a 4.14% growth in fund 
value after charges. It went on to say it was happy with this growth, it was hopeful Mr Ks 
pension would grow by the targeted amount and that it wasnt recommending any changes 
to his funds. So, again, I dont think this letter ought to have given Mr K cause for concern 
about the advice, as it was positive overall.On 23 October 2017, Mr K was sent a SIPP valuation report showing the value of his 
pension fund had dropped by approximately a third, to just over £22,000, and that the value 
of two of his investments within it had reduced substantially to nearly £0. Bearing in mind 
that Mr Ks said he was a cautious risk investor and the extent of this drop in value, Ive 
considered if this report ought reasonably to have alerted him to a problem with Portals 
advice. But I can see that a few weeks later, on 6 November 2017, Portal sent Mr K a letter 
which explained that while it looks alarming that some of his investments had been valued at 
£1, nothing material had changed. And that this only meant his SIPP provider didnt know 
exactly what his investments were currently worth, rather than because they were 
worthless.
Towards the end of the letter it told Mr K that pensions are complex and not to worry, as 
nothing material had changed since its last contact with him, which appears to have been its 
letter dated 22 February 2017 when it said it was happy with the performance of his 
investments. In which case, Portal didnt just say that Mr Ks investments were still on track 
despite the £1 valuation. Instead, I think it went further by giving an explanation for the 
valuation, reassuring him that his investments werent in fact worthless and that there had 
been no material changes. And considering Mr Ks lack of investment experience and that 
he trusted Portals advice, I think he would have felt reassured by it rather than being alerted 
to something having gone wrong with the advice.
I dont think Mr K ought reasonably to have been alerted to a problem with the advice until 
5 May 2018 when he received a further SIPP valuation report saying his entire pension fund 
was valued at £7.47 and that all the investments held within it were also valued at around 
£0. I think this ought to have given him cause for concern considering his pension fund now 
had no value. And bearing in mind that I cant see that he was provided with any further 
reassurance by Portal following this, I think this ought to have given him cause to complain.
Since Mr K brought his complaint within 3 years from when he ought reasonably to have 
been aware of cause for complaint, his case is in time and this Service can consider it.
An Investigator went on to consider the merits of Mr Ks case and issued his view 6 October 
2022. He upheld it because he found Portals advice had been unsuitable. Portal failed to 
respond to the Investigators view and so his complaint has been passed to me to review 
afresh and provide a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
how does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mr Ks case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by Portal for Mr K. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Portal. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Ks complaint.
At the time of the advice Portal gave Mr K, COBS 19.1.6 made the following specific point 
about advising on a transfer from OPS schemes (bolding is my emphasis):
When advising a retail client who isa member of a defined benefits occupational pension 
schemewhether to transfera firm should start by assuming that a transferwill not 
be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transferto be suitable if it can clearly 
demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transferis in the client's best 
interests.
Under COBS 19.1.2, Portal was required to:
- Compare the benefits likely to be paid under the ceding arrangement with the 
benefits afforded by the proposed arrangement.
- Ensure that the comparison included enough information for Mr K to be able to make 
an informed decision.
- Give Mr K a copy of the comparison, drawing his attention to the factors that do and 
dont support its personal recommendation, in good time.
- Take reasonable steps to ensure that Mr K understood its comparison and how it 
contributed towards the personal recommendation.
In simple terms, Portal had to assess the benefits likely to be paid and options available 
under the OPS and compare this with those available under the new arrangements 
proposed before it advised Mr K on what to do.
Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business carried on 
for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding: 
the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial situation; and their investment objectives.In July 2010 the FCA issued guidance about unregulated investments in a Good and Poor 
Practice report. The report contained examples of good practice in relation to unregulated 
investments, for example where a firm had robust controls in place and limited client 
exposure to 3% to 5% of their portfolios, where those clients had been assessed as being 
suitable for unregulated investments. An example of bad practice given by the FCA was 
where up to 100% of a clients holdings were invested in a single UCIS.
did Portal adhere to the regulatory requirements placed on it?
In short, I dont think Portal met the regulatory requirements placed on it. Ill explain why. 
There are a number of documents relating to Portals transaction with Mr K that are 
important to my consideration, these include the Pension Options Personal Financial 
Questionnaire (fact-find), the risk attitude questionnaire and the suitability report.
At the time of Portals advice Mr K was 55 years old. He was married with four non-
dependent children. Mr K was in full time employment, as was his wife. The total net monthly 
household income was around £2,300.
The information Portal gathered about Mr Ks household incomings and outgoings was 
scant. The adviser simply noted there was a minimal net disposable income at the end of 
each month. The only expenditure noted was the £400 monthly rent. Mr K was said to have 
two loans, although no information was gathered about outstanding balances nor the rate of 
interest being paid. He was also said to have around £2,500 on credit cards. No other assets 
or liabilities are recorded.
Mr K was a deferred member of an OPS. This had a transfer value of around £59,680. This 
was his only pension provision, aside from any state pension entitlement. His intention was 
said to have been to retire when he reached 66.
Portal hasnt set out its position on the merits of Mr Ks case. But to be fair, Ive considered 
some arguments it couldve made. For example, I note that before Portal issued its suitability 
report it had sent Mr K a letter dated 8 October 2012. This said it would be against its 
recommendation for him to transfer his pension. It also provided information about becoming 
an insistent client.
Where a firm decides to transact with a customer on an insistent client basis, it should 
communicate with them:
- In terms that are clear, fair and not misleading.
- Having regard for the information needs of the client such that the client is able to 
understand.
- That it hasnt recommended the transaction and that it will not be in accordance with 
the personal recommendation. 
- The reasons why it isnt in accordance with that personal recommendation.
- The risks of the transaction proposed by the client.
- The reasons why it didnt recommend the transaction. 
Portal also needed to obtain Mr Ks acknowledgement that the transaction wouldnt be in 
accordance with the personal recommendation given by it; and the transaction was being 
carried out at his request. This acknowledgement shouldve been in Mr Ks own words.Ive reviewed Portals approach to how it conducted business with Mr K as an insistent client. 
For example, Portal has provided the letter it sent Mr K, presumably shortly after it had first 
spoken to him and had secured information from his OPS providers about the benefits hed 
be giving up if he transferred his pension. It was a short letter in which it recommended he 
did not proceed. It said:
You currently have a pension with [OPS provider] which has a Transfer Value of £59,680, 
from which you could release a total amount of £14,920 as a tax free lump sum. However, 
as the Critical Yield (growth rate required to match your guaranteed benefits with [your OPS] 
is 34.96% it would be against our recommendation to do this. Furthermore, you will be 
waiving your entitlement to a guaranteed pension of £6,275 per annum which is payable at 
retirement age 60.
In the same short letter to Mr K, Portal immediately went on to say the following:
If you decide that you still wish to proceed, we can help you release money from your 
pension, but we would have to treat you as an insistent client, as this would be against our 
recommendation. We would, therefore, require you to complete the attached insistent client 
form confirming that you are aware of the benefits you would be relinquishing.
I enclose a form detailing the various options available to you. Please can you arrange to 
complete and return the forms to Portal Financial Services. Upon receipt, we will arrange to 
send out all the relevant application forms and Suitability Report detailing our advice.
Attached to the letter was a form with two options  the first was to take TFC and reinvest 
the residual funds with Mr K being treated as an insistent client. The second option was to 
remain with his OPS, which it recommended. Portal also provided Mr K with an insistent 
client template letter to complete and return if he took the first option.
Mr K completed the forms provided by Portal to say he wanted to transfer his pension. Portal 
then wrote to him and provided a suitability report dated 23 October 2012.
Ive thought carefully about what Portal did. I have several concerns about its insistent client 
process. And Ive concluded it was flawed. I say this because:
- While its communication with Mr K did set out its recommendation for him not to 
proceed with the transfer, this was seriously undermined by advice in the same short 
letter about how he could still go ahead. Portal shouldve provided a breathing space 
here.
- I note that it would only send Mr K the suitability report after hed decided he wanted 
to transfer his OPS. This undermines the process  how could he have been 
expected to take a fully informed decision without access to the analysis?
- The insistent client form Mr K signed was a template. It wasnt in his own words. It 
wouldve been clear to Portal that he had no knowledge or experience of financial 
matters. So, it wouldve been important to ensure he understood what he was getting 
into, and a good way to have done this wouldve been to see in his own words that 
he understood the recommendation being made and why he wanted to proceed.
- There are also various examples from Portals process of gaps in the information it 
held, or certainly that it provided Mr K, to enable him to make a fully informed 
decision. For example, what were the terms of his OPS. Many similar schemes allow 
early access to benefits, albeit often being actuarily reduced.
Further, Ive concerns about Mr Ks knowledge and experience of pensions and investments, 
which again shouldve put Portal on notice that it wouldnt be fair to treat him as an insistent 
client.Given these failings it wouldnt be reasonable for me to conclude that the process Portal 
followed meant that Mr K can truly be regarded as an insistent client. Its communications 
werent clear or fair. It wasnt acting in his best interests. And it failed to act with due care 
and skill.
While Portal acknowledged the transfer of Mr Ks OPS wasnt suitable, there were failings in 
the advice process which meant he wasnt fully informed about his position and we dont 
know what effect fuller information and better analysis wouldve had on his decision making.
Portal recorded Mr Ks wants in the following terms:
You would like to cash in the maximum amount available from your pension as you would 
like to repay your debts and purchase a newer car.
But Portal failed to conduct a detailed income and expenditure analysis. There are no figures 
showing how much outstanding debt he had. Theres no substantive analysis of alternatives 
to drawing on his pension funds prior to retirement. Theres no indication that Mr K was 
having trouble servicing the debt. And even if he was, theres no exploration of the options 
such as debt restructuring or repayment plans. And theres no information about how much 
he wanted to spend on a newer car, and why that was necessary.
Portals position is weak. Even if it had been in Mr Ks mind to access his TFC to clear debts 
and buy a car, it wouldve been obvious this was a questionable strategy. Theres no record 
it gave Mr K such advice.
Portal hasnt provided a record of what Mr Ks income requirements were in retirement. Ive 
seen no evidence of an attempt by it to get to the bottom of this fundamental question. It was 
focussed on Mr Ks short-term wants and not his medium and long-term needs. It was 
dealing with his pension pot, so this wasnt appropriate in his circumstances.
Portal was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr K about 
what was in his best interest for retirement planning. It knew pension pots built up over many 
years are to provide for retirement. And certainly, when early access is contemplated there 
need to be compelling reasons, on balance I dont think that was the case here.
It was Portals role to discern what Mr Ks wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt 
simply to facilitate what he wanted without any critical thinking. It had to use due care and 
skill. It had to do these things because it had to act in his best interests. Even though it 
initially recommended Mr K didnt transfer his benefits, I dont think its demonstrably met 
these obligations.
Turning to the need for Mr Ks Transact SIPP to provide an income in retirement. Leaving 
aside what we know in hindsight about the investment performance of the funds 
recommended to him by Portal, I have various concerns about its advice here.
I dont believe either party would dispute that Mr K wasnt an investment professional. Nor 
was he a sophisticated investor. Indeed, from the information gathered by Portal it seems he 
had little knowledge or experience of investing. This is important context when I consider 
what happened to him.
Portal conducted a risk questionnaire with Mr K. The suitability report set out the position 
arrived at. It said:We have evaluated the answers you have given regarding your attitude to risk in respect of 
these funds. The answers you gave indicate that you have a balanced attitude to risk. This 
broadly means:
Balanced investors typically have moderate levels of knowledge about financial matters and 
will pay some attention to keeping up to date with financial matters. They may have some 
experience of investment, including investing in products containing risky assets such as 
equities and bonds.
In general, balanced investors understand that they have to take investment risk in order to 
be able to meet their long-term goals. They are likely to be willing to take risk with at least 
part of their available assets.
Balanced investors will usually be prepared to give up a certain outcome for a gamble 
provided that the potential rewards from the gamble are high enough. They will usually be 
able to make up their minds on financial matters relatively quickly, but do still suffer from 
some feelings of regret when their decisions turn out badly.
Ive several concerns about the risk assessment process Portal conducted. Bearing in mind 
what we are told about the traits of a balanced investor in the definition provided. The 
responses captured for Mr K on the Pension Options Personal Financial Questionnaire are 
dissonant with this. For example (bolding shows his response to various statements about 
his risk outlook):
- People would describe him as a cautious person  strongly agree
- I feel comfortable investing in the stock market  disagree
- I feel comfortable investing in property  disagree
- I generally look for safer investments, even if it means lower returns  agree
- Usually it takes me a long time to make up my mind on financial matters  agree
- I generally prefer bank deposits to riskier investments  agree
- I am willing to take substantial financial risk to earn substantial returns  disagree
- Ive little experience of investing in stock, shares or property  agree
- Id rather take my chances with high risk investments than increase the amount Im 
saving  disagree
I accept Mr Ks responses to a couple of other questions mayve indicated a willingness to 
take risk with his funds and that all information gathered needs to be taken together and 
reviewed. But I cant find any proper exploration of what underpinned Portals assessment of 
his risk appetite. Theres no record it discussed any contradictions and tensions in its 
assessment. From the information available its puzzling how it ended up ascribing him as in 
the balanced investor category.
Portal didnt do enough to demonstrate its assessed attitude to risk was correct. Id argue 
that based on his responses it was too high. However, Portal pressed on, it recommended 
87.5% of his residual funds were invested in a series of UCIS, it described in the following 
terms:
The Raithwaites Hypa Fund is a specialist investment in a five star hotel development in 
Whitby, Yorkshire and is designed to yield 8% per annum. In addition the fund has secured a 
discount to current market value which means that the investment should be worth 25% 
more than the amount you invest. Our due diligence research evaluates this as a low to 
medium risk investment which will run over an approximate 7 year period and should provide 
an average compound return of 11% once capital growth and income are taken into account. Interest coverage within the fund is 3:1 in other words the interest charge only represents 
1/3rd of the funds income and we believe this keeps the risks well within acceptable bounds. 
The fund will hold the hotel rooms until the hotel becomes established and then look to sell 
them on at profit as single units or in bulk.
The Raithwaites Hypa Fund will provide an income stream in early 2013 which can be re-
invested or held as cash within your pension and we will review the most suitable option for 
you as the income falls due.
The Cool Blue Fractional Plus Fund invests in Off-Plan villas and Hotel Rooms which 
will be resold at higher prices once building is complete. The developments are all financed 
by local banks and the fund is designed to run over a three year period and return between 
50%-100% capital growth on the original investment. Because of the added currency risks 
involved this investment is medium to high risk but its inclusion in your portfolio is balanced 
by the other lower risk investments.
The Cool Blue Fractional Plus Fund investments will mature in 3 years and we will be able 
to re-evaluate this portion of your portfolio at that time. If you decide to withdraw prior to 
maturity however, you may suffer a 3% facilitation fee plus costs from the sale price of the 
shares owned in the fund.
Venture Oil International pre-purchases Oklahoma Sweet crude oil. This is supplied on a 
monthly basis to the fund over a seven year period and resold on the open market. Currently 
oil is selling for over $100 per barrel and the fund expects to return the capital invested plus 
profit equating to an estimated return of 18% per annum. Portal Financial have conducted 
due diligence on the oil producers and believe that over the investment period the price of 
crude oil is likely to increase.
The EOS solar Energy fund invests in a solar power development in Cyprus where the 
fund has contracted to sell electricity at a fixed price over a twenty five year period to the 
Cypriot government. The initial yield is 8% per annum for three years and 10% per annum 
thereafter denominated in Euros.
As well as creating a lack of diversification in how Mr Ks funds were being invested, Portal 
has failed to show that he wouldve understood what it was getting him into. It knew he 
actually had limited knowledge and experience of investment and pension matters. This 
approach flew in the face of regulatory obligations on Portal that Ive already set out at some 
length.
Im also concerned that Portal didnt get to grips with Mr Ks capacity for loss. Although he 
had another 10 years or so before his recorded planned retirement date, he was being 
advised to transfer his only pension provision and to invest in a portfolio that was above his 
risk tolerance. He had no other assets or savings to fall back on.
It seems Mr Ks answers to the risk questionnaire were fed into a system and dealt with in a 
mechanical manner without further enquiry. But given the basic facts Portal knew about his 
situation - his lack of experience of pensions and investments, his lack of assets and the fact 
that the pension it was advising him about was his only retirement provision  it shouldve 
known he had a low capacity for loss.
More generally, Im not satisfied that Mr K was properly informed that by moving away from 
his DB scheme and using the funds to invest, he was moving from a situation where his 
former employer was bearing the risks related to the provision of his retirement income to 
one where he was taking on that risk.Its arguable Portal seemed more concerned with facilitating its investment 
recommendations than providing effective advice about what was in Mr Ks best interests 
concerning his valuable pension funds.
Portal was being paid a lot of money to provide best advice to Mr K. Those charges are 
another area of concern. Its recorded that he was charged 5% of the transfer value for the 
initial transaction. And there was a 1% ongoing advice fee for Portal. There were also fees 
for the SIPP provider. And there were management fees associated with each of the funds 
he was investing in.
Portal failed to provide a clear comparison of the charges he would incur in the new 
arrangements with his former pension plans. I dont think it was sufficiently transparent in 
these matters.
Portal shouldve provided Mr K with fully formed and unequivocal advice not to proceed with 
the transfer of his OPS benefits into a Transact SIPP, the purpose of which was to access 
his TFC and invest in a specialist high-risk portfolio. I say this because of the flaws Ive found 
in its advice process; what it knew about his attitude to risk and capacity for loss; and his 
lack of experience of the sort of investments it was recommending.
Instead, Portal failed to conduct a satisfactory insistent client process with Mr K. And it 
recommended that his OPS benefits be invested beyond his risk appetite. It knew this and 
the potential consequences. The funds could be illiquid, meaning Mr K might have difficulty 
getting access to his pension funds. The investment was specialised, out of the ordinary and 
reliant on third parties. And it was subject to valuation uncertainty.
I cant see that accessing his TFC was a pressing concern for Mr K. If he really needed to 
access finance, potentially better alternatives werent properly explored by Portal. Nor was 
there a convincing assessment of his retirement income requirements.
I think that if Portal had given Mr K appropriate advice, he wouldnt have gone ahead with 
the transfer of his OPS benefits to the Transact SIPP and the high-risk investment portfolio it 
proposed. Its unusual for a lay person to seek professional advice and then go against the 
recommendations received.
To conclude I dont think the transfer of Mr Ks OPS into the Transact SIPP and the 
investment in the high-risk portfolio of UCIS funds it recommended could sensibly be 
regarded as fair to him. As such I think Portal failed to meet the regulatory requirements 
placed on it when providing him with such advice and making the arrangements.
So, taking all the circumstances of the case into account, its fair and reasonable to uphold 
this complaint against Portal and for it to put things right.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr Ks case. So, he needs to be returned to the position he wouldve been in 
now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I hold 
Portal Financial Services LLP responsible for. I consider Mr K wouldve remained in his 
OPS.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/19 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr K whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for any new guidance /rules to be published. He didnt make a 
choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case he doesnt want to wait for any 
new guidance. And Im satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate 
and, if a loss is identified, will provide fair redress for Mr K.
Portal Financial Services LLP should therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with 
the pension review methodology, as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ks acceptance of the decision.
Portal Financial Services LLP may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions 
(DWP) to obtain Mr Ks contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme 
(SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the 
calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr 
Ks SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible 
be paid into Mr Ks pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr K as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
My aim is to return Mr K to the position he would have been in but for the actions of Portal. 
This is complicated where an investment is illiquid (meaning it cant be readily sold on the 
open market), as its value cant be determined. That appears to be the case here.
To calculate the compensation, Portal Financial Services LLP should agree an amount with 
the SIPP provider as a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any 
costs and take ownership of the investment. If Portal is unable to buy the investment, it 
should give it a nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the calculations should include anything Portal has paid into the SIPP and any 
outstanding charges yet to be applied to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, Portal Financial Services LLP may ask Mr K to provide an undertaking to 
account to it for the net amount of any payment he may receive from the investment. That 
undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. Portal 
will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Portal asks Mr K to provide an 
undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of 
that undertaking.
Id add the SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment. In order for the SIPP to be 
closed and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investment needs to be removed from the 
SIPP. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Portal taking over the investment, or 
this is something that Mr K can discuss with his SIPP provider directly. But I dont know how 
long that will take.
Third parties are involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. To provide 
certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Portal pay Mr K an upfront lump sum equivalent to 
five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This should 
provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr K within 90 days of the date 
Portal Financial Services LLP receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Mr K.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal Financial Services LLP deducts 
income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr K how much has been taken off. It should give 
Mr K a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Portal Financial Services LLP to carry out a calculation in 
line with the updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint. I now require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay compensation to him as Ive indicated above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman