DRN-1162564
The complaint
Mr S says A J Bell Management Limited made a mistake in an annual statement it sent him 
in relation to one of the accounts held in his Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP). 
What happened
In May 2019 Mr S received an annual statement for the accounts he held in his SIPP. He 
queried the value detailed for one of his accounts.
A J Bell confirmed there'd been an error on his statement. It said it had failed to include 
interest that had accrued on the fund worth over £600. It said sorry and offered Mr S £50 for 
the inconvenience it had caused.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with A J Bells offer to resolve matters. He thought compensation 
equivalent to his annual administration fee of over £850 would be an appropriate outcome.
The investigator didnt uphold this case. Mr S disagreed so his complaint has come to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators main conclusions for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute between the parties about what went wrong. A J Bell made an error on 
Mr Ss annual SIPP statement. The disagreement here is about what it should do to put 
things right.
When Im deciding how to sort out a complaint like this, Ill think about whether its fair to 
award compensation for trouble and upset. When somethings gone wrong, a businesss 
recognition of the emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. For me to award compensation, I need to decide that 
the impact of A J Bells actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset.
Mr S told us he relied on his end of year fund figures to plan his investment strategy for the 
following year. Hed also received a pension forecast based on the information to understand 
what his funds might achieve if he were to buy an annuity, so this was incorrect as well.
The error undermined Mr Ss confidence in the information hed previously been given about 
the performance of his SIPP. He also mentioned this wasnt the first time A J Bell had got 
things wrong, although his complaint in May 2019 didnt appear to raise these other matters. 
Mr S says that when A J Bell checked records from previous years it ultimately discovered a 
problem that had been carried forward since 2014. So, Mr S had to spend even more time 
checking its calculations.Its clear A J Bells mistake had an impact on Mr S. But Ive also thought about what it did to 
put things right. The day after hed queried the information hed been sent, it acknowledged 
there was a problem and apologised. It offered Mr S £50 in recognition of the things it had 
got wrong. And it issued him with an updated statement.
Mr S thought A J Bell should compensate him to the value of his annual administration fee of 
over £850. I dont think this would be a proportionate outcome. Thats because he wouldve 
effectively been receiving its service free of charge. When I consider the range of activity 
being undertaken on his behalf, I dont think that would be reasonable.
Mr S didnt think there was much involved in administering his SIPP compared to others. I 
can see he was unhappy with what he was being charged, and he raised this as an issue 
with A J Bell in August 2019. 
The thrust of Mr Ss argument was that his SIPP was comparatively straight-forward. And 
that he was being charged more than a colleague whod recently entered into an 
arrangement with A J Bell. He highlighted recent mistakes that hed experienced in the 
administration of his funds (the subject of this complaint). And he noted his disappointment 
with recent investment performance.
After this discussion, in light of the issues raised, Mr S and A J Bell came to an agreement 
about reduced future administration fees which both parties were happy with.
So, taking all these matters into account I dont think it would be fair for me to require A J 
Bell to make a further award to Mr S.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint. 
I think the proposal A J Bell Management Limited made in its final response to Mr S to put 
things right was reasonable. If it hasnt done so already, it should give effect to its proposed 
redress within 28 days of receiving Mr Hs notice of his acceptance of my decision.
Mr S should note that if he accepts my decision, it will be legally binding on all parties and he 
probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation.
If, however, Mr S rejects my decision, although his legal rights will remain intact, itll be 
purely a matter between him and A J Bell Management Limited as to whether its offer 
remains open for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the offeror after 
rejection of it has been communicated.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2020.
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman