DRN-2453147
The complaint
Mr G complains about Tesco Personal Finance PLCs decision to decline his claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s.75).
Background
In 2019 Mr G booked two hotel rooms for himself and a friend through a third party holiday 
company (company A). He paid company A, through two separate transactions, using his 
Tesco credit card as follows:
Room 1: the total value was £370, of which Mr G paid £120 using his credit card and 
the remaining £250 was paid for using vouchers. These vouchers had been gifted to 
Mr G by his employer.
Room 2: the total value was £378.20 and Mr G paid this full amount with his credit 
card. 
Company A subsequently went into liquidation before Mr Gs break and also before they had 
passed his payments onto the hotel. So Mr G paid the hotel directly for both rooms upon 
check in  this cost him a further £640. 
Mr G contacted Tesco and a chargeback was successfully processed for the two amounts 
charged by company A to Mr Gs credit card (£120 for room 1 and £378.20 for room 2). 
This left the £250 paid for room 1 with the vouchers outstanding. Tesco considered whether 
they could refund this amount to Mr G under s.75. They told Mr G that in order for s.75 to 
apply there had to be a debtor-creditor-supplier link  namely, there had to be a link between 
Mr G (the debtor), Tesco (the creditor) and company A (the supplier). But the invoice for 
room 1 had been issued to Mr Gs friend and not to him. So Tesco said the DCS link had 
been broken. 
Tesco also said that, in any event, even if s.75 applied Mr G hadnt actually suffered a 
financial loss in relation to the vouchers because these had been provided to him by his 
employer and not something he had paid for himself. So the loss was his employers and not 
Mr Gs. 
Mr G disagreed and provided Tesco with evidence from the hotel confirming that company A 
had made a mistake with the room bookings and that room 1 had been Mr Gs. He also 
provided an email from company A confirming that Mr Gs vouchers corresponded with the 
vouchers used for booking room 1. Finally he pointed out that using how own vouchers for 
someone else room didnt make sense. 
But Tesco didnt change their mind so Mr G brought his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator thought that there was enough evidence to show that the friends name on the 
invoice for room 1 was a clerical error. Mr G was therefore both the debtor and the 
contracting party for that room and s.75 applied. He also thought that the value of the 
vouchers was Mr Gs loss because they had been gifted to him by his employer. So Mr G 
had been entitled to the benefit of their value and ought to be refunded £250.  
Tesco disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In particular, they said that the 
invoice for room 1 was the contract and so on that basis DCS was broken. Furthermore, as 
the hotel wasnt party to the DCS link their evidence about the error with the booking 
shouldnt hold any merit. 
But in any event, Tesco said that the fact that Mr G wasnt the one who originally purchased 
the vouchers meant that their value wasnt his loss. They referred to another, unrelated 
complaint decided by this service in support of this conclusion. 
These comments didnt change our investigators mind and so the complaint has been 
passed onto me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must decide what, if anything, Tesco should do to resolve Mr Gs complaint. To that end, 
the two issues I need to decide are:
i) Whether there is a DCS link in relation to the transaction for room 1. In particular, 
whether the contracting party for this room was Mr G or his friend (the DCS 
issue); 
ii) If the contracting party was Mr G, whether there was a breach of contract in relation 
to room 1 and what, if any, Mr Gs losses were as a result (the liability issue). 
In considering these issues and what I think is fair and reasonable, I have regard to  
amongst other things  what the law says. Here, that is s.75 which says that, in certain 
circumstances, if Mr G paid for goods and services using his credit card and there was a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier, Tesco can be held responsible. In 
particular, s.75(1) states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c)
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
S.12(b) applies to:
a restricted use credit agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b) and is made by the
creditor under pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future arrangements,
between himself and the supplier
And s.11(1)(b) defines a restricted-use credit agreement as a regulated consumer credit
agreement:
to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier) other than the
creditor
S.189 defines finance as:
to finance wholly or partly, and financed  and refinanced  shall be construed accordinglyWith this in mind, I turn to each of the issues.
i) The DCS issue:
For DCS to be intact, the debtor generally has to also be the one who contracted with the 
supplier for the relevant goods or services  subject to some exceptions which dont apply in 
this case. Clearly Mr G, as the person who made the payments on his credit card, was the 
debtor for both rooms. But that doesnt necessarily mean he was also the contracting party 
for both. 
Mr G says that he booked and paid for the rooms over the phone (the booking call). I have 
no evidence to the contrary and so I dont doubt this was the case. In any event, this doesnt 
appear to be a disputed fact.
Given the booking call resulted in payment, I think its more likely than not that the terms of 
those bookings would have been discussed and agreed at that point. Ive seen a follow up 
confirmation email referring to company As terms and conditions too. So it seems clear to 
me that the terms discussed within the booking call and the follow up terms and conditions  
when taken together  formed the basis of the contract with company A. 
As company A has ceased trading, the booking call and the terms and conditions are no 
longer available. So Ive considered the other evidence I have in order to decide the terms of 
the contract. In particular, who contracted with company A for room 1.
Looking at the separate invoices for each room, and the fact that the price for each was 
charged to Mr Gs credit card as two separate transactions, it seems more likely than not 
that there was a separate contract with company A for each room. 
Mr G says that during the booking call he booked room 1 for himself and room 2 for his 
friend. But the agent mixed the two rooms up. She reassured Mr G that this wouldnt be a 
problem and all he had to do was inform the hotel of the mix up.
On the other hand, Tesco point to the invoice for room 1 in support of their conclusion that 
Mr Gs friend contracted for room 1. Im unsure what Tesco mean when they say this invoice 
was the contract. As Ive said above, the contract was an amalgamation of the oral terms 
agreed during the booking call and the follow up terms and conditions. So it seems to me 
that it would be more accurate to describe the invoice as circumstantial evidence providing a 
possible indicator of who contracted for room 1. 
As well as these two opposing accounts I also have the following further evidence: 
A copy of the online order for the vouchers showing Mr G as the person who ordered 
them and containing his name and address for delivery.
A delivery note in relation to the vouchers addressed to Mr G. 
Images of the vouchers, taken and provided by Mr G, showing their unique reference 
codes. 
An email from company A to Mr G attaching a screenshot of their voucher 
reconciliation records in relation to the booking reference for room 1. Company A 
confirm that these codes correspond to the images Mr G gave them. I assume these 
were the same images that Mr G has provided to us. But I have nevertheless 
checked those images for myself and I agree that they correspond to company As 
voucher reconciliation records.   The letter from the hotel stating that company A had made a mistake and mixed up 
the rooms. Room 1 had been for Mr G, which is the one the hotel checked him into. 
His friend was checked into room 2.
.
Given this, I think that there is considerable evidence clearly confirming that the vouchers 
belonged to Mr G and that they were used to book room 1. So I think its more likely than not 
that he would have used vouchers that belonged to him for his own booking. Especially as 
they were a gift to him from his employer. 
I also think that its highly unlikely that the hotel would confirm, in writing and on their letter 
headed paper, that Mr G checked into room 1 if that hadnt been the case. It follows that its 
equally unlikely that Mr G would have checked into that room, spending his break there, if 
that hadnt been his agreed booking with company A from the outset.
I note Tescos comments about the weight to be given to the hotels evidence. Its unclear 
why they suggest this as this service isnt governed by set rules of evidence and I am 
entitled to take into account any evidence I decide is relevant. If anything, I think the hotels 
letter carries significant weight because the hotel is an independent party with no gain  they 
were ultimately paid for their rooms in full. So I cant see a reason why they wouldnt reflect 
the truth about the room Mr G booked and checked into. 
For all of these reasons, I accept Mr Gs testimony that he booked room 1 for himself during 
the booking call and that the agent not only mixed up the bookings but accepted doing so. It 
follows that the friends name on the resulting invoice was purely a clerical error and hadnt 
formed part of the agreed terms during the booking call. It wouldnt be fair or reasonable for 
me to conclude that the nature of such an error, which was entirely administrative in nature, 
was enough to alter the terms of the booking. So I accept that Mr G was, and always has 
been, the contracting party for room 1. 
As an aside, I recognise that invoices are generally issued to the contracting party. But each 
case must be considered on its own facts. On this occasion, there is a wealth of evidence 
corroborating Mr Gs testimony and which  when taken collectively  outweighs the 
evidence of the invoice for the reasons Ive given.
ii) The liability issue:
I accept that company A failed to pass on Mr Gs payment for room 1 to the hotel given that 
Mr G had to repay the hotel directly. So there was clearly a breach of contract here in that 
Mr G received zero benefit for the price he paid for room 1. As the person who contracted for 
room1, Mr G is entitled under s.75 to recover any losses flowing from that breach. 
Although Mr G only paid for part of the room on his credit card, the full amount of the 
contract price  including the portion of the price paid for with the vouchers  is recoverable 
under s.75 (as defined by s.11(1)(b) and s.189 as cited above). 
But Tesco say the value of the vouchers wasnt Mr Gs loss. I disagree. Those vouchers 
were gifted to Mr G by his employer. So he was the owner of them and the sole intended 
beneficiary of their equivalent monetary value. I refer back to the evidence above in support 
of this conclusion which clearly shows Mr Gs ownership of the vouchers. 
Having redeemed the vouchers Mr G is now unable to reuse them for any future purchase. It 
follows that he has lost out on their intended benefit and equivalent monetary value  which 
is his loss alone. So Im satisfied that the value of the vouchers is a recoverable loss under s.75. But even if 
this wasnt the case, Im not bound by the law and I have to ultimately decide what is fair and 
reasonable. It simply cant be fair to deny Mr G the value of the vouchers when they were 
clearly for his benefit and he cant now re-use them.
In reaching this conclusion, Ive noted Tescos reference to another unrelated complaint. I 
need to consider the particular facts of Mr Gs case. But in any event, and for the sake of 
completeness, I dont think the circumstances of that other complaint are comparable. In that 
case, the consumers employer was the contracting party and made payments under the 
contract directly to the supplier. So the consumer wasnt out of pocket in any way. 
But in Mr Gs case, his employer played no part at all in the contract with company A, nor 
can it be said that they had any interest in the performance of the contract. More importantly, 
Mr G  and not his employer  is the one who has clearly suffered a loss as Ive outlined 
above. 
   
For all of these reasons, I think that it would be fair and reasonable for Tesco to refund Mr G 
the monetary value of the vouchers (£250). 
Finally, Ive considered the further payment Mr G made to the hotel and whether this should 
be refunded to him as a consequential loss. Mr G would have always had to pay £370 for 
room 1. He has already had £120 of that charged back to his credit card and I have awarded 
him the remaining £250. The invoice for the hotel shows that he only had to pay £296 for 
room 1. So there is no shortfall or consequential loss to remedy because, having paid a 
reduced price to the hotel, Mr G isnt out of pocket. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Gs complaint and I direct Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC to pay him £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Sim Ozen
Ombudsman