DRN-2359226
The complaint
Ms S complains about the introduction of a new fee by London House Exchange Limited - 
trading as Property Partner - on her crowdfunding account. She doesnt accept the new 
terms and wants the original terms she agreed to be honoured. She is concerned that she 
will suffer losses when trying to withdraw her investment. 
What happened
Throughout 2017 and early 2018, Ms S made investments through a crowdfunding account 
with Property Partner  which facilitates her investing in shares of properties held within a 
special purpose vehicle (SPV).
In July 2019, Property Partner wrote to its customers, including Ms S to explain a change in 
its fee structure. It explained it was introducing a new Assets Under Management (AUM) fee. 
It told customers:
- from 5 August 2019, an AUM fee based on the equity value of each of part of the 
property investments value that is owned by clients would apply; 
- an AUM was the most common and important fee across the asset management 
industry, and was essential that it implement this;
- it was a significant change for its customers and had made some related changes as 
a result. This included, any shares owned on or before 15 July 2019 that a client sells 
on the resale market before 5 February 2020, will automatically receive a rebate of 
the AUM fee that has been paid on those shares sold.
Shortly after receiving the notice of the fee, Ms S made a formal complaint to Property 
Partner. She said she didnt accept the new fee and expected the terms she agreed to when 
she originally invested would continue for the full five years of those investments. 
Property Partner responded to the complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary it said:
- the new fee structure enables the business to become sustainable and 
protect/increase the capital value of our clients investments;
- had it not applied the AUM fee to clients existing investment holdings, Property 
Partner would not realise the revenue required to continue in business;
- clients have until 5 February 2020 to sell their investments on the resale market and 
have the AUM fee refunded in full.  
Ms S wasnt happy with the response, so she referred her complaint to this service for an 
independent review. She said existing investors should be allowed to opt out of the new 
terms and fees. And if this is not allowed then a freedom to exit the contract should be 
offered at no cost. Currently the only exit mechanism offered is to sell on the resale
market by 5th February 2020  but this would lead to substantial losses. 
One of investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt think it should be upheld. In short, 
he said:
- Property Partners terms and conditions did allow it to make amendments, such as 
introducing the new charges; 
- only a court could say whether the change was legally able to include this term- but 
we look at what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances;
- the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) guidance on the fairness of variation clauses 
in financial services consumer contracts, is a useful resource to help in looking at 
whether Property Partner acted fairly in using the clause to introduce the new fees;
- Property Partner had provided sufficient reasons and information to explain why the 
charge was introduced;
- there was evidence to say Ms S was able to exit the contract because she was able 
to sell on the secondary market, albeit likely at a loss, dependent on what buyers 
were willing to pay. And Ms S was able receive a full rebate of any new fees paid 
provided this was done within six months of the fees being introduced;
Ms S disagreed with our investigators view. In summary, she said
- she doesnt think it is fair for customers to bear extra charges in order to keep 
Property Partner viable as a business. Instead, it should have looked at reducing 
overheads and at other sources of funds, such as equity or debt. This should have 
been considered ahead of financially penalising existing customers. She doesnt 
accept that an orderly wind down and sale of existing properties would have resulted 
in significant losses to customers;
- the FCAs guidance says when drafting variation terms, firms should consider the 
consumers freedom to exit the contract if they do not accept the variation. She faced 
a financial barrier because she has calculated she would have needed to accept 
losses on the market value of her investment in order to exit following the 
announcement of the changes;
- the announcement of the new fees led to a negative impact on the secondary market 
 which Property Partner accept. Given this admission, her complaint should be 
upheld because she has suffered a significant fall in the value of her investments as 
a direct result of the introduction of the fee changes.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ss complaint centres around the introduction of a new fee by Property Partner. She was 
given notification in July 2019 that an Assets Under Management (AUM) fee would apply 
from 5 August. This essentially meant Ms S would be paying a fee on the equity value of 
shares she owned through the platform. The result of which was her monthly dividend 
distributions would be reduced. Property Partner acknowledged this was a significant 
change for its clients and put a provision in place to refund any AUM fee that has been paid 
on shares that a customer sold on its secondary market before 5 February 2020. And at the 
same time Property Partner updated its terms and conditions to include the AUM fee. 
Property Partner has provided our service with information regarding its considerations,
including information which was shared with the FCA before making the changes. This 
included whether its terms allowed it to vary the fees charges, the notice given and whether 
customers were required to accept the new terms. 
Firstly, Ive considered the terms and conditions Property Partner has sought to rely on to 
introduce the new fees. Ive reviewed the terms that Property Partner say were applicable to 
Ms Ss account prior to the notification of the AUM  they contain the following term:14.2 We may update these investor terms and conditions from time to time to reflect any
changes in law or for any other reason. If we update these terms and conditions, we will 
inform you as soon as practical whether by email or an alternative method such as uploading 
to the Website, and (by your continued use of the Website) you will be deemed to have 
agreed to the updated terms and conditions. You will still be bound by the previous investor 
terms and conditions that you have, or deemed to have, agreed to. If there is a conflict 
between any versions of the investor terms and conditions to which you have agreed, or 
deemed to have agreed to, the most recent version shall take precedence unless it is 
expressly stated otherwise.
Property Partner says the inclusion of this term allows it to make changes to the fees 
charged to customers. While I appreciate this is a broad term, it does support that Property 
Partner may vary its terms, but it still needed to consider the impact of any changes it makes 
on its customers. Ms S thinks its unfair for new charges to be implemented that she didnt 
originally sign up for. Its not for me to decide whether this term is fair or not  that is 
something only a court can decide. But as a regulated financial business Property Partner is 
under an obligation to treat its customers fairly. And the obligation I am under is to consider 
what is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances  which includes having consideration 
for the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
In December 2018, the FCA published guidance that outlines the factors financial services 
firms should consider under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 when drafting and reviewing 
variation terms in their consumer contracts. This is relevant guidance to help me decide 
whether Property Partner has treated Ms S in a fair and reasonable way when it introduced 
an AUM fee.  
Ive considered whether the introduction of the fee provides a fair balance between the 
legitimate interest of the Property Partner and Ms Ss best interests. Property Partner says it 
had been experiencing difficult market conditions since mid-2016. It says the new fee 
structure enables it to become sustainable, so that it can protect and increase the capital 
value of its clients investments. It also says had it not applied the AUM fee to clients 
holdings, Property Partner would not have realised the revenue required to continue in 
business. Effectively, it is saying that it believed without making these changes there was a 
risk of loss of capital to consumers  which would be more detrimental than a new fee. 
Within the FCA guidance it says ..a variation term may indirectly serve the consumers 
interests in circumstances where other restrictions on the firm mean that the ability to flex 
rates fairly on existing products enables the firm to continue to exist and the customer to 
continue to receive the product/service in question.
So, Ive thought about this in the context of this complaint. I understand Ms S is unconvinced 
by the arguments put forward by Property Partner around its business viability being 
justification for introducing the AUM fee. I note she has suggested it should have considered 
other methods to improve the health of its business before financially penalising its 
customers.  As part of our investigation, Property Partner has provided further information to 
this service to support the arguments it put forward to justify the need for a new fee. It says 
this information is commercially sensitive. Im able to accept information in confidence and 
Im satisfied its appropriate to do so here.
I do understand why Ms S feels that Property Partner should have considered other ways of 
reducing costs rather than make its customer bear extra charges. But Im satisfied from the 
information Property Partner has provided to this service, that it has made a reasonable 
justification for needing to introduce a new fee and it took into account the needs of its customers when doing so. Its impossible for it to know exactly what consequences of 
different courses of action were. But Im persuaded it was reasonable for Property Partner to 
conclude flexing rates fairly on existing products meant it could continue to provide their 
customers, including Ms S, with the product or service they were now charging differently 
for. Ultimately, I think it was reasonable for them to conclude it was in all their clients 
interests to be able to carry on operating largely as it was and providing that same service. I 
am persuaded by the evidence provided that it wouldnt have been likely to be able to do so 
without introducing this fee. And Ive borne in mind the FCA guidance when concluding 
overall that Property Partner has complied with the principles and treated Ms S fairly by 
taking the decision to introduce a new fee. 
Ive also considered whether Ms S was provided with a freedom to exit if she didnt accept 
the new terms. She has made reference to the FCAs guidance on this issue. The FCA says 
firms should consider a consumers right to terminate the contract before or shortly after any 
variation takes effect and whether they would be able to exercise the right in practice. Within 
the guidance it says:
firms should consider the consumers freedom to exit the contract if they do not accept 
the variation, and how they can actually do so. This should include the financial and practical 
barriers in the contractual terms which may prevent them from doing so. Examples of 
barriers could be exit charges or requiring the consumer to give a long period of notice.
Property Partner says Ms S could exit the through selling her investment on the resale 
market it provided. It says this allowed Ms S ability sell down her investments and terminate 
her contract  and close her account. I also note that it agreed to rebate any AUM fee paid 
for investments sold within six months of its introduction. 
Ms S argues selling on the resale market would lead to a financial barrier. She says she was 
only able to exit with losses on the market value. She says the announcement of the new 
fees led to a negative impact on the secondary market, meaning she has suffered a 
significant fall in the value of her investments as a direct result of the introduction of the fee. 
Property Partner say there was a drop in trading prices on the resale market immediately 
following the announcement, but all shares traded on its resale market have been at a price 
determined by individual willing buyers and willing sellers. So, where clients have sold at a 
loss immediately after the announcement, that was entirely at a price of their choosing.
Ive considered the arguments put forward from both parties to decide whether Ms S has 
been treated fairly in this respect. There was an active resale market made available  and 
also an ability to receive a rebate of the new fees if sold within six months. So, it is difficult to 
say Ms S couldnt exit the contract if she didnt want to accept the new terms. But I do 
appreciate Ms Ss points about the negative impact on prices the initial announcement 
caused. And Property Partner does admit this impact. Im not persuaded the pricing 
fluctuations on the resale market is sufficient to say Ms S has been treated unfairly. The 
nature of a secondary market does mean the availability to trade will depend on the demand. 
A variety of factors will determine the price. While the introduction of a new fee will be a 
factor, I conscious that this isnt the only factor affecting price and things change overtime. A 
six-month window was also given to receive a rebate on the AUM fee, so this meant Ms S 
wasnt in a position where she needed to sell her shares immediately in order to exit.  I 
appreciate Ms S takes a different view on this issue, but Im satisfied that Property Partner 
did provide her with the ability exit the contract if she didnt accept the new terms.   
For the reasons provided above, I dont think Ms S has been treated unfairly in the 
circumstances, so I wont be asking Property Partner to do anything further. 
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman