DRN-4307464
The complaint
Miss F complains about the advice given by JLT Wealth Management Limited to transfer the 
benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a Group Personal 
Pension. She says the advice was unsuitable for her and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
What happened
JLT in 2010 attended Miss Fs workplace to advise on her employers offer to transfer her 
DB benefits. Her employer was offering an incentive to transfer.
JLT completed a fact-find to gather information about Miss Fs circumstances and objectives. 
JLT also carried out an assessment of Miss Fs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
medium/high risk. 
On 31 March 2010, JLT advised Miss F to transfer her pension benefits into a Group 
Personal Pension. The suitability report said its recommendation was based exclusively on 
whether your Critical Yield is achievable on a year-by-year basis, considering your tolerance 
to risk but it did also say there were other reasons Miss F might consider transferring:
Miss F wasnt married so she wouldnt benefit from the spouses pension payable from 
the scheme.
Miss F had been offered an additional cash sum to transfer. Re-investing this cash
sum in the pension would increase the chances of Miss F receiving higher benefits at
retirement.
The lump sum death benefit payable under a personal pension may be higher than
under the DB scheme.
At retirement, the tax-free lump sum payable may also be higher in a personal pension.
Miss F accepted JLTs recommendation and the amount transferred was £31,984.
Miss F complained in 2023 to JLT about the suitability of the transfer advice because: 
She wasnt made fully aware of the benefits she would lose out on by transfer. Had she 
been told, she says she wouldve stayed in the scheme. 
Although the cash incentive was appealing to Miss F at the time, she didnt need this.
Miss F wasnt looking to take any risk with her pension, and she wasnt aware that it was 
unlikely her pension would achieve the returns required.
The DB scheme was Miss Fs only pension provision at the time, and she had no
previous investment experience. Therefore, she doesnt believe the transfer was in her 
best interests.
JLT didnt uphold Miss Fs complaint. It said it made its recommendation based on the 
information available to it at the time on the fact-find. Miss F had stated she had significant 
other assets at retirement and so wouldnt be relying on the DB scheme for income. And that 
it felt the transfer was financially viable at the time so it didnt agree the advice had been 
unsuitable.
However, it did reflect that the attitude to risk of Medium/High recorded at the time was 
incorrect based on the answers Miss F had given. It said the answers were in line with 
someone who had a medium attitude to risk at the time. It also said Miss F has since 
indicated her wishes at the time was to retire at 55  and this hadnt been recorded but it 
confirmed this wouldnt have made a difference to the recommendation at the time.
It ran loss calculations based on assumptions (it said it didnt have all the information 
available to use real figures) on the basis of retirement at age 55. And another on the basis 
of the incorrect recording of her attitude to risk. Both calculations came out as no loss.
Miss F was unhappy with this answer and referred the case to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into matters and she recommended the complaint be upheld. 
She said she agreed the attitude to risk had been inaccurately recorded at the time. And that 
Miss Fs attitude to risk shouldve been recorded as medium or low medium.
The investigator explained that she didnt think the transfer was financially viable, nor that 
there were other compelling reasons to transfer. 
She explained that whilst it is ticked on the fact-find that Miss F had significant other assets, 
this appears to be a mistake. As it does not tally with other answers she gave (she ticked 
she anticipated repaying loans and debts)  and JLT ought to have investigated this 
statement more. But the evidence suggests it didnt and it didnt record what these assets 
were either. There was no supporting evidence on file to suggest Miss F wouldnt need a 
pension in later life. And what Miss F has told JLT and us since (at the time she had debts 
and was living with her parents and her two children) doesnt support the answer that she 
had significant other assets that meant she wouldnt require a pension in retirement.
JLT responded to say that it believed the yield at the time demonstrated that Miss F might be 
better off in retirement transferring. It disagreed with the investigators view that Miss F had a 
low capacity for loss just because this pension was her only DB scheme. 
They felt the points about other reasons for transferring such as death benefits were 
irrelevant as it didnt agree the figures from the time demonstrated Miss F would likely be 
worse off in retirement. It also explained the advice was part of a focused exercise purely 
about whether it should be considered transferring out of the DB scheme. And so it wouldnt 
have considered whether objectives could be met by other financial products such as life 
insurance for death benefits.
The investigator responded to say she had considered these points but was not minded to 
change her view. She said she recognised the yields, discount rate applicable and expected 
return for a medium risk investor were marginal but she said this didnt make the advice 
suitable. She didnt think Miss F had the capacity to absorb the potential losses that 
transferring put her at risk of.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of JLT's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, JLT should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Miss 
Fs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in 
her best interests.
Financial viability 
JLT carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Miss Fs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as her DB scheme (the critical yield).
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. Miss F was 38 at the time of the advice  it wasnt recorded what age she wished to retire. 
But shes since said she wouldve wished to retire at 55  the scheme retirement age was 
65. The critical yield required to match Miss Fs benefits at age 65 was 6.3% if she took the 
enhancement as cash (if she didnt the yield was 5.9%). 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 6.9% per year for 26 years to retirement. Ive kept in mind the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 9%, the middle projection 7%, and the lower projection rate 
5% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Miss 
Fs medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in 
Miss F giving up the guarantees available to them through her DB scheme only to achieve, 
at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. As JLT has argued, the yield is 
slightly less than the discount rate applicable at the time. And the projection rate applicable 
for a medium risk investor is slightly in excess of the yield required. However, I agree with 
the investigator that this doesnt make the transfer suitable. There is little point in giving up 
guaranteed benefits for what amounts to quite a small chance of being slightly better off.
The starting point shouldve been that a transfer was not in Miss Fs best interests. And only 
if JLT had a clearly demonstrable or compelling reason to transfer should it deviate from this. 
This is largely because the benefits within the DB pension are guaranteed. Transferring puts 
these benefits at risk of market fluctuations, so with the estimates of potential performance 
showing that any benefits in transferring were likely to be minimal, I dont think transferring 
was suitable for Miss Fs circumstances at the time.
So again I agree with the investigator that its important to consider Miss Fs capacity for 
loss. Could she have reasonably afforded to risk her guaranteed benefits in retirement for 
the opportunity that she might be a bit better off? 
Miss F was 38 at the time of advice, this was her only pension at the time. Shes since told 
us she was living with her parents and had two children, she also ticked a box at the time to 
say she expected in retirement she would use any tax-free cash to repay debts or loans.
JLT has argued that it doesnt agree that Miss F had a low capacity for loss but its not clear 
what it is basing this on. The little information we do have from the time suggests her 
capacity for loss was low, and what she has told us since corroborates this.
So based on this information, I think its most likely Miss F couldnt afford to risk her 
guaranteed benefits in retirement for the small opportunity to improve her benefits. She had 
26 years left until retirement and wouldve needed returns consistently at and in some years 
above the critical yield just to be a bit better off. To be substantially better off she wouldve 
needed consistent returns above the critical yield. The chances of her being substantially 
better off were slim and given her situation I dont think the risk was supportable.
JLT argues that Miss F had ticked a box on the fact-find that she had significant other assets 
and so wouldnt be relying on her pension in retirement. Miss Fs said that must have been a 
mistake as her situation was such that at the time she was living with her parents and two 
children. Shes also confirmed she had debts at the time. And as the investigator pointed 
out, and as Ive said above, on that same form Miss F had ticked to say she anticipated 
paying off debts with any tax-free cash she would receive in retirement. This doesnt seem 
like the thought process of someone with significant other assets  and this tallies with what 
she has told us since. An adviser giving expert advice, ought to have recognised this disparity. And JLT did not record or seemingly ask about Miss Fs wider financial situation, it 
didnt record what these significant other assets were for example. It seems it relied purely 
on its fact-find which was fairly limited in the information it recorded. This brings into question 
the robustness of JLTs process in giving advice to Miss F. I dont think it gathered enough 
information to act in Miss Fs best interests. It didnt record what date Miss F wished to retire 
either  which shouldve formed quite an important part of its advice process. I dont think it 
treated Miss F fairly here.
In summary of this point, I dont think the transfer was suitable on the basis of financial 
viability. For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Miss Fs best 
interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer 
advice. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable. Ive 
considered this below. 
However, I note that at the time JLT said Our recommendation is based exclusively on 
whether your Critical Yield is achievable on a year-by-year basis. So at the time it wasnt 
relying on reasons other than the viability of transfer in its recommendation. But Ive 
considered whether in any event other reasons may have meant that the advice was in Miss 
Fs best interests.
Flexibility and income needs
Miss F was only 38 at the time of the advice, and based on what Ive seen she didnt have 
concrete retirement plans. As Miss F had many years before she could think about 
accessing her pension, I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision about 
transferring out of the DB scheme. So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for 
Miss F to give up her guaranteed benefits then when she didnt know what her needs in 
retirement would be. If Miss F later had reason to transfer out of their DB scheme they could 
have done so closer to retirement.
I recognise Miss F was offered an incentive to transfer and she likely wouldnt have this 
available again in the future. But Miss F was still reliant on expert advice and based on the 
little information gathered at the time it doesnt look like this was a driving force in her 
decision to transfer. She had ticked to say she hadnt decided what she would do with the 
enhancement. And the value of the enhancement was relatively small, around 10% of the full 
transfer value if re-invested. If taken as cash it would be less as it wouldve been subject to 
tax.
Miss F has also indicated since the advice that at the time she wouldve wanted to retire at 
55. But as she was only 38 at the time, I dont think this plan wouldve been in any way 
concrete. And given her circumstances at the time it doesnt seem like it wouldve been a 
realistic option either. So Ive not considered this further.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Miss F, especially as she didnt 
have a spouse at the time  so the schemes spousal death benefit once in payment may not 
have been as valuable to her. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to 
consumers, and Miss F might have thought it was a good idea to transfer her DB scheme to 
a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to advise Miss F about what was 
best for her retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in 
retirement. And JLT didnt explore to what extent Miss F was prepared to accept a lower 
retirement income in exchange for the potential for higher death benefits. Furthermore, I dont think death benefits were a driving force in Miss Fs decision to transfer. JLTs 
recommendation said it was made purely on the critical yields  and as Miss F has said she 
wasnt fully aware of what she was giving up  and the risk involved with taking the course of 
action that she did.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the risk involved with transferring her guaranteed benefits. 
Summary
I dont doubt that the potential for increasing her benefits and the incentive offered on 
transfer would have sounded attractive to Miss F.  But the advisers role was to really 
understand what Miss F needed and recommend what was in her best interests. And I think 
the potential for higher benefits compared to the risk of giving up of guaranteed benefits 
wasnt presented in a balanced way. The adviser ought to have recognised the yields were 
so marginal that it wasnt a risk worth taking given Miss Fs circumstances and capacity for 
loss.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Miss F was suitable. She was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Miss F wasnt very likely to 
obtain higher retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons 
which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. 
So, I think JLT shouldve advised Miss F to remain in her DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Miss F would've gone ahead anyway, against JLT's 
advice.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Miss F wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against JLTs advice. I say this because Miss F was an 
inexperienced investor with a medium attitude to risk and this pension accounted for the 
majority of Miss Fs retirement provision. So, if JLT had provided her with clear advice 
against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in her best interests, I 
think she wouldve accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think JLT should compensate Miss F for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Miss F, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Miss F would 
have most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been 
given. 
JLT must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Miss F has not yet retired, and she has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Miss Fs acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, JLT should:
calculate and offer Miss F redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Miss F before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Miss F receives could be augmented 
rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Miss F accepts JLTs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Miss F for the 
calculation, even if she ultimately decides not to have any of their redress 
augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Miss Fs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Miss F as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits 
that would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, JLT may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Miss 
Fs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £190,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £190,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require JLT Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Miss F the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £190,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £190,000, I also recommend that 
JLT Wealth Management Limited pays Miss F the balance.
If Miss F accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on JLT Wealth 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Miss F can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Miss F may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman