DRN-4194580
The complaint
Miss S says Nationwide Building Society caused delays with her mortgage application. She 
says as a result her purchase fell through and she missed out on a lower interest rate 
product. Miss S asks for compensation for her legal costs and that Nationwide applies the 
lower interest rate product to her new mortgage.
What happened
Miss Ss broker submitted a mortgage application to Nationwide on Miss Ss behalf in late 
March 2022. Nationwide declined the application in early July 2022. It said this was due to 
lack of affordability, as hadnt received suitable evidence of Miss Ss second income. 
Nationwide issued an offer at the end of July 2022 after receiving further evidence of Miss 
Ss income. Unfortunately, by this time Miss Ss purchase had fallen through. Nationwide 
offered £100 for incorrect information about extending the valuation.
Miss S says shed provided all the documents Nationwide asked for, and Nationwide caused 
delays throughout the application process.
Our investigator said Nationwide asked for evidence and assessed Miss Ss income in 
accordance with its criteria. It asked for further evidence related to her second income on 10 
June 2022 and didnt receive this until 18 July 2022. Our investigator said Nationwide wasnt 
responsible for Miss S's purchase falling through. 
Miss S didnt agree, saying documents were sent to Nationwide on numerous occasions as it 
said they werent received, and Nationwide took weeks or months to acknowledge and 
review documents. Miss S said the documents requested on 10 June 2022 were provided a 
few days later  not six weeks later. She believes Nationwide were purposefully stalling so 
that when she re-applied in 2023 shed have to pay a higher interest rate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ss broker submitted a mortgage application on her behalf in late March 2022. 
Nationwide issued an offer at the end of July 2022. 
Ive carefully read the evidence, including the timeline provided by Miss Ss broker and 
contact notes and timeline provided by Nationwide. I can understand Miss Ss frustration 
about the time her application took and that Nationwide asked for further information on a 
number of occasions over three months. Overall though, I dont think Nationwides requests 
for further information or documents were unreasonable. 
From comparing the timelines, it seems that when Nationwide asked again for documents it 
was because the document provided was incomplete or had been provided as a screen shot 
which didnt show the whole document. 
The circumstances of Miss Ss income werent straightforward and differed from what was 
stated on her application. This resulted in Nationwide asking for further documents as it 
gained a better understanding of the situation. Based on the available evidence, I dont think 
Nationwide received all of the requested information and documents related to Miss Ss 
second income until 18 July 2022. It issued a mortgage offer soon after this was received. 
Nationwide needs time to review documents once theyre received and it sets timescales for 
this. I appreciate that Miss S feels that its review times are too long, and it could have done 
this more quickly. But that doesnt mean Nationwide made an error or caused unreasonable 
delays.
The vendor of the property Miss S wanted to buy pulled out of the sale. While Miss S says 
this was because of the delays, she hasnt provided evidence that this was the reason. 
Nationwide says an internet search shows that this same property sold later in 2022 for 
about £12,000 more than the price Miss S had agreed to pay. Property purchases can fall 
through for a number of reasons. So even if I did think Nationwide was responsible for 
delays (and Ive explained why I dont think this was the case), I wouldnt fairly be able to 
conclude that this was the reason for the vendor pulling out of the sale without clear 
evidence this was the case. Im sorry that Miss S incurred costs related to the purchase, but 
I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Nationwide to cover these costs. 
Buying a property is often a stressful time. Miss S has told us how this affected her, and Im 
sorry for the difficulties she describes. I must be clear that I can only fairly require 
Nationwide to pay compensation if I find it made an error. So while Miss S found the 
mortgage application and failed property purchase difficult, I cant fairly ask Nationwide to 
pay compensation for this. Nationwide accepts that it gave incorrect information about the 
valuation being extended. For the upset this error caused, I think £100 compensation is fair 
and reasonable.
Miss S has since successfully applied for a mortgage with Nationwide. She had to choose 
from the range of interest rate products available when she made the application. I can 
understand her frustration that interest rates have increased since mid-2022. I havent seen 
anything to suggest Nationwide deliberately stalled the application in 2022 with the intention 
of applying a higher interest rate if Miss S were to make an application in future. I dont think 
Nationwide made errors or treated Miss S unfairly so as to make it fair and reasonable to 
require it to apply a lower interest rate product to her new mortgage.
My final decision
My decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay £100 to Miss S, as it offered to 
do (if it hasnt already done so). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman