DRN-4465207
The complaint
Mr P was a sole trader. He complains that Lloyds Bank PLC treated him unfairly by not
providing him with an overdraft and delivered poor service from the charges he incurred over
the life of his relationship with the bank.
What happened
Mr P had business accounts with Lloyds. His first account was taken out in 1987 and his
accounts were closed in 2019.
Mr P told us:
Lloyds had treated him unfairly and put in place unfair charges for his account usage
for the last 32 years which he wanted refunded.
Hed been charged for depositing cash in the branch  despite the bank wanting to
receive this from him.
His personal circumstances had been used against him to increase charges by the
bank including cancelling his overdraft around 10 years ago after paying a significant
arrangement fee and being charged an early repayment fee when hed had to repay
a loan after the asset it was financing had caught fire.
Lloyds told us:
It had undertaken a specific rectification project in September 2022 as it believed it
had applied an incorrect overdraft renewal fee to some customers accounts which
had been affected by these limited circumstances since 2014. It then refunded any
fees it believed had been applied unfairly because of these specific circumstances.
After Mr Ps introductory banking period had ended, hed been charged the standard
monthly fees which were in line with the account terms and conditions.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said that she hadnt seen
any evidence the charges applied by Lloyds prior to 2014 had been applied unfairly, and Mr
P hadnt explained why he felt this was the case, so she wasnt asking Lloyds to take any
further action.
Mr P didnt agree. He said the rectification project should have been for charges since the
inception of his account and the complaint about his overdraft hadnt been addressed.
I issued a provisional decision on 27 November 2023. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I need to decide exactly what Mr Ps complaint is, and what I can consider. I 
think there are three separate complaints here:
oThe incorrect overdraft renewal arrangement fees that were charged from 
December 2014.
oAny other account fees and charges incurred by Mr P prior to December 
2016.
oThe charges applied to Mr Ps account from December 2016 (six years before 
he first complained to Lloyds) and March 2021 when his account was closed.
Incorrect overdraft renewal arrangement fees from December 2014
Mr P says that Lloyds has treated him unfairly as it hasnt reviewed all the charges, 
he says he incurred whilst holding an account with the bank for 35 years, and he 
believes he should receive a bigger refund. However, looking at the evidence from 
Lloyds, it appears that this was a specific review project undertaken by the bank 
which only reviewed overdraft renewal arrangement fees for a specific period from 
December 2014 onwards.
Lloyds has already accepted that it charged Mr P a fee of 1.5% instead of the 1% fee 
it should have charged. Ive seen that Lloyds has refunded the difference in the fee it 
charged, plus interest at 8% per year simple, so I think its done enough to put things 
right here. Therefore I dont uphold this part of Mr Ps complaint.
Account fees and charges incurred prior to December 2016
Mr P says that its unfair that we havent commented on why Lloyds didnt review the
charges prior to 2014 or about his overdraft being cancelled by the bank around ten 
years ago. However, our rules for considering complaints are set out in the Dispute 
Resolution (DISP) section of the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook of rules 
and guidance. These rules say that we cant consider complaints more than six years 
after the events complained about unless the business consented or because the 
complaint wasnt brought in time due to exceptional circumstances.
This means we cant consider any charges that Mr P incurred more than six years 
prior to bringing his complaint or the overdraft cancellation as this also happened 
more than six years ago. The only way we could consider these complaint points 
would be if Lloyds had consented to us considering these or if it was due to 
exceptional circumstances. Lloyds hasnt consented to us reviewing these points 
except the overdraft renewal arrangement fees from the review it undertook in 
September 2022, and Mr P hasnt told us about any exceptional circumstances for 
why he didnt ask this service to look at these points sooner  meaning hes brought 
these points too late for us to consider.
Account fees and charges from December 2016 and March 2021
So Ive looked at the charges that I can consider and based on the evidence Ive 
seen, I dont think Lloyds has done anything wrong. Ive looked at the terms and 
conditions of the account Mr P held with the bank, and I can see that the charges and 
fees payable for the account are clearly displayed. There is breakdown of the 
monthly fee and what Mr P would pay should he undertake the various transactions 
including cash deposits. So I cant reasonably say Lloyds treated him unfairly for 
charging him the fees that he agreed to when taking out the account.I recognise that Mr P is unhappy about this, and that hell be disappointed with my 
decision. But based on everything Ive seen, I dont think Lloyds has done anything 
wrong on the parts of Mr Ps complaint that I can consider, so I wont be asking it to 
do anything more.
I invited Mr P and Lloyds to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to 
consider before issuing my final decision. Lloyds accepted the decision and had nothing 
further to add. Mr P didnt accept the decision. He said in summary:
The fact that Lloyds had only carried out a review from December 2014 meant they 
were hiding their misbehaviour.
It wasnt acceptable to charge a renewal fee then cancel an overdraft without notice.
It was immoral that the DISP rules didnt allow us to review complaints that hadnt 
been brought in time unless Lloyds consented.
The exceptional circumstances were that hed been threatened on a daily basis by 
Lloyds aggressive stance.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusions as I did in my provisional decision, for 
the same reasons. I now confirm those provisional conclusions as final.
Mr P is unhappy that Lloyds has only chosen to carry out a review from December 2014 
onwards. Hes also unhappy that the bank hasnt consented to us looking into his complaint 
points which werent brought in time, and about the culture of Lloyds itself. However, as I 
said in my provisional decision, we arent the regulator, so we cant look into the wider 
conduct of Lloyds and its decision to only review accounts meeting specific criteria. If Mr P is 
unhappy about the wider approach and culture of Lloyds, hed need to raise that directly with 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). However, I need to make Mr P aware that they do 
not respond to individual complaints. 
I recognise that Mr P is unhappy as he says he paid a renewal fee, and then later his 
overdraft was cancelled without notice which was unfair. However, Mr P told us that this 
event happened more than six years ago which means I cant consider it. I dont have any 
flexibility when considering the DISP rules and havent seen any evidence to persuade me 
that he was unable to bring this part of his complaint to our service due to exceptional 
circumstances. 
Therefore, it remains my view that I cannot consider any of Mr Ps complaint, except the fees 
and charges which were charged between December 2016 and March 2021 - which I think 
were fairly applied.
My final decision
My final decision is that I cant consider part of Mr Ps complaint and I dont uphold the
parts of his complaint that I can consider.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman