DRN-2777597
The complaint
Mr H complains on behalf of his business, who Ill call R. R complains that One Sure 
Insurance Limited unfairly cancelled its policy. R also complains that the fees One Sure is 
chasing are unfair. Reference to One Sure includes its agents.
What happened
R took out three policies with One Sure and had done so for a number of years. One Sure 
acted as Rs insurance broker in arranging and administrating the contracts of insurance 
placed with various insurers.
In July 2020 One Sure sent R the renewal invites for each of its three policies advising it of 
the cost for each policy. It let R know this motor trade insurer was changing. And it told R 
that the public liability insurance and tools in transit insurance were renewing with the same 
insurer. The three policies each required a separate first payment, but after that initial 
payment, all three policies were to be funded by a single credit agreement provided by 
another company. The credit agreement was to be paid back each month by direct debit.
The renewal of all three policies went ahead, the first payments were made, the credit 
agreement arranged and the direct debit set up.
Shortly after the renewal, Rs new motor trade insurer said it hadnt been made aware that R 
was a mobile mechanic. It said had it known it would have charged R and additional £155 for 
the policy. One Sure let R know this, but R didnt agree to pay. And after a review One Sure 
agreed not to charge R the additional premium  effectively paying for it itself.
One Sure then wrote to R on 14 August 2020 as the motor trade insurer requested proof of 
trade. One Sure said if it didnt receive the requested information in seven days it would 
cancel Rs motor trade policy.
R said it tried to upload the requested information online but wasnt successful. It also said it 
was unsuccessful in trying to contact One Sure on the telephone.
One Sure didnt cancel the policy on 21 August 2020, it extended the deadline for R to 
provide the information it had requested. But it didnt tell R this. On 1 September 2020 it 
wrote to R explaining it had cancelled its motor trade policy and advised a balance of 
£258.53 was due.
R wasnt happy with this and complained to One Sure. It thought it had paid everything it 
needed to on the policy as it had kept up with the direct debits. If anything, R thought it was 
due a refund as it has made two payments for two months insurance but had only been 
provided cover for 44 days. It also complained that One Sure didnt follow its own process 
and feels it should have cancelled its policy after seven days. R thinks not doing so was a 
deliberate attempt charge it more money. R said One Sure should have cancelled its policy 
within the 14-day cooling off period if it was going to cancel it.
One Sure said it was entitled to cancel the policy when it did, and it explained due to the fees 
and charges outlined in its terms of business, R had paid less toward the policy than the 
amount that was due. It maintained the outstanding balance was due.
R remained unhappy and brought its complaint to us. It still didnt think it was fair One Sure 
was chasing it for a balance.
One of our investigators looked into Rs complaint and didnt recommend it be held. He 
thought One Sure was entitled to cancel Rs policy when it didnt receive the requested 
information. And he thought extending the deadline to provide this information was done to 
help R. He also thought One Sure were acting in line with its terms of business when 
chasing the outstanding balance.
R remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For clarity, in this decision Im only looking at One Sures actions in respect of cancelling Rs 
motor trade policy. Im not looking into any issues relating to either the public liability policy 
or the tools in transit policy. Any issues relating to either of these two policies will need to be 
treated as a separate complaint.
Cancelling the policy
One Sure is entitled to cancel Rs policy if it doesnt receive the information it requests as 
long as it gives R seven days notice. Here, it chose to cancel Rs policy as it hadnt received 
information it requested in relation to Rs proof of trade. Ive seen both the letter requesting 
the information giving seven days notice of cancellation, and the letter confirming the policy 
cancellation and Im satisfied both were sent.
R said it attempted to upload the documents but was unsuccessful. But it hasnt been able to 
provide evidence of this. I understand R said it was concerned about breaching regulations 
by providing the information One Sure was requesting. And R also said it had provided this 
information to One Sure in previous years.
But I cant see that R made One Sure aware of these concerns prior to the policy being 
cancelled. Had it done so, One Sure might have been able to assist it in some way. And as 
Rs insurer had changed, the new insurer needed to see proof of trade, so One Sure was 
simply passing on that request to R.
R is also unhappy One Sure didnt follow its own process when cancelling the policy. It 
thinks One Sure should have cancelled the policy after seven days like it said it would. It 
thinks not cancelling the policy until 1 September 2020 was done purely to allow One Sure to 
charge it more. But I cant agree here. One Sure first made its request for Rs proof of trade 
on 14 August. This was already outside of the 14-day cooling off period. So even if One Sure 
cancelled Rs policy seven days after sending this request, it would have still been outside of 
the 14-day cooling off period. Extending the deadline to provide the information simply gave 
R more time to provide the information, and meant it was provided cover by the policy for 
longer. Rs not been charged any additional fees for this extension. Its paid a little more for 
the time it was on cover for, but then it was on cover for a week longer. Im satisfied thats 
fair.I acknowledge One Sure should have let R know it had given it more time. But, considering 
the concerns R had with providing the information, Im not persuaded that if One Sure had 
let R know it had given it more time to provide the information, R would have provided the 
information within that time. And had R wanted to cancel the policy itself, within the 14-day 
cooling off period, this was something it was entitled to do, but ultimately didnt.
Outstanding balance
R is unhappy with the balance One Sure says is outstanding after the policy was cancelled. I 
can understand why, as R hasnt missed a payment. But the monthly payments are set up to 
pay all the costs involved with the policy over the length of the credit agreement. When a 
policy is cancelled, there are usually additional fees applied, and some non-refundable costs 
like the set-up fee arent able to be spread over the full year.
Looking at the outstanding balance relating to this policy, Im satisfied the balance One Sure 
is chasing is fair and reasonable.
When the policy cancelled, R had paid £160.55 toward it. But the amount due at the time of 
cancellation was £419.08. Therefore, the difference of £258.53 is the outstanding balance.
Ive looked at the breakdown of the £419.08 too. Its made up of:
Time on cover (charged by the insurer) - £65.98
Legal assistance cover (charged by the insurer) - £34.50
Arrangement fee (charged by One Sure) - £150
Cancellation fee (charged by One Sure) - £85
Loss of commission charge (Charged by One Sure) - £83.60
All the fees charged by One Sure are clearly set out in the terms of business which R agreed 
to when it took out the policy.
The terms of business explain One Sure will charge up to 40% of the insurers premium, or 
£100, whichever is higher, as an arrangement fee. The premium for the motor trade policy 
was close to £1,000, so Im satisfied One Sure was acting in line with the terms of business 
when charging £150 as an admin fee as this is less than the 40% it says it may charge.
The terms of business also say that One Sure can charge a loss of commission charge if the 
policy is cancelled. The terms say One Sure may charge up to 20% of the return or premium 
from the insurer, and here, its charged less than that 20%. Again Im satisfied that what One 
Sure has charged R is in line with the terms of business that R agreed to.
The terms set out the cancellation fee of £85, which is what One Sure have charged R here. 
So Im satisfied that charge is fair, and in line with the terms too.
Im satisfied One Sure was acting fairly, in line with the terms of business when cancelling 
Rs motor trade policy. And Im satisfied its acting reasonably by chasing the £258.53 
balance.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Rs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman