DRN-1579000
 
The complaint
Mrs R and her daughter Miss R complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited 
(Lloyds) has unfairly declined a claim they made after Mrs R's home was burgled.
What happened
For clarity, both Mrs and Miss R are listed as policyholders by Lloyds, although Miss R does 
not appear to live at the insured address. Thats relatively common, as it enables a trusted 
family member to help with a claim.
Mrs R had a party on Christmas Day 2018. Some time in the early hours her home was 
burgled and about £3,000 worth of items stolen. Mrs R reported the theft to the police and 
then to Lloyds, which said it would consider the claim.
Lloyds asked Mrs R to provide evidence of the items that had been stolen, and then said any 
items (by and large gifts) belonging to people who attended the party but who had left them 
behind wouldnt be covered in the claim. Mrs and Miss R complained, and Lloyds agreed 
they would be covered. Lloyds then paid Mrs R £250 for the trouble she and Miss R 
had had.
Mrs R went back to trying to provide evidence that she  and others  had bought many of 
the items. Lloyds eventually sent a representative to see Mrs R, but they didnt get very far, 
partly because the representative hadnt brought all the receipts with him. Mrs R says she 
felt intimidated by him and that she was treated as though she was in the wrong, which she 
didnt think was fair.
No further meeting was held to discuss the claim. Instead Lloyds said it wouldnt meet the 
claim because Mrs Rs sister had been staying with her: it explained that there was no cover 
for theft in those circumstances, unless there was proof that force and violence had been 
used to get into (or out of) the house. Lloyds said the thief (or thieves) had got in through an 
unlocked door.
Mrs R and Miss R complained about this, but Lloyds wouldnt change its stance. It did pay a 
further £75 compensation for the inconvenience it had caused.
Finally Mrs R and Miss R tell us that Lloyds paid an amount of just over £1,500 into Mrs Rs 
account  and then asked for it back as it was an error. Mrs R and Miss R think this simply 
highlights the poor way Lloyds has handled the entire claim. 
Mrs R and Miss R brought their complaint to us. Our investigator initially thought Lloyds had 
unfairly applied the terms and conditions in the policy, but after receiving some additional 
information changed his mind. He concluded that Lloyds was entitled to apply the terms and 
conditions to the claim, and need not meet the claim.
Mrs R and Miss R remain very unhappy about this, and Ive been asked to decide the 
complaint.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have great sympathy with Mrs R in particular here, as it must have been very upsetting to 
find shed been burgled, and that the theft not only affected her but also other members of 
her family and friends whod left gifts at her home. And I also understand that Mrs Rs sister 
will be very upset as she feels somehow responsible for the claim not being met. 
I think there are several points to Mrs and Miss Rs complaint, and Ill deal with them 
individually. Im not going to comment on every point or piece of evidence, but I can assure 
Mrs and Miss R that Ive read everything they and Lloyds have sent in and thought about this 
complaint carefully.
Handling the claim
The normal process with a claim is that the customer can only claim for things that the policy 
covers  what are often called insured events. In this case that was theft. An insurer would 
then expect a customer to be able to prove, by and large, that they owned the items that had 
been stolen. I say by and large because its not always possible to provide concrete 
evidence  such as a receipt  for items, particularly when some are gifts. I don't think 
Lloyds treated Mrs R unfairly when it asked her to find receipts or other proof that she (and 
visitors who left items behind) owned the items claimed for.
Mrs R says she felt uncomfortable when the representative visited her, and that she was 
made to feel like she was responsible for what happened. Of course, as this was a face to 
face meeting, I dont know exactly what was said and how, but I think these meetings are 
often difficult, given their purpose. I dont underestimate the strength of Mrs Rs feelings 
about this, but without some additional evidence I cant conclude the representative behaved 
unprofessionally.
I do think Lloyds made errors handling the claim. It initially told Mrs R and Miss R that the 
claim wouldnt be met because the policy didnt cover items left at the house by guests  and 
later decided the cover was available. It then went on to say it wasnt going to meet the claim 
for an entirely different reason. All the while it was asking Mrs R to get receipts. The whole 
process must have been very frustrating.
Lloyds has also explained that it paid the £1,500 in to Mrs Rs account by mistake. Under 
those circumstances it would be normal practise for it to ask for this money back, as Mrs R 
wasnt entitle to it. I think its unfortunate that the mistake occurred, especially on top of the 
others Lloyds made. 
However, Lloyds has acknowledged it made some mistakes, apologised and paid Mrs R and 
Miss R some compensation for this  it came to £325 in total. I think thats fair.
 
 
Declining the claim
Lloyds is entitled to apply the terms and conditions included in the policy to any claim. If it 
wants to argue that it need not meet a claim, then the onus is on Lloyds to show that whats 
often called an exemption applies. In this claim Lloyds said that, as Mrs Rs sister was staying at the house, and there had been no force and violence evident, it need not pay the 
claim.
Mrs R and Miss R naturally think thats unfair  and point out that this means no-one has 
cover for theft if theyve got a family member staying with them. I understand that, but there 
is an additional proviso  if the thieves had broken a lock or a window, for example, then the 
claim would likely have been met, even if Mrs Rs sister was staying over. 
Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions to see if I think this condition is unfair, and I 
dont think it is. Many policies dont provide cover for theft unless there is some sign of force 
and violence  regardless of whos staying at the house. So this policy, which only includes 
the force and violence condition when guests etc are staying, is actually more generous than 
many. And I do agree with Lloyds when it says the reason for including the condition is that 
having guests or even lodgers who arent familiar with the property does increase the risk 
that the house might not be properly secured. I accept this isn't what Mrs R and Miss R want 
to hear, but I cant say its unreasonable for Lloyds to want to limit cover in those 
circumstances. And I don't think it's applied the condition unfairly.
Mrs R and Ms R have said they dont think Mrs Rs sister being at the house overnight 
qualified as staying there, partly because it appears this was unplanned. Im not persuaded 
by that argument. Theres no minimum time period shown in the policy  but I think being at 
the house overnight does mean Mrs Rs sister was staying there, even if only temporarily.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R and Mrs R 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman