DRN-2452587
The complaint
Mr K complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc opened a bank account for him without his 
knowledge or permission.
What happened
Mr K already had an account with Clydesdale; this complaint is about his second account.
It is not in dispute that in November 2018 Mr K visited a local branch of Clydesdale to update 
his address. On the same occasion a second bank account was opened for him. Mr K says 
he did not authorise this and was not aware of it. When his debit card arrived, he assumed it 
was for his original account. He never used the second account. In or around August 2020, 
he complained to Clydesdale.
Clydesdale insisted that Mr K had opened the account, and it provided him with a copy of the 
account opening mandate with his signature, and a copy it had taken of his driving licence 
which it said had been provided at the time. Mr K said the mandate must have been 
fabricated, as he always reads what he signs and he had never signed a mandate for that 
account. He brought this complaint to our Service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He thought that Clydesdale had provided 
enough evidence that the account had been opened properly, and that the signature on the 
mandate matched Mr Ks signature on a letter to our Service.
Mr K did not agree. He said that as he had never used the account, this showed he had not 
needed it and so it was unlikely that hed asked for it. He said he had needed more than one 
identity document to open his first account. He accused the bank of lying, and of accusing 
him of lying, and he demanded to see the original mandate. He asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute that the account has never been used, by Mr K or by anyone else. I take 
Mr Ks point that this suggests that he didnt need or want a second account, and so he is 
unlikely to have asked for one. But it also does not suggest that the bank fraudulently 
opened an account he hadnt asked for either  there was nothing to be gained by doing so. 
No fees or interest were charged on the account. There has been no loss caused to Mr K, 
and nobody has gained anything.
Mr K says he had to provide three or four documents when he opened his first account, so it 
is suspicious that the second account was allegedly opened with only one. But I think this 
can be explained by the fact that Mr K was a new customer when he opened the first 
account, so Clydesdale didnt know him. The bank needed to verify who he was. When he 
opened the second account, he was an existing customer, so the bank already knew who he 
was, it just needed a driving licence to check that it was him.
Clydesdale says, and I accept, that it no longer has the original mandate. It was scanned 
and the scan was kept digitally on the banks systems, and so the original was no longer 
needed and has been disposed of. That is not unusual, and I dont think it is suspicious. 
There is nothing to suggest that the mandate is not genuine, other than the fact that Mr K 
does not recall signing it, and says that he would not have signed it. But I think it is more 
likely that he did ask to open the account, and that in the nearly two years which followed he 
just forgot about it.
I have considered whether the bank might have opened the account by mistake, at the same 
time as it updated the address on the original account. But I dont think that could have 
happened. The address was updated by one member of staff at the counter, using Mr Ks 
card and PIN to identify him. The new account was opened by another member of staff, in a 
different part of the branch premises, and using the driving licence to identify him. They were 
entirely different processes, so it couldnt have just been a question of someone pressing the 
wrong button on their computer when they changed the address. Nor does it seem likely that 
the branch staff misunderstood what Mr K wanted, since if he always reads what he signs, 
as he says, then he must have read the opening mandate, in which case he would have 
realised at the time that it was not just part of the address-updating process, and refused to 
sign it if it was not what he wanted.
I dont think either party is lying, and I dont think that anything Clydesdale has said amounts 
to an accusation that Mr K is lying, either directly or by implication. Clydesdale has offered to 
close the account for him, but he did not want it to. I think that Clydesdale has dealt with this 
matter reasonably, and that there is insufficient basis for me to conclude that the account 
was opened without authority. I regret that Mr K will find this conclusion to be frustrating, 
since he feels strongly that the account was nothing to do with him, but I believe that the 
most plausible explanation is that he has just forgotten what happened.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman