DRN-3049659
The complaint
F complained to HSBC UK Bank Plc when they experienced problems trying to use their 
mobile banking app.
What happened
During early 2021, F experienced problems paying a new supplier using HSBCs business 
mobile app. In particular, F said that the layout of the app meant that various graphics meant 
that instructions displayed on the screen couldnt be seen or read clearly.
F contacted HSBC to complain about this on 2 March 2021. During this process, F 
experienced long call waiting times, This was added to Fs complaint.
HSBC told F that new payees couldnt be set up by using the mobile app. They explained 
this would need to be done using their on-line banking service on their main website. This 
meant using HSBCs Secure Key, a device provided by HSBC to securely verify a payment 
instruction. But Fs Secure Key was giving an error message. So, HSBC agreed to send a 
new Secure Key to F.
HSBC apologised for the long call waiting times experienced by F and offered compensation 
for this of £100. F remained unhappy as they werent able to set up the supplier payment.
F complained to HSBC again on 10 March 2021. They said they hadnt received a PIN 
(Personal Identification Number). This meant they were still unable to set up a payment to 
their supplier. Once again, F experienced delays due to long call waiting times. HSBC 
responded on 14 March 2021 by which time, F had received the PIN and was able to access 
HSBCs on-line banking service. 
HSBC again apologised for the long call waiting times experienced by F and offered further 
compensation for this of £60.
F contacted HSBC again on 31 March 2021. They were still having problems with the mobile 
app. HSBC asked F to check that they were using the latest version of the app. They also 
asked F to send screenshots to show the problem experienced.
F complained to HSBC again on 7 May 2021. They said that the fingerprint identification 
function wasnt working with HSBCs mobile app. HSBC responded to Fs complaint on 4 
June 2021. They said theyd had no other reports of this problem. They recommended F 
install the latest app version and suggested they turn off the fingerprint ID function if 
problems continued.
F wasnt happy with HSBCs response. They wanted HSBC to acknowledge faults with their 
mobile app and take steps to resolve the problems. So, F referred their complaint to this 
service.
One of our investigators looked into the circumstances of Fs complaints. He didnt think that 
HSBC had dealt with the issues unfairly. He said that HSBC didnt need to do anything more.
F didnt agree with our investigators findings. So, asked for the complaint to be referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fs complaints fall into three main areas:
Problems experienced when using HSBCs business mobile app,
Delays receiving a PIN for use with HSBCs on-line banking service,
Call waiting times experienced when seeking support from HSBC.
At the outset, I believe its important to explain the role of this service when considering Fs 
complaint here. It isnt the role of this service to supervise, regulate or impose fines on any 
business. It also isnt our role to ask a business to alter its procedures or processes or 
impose improvements on the level of service offered to their customers. These aspects fall 
firmly within the remit of the regulator  in this case, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
But it is our role to examine and decide whether HSBC have been fair and reasonable in the 
manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the individual circumstances of 
Fs experiences with them. When looking at these complaints, Ive also considered any 
relevant rules and regulations set down by the FCA in their handbook  where they apply.
F reported problems experienced with HSBCs mobile App. Regarding Fs problems setting 
up a new supplier payment, HSBC said that this needed to be done using HSBCs on-line 
banking service. This is HSBCs process, and not something that Im able to challenge here. 
HSBC did acknowledge Fs problems with the mobile app graphics. They referred this to the 
appropriate department to establish whether the problem was known to them. This appears 
to be a reasonable response. The specialist department confirmed they werent aware of any 
similar problems being experienced. So, they suggested that F check that all mobile 
software was up to date and that the current version of the app was installed on their mobile 
phone. This seems to be an appropriate response in the circumstances.
The provision of electronic banking solutions is a complex area. When providing these 
solutions, HSBC faces the challenge of addressing various platforms and devices together 
with ensuring that the service remains secure at all times. With the variety of platforms and 
devices available, I can see how some problems may be inevitable. 
Ive considered HSBCs Digital Banking Terms for Online Mobile Banking. This is available 
on their website. Section 6 says, Well take reasonable care to make sure that they work as 
described, but you shouldnt solely rely on them and we wont be responsible if they dont 
always work as you expect. 
It goes on to say, We wont be responsible for:
any equipment, software or user documentation which someone other than us 
produces for use with digital banking; and
any service you use to access digital banking or which you access through digital 
banking which we dont control.
This would include internet service providers, devices and associated operating systems. 
Ultimately, this services role isnt one that permits us to check or dictate if and how such a 
service is provided. As an alternative dispute resolution (ADR) service, our focus is upon 
whether F was treated fairly and how HSBC handled Fs problems. I believe that the steps 
taken by HSBC were appropriate in these circumstances and I cant reasonably conclude 
that HSBC acted unfairly here. HSBC agreed to issue a new Secure Key device for F. This would enable F to use their on-
line banking service. But F complained when they didnt receive a PIN. On 14 March 2021, 
HSBCs records show that F had received the PIN. So, it seems that HSBC had sent this 
when requested. Once despatched, HSBC wouldnt have had control over when the PIN was 
delivered. So, I cant reasonably hold them responsible if it was delayed. 
F experienced considerable delays when attempting to call HSBC. This was unfortunate and 
I completely understand how frustrating this wouldve been. HSBC have accepted their 
shortcomings here. They apologised to F and offered a total of £160 to compensate F for 
their experiences. I believe this is an appropriate response and the compensation offered 
feels fair here.  
F remains unhappy that HSBC hasnt resolved the problems theyre experiencing with their 
mobile banking app. I realise that Fs inability to use HSBCs mobile app would be very 
frustrating. But full banking facilities are still available to F. Whilst I appreciate this may not 
be as convenient as using the app, they are still available. 
In Fs case, I cant reasonably say that HSBC have acted unfairly or inappropriately here. 
So, while I realise that F will be disappointed, I shant be asking HSBC to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman