DRN-3147984
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) handled his 
request for a payment holiday.
What happened
In April 2020 Mr M contacted Halifax to explain that he was experiencing financial difficulties 
due to the impact of COVID-19. He had two loans with Halifax and had been struggling to 
meet the repayments. As a result of this hed received a letter from the lender telling him that 
his loan may be defaulted and that this would affect his credit file. These arrears had arisen 
before the onset of the pandemic.
Following his discussion with Halifax, Mr M understood that a three-month repayment 
holiday had been agreed. He told us that he same adviser from Halifax called him back the 
next day to confirm that the repayment holiday had been out in place. He was told hed need 
to contact Halifax again by 5th July to discuss repayment of the outstanding arrears
But, before this deadline was reached, Halifax wrote to Mr M in June to say that his credit 
agreement had been cancelled and the debt had been sold to a third-party company.
Mr M is unhappy that Halifax didnt keep to its agreement to allow a three-month repayment 
holiday, and he thinks that this represents a breach of the regulatory guidance given to 
lenders by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). He asked Halifax to:
1. apologise for its mistake
2. remove the default from his credit file
3. provide compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Halifax acknowledged that it had made mistakes in the way in which it dealt with the matter - 
so it upheld Mr Ms complaint regarding its service, and it offered to pay him £50 by way of 
compensation. But it didnt agree that itd been wrong in refusing a three-month payment 
holiday because, due to there being pre-existing arrears, the loan didnt meet the criteria set 
out by the FCA in its guidance. Nor did it accept itd been wrong to cancel Mr Ms loan, 
register a default on his credit file and to sell the debt to a third party.
Our Adjudicator felt that Halifax had dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly, and so did not ask it 
to do anything more.
Mr M doesnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
Whilst Mr M had two loans with Halifax, he is complaining solely about the loan that was 
placed into default and subsequently sold on. As such, this decision will concentrate purely 
upon that loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr M had been experiencing difficulties in meeting his repayment obligations 
of £350 per month to Halifax since autumn 2019, and had been in dialogue with the bank 
about his financial circumstances since then.
Its evident from Halifaxs files that, as of early March 2020, Mr Ms loan was in arrears to the 
extent of £926. Shortly prior to Mr M contacting Halifax on 28 April 2020 the bank had, on 
1 April, issued to him a Default Notice. This stated that the arrears had increased to £1,276 
and that, unless these arrears were cleared by 19 April, the loan agreement may be 
cancelled, the full amount owed would then become repayable immediately and a default 
would be registered.
Ive reviewed a transcript of the telephone conversation between Mr M and Halifax on 
29 April. From this I can see that:
Mr M was told that, because his loan was already in arrears, it was not eligible for a 
three-month repayment holiday
as an alternative to a repayment holiday (as set out in the FCA guidance), Halifax offered 
to put a temporary two-month hold on the loan. This would mean that no repayments 
would be expected within that timeframe. I can see that Halifax offered to start the hold 
plan from 5 May - which would give Mr M up to 5 July to get back in touch to discuss 
how he would pay the accumulated arrears by 10 August. 
Mr M was told that the two-month hold would add approximately £700 more to the 
prevailing arrears
Mr M asked if this plan would prevent a default being registered and was told that this 
was the case.
Ive also reviewed the correspondence between Halifax and Mr M. On 12 June Halifax wrote 
to Mr M to say that, because repayments to his loan hadnt been brought up to date as 
required under the earlier Default Notice, his credit agreement had been ended. The letter 
stated that it may sell the debt to an external company and that it would now register a 
default on Mr Ms credit file.
In his complaint to Halifax Mr M stated that, during their telephone conversation on 29 April, 
hed been given agreement to a three-month holiday because of coronavirus. However, its 
apparent from the call transcript that it was explained to Mr M that his loan was not eligible 
for this specific support. 
Im satisfied that Halifax did nothing wrong in refusing to agree to the three-month repayment 
holiday under the terms set out by the FCA in its guidance. This guidance makes it clear the 
provision is exclusively for customers who are facing payment difficulties due to the 
circumstances arising out of coronavirus. And it goes on to expressly exclude situations 
where a borrower was in pre-existing financial difficulty. Its clear to me that Mr M was 
already experiencing financial difficulties at the time he approached Halifax for a repayment 
holiday and so Im content that this loan did not qualify for support under the FCA COVID-19 
repayment holiday arrangements.
Halifax did offer, as an alternative, a two-month hold on Mr Ms loan and he was told 
explicitly that, providing he got back to them by 5 July, default action would be suspended. Unfortunately, Halifax failed to apply this hold correctly and, as a consequence, action was 
later taken to cancel the credit agreement and register a default before the date that Mr M 
had been given to revert with his repayment proposals. I can understand Mr Ms 
disappointment and frustration at this outcome. 
Halifax has acknowledged that it did make mistakes in its communication with Mr M and 
offered to pay him compensation of £50 to make amends for having given incorrect advice.
Having considered all the evidence I think that, whilst it responded sympathetically to Mr Ms 
position by offering a two-month hold on the loan, Halifax was wrong to subsequently 
cancel the credit agreement and register a default before the end of the agreed hold period. 
It has accepted that it made this error, has apologised for it and has offered compensation in 
recognition of it.
In finding that Halifax has done something wrong, I must then consider what the most likely 
outcome wouldve been had the mistake not been made, and then consider the impact of 
this upon Mr M. In this context I recognise that: 
had Halifax correctly applied the terms of its agreed hold, the level of accumulated 
arrears wouldve been almost £2,000 by the time Mr M reverted to it on 5 July
Mr M was already struggling financially before he was further impacted by the onset of 
issues arising out of COVID-19. Furthermore, the general economic challenges that 
arose because of the measures intended to combat COVID-19 remained significant at 
the time Halifax agreed to apply a hold to Mr Ms loan.
In these circumstances, I think its more likely than not that Mr M wouldve still been unable 
to bring the loan back in order by the end of the agreed hold period. And, in that case, I 
think Halifax would have then taken steps to default the loan. 
In coming to this conclusion, I consider that the implications of Halifax failing to apply its 
agreed hold were that Mr Ms loan was defaulted by the bank some 3-4 weeks earlier than 
would most likely have been the case had it kept to its agreement. In summary, I dont 
believe its likely that if Halifax had correctly applied its two-month hold this wouldve 
changed the ultimate outcome, beyond deferring the default proceedings.
I dont, therefore, think it is appropriate to ask Halifax to remove the default from Mr Ms 
credit file.
Mr M has told us he doesnt agree that the offer from Halifax of £50 is sufficient to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience hes experienced due to their error - including constant threats of 
debt collections etc. I understand why Mr M wouldve been surprised and disappointed by 
the actions taken by Halifax in June 2020  but I do believe that the ensuing debt recovery 
actions wouldve occurred even if Halifax had not made the mistakes it has acknowledged. 
I sympathise with Mr M about the distress he suffered in relation to the loan arrears and debt 
collection activities  but I dont consider that these arose as a consequence of Halifaxs 
errors. As such, I agree with our Adjudicator that £50 compensation is a fair way for Halifax 
to make up for the stress it caused by its mistakes. 
I am sorry that this decision is not what Mr M was hoping for and that it will be a 
disappointment to him. But I hope that my explanation will help him to understand the 
reasons why Ive come to this conclusion.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Richard France
Ombudsman