DRN-2688744
The complaint
Mr and Ms O are unhappy that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) has refused to 
transfer their mortgage onto an interest-only basis. Mr and Ms O have also complained 
about a letter Halifax sent saying (incorrectly) it had a possession order on their property.
The complaint has been conducted by Ms O throughout, with the consent of Mr O.
What happened
In May 2015 Mr and Ms O took out a mortgage with Halifax in order to purchase a property. 
Payments were kept up to date until September 2018, when I am told Mr and Ms O 
experienced the failure of their business. The mortgage fell into arrears, and Mr and Ms O 
separated in July 2019, with Ms O remaining in the property. The property was sold in March 
2020 leaving a shortfall debt.
This complaint is about two issues. The first is that Ms O asked Halifax to transfer the 
mortgage onto an interest-only basis while she sold the property, but the bank declined to do 
so. The second is that in early December 2019 Ms O received a letter from Halifax saying 
that the bank had obtained a possession order on the property. This was, Halifax 
acknowledged, an error. Halifax apologised and offered Ms O compensation of £150 for the 
distress this had caused her.
Dissatisfied with Halifaxs response, Ms O (with the consent of Mr O) complained to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
An investigator looked at the complaint. He noted that in December 2019 arrears on the 
account were around £4,200, with a monthly payment of just under £1,400. Ms O made a 
payment of about 50% of that amount in December 2019, as a result of which Halifaxs 
system generated a letter in error saying it had a possession order. The investigator thought 
the payment offered by Halifax of £150 was fair and reasonable compensation for the 
distress caused to Ms O for this.
In relation to a switch to interest-only, the investigator didnt think Halifax had acted 
incorrectly.
Ms O asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On 16 March 2021 I issued a jurisdiction decision explaining that parts of the complaint had 
been brought too late for us to consider. I will not comment on those matters here.
I can see from what Ms Os told us that in the last couple of years Mr and Ms O have been 
through a very tough time, and I dont underestimate how difficult things have been for them. 
I am sure it was very distressing for Ms O to receive a letter from Halifax saying it had a 
possession order on the property. Halifax, I am glad to note, has accepted this was a 
mistake, and I understand Ms O spoke to the bank immediately on receiving the letter. An 
apology and an offer of compensation (£150) quickly followed.
With regard to this part of the complaint, I dont think Halifax is required to do anything 
further. This was a mistake, but the bank quickly accepted responsibility for this. Im satisfied 
its offer of compensation of £150 is fair and reasonable, given that the error was rectified 
very quickly.
Halifax declined to switch the mortgage over to interest-only while it was being marketed for 
sale. Ms O thinks this was unfair. Switching the mortgage to interest-only reduces the 
monthly payments, but not the overall debt. Thats because the unpaid capital has to be 
repaid, and with a higher capital balance, more interest is payable. 
At the time (late 2019), Halifax didnt know how long the property might be on the market for, 
and so switching to interest-only for an indefinite period would not, I find, have been 
appropriate, as this would have increased the debt. The property was already in negative 
equity, so increasing the debt would not have been in the best interests of Mr and Ms O.
In the circumstances, Im not persuaded that Halifax acted unfairly when it declined the 
switch to interest-only pending a sale of the property.
In conclusion, I think Halifaxs offer of compensation of £150 for the upset caused by its 
incorrect letter is fair, and Im not ordering the bank to pay any further compensation. I dont 
uphold the complaint about the banks refusal to switch the mortgage to interest-only.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, insofar as Im satisfied that the offer of 
compensation made by Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) of £150 for distress and 
inconvenience as a result of sending an incorrect letter is fair and reasonable. I do not 
uphold any other part of the complaint. I simply leave it to Mr and Ms O to decide if they want 
to accept the offer of compensation in full and final settlement of the complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Ms O to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman