DRN-3953917
The complaint
Mr W complained because Starling Bank Limited refused to refund him for payments hed 
made from his account as a result of a scam.
What happened
On 30 April 2022, Mr W received a text saying hed missed a parcel delivery. He was 
expecting a parcel, so he clicked on the link, which took him to a website which looked like 
the post office website. This said he needed to pay £1.15 for pre-delivery, and Mr W paid 
£1.15 using his Starling account.
The next day, Mr W had a call from someone who said they were a Starling employee, and 
that there had been suspicious activity on Mr Ws account. Mr W googled the number which 
was calling him, which matched Starlings published customer contact number. The caller 
told Mr W that he needed to transfer money to various accounts to prevent any further 
suspicious transactions. Mr W said the caller applied pressure and said this was urgent. Mr 
W only had around £370 in his Starling account, and the caller told him hed need to transfer 
a higher amount in order to make his Starling account safe. Mr W then transferred £24,790 
from another bank into his Starling account.
The caller asked Mr W if he had an account with another financial company, a foreign 
exchange financial technology company which Ill call C. Mr W did have an account with 
company C. The caller said Mr W needed to change his password with company C, and Mr 
W told the caller his new password.  Mr W then went ahead and made two payments to his 
own account with the other financial organisation.  One was a card payment for £5,015 and 
the other a faster payment for £20,000, totalling £25,015.
Immediately after the money had arrived in Mr Ws account with company C, three 
transactions debited that account, debiting almost all the amount Mr W had transferred there 
from Starling. The caller then cut the contact with Mr W, who realised hed been scammed.
Mr W rang Starling straightaway and told them what had happened. It took all the details, 
and said it would contact the recipient company to see whether any money was left, and if so 
theyd be returned. If the payments were found to be ones which were categorised under the 
CRM [Contingent Reimbursement Model] code, this would be investigated to determine 
whether reimbursement was due. 
Starling didnt agree to refund Mr W. It said this was because the money had been sent to 
Mr Ws own account, not direct to the scammers. Starling also recommended that Mr W 
should report this to Action Fraud, and to company C about his account there, from which 
the money had gone to the scammers.
Mr W, represented by a solicitor, complained to Starling. He said he was unhappy that 
Starling wouldnt refund him, and also that Starlings systems hadnt prevented him from 
being a victim of the scam.
In Starlings final response to Mr Ws complaint, it said that it had a number of measures in 
place to counteract fraud. Its systems confirmed that Mr W had approved the transactions 
within the Starling app by using biometric authentication. It also pointed out that Starlings 
systems had given warnings to Mr W, both for the card payment and for the faster payment.  
Starling said that the card payment warning had said:
Starling bank will never contact you and ask you to use this screen. If someone is telling 
you to approve this transaction, please tap reject and contact our customer services.
and the faster payment warning had said:
WARNING Are you being told to make this payment?  Anyone telling you what buttons to 
click, or asking you to read the text on this screen out loud is a criminal. You must not make 
the payment if you are being told how to answer the questions or explain the payment. Read 
each questions carefully and answer truthfully otherwise you could lose all the money sent.  
Mr W had selected I understand and went on to answer the following questions as follows:
Q    Please tell us what this payment is for?
A    Transfer to my account elsewhere
Q    Where are you transferring money to?
A    Another current account
Q    Have you been told by someone to move this money unexpectedly or urgently?
A    No
Q   Have you previously accessed the account you are making a payment to?
A   Yes
Q   When did you open the account youre paying?
A   More than one month ago
Q   Warning: Fraudsters will tell you how to answer these questions to scam you. A genuine 
organisation will never do this. A bank or any other organisation will never tell you to move 
money to a new, safe bank account. Fraudsters can make phone calls appear to come 
from a different number. Are you speaking with who you think you are? If in doubt, call us on 
[number]
A    I understand.  
Starling went on to explain that Mr W had completed the transfers to his own account with 
company C. This meant that Starling couldnt dispute the transactions, or the subsequent 
payments from Mr Ws company C account. Starling explained that these circumstances fell 
outside the CRM Code for Authorised Push Payments (APPs).
Mr W wasnt satisfied with Starlings final response. He contacted this service, using a 
solicitor to represent him as he had with Starling. In the complaint form, Mr W said that as an 
outcome he wanted Starling to pay him the £25,015 that hed lost, plus £500 compensation, 
and he also wanted Starling to indemnify him for all his legal costs which hed incur as a 
result of the scam.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. He said that Starling should have had 
systems in place to look for unusual transactions, so he considered whether it had acted 
fairly. It was agreed that the payments from Mr Ws Starling account had been unusual, so 
he considered whether Starling had done enough to protect Mr W. The investigator pointed 
out that Mr W had been warned, and hed been specifically asked whether hed been told to 
move his money  but Mr W had dishonestly answered no. And there had been another 
warning that a bank would never tell a customer to move money to a new safe account, 
but Mr W had done so even though this was exactly what the scammer had told him. 
So the investigator considered that Starling had taken reasonable steps to protect its 
customer. But Mr W had been contributorily negligent. Hed only had £373 initially in his Starling account, but had moved money in there from a different bank, when there was 
nothing to show that money had been at risk. And hed also told the scammer his password 
with company C  when even if the caller had been a genuine Starling employee, they 
should never have asked for his password with another organisation.
Mr W wasnt satisfied. His solicitor said that Mr W had been acting under pressure from the 
scammer and genuinely believed both his bank accounts were under threat. He had believed 
it was legitimate. Mr W couldnt recall questions or warnings from Starling, but said if it had 
given more questions or warnings, that would have been more effective. 
Mr W asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A scam is where a customer was deceived into making a payment to another person for 
what they thought were legitimate purposes, but turned out to be fraudulent. The scam in Mr 
Ws case is called an Authorised Push Payment (APP), which is where the customer 
makes a payment themselves because they were tricked into doing so by a scammer.
There are regulations governing disputed transactions, and the relevant regulations here are 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer 
didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. Here, its 
not disputed that the payment was technically authenticated, and that Mr W authorised the 
payments, using his biometric data. So the starting point is that Mr W wouldnt be liable as 
he authorised the payments. However, there are other factors which banks have to take into 
consideration.
These payments arent covered by the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. That Code specifically only covers payments made 
from a customers account to an account controlled by another person, but in this case Mr W 
made the payment to his own account with C.
However, banks should have systems in place to look for out of character or unusual 
transactions, or other signs that might indicate a customer is at risk of fraud. There is a 
balance to be struck between preventing fraud, and the risk of unnecessarily delaying 
legitimate transactions, but a bank should intervene when it considers it appropriate. So Ive 
looked at what Starling did here.
Ive set out in detail above the warnings which Starling gave Mr W, both for the card 
payment and for the faster payment. I consider that the warnings contained enough 
information to put Mr W on notice that this was unlikely to be a genuine request from 
Starling. I note that Mr Ws representative said that Mr W couldnt recall questions or 
warnings, but that if Starling had given more questions or warnings, that would have been 
more effective. I dont agree with what Mr Ws representative argues.  
Its clear from the warnings above that not only did Starling provide clear information, to 
which Mr W had selected I understand, but it also required active responses to a further 
six questions. In particular:
- one of the questions was have you been told by someone to move this money 
unexpectedly or urgently? to which Mr W replied no. In the light of what he later 
said, this was dishonest;- the final question set out that fraudsters would tell customers how to answer 
questions to scam them; and a bank would never ask a customer to move money to 
a new, safe, account; and that fraudsters can make calls appear to come from a 
different number. It provided a number to call to check, which Mr W didnt ring, even 
though the circumstances were exactly what he later said had happened.  Instead he 
replied I understand.
So Mr W didnt answer all the questions honestly, and ignored the warnings in both the 
general messages, and in the question and answer section. He didnt just ignore or not read 
the warnings, because he had to respond in order to proceed. Mr W may not recall the 
warnings, but at the time hed had to read and actively respond to multiple questions.
Ive considered whether Starling could have done more  for example, contacted Mr W by 
telephone to ask him about these payments. However, Im satisfied that its intervention was 
proportionate to the risk, particularly given that the payment was going to his own account. In 
any case, Im not persuaded that, however many warnings and questions Starling had 
provided, Mr W would have taken any notice at all.  
In conclusion, I find that Starling fulfilled its obligations to have systems in place to look for 
out of character or unusual transactions, and to step in. Its not Starlings fault that Mr W 
didnt answer all the questions honestly, and ignored the warnings. It follows that I dont 
uphold Mr Ws claim for Starling to reimburse his loss, nor for it to pay compensation. It was 
Mr Ws choice to incur legal costs against Starling, when he didnt need to do so to complain, 
and similarly a consumer doesnt have to use a legal representative to seek the help of this 
service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman