DRN-3433588
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car he took under a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo Finance 
Limited was not of satisfactory quality.
What happened 
In June 2021 Mr S took a car on a five-year hire purchase agreement from MotoNovo. It was 
a little over two years old and had covered 4,265 miles. Its cash price was £31,315.
In August 2021 Mr S noticed an engine light on the dashboard. The engine oil was changed, 
which appeared to resolve that problem. Mr S says he then noticed a noise coming from the 
front of the car when turning right. He was told by his own garage that it appeared the car 
had been involved in an accident. There were problems with the tracking, and the tyres were 
excessively worn. Mr S later arranged for the tyres to be replaced.
Mr S complained to MotoNovo, which arranged for an independent inspection to be carried 
out. The inspection took place in September 2021. It said, in summary: 
At the time of the inspection, the cars mileage had increased to 11,925 miles.
The bonnet was misaligned and showing signs of having been removed in the past.
The tyres were excessively worn and there appeared to be a tracking issue.
The front impact beam had no indication of any impact marks.
The faults identified in the report would not have been present at the time the finance 
was taken out.
Relying to a large extent on the inspection report (and in particular on the conclusion in the 
final bullet point above), MotoNovo did not think it had any responsibility for the faults. Mr S 
did not agree and referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators 
considered what had happened. He thought however that there was evidence that the car 
had been involved in an accident before it was supplied to Mr S. It was not therefore of 
satisfactory quality and MotoNovo should meet the costs of repair. He invited Mr S to obtain 
estimates for the repairs needed.
MotoNovo did not accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.
I did that and issued a provisional decision. I did so because, although I was minded to 
reach the same overall conclusions as the investigator, my reasons were a little different. 
I noted that the inspection had identified misaligned body panels, although it not identify any 
accident damage. It expressly said that there was no evidence of unsatisfactory repairs. I did 
not think that the car had been in accident since Mr S had taken delivery of it. 
The inspection report did not, in my view, explain the conclusion that the problems with the 
car had not been present at delivery. Tyres and tracking are generally wear and tear items, 
but I thought the degree of wear and tear in this case was very much greater than might be 
expected for a car of this age and mileage.
I noted that Mr S had provided copy invoices in respect of the tracking and a set of 
replacement tyres. They totalled £546. I said that I was minded to require MotoNovo to 
reimburse that, with interest, and to cover the costs of realigning the body panels; if Mr S or 
MotoNovo provided me with an estimate for that work, I would make an award in simple 
monetary terms.   
Mr S provided an estimate for the panel realignment of £1,127. He also said that he had 
replaced a further six tyres in seven months, including two within about six weeks, and sent 
a further invoice for wheel alignment. 
The investigator sought MotoNovos comments on the further estimates and invoices. It did 
not make any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I remain of the view that the car was not of satisfactory quality when Mr S took delivery of it. 
On balance, it appears that the wheels were misaligned  causing excessive wear to the 
tyres  and that body panels also needed realignment. 
Since I issued my provisional decision, Mr S has provided further invoices for tyres and 
tracking. He has also said that the cars current odometer reading is around 28,000 miles. 
That means that he has covered some 24,000 miles in less than a year  well above 
average for the UK and more than the 20,000 miles a year he indicated in the hire purchase 
agreement that he expected to cover. I do not believe that I can properly require MotoNovo 
to cover those costs as well as the costs of the first set of replacement tyres and tracking. 
Since the cars tracking had already been checked and rectified and one set of new tyres 
fitted, I cannot safely conclude that this further work was needed because the car was not of 
satisfactory quality at delivery.  
The quote for fixing body panels was provided by a workshop approved by the cars 
manufacturer. I have no reason to think therefore that it does not represent the true cost of 
the work needed. MotoNovo has not challenged it. It is fair in my view that MotoNovo should 
pay Mr S the costs of the work needed. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that, to resolve Mr Ss complaint in full, MotoNovo 
Finance Limited should:
pay him £546 to cover the cost of the initial set of replacement tyres and wheel 
alignment, together with interest at 8% a year from the date of payment to the date of 
reimbursement;  
pay him £1,127 to cover the cost of realignment of body panels; and
pay him a further £250 in recognition of the inconvenience to which he has been put. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 Mike Ingram
Ombudsman