DRN-3735487
The complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) gave him an incorrect value 
for his pension. 
What happened
Mr S has a pension with Aviva. In early 2022, Aviva wrote to Mr S advising him of an error it 
had made with regards to his pension value. Aviva explained that it had incorrectly added 
additional units to his loyalty bonus which had resulted in his pension fund value showing 
as higher than it should be. It said that it had reduced his fund value by £2,603.52 to reflect 
this.
Mr S was unhappy with this mistake and complained to Aviva. Aviva apologised for the 
mistake. It explained that his pension was now in the correct position, although its complaint 
response quoted a drop in his fund value of £2,652.00, slightly more than it had originally 
told him. Aviva sent Mr S a cheque for £350 to apologise for its error.
Mr S remained unhappy with this and referred his complaint to us. He said he was furious 
with this mistake which had occurred when he was close to retirement and in poor health. He 
said he had been offered a derisory amount of compensation and that he hoped Aviva would 
be penalised in a significant manner. 
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt think that Aviva had adequately 
explained how the error had occurred or how the correct fund value had been reached. So, 
he thought Aviva should provide a more detailed explanation to Mr S. Our Investigator also 
thought that Aviva should increase its offer of compensation to £450  an additional £100 to 
what Aviva had offered. 
Mr S didnt accept this. He said he should be awarded more compensation considering the 
amount of money he believed hed lost. Aviva provided our Investigator with a more detailed 
explanation of how the error had occurred and what it had done to adjust Mr S fund value. It 
didnt comment on the Investigators recommendation of an increase in compensation. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review and 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that this matter has had an impact on Mr S. Hes approaching retirement, and hes 
told us hes currently in poor health. And it mustve been very worrying to receive a letter out 
of the blue telling him his fund value was actually lower that Aviva had previously told him.
First, Ive looked at the mistake in the fund value. Aviva has provided further details about 
what its done to correct the fund value. We arent able to offer an auditing service to check 
calculations. But Ive looked at its explanation, and I cant see any obvious errors its made 
(other than the initial incorrect fund value provided). So, it looks to me like Mr S fund is now 
in the position it shouldve been had the incorrect bonus not been applied. 
However, I agree with our Investigator that Aviva shouldve provided Mr S with more 
information with regards to how it had corrected his fund value. And Mr S was caused further 
confusion as Aviva also quoted two different adjustment amounts  one in the original letter 
notifying him of the error and on in the final response to the complaint. The difference 
between these two figures is relatively small  just under £50. However, I can see why this 
would be a concern to Mr S. I suspect this is down to small fluctuations in fund values due to 
market movements. But Aviva shouldve explained this. So, the first thing Im going to 
require Aviva to do is to write to Mr S to explain, in simple terms, how its worked out the 
adjusted fund value.
Moving on to the subject of compensation. Im satisfied that the increased (incorrect) fund 
value is something Mr S was not entitled to. This was a mistake by Aviva, and we dont 
typically ask businesses to honour mistakes such as this. 
Mr S has said he hopes Aviva will be penalised in a more significant manner. However, the 
role of this service isnt to penalise a business. Our role is to look at whether a mistake has 
been made and, if so, put right any financial loss caused by that mistake. We also consider 
awards for the distress and inconvenience a mistake may have caused. But, again, this isnt 
a penalty to the business. Its an award to the consumer to recognise the impact a mistake 
has had on them.
As Ive explained above, I dont think Mr S has suffered a financial loss. However, it mustve 
been upsetting to find out his pension was worth less than hed once been led to believe. Ive 
thought carefully about this, taking into account the fact that Mr S is approaching retirement 
age and hes told us hes not currently in good health. But Im satisfied that the £450 our 
Investigator has recommended is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
Im upholding this complaint and require Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to:
Write to Mr S setting out in simple terms how its adjusted his pension fund following 
the mistake
Pay Mr S £450 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused.
Im aware that Aviva issued a cheque to Mr S for £350. Im of the understanding that Mr S 
hasnt cashed this. So, Aviva should cancel this and pay Mr S a total of £450. However, if 
Mr S has cashed the cheque, then Aviva only need to pay a further £100.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to put things right as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Rob DeadmanOmbudsman