DRN-1847827
The complaint
Mr C says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr C bought the policy in 2004 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint for the following reasons. 
Mr C was presented with a yes or no choice about PPI during his online credit card 
application. He had to select one of the options before he could proceed with his application, 
and he selected yes. So, I think Canada Square made Mr C aware that he had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it. 
Mr C says he only selected the PPI because he thought it would improve his chances of 
getting the credit card. But Im not persuaded that the information provided about the PPI 
during the application process would reasonably have given this impression. 
Canada Square didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. 
Its possible the information Canada Square gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mr C doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt cover  and based on what I know about his circumstances it looks like the 
policy couldve been useful to him. So, I dont think better information wouldve stopped him 
buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mr Cs comments. But these points dont change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020.Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman