DRN-3473120
The complaint
Mr T complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly blocked a payment which led to him missing 
out on investment gains.
What happened
Mr T has a current account with Lloyds. He says on 8 December 2021, he attempted to 
make a payment of £1,500, but Lloyds blocked the payment and restricted the online access 
to his account. He says he lost out on around £500-£1,000 of investment gains due to being 
unable to make the payment when he wanted to. 
Mr T contacted Lloyds when he was able to, but it took 1.5 hours to resolve, which included 
1 hour 21 minutes on hold and 9 minutes to remove the block. Mr T made a complaint to 
Lloyds.
Lloyds partially upheld Mr Ts complaint. They said they wanted to check that his transfer 
request was genuine and that he hadnt been tricked into making it. They asked Mr T to 
phone in so they could verify his identity and learn more about the payment he was making. 
Lloyds said they would be unable to cover any speculative loss of investment. Lloyds 
apologised for the long hold time and they said they would credit his account with £38. £18 
was to cover any call costs he incurred and £20 was to apologise for the time he spent on 
hold. Mr T asked them to reverse the compensation and to pay this money to charity.
Mr T brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold his complaint. He 
said that Lloyds acted in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ts account. Mr T asked for 
an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said the money was being transferred into his 
own investment account with his own name on the bank account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to explain to Mr T that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their security procedures. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct 
Authority, who have the power to instruct Lloyds to make changes to their policies and 
procedures, if necessary. Our service acts as an informal dispute resolution service for 
complaints about financial businesses. We look at the circumstances of individual complaints 
and, on a case by case basis, taking into account relevant industry guidance for example, 
make findings about whether a financial business has failed their customer.
Banks and building societies have an obligation to try and keep their customers accounts 
safe and prevent fraudulent transactions. Sometimes they identify and block legitimate 
payments that a customer wants to take place. They can also ask customers to provide 
additional information about the transaction or to ask a customer to attend a branch with 
identification if they remain concerned. This can cause distress and inconvenience to a 
customer  but it doesnt necessarily mean they have acted incorrectly. 
Ive considered what Mr T has said about the transfer being made to an account in his own 
name. But Im not persuaded that this should mean that security checks should not take 
place in these instances. I say this as Lloyds have highlighted to Mr T that they do check the 
name on the beneficiary account, but this doesnt mean that a customer hasnt been asked 
to transfer money to another of their accounts by a fraudster. So I would expect Lloyds to 
have security controls in place to manage their obligations and to fulfil their duties to their 
customers to ensure each payment made is genuinely made by their customers themselves.
Ive looked at whether Lloyds have acted in line with their terms and conditions here. Im 
satisfied that they have, and Ill explain why. Their terms and conditions, which Mr T would 
have agreed to upon opening his account, shows that they can stop payments being made 
from a customers account if they reasonably believe its appropriate to protect a customers 
account. Although I fully appreciate that Mr T genuinely wanted to make the transaction and 
he was not a victim of fraud or a scam, Lloyds would still be entitled to take the action that 
they did based on their terms and conditions. I must make it clear that Lloyds have not 
accused Mr T of being part of any fraud or scam.
Ive then considered whether the compensation that Mr T was paid and later asked for 
Lloyds to give this money to charity was fair. Lloyds paid £18 for the phone call, which Im 
satisfied this would be reasonable based on likely call costs (if any) for being on the phone 
for the time he was on the phone. Im also persuaded that the £20 for how long he was on 
the phone was fair and Ill explain why.
Lloyds have explained that they were busy at the time Mr T rang them, which led to an 
extended hold time. Mr T has explained that he was on hold for 1 hour and 21 minutes. This 
is longer than I would expect a customer to wait to verify that the payment they had made 
was genuine. So Im persuaded the £20 reflects the impact of waiting for nearly an hour and 
a half before speaking to a call handler. 
But as Lloyds acted within their terms and conditions to block the payment, even though it 
was to Mr Ts own account, I wont be asking Lloyds to pay any more compensation or to 
pay Mr T for any investment gains he would have benefitted from if he was able to make the 
payment to his account when he wanted to. Mr T is still entitled to take Lloyds to court if he 
wishes to do so. But it follows that I dont require Lloyds to do anything else.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman