DRN-3985190
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Mizrahi Tefahot Bank Limited (UMTB) failed to supply them 
with information they require about a property they previously owned in Israel.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G say they took out a mortgage with a branch of UMTB based in the 
United Kingdom (UMTB UK) in 2006. The mortgage was to purchase a house in Israel. 
In 2011, Mr and Mrs G replaced the facility with the bank's controlling company, which is 
based in Israel (UMTB Israel)
In 2016, Mr and Mrs G fell into arrears and UMTB Israel started repossession proceedings. 
Mr and Mrs G say they applied to the court and were given 90 days to sell the house, which 
they did. Mr and Mrs G say UMTB Israel tried to stop them from doing this in a number of 
ways which I understand they have reported to the police in both Israel and the UK. 
Mr and Mrs G have since returned to the UK and have asked UMTB UK to provide written 
confirmation of when the original mortgage charge was released from the property. They say 
this is important for a number of reasons, including the ongoing investigation and their tax 
returns. 
UMTB UK has said it doesnt have access to this information as this was handled by 
UMTB Israel. 
As Mr and Mrs G remained unhappy, they brought their complaint to this service. UMTB UK 
then said this service cant consider the complaint because the transactions Mr and Mrs G 
are complaining about would have been handled by UMTB Israel. That UTMB Israel is 
separate from UMTB UK and so it isnt responsible for the complaint. 
Our investigator reviewed Mr and Mrs Gs complaint and agreed this service couldnt 
consider part of it because it wasnt about something that happened in the UK. But they did 
consider whether UMTB UK should have provided more information about the original 
charge it took out in 2006. They found UMTB UKs records wouldnt go back far enough to 
provide more information about this. So, they didnt uphold this part of Mr and Mrs Gs 
complaint.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree, so the complaint was referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this service can consider all of Mr and Mrs Gs complaint 
points, and looking at the point we can consider, I dont think UMTB UK has done anything 
wrong. Ill explain why.
Why I cant look into part of this complaint 
Our service cant consider every complaint thats referred to it. We have to follow the Dispute 
Resolution (DISP) rules set out in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook. The 
DISP rules set out the scope of our powers, including five things we need to look at when 
were deciding if a complaint is in our jurisdiction. Informally, these are referred to as, the 
firm, the activity, the complainant, the territory, and time. 
A complaint must meet the criteria for all five areas before we can consider the merits of any 
complaint. And if the complaint fails any one of those five things, then we cant consider the 
complaint. 
The DISP rule that is being raised in this complaint concerns the relevant territory. For most 
purposes, the complaint must concern activities which are carried out in the United Kingdom 
 excluding the Channel Islands. 
Some of the events Mr and Mrs G are complaining about took place after they transferred 
their mortgage from UTMB UK to UTMB Israel in 2011. UTMB UK has explained the UK 
branch of the bank is subject to the FCAs regulations, whereas UTMB Israel is regulated by 
the Central Bank of Israel. While they are the same legal entity, there are also separate in 
terms of the systems they use, procedures, policies and customers arent necessarily clients 
of both banks. 
UTMB UK says Mr and Mrs G are former customers as they did open an account in 
August 2006, but this was closed in November 2011 when Mr and Mrs G changed their 
mortgage to be held with UTMB Israel. So, anything that happened after this does not fall 
under this services territorial scope. 
UTMB UK has provided screenshots that confirm Mr and Mrs Gs account was closed at this 
time. And Mr and Mrs G seem to accept this themselves in their description of what 
happened. So, from November 2011 Mr and Mrs Gs account was based in Israel and 
UTMB UK had no involvement with the events Mr and Mrs G say took place in 2016, a 
number of years after its relationship with Mr and Mrs G ended. 
There are some circumstances when businesses outside of the UK can fall within our 
jurisdiction, but Ive checked those, and they dont apply here. 
What I can consider
Mr and Mrs G have asked UTMB UK to provide more information about the original charge 
taken out on the property. As this activity took place in the UK, I have considered this further. 
Mr and Mrs G say they believe the original charge wasnt removed until 2016, but that 
UTMB Israel took out new charges when it took over the loan. So, they believe the original 
charge should have been removed sooner than it was, by UTMB UK. Mr and Mrs G want 
evidence of what happened to provide to the authorities.
UTMB UK looked into this and said its possible the new loan Mr and Mrs G took out with 
UTMB Israel was secured by the same charge originally taken to secure the loan in 2006. 
This would explain why it wasnt cancelled until 2016, after the property was sold and the 
loan was repaid.Mr and Mrs G have said that if that was the case, there shouldnt have been any further 
charges and they understand there were. But as any further charges would have been 
arranged by UTMB Israel, its not possible for this service to comment on that. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs G want UTMB UK to provide further information about the original 
charge, but UTMB UK has explained it doesnt have records of this anymore. Ive thought 
about this carefully, but I dont think UTMB UK needs to do anything more. 
As the account closed in 2011, more than 11 years ago, its not unreasonable UTMB UK has 
no records about what happened. UTMB UK has provided screenshots of the only records it 
has, and these just confirm the account was closed in November 2011  theres no 
reference to what happened to the charge. In the circumstances, if Mr and Mrs G want more 
information about what happened to the charge after the relationship with UTMB UK ended, I 
think Mr and Mrs G would need to obtain that from UTMB Israel who appear to have taken 
over the charge. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, this service cant consider part of Mr and Mrs Gs 
complaint, because the activity theyve complained about wasnt carried out within the 
territorial scope of this service. I dont uphold the other part of Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman