DRN-2148488
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Santander UK Plc delayed making an overseas payment, which 
was to cover the costs of medical treatment. They said that the consequences of this delay 
were unpleasant and stressful, and could easily have been much worse.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G travelled overseas, to pay for medical treatment for a family member. They 
told us that they arranged with Santander to make a large overseas transfer, to pay for this. 
The arrangements were finalised at short notice, and the transfer was urgent. Santander 
knew this. But the money didnt arrive. 
Mr and Mrs G made the transfer on 27 November. It didnt leave their account until 3 
December. They expected the money to arrive within 5 working days. It didnt. 
Mr and Mrs G repeatedly chased this money. They were told at one point that they would not 
be allowed to leave the country until the money was received, but fortunately they were 
allowed to leave, thanks to the kind intervention of a third party. 
Mr and Mrs G continued to contact Santander after they returned home. On 10 December, 
Mr G turned up at Santanders offices and refused to leave until matters were resolved. He 
said it was only then that he was finally able to speak, on the phone, to someone who could 
sort things out. 
The payment was eventually completed on 11 December. 
Mr G said hed been told that Santander had used an intermediary that didnt have enough 
funds to make the very large transfer. And the delay was Santanders fault because it had 
been notified that the transfer hadnt been done, but no one at Santander had acted on that. 
Mr G said Santander had told him this had happened before. 
Mr G described for us the additional stress that this put on him and his family at what was 
already a stressful time. 
Santander has accepted this delay was its fault. It says it was an isolated error, but it 
accepted this caused emotional upset. It paid Mr and Mrs G £1,000 to say sorry for that. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that Mr and Mrs Gs 
recollection of events was likely to be an accurate reflection of what happened. He said that 
the calls hed listened to were handled in a professional manner. But overall it was clear that 
Mr and Mrs G received poor service from Santander. They had feared they wouldnt be able 
to return home. However, they were able to return home as scheduled. Our investigator 
knew that a number of things had gone wrong, but he thought £1,000 was an appropriate 
amount to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr G, on behalf of himself and Mrs G, didnt agree. He said he believed Santander operated 
incompetently by using a third-party intermediary who didnt have access to enough funding 
to make this payment. He reminded us that hed provided the money to Santander many 
days prior.
Mr G said the call handlers he spoke to were all very courteous, but none of them
made the transfer happen. So Mr G concluded hed received poor service on every 
occasion. He said having to turn up at the Santander corporate office couldnt be construed 
as a good service.
Mr G said Santander now said this was an isolated incident, but the person who finally 
sorted this out for him, had told him this had happened before, to someone in very similar 
circumstances. 
Mr G said his family was only allowed to return home due to the generosity of a third party. 
Had that person not shown this kindness, the outcome would have been entirely different. 
Mr G thought Santanders compensation was inadequate. It had repeatedly demonstrated 
incompetency, caused distress to him and his family, and hed had to take extreme action to 
get this transfer done. He said Santander clearly hadnt learned from a similar situation. 
Mr G said that there was no guarantee that this wont happen again to another customer, 
particularly if the cost to it of its mistake was so low.
Because Mr G didnt agree with our investigator, the case was passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
This has quite clearly been a very unpleasant experience for Mr and Mrs G and their family. I 
agree with Mr G that, although the staff he was talking to were polite and trying to help him, 
they werent able to do so. And like him, I think this means Mr and Mrs G experienced 
ongoing poor service. 
I dont think its likely the problem in this case is a result of the intermediary that Santander 
used to make this transfer. I think the problems that Mr G experienced are more likely to 
have been caused because Santander didnt initially process this payment promptly, and 
then didnt react when a problem occurred. 
I can well understand Mr Gs frustration and upset at Santander. Ive listened to the calls he 
had with the bank, and there does, as Mr G said, appear to have been little understanding of 
what had gone wrong, or progress in sorting this out, until Mr G decided he would simply 
turn up at Santanders head office and refuse to leave until the matter was resolved. 
I also note that Mr G and his family were only allowed to return home because someone else 
guaranteed their debt. So I understand why Mr G thinks this couldve been a lot worse. But I 
think it might help if I explain a little about how our service decides on awards. 
Our service isnt a regulator. I can only look at what happened in individual cases. So I cant take account of the impact of things that didnt then happen, like the family being 
refused permission to return home. 
I can only look at what actually happened, and seek to assess the impact that had on Mr and 
Mrs G. So I have to take into account that Mr G and his family were allowed to leave. But I 
can also take account of their fear that they wouldnt be allowed to leave, because I 
understand they experienced that. 
Im also not able to use an award to punish Santander or to seek to deter it from making the 
same mistake again. I know Mr G says this has happened before, and he thinks theres little 
incentive for Santander to make sure it doesnt happen again. But I cant increase the size of 
this award to provide a penalty or deterrent. I have no power to do that, and Santander 
wouldnt have to pay if I did.
Ive thought carefully about what has gone wrong here, and how this has affected Mr and 
Mrs G. And I do think that Santanders payment of £1,000 provides a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint. I know that no amount of money will make up for the additional 
stress of this late payment, particularly at what was already a very stressful time for the 
family. But Mr and Mrs G might like to know that the amount that Santander has paid is what 
our service would term a substantial award. 
I know that Mr and Mrs G will be disappointed, but because I think Santander has already 
paid a fair and reasonable amount of compensation in this case, I dont think their complaint 
should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman