DRN-3543624
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint concerns his Contract for Difference trading account held with AxiCorp 
Limited. Hes raised several issues, which can be broadly summarised as:
Despite apparently failing the appropriateness test that formed part of the account 
opening process, he was allowed to trade, with no further reviews of his account 
carried out.
He was unable to use AxiCorps platform software, so instead had to use the Web 
Trader platform, but access issues affected his ability to trade.
Trades would be disabled without notification, incorrect prices displayed, and he also 
experienced problems funding the account.
There was a lack of customer support from AxiCorp, including complaints going 
unanswered and emails being rejected.
What happened
AxiCorp provided Mr B with responses to his various concerns over of the course of several 
responses between September 2020 and March 2021. In brief:
In September 2020, in respect of access problems that started in February 2020, 
AxiCorp explained that it couldnt identify any issues with its own system, or Web 
Trader. But it did offer Mr B £500 to compensate for the poor handling of a telephone 
call related to the investigation of the matter. 
In October 2020, in respect of issues specifically with the Web Trader platform, 
AxiCorp explained that it was a separate system for which it wasnt responsible. And 
although it seemed there had been some issues with it at the time in question, 
alternative trading methods had been available to Mr B. AxiCorp also referred to its 
terms and conditions that set out its liability in such situations.
In March 2021, in respect of Mr B not being able to deposit funds, which he said led 
to one of his positions being closed out due to insufficient margin, AxiCorp explained 
it had no record of any failed deposit attempts. And the one deposit of £200 that it 
was able to see had been reflected on Mr Bs account balance immediately. But as a 
gesture of goodwill, it offered him £1,000 in relation to this matter and the previous 
complaint.
It transpired that AxiCorps email system had inadvertently flagged Mr Bs previous 
emails as spam, which was why AxiCorp hadnt received a response from Mr B in 
respect of the earlier complaint. To apologise for this, it offered an additional £500 
compensation, taking the total amount up to £2,000, which was paid to Mr B in May 
2022.
Dissatisfied with AxiCorps responses to his concerns, Mr B referred the matter to this 
service in March 2021. An investigator looked into the concerns but didnt think that AxiCorp 
needed to do anything more. 
He first considered what steps AxiCorp had taken at the outset to determine whether the 
trading account was appropriate for Mr B, explaining that there was a regulatory requirement 
to establish an applicants knowledge and experience of this type of trading.
The investigator noted that Mr B had in fact passed the appropriateness test based on the 
information hed provided about his financial circumstances and the correct answers hed 
given to questions about this type of trading. So, as AxiCorp had been entitled to rely upon 
the information given, the investigator felt it had acted reasonably in allowing Mr B to open 
an account. And further, thered been no requirement for it carry out any ongoing 
assessment of appropriateness once the account was open and Mr B was trading. 
In respect of the access issues, the investigator noted that Mr B had opted to use Web 
Trader because, for various reasons, he couldnt use the desktop platform. But the 
investigator felt Mr B wouldve been aware at the outset that this would mean there was the 
potential for internet connectivity issues with a web-based system. And any issues that did 
arise werent the responsibility of AxiCorp, as Web Trader was a separate platform.    
The investigator also noted Mr Bs concerns about trades being disabled and incorrect 
pricing, but he felt there was no evidence to support that these led to any loss for Mr B.
In respect of the problems Mr B had experienced in funding the account, which he said led to 
him being closed out of a position at a loss, the investigator also felt there was no evidence 
to show thered been an issue specifically with AxiCorp that has caused the problem. So, he 
was of the view that it had remained Mr Bs responsibility to ensure he had sufficient margin 
available to prevent a closeout. 
Lastly, regarding the customer service issues, the investigator noted that AxiCorp had 
acknowledged that a call in September 2020 hadnt been handled in a professional manner. 
But he felt that AxiCorp had addressed this fairly. And the same applied to the issue that saw 
Mr Bs emails being flagged as spam.  
In summary, the investigator felt AxiCorp had taken reasonable steps to address Mr Bs 
concerns and that its total offer of £2,000 compensation was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.   
Mr B didnt accept the investigators opinion. He asked to see the evidence the investigator 
had relied upon in reaching his conclusions in respect of the appropriateness test. This was 
provided and Mr B responded to say that hed been told by AxiCorp that hed failed the test 
and, further, he found it incredible that he appeared to have been held responsible for 
AxiCorps system failures, which couldnt be in line with his consumer rights.
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, the matters been referred to me 
to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. As such, theres little I can further add to the comprehensive findings hes 
already issued, as summarised above. 
In respect of the issue of appropriateness, while I note Mr B says he was told by AxiCorp 
that hed failed the appropriateness test, the documentary evidence provided by the business shows that he passed the test. The information he gave about his circumstances 
along with the answers to questions used to determine his level of knowledge, were such 
that AxiCorp felt hed demonstrated an adequate understanding of this type of trading. And 
looking at the information provided, which AxiCorp had no reason to doubt was accurate, I 
think that appears to have been a reasonable conclusion to reach.
I know Mr B feels there should then have been some ongoing monitoring of his account  
effectively ongoing reviews of appropriateness. But there was no requirement for AxiCorp to 
carry out such monitoring. As an execution-only service, once the account was up and 
running it was limited to carrying out Mr Bs instructions to trade as directed. If some new 
information about potential vulnerability had come to its intention  for example, a gambling 
problem  I wouldve expected AxiCorp to act so as to protect Mr Bs interests. But Ive not 
seen that any such information did become available. 
I note that in bringing his complaint Mr Bs mentioned being vulnerable. But that appears to 
be based on him having failed the appropriateness test  which, as noted, was not the case 
 and the lack of ongoing account monitoring. I dont think these issues, or a potential lack of 
understanding of some elements of trading, amount to a vulnerability upon which AxiCorp 
shouldve acted.
In respect of the operation of AxiCorps platform and the Web Trader service, while I accept 
that Mr B appears to have experienced some difficulties that would clearly have been 
frustrating, I dont think theres sufficient evidence to support a finding that these were the 
fault or responsibility of AxiCorp. 
Mr B was unable to utilise the desktop version of the MetaTrader 4 platform, so instead used 
the Web Trader version. Doing so meant that there could be connectivity issues, as is 
always the case with web-based applications. AxiCorp looked into the problems Mr B 
experienced but wasnt able to identify any technical issues. In any event, as the investigator 
noted, AxiCorp wasnt responsible for the availability of Web Trader and its platform could 
ultimately be accessed by alternative means  albeit, as noted, I recognise these posed 
problems for Mr B. But that was not the fault of AxiCorp.     
Similarly, theres no evidence to support that AxiCorps systems caused a problem with 
depositing funds into Mr Bs account. As such, in the face of there having been insufficient 
margin to support the position in question, it seems AxiCorp acted correctly and reasonably 
in closing it. 
In summary, I appreciate that Mr Bs experience of trading with AxiCorp does not appear to 
have been without its issues. And I understand why hes commented that it feels hes being 
held responsible for those issues. But its more the case that Im not persuaded by the 
evidence that AxiCorp acted incorrectly, beyond the issues its acknowledged. So, on 
balance, I cant reasonably hold it responsible for all the issues experienced by Mr B. 
And, even in light of very limited evidence to show that it was at times at fault, AxiCorp has 
offered compensation totalling £2,000 in response to those issues. In all the circumstances, 
Im satisfied thats a very fair and reasonable response and, as such, I wont be directing it to 
take any further action.   
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman