DRN-4224469
The complaint
Mrs G and Mr G complain about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) and the 
decision to decline the storm damage claim they made on their home insurance policy.
Mr G has acted as the main representative during the claim and complaint process. So, for 
ease of reference, I will refer to any comments made and actions taken by both Mrs G and 
Mr G as Mr G throughout the decision.
What happened
Mr G held a home insurance policy, underwritten by RSA. Unfortunately, on 24 November 
2022, Mr G noticed water coming into his loft from either side of a chimney stack installed on 
his roof. Initially, he made a claim on the Home Emergency aspect of his insurance, and he 
was told due to costs of a potential repair and the limits applied to this aspect of his policy, 
he should look to claim on his home insurance policy instead. So, on 1 December, Mr G 
contacted RSA.
On the same day, RSA instructed an independent surveyor, who Ill refer to as B, to inspect 
Mr Gs home on 5 December. This inspection took place and B compiled a report 
recommending RSA decline the claim in full, stating there was no storm damage present 
when they attended.
RSA considered this report, alongside weather reports of Mr Gs area around the time he 
noticed the initial water ingress. And having done so, they didnt think there was evidence of 
storm conditions. So, they declined the claim. Mr G was unhappy about this decision, so he 
raised a complaint.
Mr G didnt think RSAs decision to decline the claim was fair. He disputed their belief that 
storm conditions werent present, and he explained the nearest weather stations didnt 
accurately depict the weather in his specific area at the time. And he didnt think B had 
checked the entire area of the water ingress, so he didnt think RSA were fair to rely on Bs 
report. Because of this, Mr G wanted RSA to instruct a new surveyor to inspect the entire 
chimney stack. And he felt this would identify storm damage so at this point, he would want 
RSA to cover the claim and the necessary repairs.
RSA responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained for a storm damage 
claim to be accepted, it would first need to be evidence that there were storm conditions 
present in Mr Gs area on the date the damage was believed to have taken place. And they 
didnt think there was on this occasion. So, because of this, and when considering Bs report, 
they thought their initial decision to decline the claim was fair and they didnt offer to do 
anything more. Mr G remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to 
us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained they had 
checked the weather reports on the database used across the industry for Mr Gs area on 
the date the damage was caused, as well as the days surrounding it. And having done so, 
they didnt think there were windspeeds or rainfall that met our services criteria to qualify as 
storm conditions. So, without the presence of storm conditions, they didnt think they could 
say RSA had acted unfairly when declining Mr Gs claim for storm damage.
Mr G didnt agree. And he provided detailed representations explaining why he felt storm 
conditions were present. These included weather forecasts, an overview of rainfall in 
November 2022 and another weather report obtained online showing weather conditions at a 
nearby airport. Our investigator considered these representations, but their view remained 
the same. Mr G continued to disagree and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr G. I appreciate it wouldve 
been alarming and upsetting for Mr G to find water entering his property, and potentially 
even more so considering his continued use of his loft area, where the water ingress was 
located. And I recognise Mr G took out his home insurance policy on the understanding that 
this policy would help assist him both financially and emotionally in a situation such as the 
one he found himself in. So, when RSA declined Mr Gs claim, I can appreciate the upset 
this wouldve caused. And I can understand how this would be made worse considering Mr 
Gs own belief that storm conditions were definitely present at the time the water ingress 
began.
But for me to say RSA should do something more, such as commission a new surveyors 
report or overturn their original claim decision, I first need to be satisfied theyve done 
something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied they failed to act in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy Mr G held when declining the claim. Or, if I think RSA did act within 
these, that they acted unfairly in some other way. And in this situation, I dont think thats the 
case. 
For any claim to be accepted on an insurance policy, the onus is on a customer to show that 
there was an insured peril that caused the damage being claimed for. In this situation, I can 
see in Mr Gs notification to RSA he explained his belief that the water ingress had been 
caused by storm conditions damaging his roof, or more specifically his chimney stack.
For storm damage claims, it is standard industry approach for three questions to be 
considered when deciding whether a claim should be accepted. And our service follows the 
same approach when considering complaints about these types of claim, where a claim has 
been declined. So, for our service to decide a claim shouldve been accepted, we need be 
satisfied that answer to all three questions is yes.
These questions are:
1. Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
2. Is the damage claim for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage.
When considering the first question, we consider weather reports from a specific weather 
report provider, who Ill refer to as E. And it is common industry practice for this same 
provider to be used by insurers when deciding whether to accept or decline a storm claim.
I have used the reports provided by E to consider the weather conditions in Mr Es area on 
and around the 24 November 2022 met our services criteria of a storm. Between 21  27 
November 2022, E reports that the peak wind speed in the area local to Mr G was 42 miles 
per hour (mph). And this wind speed doesnt meet our services criteria of a storm. I think its 
also worth pointing out that this was recorded on 26 November. So, two days after the water 
ingress began.
Specifically on 24 November 2022, the day the damage occurred, E reports the peak wind 
speed was recorded at 37mph, which again falls below our services criteria for storm 
conditions. And in terms of rainfall, I can see that in the week around 24 November 2022, the 
peak hourly rainfall was recorded at 4mm, which wouldnt be classed as significantly heavy 
rainfall that would in any way indicate a storm was present.
So, based on the information above, I dont think Im able to say RSA have acted unfairly 
when deciding storm conditions werent present on and around the date of damage. And 
because of this, I think RSA have acted fairly, and in line with the policy terms and 
conditions, when declining the claim Mr G made on the storm related peril included within his 
policy.
I understand Mr G wont agree with this. And I want to reassure Mr G Ive carefully assessed 
the representations hes made. Of the links he provided, two of these referred to weather 
forecasts, rather than actual weather reports that report the weather as and after it 
happened. So, these havent impacted the decision Ive reached. And I also note one of the 
links report rainfall over the November period, and it refers to rainfall across the UK rather 
than his specific area alone. So, for both of those reasons, again this hasnt impacted the 
decision Ive reached.
But I do note one of the links Mr G provided did provide weather information recorded at a 
local airport weather station, five miles away, from a different website. And that within this 
information, there is a graph that suggests wind speeds were higher on the day in question. 
But crucially, the graph shows the wind speeds in kilometres per hour, rather than miles per 
hour which our service and standard industry approach considers when thinking about storm 
conditions. And when this graph is converted to miles per hour, it provides the same wind 
speeds as recorded by E. And I would expect this to be the case, as both E and the report 
Mr G sourced have used the same weather station to gather the data, located five miles from 
Mr Gs home at a nearby airport. So, I dont think this alters the decision Ive reached.
I do understand Mr Gs comments about the affect this distance may have, and that the 
location of his home is more exposed to the elements. But many customers will no doubt find 
themselves in similar situations. And this is why standard industry approach, and the 
approach of our service, centres around the information compiled by E to ensure every 
customer is treated the same in a similar situation. And the information compiled by E uses 
several different weather stations to try and ensure its information is as accurate as possible. 
So, I wouldnt expect RSA to disregard the information provided by E regarding the weather 
conditions in Mr Gs area at that time, nor do I think they were unfair to rely upon the 
information E provided.
And as I dont think there were storm conditions present, I dont think any damage present 
on Mr Gs roof, or around his chimney stack, can be attributed to a storm. Because of this, while I appreciate Mr G is unhappy B was unable to assess all of the roof, I dont think Mr G 
has been negatively impacted because of this.
I appreciate Mr G feels Bs inability to assess the whole roof means he has been unable to 
use Bs report to claim on his homes NHBC warranty. But Bs report wasnt commissioned 
to provide Mr G with information that would allow him to claim through the NHBC. And RSA 
have no obligation under to the terms of the policy Mr G held to provide this information 
either.
Should Mr G wish to make a claim on his NHBC warranty, it would be Mr Gs responsibility 
to obtain a report that the NHBC feels satisfies their own criteria. And it would be Mr Gs 
responsibility to cover the costs of this report or to come to an agreement with the NHBC 
about the costs of this.
So, for all of the reasons Ive outlined above, I wont be asking RSA to do anything more on 
this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs G and Mr Gs complaint about Royal & 
Sun Alliance Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman