DRN-4278669
Complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Wise Payments Limited didnt do more to protect him from an 
investment scam.
Background
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so Ill only summarise it 
briefly here.
In September 2022, Mr T fell victim to an investment scam. He received a direct marketing 
email inviting him to participate in an investment opportunity. He clicked a link in that email 
and filled out an online form with his details. Shortly afterwards, he was called by someone 
who claimed to work for an investment firm operating out of Switzerland. He was persuaded 
to invest but, from what Mr T has told us, he wasnt promised any specific return.
The scammer told Mr T that he would be set up with a £10,000 liquid capital facility. This 
would be in the form of a loan. He was reassured that the loan wouldnt be in his name and 
would be promptly cancelled. In practice, the scammers simply applied for finance with a 
third-party lender and had the proceeds paid into Mr Ts current account. From there, his 
funds were transferred into an account with Wise and then onwards into the control of the 
fraudsters. That lender has since confirmed to the Investigator that Mr T has already paid off 
the £10,000 loan in full.
Once he realised hed fallen victim to a scam, he notified Wise. It didnt agree to refund his 
losses. It said that the obligation of ensuring the legitimacy of the recipient on any given 
transaction lies with the sender of the payment. We always recommend all our customers to 
perform their own investigations on that person or business before setting up a payment.
Mr T was unhappy with that response and so he referred his complaint to this service. It was 
looked at by an Investigator who upheld it in part. Mr T accepted the Investigators view, but 
Wise didnt. As a result, the complaint was passed to me to consider and come to a final 
decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point in law is that Mr T will generally be considered liable for a transaction that 
hes authorised. Its common ground that these payments were authorised and so Mr T is 
presumed liable for them at first instance. However, good industry practice required that 
Wise be on the lookout for account activity that might have been indicative of a fraud risk. On 
identifying a payment that was out of character or unusual to the extent that it might have 
posed such a risk, it ought to intervene in a manner proportionate to that risk. That might 
involve pausing the payment and speaking to the customer first to satisfy itself that theyre 
not at risk of financial harm due to fraud. However, where the risk is less clear-cut, a less 
interventionist response could be justified  for example, displaying a relevant warning 
during the payment process.
In this case, Mr T made three payments  for £750, £7864 and £2136 respectively. The 
Investigator said that the second of those payments ought to have prompted action on 
Wises part and I agree with that conclusion. I accept that this was a new account set up for 
the purpose of the scam. That put Wise in a rather more difficult position in terms of fraud 
prevention because it didnt have much historic data to serve as a basis of comparison when 
deciding if any individual payment made by Mr T was out of character. However, I think that 
payment was large enough that Wise shouldnt have simply processed it without taking 
some steps to protect Mr T from the risk of fraud.
As Ive explained above, any intervention would need to be proportionate to the risk. Im 
mindful of the balancing act Wise has between preventing fraud from taking place and 
allowing customers to continue to use their accounts without facing unnecessary friction and 
delay. However, given the facts of this case, I think Wise should at least have displayed a 
warning during the payment process. 
There was considerable doubt in Mr Ts mind at the point of that second transaction. If a 
robust and clear warning had been presented during the payment process I think, on the 
balance of probabilities, it wouldve persuaded Mr T to not go ahead with that payment or the 
one that followed. 
However, Ive also considered whether Mr T can be considered partially responsible for his 
own losses. In doing so, Ive taken into account what the law says about contributory 
negligence but kept in mind that I must decide this case based on what I consider to be fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Ive seen the messages Mr T exchanged with the scammer. He was clearly concerned that 
hed lost the money hed invested up until that point. Its also apparent from the messages 
that hed realised the explanation hed been given by the scammers about the capital facility 
was false. He knew that a loan had been taken out in his name and that he would be liable 
to make repayments on it.
On balance, I think Mr T recognised the risk that hed actually fallen victim to a scam but 
proceeded to make payments anyway. In the circumstances, I think he ought to have acted 
with far greater caution than he did and so I think its fair and reasonable for him to bear 
responsibility for his own losses and for Wise to deduct 50% from the compensation it pays 
him.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint in part.
If Mr T accepts my decision, Wise Payments Limited should:
- Pay him £5,000 (i.e. 50% of £7,864 and £2,136).
- Add 8% simple interest per annum to that sum calculated to run from the dates the 
payments left his account until the date any settlement is paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
James KimmittOmbudsman