DRN-4155116
The complaint
Mrs Bs complaint is about a claim she made on her Great Lakes Insurance SE Absence of 
Easement (Access/Services) insurance policy.
Mrs B says Great Lakes unfairly declined her claim.
What happened
Mrs B took out an Absence of Easement (Access/Services) insurance policy following the 
purchase of her property. 
In 2022 she made a claim on the policy after a dispute arose with her neighbour over a 
shared driveway between her property and his. At that time the neighbour was threatening to 
construct a permanent fence on the shared driveway which would have restricted Mrs Bs 
vehicular access to the rear of her property.
Great Lakes accepted the claim at that time and instructed a panel firm to correspond with 
the neighbour who then decided not to construct the fence. They also instructed an expert 
valuer to find out whether there was any reduction in value to Mrs Bs property in the event 
she was prevented from using the driveway. The expert concluded there was not.
Mrs B then asked Great Lakes if they could assist her further. Instead of constructing a 
fence, the neighbour started placing temporary obstructions over the driveway which 
continued to prevent her use of it. Great Lakes declined the claim. They said that the 
obstructions were easily removable and there was no loss to Mrs B in any event because 
there was no reduction in market value to her property as a result of the neighbours actions. 
Mrs B didnt agree so complained to this Service.
Our investigator considered Mrs Bs complaint and concluded it should be upheld. He said 
that the neighbour was preventing Mrs B from freely exercising her right of access over the 
shared driveway and that the policy indemnifies Loss (as defined) which covers this 
situation. As such he recommended that Great Lakes reconsider Mrs Bs claim under the 
remaining policy terms. 
Great Lakes dont agree, so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint, for broadly the same reasons set out by the 
investigator. Ill explain why.
The starting point is the policy terms. They provide cover for an Adverse Interest which is 
defined as An estate, right, title or interest arising out of an Insured Risk which is asserted 
adverse to or in derogation of Your title to the Property.
In this case Mrs B has a shared right of access to her land together with her neighbour which 
is being obstructed. I appreciate the neighbour isnt currently announcing in correspondence 
that hes entitled to block the shared right of access, but his actions do in my view, amount to 
the same thing. By placing temporary obstructions across the shared right of access and 
then calling the Police when Mrs B removes them, the neighbour is essentially acting in 
derogation to Mrs Bs right to freely access her right of access.     
The policy says it will Indemnify the Insured for Loss. Loss covers: 
1. Reasonable legal and other professional fees and expenses which the Insurer allows 
or requests You in writing to incur so as to commence, defend or make a settlement 
in a legal action relating to an Adverse Interest relating to an Insured Risk defined in 
this Appendix (which may include making an application to a court or the Upper 
Chamber (Lands Tribunal)).
2. The cost of an out-of-court settlement relating to an Adverse Interest relating to an 
Insured Risk defined in this Appendix which the Insurer allows or requests You in 
writing to make.
3. Damages, compensation, costs and/or expenses (but not fines or other penalties) 
which You have to pay because of an Order relating to an Insured Risk defined in 
this Appendix.
4. The cost of altering, demolishing and/or reinstating all or part of the Property or 
anything built on it if this is required by an Order relating to an Insured Risk defined in 
this Appendix or is done with the Insurers written consent.
5. Reduction in the Market Value of the Property caused directly by an Insured Risk 
calculated at the date of a Loss Event by reference to:
(a) the Market Value of the Property prior to an Order relating to an Insured Risk 
defined in this Appendix on the assumption that the Insured Risk does not exist; 
and
(b) the Market Value of the Property following an Order relating to an Insured Risk 
defined in this Appendix.
6. Any money the Insurer allows You in writing to pay to a third party to free the 
Property from the Adverse Interest relating to an Insured Risk defined in this 
Appendix.
7. Any money (including capital expenditure and legal and other professional fees) 
which You have spent on the Property which has now been lost because of an Order 
relating to an Insured Risk defined in this Appendix.
8. Any other costs and expenses You incur with the Insurers written consent because 
of an Insured Risk defined in this Appendix.
In this case Great Lakes says Mrs Bs claim isnt covered because the expert evidence 
theyve obtained makes clear theres no diminution in market value to the property in the 
event that Mrs B was prevented from using the driveway. But as Ive set out above, thats not 
the only Loss the policy covers. And in any event the expert report itself doesnt take into 
account the fact that there is and remains a neighbour dispute between Mrs B and her 
neighbour, which would ordinarily render any property difficult, if not impossible to sell when 
that dispute is declared as part of the sales process. I say so because her neighbour continues to place items to restrict her right of access across the shared driveway, then call 
the Police when she removes them. 
As can be seen from the terms above, the policy also covers legal costs for defending or 
making a settlement in a legal action relating to an Adverse Interest relating to an Insured 
Risk. Given the problems Mrs B is currently experiencing, I take the view that the property 
should extend to covering her in these circumstances.
Great Lakes have said the policy covers a specific set of insured risks which include where:
 1. You do not have a documented legal right to:
(a) access the Property from the public highway with or without vehicles over a 
defined route in existence at the Inception Date (the Access Way); and/or
(b) connect into and use the services serving the Property at the Inception Date (the 
Services).
(c) allow You to maintain and repair the Access Way and/or the Services.
(d) allow You rights of access to enable You to repair/maintain the Property.
They say that paragraph 1(a) is potentially relevant here as Mrs B and her neighbour hold a 
mutual right of way over the driveway and that this was communicated by their panel firm to 
the neighbour in response to his threat to construct a permanent fence through the centre of 
it. 
Great Lakes say that unless the neighbour is positively asserting he has the sole benefit of 
the driveway or creates a permanent obstruction preventing Mrs Bs use of the driveway, his 
actions dont amount to an actual infringement with it. Rather they say this creates a 
potential infringement, which is not covered under the policy.  Theyve also cited case law to 
support the position that the actions of the neighbour are not in any event substantial enough 
to amount to an actionable infringement. Great Lakes go on to say that even if the 
neighbours actions amount to an actionable interference with Mrs Bs right of access, this 
would not equate to a Loss as defined by the policy.
Ive considered Great Lakes further submissions in respect of the position and whilst I 
understand the points theyre making, I dont agree with them. I cant see how the placing of 
temporary items over a right of way on each occasion cannot be viewed as an interference 
with it, such that they wouldnt constitute an infringement.  The fact that those items are 
temporary in nature, dont in my view prevent them from being an interference- whether or 
not they are removable. And although Great Lakes have said the items are easily 
removable, I dont think this ease accounts for the subsequent problems Mrs B encounters 
when she removes them, like her neighbour calling the Police on each occasion. And 
although Great Lakes have cited case law to support their position, I dont think the case 
theyve cited in relation to an electronic gate is analogous to this one, which requires Mrs B 
to physically remove the obstructions herself before she can access the land- then deal with 
the fall out of doing so with the Police. Theyve also referred to a case in which they say the 
relevant question is whether the right of way can be substantially and practically exercised 
as conveniently before. I find it difficult to see how Mrs Bs complaint falls into this category 
given the facts of her complaint. 
Finally, Great Lakes have made the argument that even if the neighbours actions amount to 
an actionable interference with Mrs Bs right of access, this would not equate to a Loss 
which is defined by the policy. Again, I dont agree. By interfering with the right of access by trying to prevent Mrs Bs use of it, the neighbour is effectively asserting an Adverse 
Interest, which is a type of Loss that is covered under the policy. Ive explained why this is  
when I defined Adverse Interest at the start of this decision.
Putting things right
Great Lakes should consider Mrs Bs claim under the remaining terms of the policy. In doing 
so, they should not seek to limit cover based on the terms theyve cited to turn down Mrs Bs 
claim or any of the ones theyve made to this Service in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out within this decision, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint against Great Lakes 
Insurance SE and direct them to put things right in accordance with what Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman