DRN-3365387
The complaint
Mrs O complained about how Mulsanne handled her claim under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs Os car was parked when it was hit by another car whose driver didnt leave their details. 
She reported the incident to Mulsanne. They paid for her cars damage to be repaired by 
their approved repairer( Mulsannes garage). 
But Mrs O said their garage took too long to repair her car, didnt repair it properly, and didnt 
give her a courtesy car. She said she had to get another garage to do further repairs and 
paid for it herself. And she was unhappy that Mulsanne recorded her claim as a fault claim 
against her and that her insurance premiums increased because of that. She wanted 
Mulsanne to compensate her for their failings, reimburse her for the car repairs she said 
shed paid and remove the fault claim from her insurance record. 
The investigator didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. He didnt think 
that Mulsanne should have done any more. Mrs O didnt agree and so her case was 
passed to me to decide. I issued my provisional decision on 25 January 2022. 
Mulsanne accepted my provisional decision. Mrs O didnt agree, and Ive responded to 
her comments below.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Delay with repairs / issue with the excess
Mrs O said that Mulsanne delayed in having their garage collect her car for repair and 
wrongly claimed that Mrs O wouldnt pay her policy excess.
I looked at Mulsannes file. I saw that just a few days after Mrs O reported the incident to 
Mulsanne they said theyd ask their garage to repair her car. They also asked her to first 
confirm that she was aware that shed have to pay her £400 policy excess when the repair 
was complete. 
Mrs O replied to them in an email saying:
 Did you say that I will have to pay £400 after repairs? No I am not aware, and I have not 
heard about this before from any insurance. 
Mulsanne thought this meant that Mrs O didnt want to pay her excess or go ahead with her 
claim. And so they didnt instruct their garage to collect her car for repairs. 
But Mrs O said as follows. Mulsanne had misunderstood her. She knew she had to pay her 
policy excess and was happy to do so, but she just didnt want to pay it direct to the garage. 
But given what her email said, I didnt think it was unreasonable for Mulsanne to think that 
Mrs O didnt want to go ahead with her claim at that point. 
I saw that within a few days Mrs O contacted Mulsanne again and Mulsanne then 
understood that she did want to claim. So they did then instruct their garage to collect her 
car. This meant that it was about two weeks from when Mrs O reported the incident to 
Mulsannes garage collecting her car. But as I didnt think it was unreasonable for Mulsanne 
to think she hadnt wanted to go ahead with her claim at first, I didnt think that any delay 
there was Mulsannes fault. And so I didnt think it warranted compensation. Mrs Os car was 
then in Mulsannes garage from about 30 July to about 11 August, and I didnt think thats an 
excessive time either.  
Car not repaired properly 
Mrs O said when Mulsannes garage returned her car it had several problems. She 
contacted the garage and at first they seemed interested in the resolving the matter, and 
admitted they might have used a part which was the wrong size. But they then ignored 
contact from her. So she said she had no option but to have her car repaired at another 
garage. She wanted Mulsanne to reimburse her those repair costs. 
Shes shown us her texts to a staff member at Mulsannes garage and their reply. Their 
garages text asks her to send a video of the problem issue and theyd be in touch. 
Mulsanne say that their garage didnt hear from her after that.  Mrs O said she wasnt able to 
send a video of it because she couldnt access it, but her son contacted their garage and the 
garage accepted there was a problem, but they then avoided her contact. 
Mulsanne rightly acknowledged that if their garage repairs had not been done properly, that 
would be Mulsannes responsibility. So they tried to investigate this. They asked Mrs O for 
evidence of what additional or remedial repairs Mrs Os garage had done and her garages 
invoice to show what shed paid for those repairs. Our investigator asked Mrs O for that too 
but she has not provided it. She said that she could not find the receipt and the owners of 
the garage she used had relocated overseas. Again, as our investigator explained, as an 
evidence-based service, we would need to see the evidence of her garages additional 
repairs, together with proof that they were necessary because of the incident or Mulsannes 
garages fault. This is because we are not experts in car mechanics. We would also need to 
see objective evidence of the cost of those repairs and that Mrs O had paid them. And thats 
for her to show. As she hadnt done so, she hadnt provided objective evidence that that the 
work was required or that it was done, and so I could not say that Mulsanne should pay for it. 
This meant that I didnt require Mulsanne to do anything else. 
In her comments on my provisional decision, Mrs O remained unhappy that we require 
independent expert evidence that the additional repairs were due to fault by Mulsannes 
garage, and also the evidence of what she paid for the repairs. She still believed that what 
she has told us is enough evidence of both of these things. But she asked for more time to 
get the repair invoice. 
Mulsanne had asked her for that evidence and she hadnt provided it. Our investigator has 
clearly explained to Mrs O the need for that evidence, and asked Mrs O for it on several 
occasions, but Mrs O did not provide it. Even if Mrs O were now to provide the repair invoice, 
that wouldnt take things any further without expert evidence that the repairs were necessary 
because of the incident or Mulsannes garages fault. Mrs O doesnt want to provide that, so I 
dont think it would be reasonable to allow any more time now.  And so I still dont require 
Mulsanne to do anything more here. 
Courtesy car Mrs Os policy says that she is entitled to a courtesy car while hers was being repaired. But 
she said Mulsannes garage didnt offer her one and she had to use taxis and was out of 
pocket. 
Mulsanne said different things about this. At one point they said that their garage had given 
Mrs O a courtesy car. But then they realised that this was a mistake. So they then said that 
their garage had offered her a courtesy car, but she had declined this and never asked them 
again. And as they didnt know she didnt have a courtesy car until after shed got her own 
car back, by then it was too late for them to do anything about it. 
Mrs O denied declining the garages offer of a courtesy car. She said that the garage had 
never offered her one and she was unhappy that Mulsanne didnt believe her . She felt that 
because Mulsannes garage hadnt got a signed written refusal from her, then Mulsanne 
shouldnt believe their garage. 
Again, as the investigator explained, we are an evidence- based service who have to decide 
if Mulsanne did something wrong. The garage said they offered her a courtesy car and Mrs 
O said they didnt. In this case its Mrs Os word against that of the garage. But I can only go 
on the evidence before me. 
We wouldnt expect a garage to get a courtesy car refusal in writing. But I do think that there 
are major inconsistencies in Mulsannes account of what happened about the courtesy car. 
At first, they wrongly said their garage had given her a courtesy car. Then they said that their 
garage had offered her a courtesy car, but she declined it. They gave two different accounts 
of her doing so. They say they offered her it over the phone before they collected her car. 
They also said that they took a courtesy car with them when they went to collect Mrs Os car 
from her house, and she declined it then. 
Mrs O has said that she didnt know that she was entitled to a courtesy car under the policy. 
But looking at Mulsannes file I saw that it included an email from Mrs O to Mulsannes 
agents on about 24 July saying  I need my car please I have been going via taxi it is so 
expensive and unreliable...
This suggests that Mrs O did have a need for a courtesy car. So on balance I thought it was 
unlikely that Mrs O would have declined a courtesy car if Mrs O Mulsannes garage had 
offered it when they took her car in for repair which was only a short time after this email. 
So I thought there was enough persuasive evidence to support that Mulsannes garage 
didnt offer Mrs O a car , and Mulsanne are responsible for that. 
Mrs O commented on my provisional decision. She was unhappy that I hadnt believed her 
about the courtesy car. But I did and do believe Mrs O about that. I dont think that 
Mulsannes garage did offer a courtesy car, and they should have, for the time they were 
repairing her car. Thats why I said that Mulsanne should compensate her for that.  
Mrs O believes that Mulsannes garage charged her for the courtesy car anyway, and so 
Mulsanne should refund her whatever that garage charged. But I havent seen anything to 
show that Mulsannes garage charged Mrs O for a courtesy car. The usual process where a 
garage provides a courtesy car is for them to charge the insurer for that, and the insurer 
wouldnt normally pass on that cost to their insured. So theres nothing to show that 
Mulsanne or their garage charged Mrs O anything for a courtesy car or that theres anything 
for them to refund her. Instead, Mrs O is entitled to compensation for the time she was without a car while her car 
was being repaired from 30 July to 11 August. This is the time over which she should have 
had a courtesy car but didnt . Its thirteen days. The way we normally compensate for that is 
by a daily rate of £10 for loss of her own car. So thirteen days at £10 a day is £130.
I thought that Mulsanne should also pay interest on that amount. Mrs O questioned the date 
for choosing interest. I chose 11 August because thats the date Mulsannes garage gave 
her own car back so thats the last date shed have been entitled to a courtesy car if the 
garage had given her one. Her policy did not entitle her to a courtesy car from the date of the 
incident, only for the period of repair.     
Fault claim 
Mulsanne recorded Mrs Os claim as a fault claim. She was unhappy about that as it wasnt 
her fault and she didnt see why her premiums should increase because of it. But as the 
investigator explained, when an insurer records a claim as fault it doesnt always mean they 
that their insured is to blame. It is usual insurance practice for insurers to record a claim as 
fault if they cant recover their costs of paying Mrs Os claim from the third party. And thats 
what happened here, because the driver responsible ( the third party) didnt leave their 
details so there is no  known third party or insurer for Mulsanne to recover from. 
The position is the same regardless of how much the repairs ( or any alleged courtesy car) 
cost Mulsanne. And the amount of the claim has no relevance to whether it is recorded as 
fault or not, or how much Mrs Os premiums might increase. 
I do see that it was very unfortunate that the claim arose through no fault of Mrs Os own, but 
I didnt think Mulsanne had done anything wrong in how they recorded it. 
Overall
Given my findings as above, I have partly upheld this claim, as regards the failure to provide 
a courtesy car. 
Putting things right
I think that Mulsanne should compensate Mrs O as above, for the lack of courtesy car. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint and to require Mulsanne Insurance 
Company Limited to do as follows:
Pay Mrs O £130 in compensation for loss of use of her car during Mulsannes 
garages repairs, plus interest on that amount at the rate of 8% per annum, 
calculated from 11 August 2021 to the date of settlement.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
If Mulsanne consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income 
tax from that interest, they should tell Mrs O how much they have taken off, and give Mrs O 
a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
