DRN-3926757
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that UK Insurance Limited (trading as Churchill) declined a claim for 
storm damage under their home insurance.
Both Mr and Mrs B are named policyholders on their Churchill policy, so any claim or 
complaint is brought by them both. But for simplicity, and because most of the information 
about the complaint has been provided by Mr B, Ill refer mainly to Mr B from here onward.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had a Churchill home insurance policy. In February 2022, part of a boundary 
wall on their property collapsed during storm Franklin. Mr B made a claim on their insurance. 
Churchill appointed a surveyor to inspect the damage. The surveyors report concluded the 
wall was in poor condition and the underlying cause of damage was gradual deterioration of 
the mortar. Based on the surveyors report, Churchill declined Mr Bs claim. It told him this 
underlying damage was simply highlighted by the recent storm winds and that damage due 
to wear and tear was excluded from his cover. 
Mr B was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this service. He wants Churchill to 
settle his claim in line with a repair quote from a local builder. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. She was 
satisfied that Churchills surveyors findings were supported by photos of the damaged wall. 
She thought his conclusion that the damage was due to wear and tear was reasonable so 
didnt think Churchills decision to decline the claim was unfair. 
Mr B disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs policy booklet shows hes covered for loss or damage caused by a storm (Section 1: 
Buildings). But, like all policies, it has exclusions and limitations to the cover provided. The 
section This policy doesnt cover (Policy conditions, page 7), includes, among other things, 
wear and tear and any damage caused gradually.
As our investigator explained, when we look at complaints about storm damage we ask three 
questions: 
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
2. Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no the claim wont succeed.
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
Both parties accept there was a storm. Local weather records for the area where Mr B lives 
show wind speeds of up to 55mph on 20 February 2022. The Met Offices information for the 
2021/22 storm season shows that this was storm Franklin, which hit the UK that day. 
2. Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
This was a relatively low level brick wall in winds of 55mph. If the winds were strong enough 
to knock over this wall, I might expect to see some other signs of storm damage, for example 
to nearby houses, roofs, or fences. Mr B hasnt mentioned this and I think he might have 
done if his neighbours had suffered such damage.
Ive also checked local news reports from the time. These seem to show that any significant 
damage in the area was caused by uprooted trees. Finally, the surveyors photos seem to 
show that Mr Bs neighbours wall, which appears to be of similar construction and height, 
was undamaged.
However, Im conscious that three storms hit the UK in quick succession in February 2022: 
Dudley on 16/17th, Eunice on 18th, and Franklin on 20th/21st. All three storms were typified 
by extremely strong winds. I think its possible the accumulated force of these winds could 
have caused damage to Mr Bs wall, so Im happy to consider whether the storm was the 
main cause of damage.
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
Churchills surveyor identified the cause of damage as deteriorated mortar works. He 
concluded: no storm damage visible, the wall is in a poor condition and recent winds have 
highlighted this. His report included 16 photos of the wall, covering the missing section, 
damaged brickwork, and the remaining standing section.
Mr B says, in summary:
Churchills report lacks factual analysis, for example estimated wind force or 
chemical analysis of the mortar to show it had deteriorated.
The storm caused the wall to collapse; if thered been no storm, the wall would still be 
standing.
If the poor quality of the mortar was the cause, the whole wall would have collapsed. 
Only one section came down, indicating that the direction/angle of wind that hit that 
section was the cause of collapse.
Mr B also sent us three photos of both the damaged section and standing section of his wall. 
One shows the mortar intact, another shows cracks and moss. In Mr Bs opinion, this shows 
that the condition of the wall wasnt relevant to its collapse.
I understand why Mr B says the surveyors report is light on facts, although I dont agree that 
it should have included the sort of mathematical calculations he suggests. But theres no 
detailed analysis and Id like to have seen better justification for the surveyors conclusions.
However, while I have some sympathy with Mr Bs criticisms of the report, I dont agree with 
his other points. He says the whole wall would have blown over if the mortar was weak. But 
wind doesnt hit in one perfect blanket of a wave and weather impacts harder in different or 
more exposed areas. Indeed, Mr B makes this point himself. So it isnt unusual for an 
inherent weakness to be exposed in just one section of a wall. And, crucially, I think the photos support the surveyors findings. Some show gaps in the mortar and/or moss growing 
in mortar, others show disintegrating mortar and other damage and cracks in the brickwork. 
Mr B argues that the collapsed section of the wall was standing before the storm and wasnt 
afterwards, so the storm must have been the cause. But he hasnt provided any independent 
evidence to counter the surveyors conclusion that there was an underlying weakness in the 
wall. He hasnt, for example, instructed his own expert to inspect the damage to support his 
view that the storm, rather than failing mortar, was the main reason for the walls collapse.
Ive considered Mr Bs evidence very carefully, but he hasnt persuaded me that Churchills 
surveyor was wrong. While his report is brief, its his expert opinion that the wall was in poor 
condition. Mr B hasnt provided expert testimony that this opinion is flawed, and, on balance, 
I think the surveyors conclusions are supported by his photos. It follows that I think Churchill 
acted reasonably when it declined Mr Bs claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman