DRN-3178774
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG declined a claim she made on her 
travel insurance policy.  
What happened
In late 2019, Miss S booked a weeks holiday abroad. She was due to travel on 13 June 
2020. She had the benefit of an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy underwritten by URV 
(the policy). The policy covered the period 7 March 2020 to 6 March 2021.
On 17 March 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but 
essential travel due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. That advice was still in place on 
the date that Miss S was notified that her flight had been cancelled at the start of June 2020. 
And remained in place when she had been due to depart the UK on 13 June 2020.
Miss S made a claim on the policy for her share of pre-paid accommodation costs.
URV declined the claim on the basis that there was no cover under the policy for cancelling 
a trip because of the impact of Covid-19. Unhappy, Miss S complained to our Service. 
Our investigator ultimately recommended that URV should reassess the claim outside of a 
strict interpretation of the policy terms and conditions. This was on the basis that it wouldnt 
be fair or reasonable for Miss S to be left in a position where she had no cover for cancelling 
the trip due to a change in FCO advice but to also have no cover if shed gone ahead and 
travelled in the event that it was possible for her to do so. 
URV disagreed so Miss S complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and 
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case in her view dated November 
2021. 
The policy documentation
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) summarises the cover available. 
On page one it says:
The following summary does not contain the full policy terms and conditions of the 
contract which can be found in your policy documentation. 
Under the section entitled: what is insured? it says on page 1:
If you are unable to go on your trip £5,000
Under the section entitled: are there any restrictions on cover? (also, on page 1) it says:
Unless agreed with us there will be no cover if the FCO advise against travel to your 
destination. 
Page 3 of the policy terms and conditions says:
Please read this Policy Document carefully and remember this travel insurance is 
designed to cover most events which may happen during Your Trip, but We cannot 
cover all expenses and possibilities. You will find full details of the cover, conditions 
and exclusions in this Policy Document.
Pages 9 and 10 of the policy terms and conditions set out the general applying to the policy. 
It says URV wont be liable for: 
Any claims arising directly or indirectly from You travelling against British Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office advice or where it is deemed unsafe for You to travel. 
(clause 12)
Ill refer to this as the FCO exclusion. 
Page 10 of the policy terms and conditions set out whats covered under the cancellation 
and curtailment section of the policy (the cancellation section) and that can include unused 
charges associated with Your Trip that are not refundable and which were incurred before 
Your departure date if You have to cancel Your Trip because of:
Your death, accidental bodily injury or illness, or that of a Close Relative or a friend 
with whom You have arranged to travel or stay, or of a Close Business Associate.
You or any person with whom You have arranged to travel or stay being subject to 
compulsory quarantine or being summoned for Jury Service or as a witness in a 
Court of Law or for Military Service during the Period of Insurance.
Your redundancy (qualifying You to claim for payment under current redundancy 
payment legislation) and that of any person with whom You intend to travel provided 
that such notice of redundancy is advised to Us within 14 days of its announcement.
Your private dwelling becoming uninhabitable following fire, storm or flood, or Your 
presence being required by the police following burglary at such private dwelling 
occurring at any time after We have accepted this Insurance.
Cancellation or interruption of scheduled public transport consequent upon Hijack 
occurring during the period of the Trip.
Reasonable additional travelling expenses incurred by You in returning to Your home 
address in the United Kingdom, Channel Isles/Isle of Man, where such return is 
urgently necessitated by the death, serious illness or severe injury of Your Close 
Relative or a Close Business Associate provided that such Close Relative or Close 
Business Associate is resident in the United Kingdom, Channel Isles/Isle of Man.Was it unreasonable for URV to decline the claim? 
I think its fair and reasonable for URV to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation 
section of the policy because: 
I think the main reason which led to Miss S trip being cancelled was because the 
FCO advising against all but essential travel abroad  which included the destination 
to which she was due to travel. Thats not something thats covered under the 
cancellation section - as its not a specific or listed insured event. However, taking 
into account the relevant law and industry guidelines, I dont think that leads to a fair 
and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case for the reasons Ill go on 
to explain. 
The FCO exclusion means that if Miss S had travelled abroad, she wouldnt have 
been following FCO advice. And she wouldnt have been covered by the policy terms 
and conditions. But, under the terms and conditions of the policy, cancelling a trip 
because of changes in FCO advice also isnt covered by the policy. I dont think that 
was made sufficiently clear to Miss S.
The FCO exclusion wasnt set out in the specific exclusions relating to the 
cancellation section. And Miss S wouldve needed to read the full policy terms and 
conditions and cross reference different sections of the policy  in conjunction with 
the IPID - in order to understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. So, I 
dont think that this information was brought to her attention in a prominent and 
transparent way. Im satisfied the combined effect of the policy terms and IPID in this 
case means it wasnt made reasonably clear or obvious to a reasonable policyholder 
that theyd have no cover under the policy if they travelled against FCO advice. And 
nor would there be any cover in in place if their travel plans were cancelled on the 
basis of FCO advice changing in between buying the policy and their intended 
departure date, as is what happened here.
I think this created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Miss S and 
URV which is unfair in this case. I think its unlikely that Miss S wouldve bought the 
policy had she realised that there was no cover under the policy if the FCO guidance 
changed after theyd bought it. And there were other travel insurance policies at the 
time which wouldve covered this situation.
Ive taken into account that the policy had a cooling off period and so Miss S couldve 
cancelled within that period once shed had a chance to read through the terms, if she didnt 
think the policy met her needs. However, had she read the full terms, for the reasons set out 
above, I dont think it wouldve reasonably been clear to her that there was no cover under 
the policy if the FCO guidance changed after shed bought the policy but before she 
departed for her trip.
Putting things right
URV should treat Miss Ss claim as covered under the cancellation section. And URV should 
assess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy  including (but not 
limited to) the financial limits of the policy, and any applicable excess.
My final decision
I uphold Miss S complaint against Union Reiseversicherung AG and direct it to put things right in the way Ive set out above 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman