DRN-4254393
The complaint
Ms F and Mr P complain about how Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (Watford) 
dealt with a claim they made on their motor insurance policy following an accident. 
Ms F has been dealing with the complaint so Ill refer to her throughout.
What happened
Mr P has comprehensive motor insurance with Watford. Ms F is a named driver on the 
policy.
Unfortunately Ms F was involved in a car accident on 7 June 2022. 
Ms F isnt happy with the service shes received from Watford. She says she had to chase 
Watford for updates and repeat herself over again.
Ms F says Watford and the third-party insurer are under the same umbrella company so 
she cant understand why the claim is taking so long to resolve. She was Watford would 
push for 100% liability from the third party but then said it would be 50/50. Ms F believes this 
is because the insurers are linked. 
Ms F wants the claim to be resolved and liability to be accepted by the third party. She wants 
her excess returned and compensation for the stress and inconvenience of dealing with the 
claim. So she complained to Watford. 
Watford said it had explained liability was in dispute from the outset so it wasnt upholding 
this part of the complaint. It did accept Ms F hadnt been provided with enough updates 
during the claim which meant she had to chase for updates instead. Watford said Ms F had 
been provided with incorrect information when she asked for a subject access request. So 
that part of the complaint was also upheld. In acknowledgement of the customer service 
provided Watford offered Ms F £100 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Ms F didnt agree with Watfords response to her complaint so she referred her complaint to 
this service. One of our investigators looked into things for her. She said she agreed Watford 
hadnt kept Ms F updated throughout the claim. But she said she wasnt able to consider 
liability as that is outside this services remit. The investigator also thought the compensation 
offered to Ms F was reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
Ms F wasnt satisfied with the response from the investigator so the complaint has come to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear complaint handling is not a regulated activity so I am unable to comment or 
make a finding on how the complaint was handled. Likewise subject access requests are 
also outside this services remit. Any complaints about this should be sent to the Information 
Commissioners Office. 
Its clear how strongly Ms F feels about her complaint. I want to assure her that Ive carried 
out an independent review and considered everything that both parties have submitted. We 
provide an informal complaints handling service as a free alternative to the courts and this is 
reflected in the way Ive approached this complaint. Its part of my role to identify and 
concentrate on the core issues I need to address in order to reach a fair outcome  this 
means I might not mention everything Ms F has said. But I will comment on anything that 
makes a difference to the outcome of the complaint. 
I know Ms F has said she feels the 50/50 liability was because her insurer and the third 
partys insurer are owned by the same company. I am sorry she feels this way but I havent 
seen anything that persuades me this is the case. 
Not kept up to date throughout the claims process
Ms F says Watford didnt communicate with her as she would have expected. I have 
reviewed the documents and can see Ms F made a number of calls and sent a number of 
emails to Watford. And she had to chase Watford on more than a few occasions. 
Watford accepted Ms F hadnt been provided enough updates. It apologised and awarded 
Ms F £100 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by the service provided. 
Liability 
I can see this incident and its consequences have had a significant impact on Ms F. Ive no 
doubt she has done all she can to try and prove her claim and acted in good faith when 
reporting the matter to her insurer. I can understand why she thought her testimony would be 
enough to prove the third-party was at fault. And when liability was conceded by Watford I 
think this would have both shocked and upset her.
In the terms and conditions of the insurance policy Watford is able to, conduct the defence 
or settlement of any claim and to instruct the solicitors of our choice to act for you in any 
proceedings. In circumstances where it is considered appropriate we will be entitled to admit 
liability. And that is what it has done here. Because of this Watford doesnt need Ms Fs 
agreement or approval to accept liability. But I would expect Watford to base any decision on 
things such as the version of events provided by Ms F and the third-party, evidence provided 
to support or challenge the version of events, legal precedent, legislation, and the Highway 
Code. 
Watford took the view that in the absence of detailed independent evidence to prove the 
third-party was liable for the accident, it wouldnt be able to pursue the claim any further and 
would have to settle on 50/50 liability. I dont think Watford acted unreasonably here since it 
relied on the evidence before it to come to that conclusion. 
Customer service 
I can accept it might be necessary for a consumer to need to take one or two days off or 
make some phone calls when dealing with claims such as this. But Ms F had to take a 
significant amount of time to deal with the claim. So I think the inconvenience was more than 
might have been expected. And I think it must have been very frustrating for her to take the 
time off or have the inconvenience of having to work later to make up the time. But I think the compensation offered reflects the distress and inconvenience and is in line with this services 
approach to payments for trouble and upset. 
Im aware Ms F feels more compensation is warranted given the time shes spent dealing 
with the matter. However, this has been considered within the distress and inconvenience 
award of £100. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Ms F but overall I think Watford has acted in line 
with the policy terms and conditions and handled the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. 
Watford has accepted it didnt communicate with Ms F as it should have; it apologised and 
compensated Ms F accordingly. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman