DRN-1651924
 
Complaint
Ms T says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for a 
mortgage.
What happened
Ms T took out a PPI policy for a mortgage in 1992. Ms T paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered her in case she was off work sick 
or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ts case. 
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was nearly three decades ago, and the accounts involved have long since closed. 
So understandably, neither side still have all of the original documents from the time. Indeed, 
under data protection rules Lloyds were required to dispose of Ms Ts documents rather than 
hold onto them for too long. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have happened 
based on the limited information I do have.
I can see that some time after taking out her mortgage, Ms T got letters offering PPI. They 
asked her to consider how shed keep up her repayments if things went wrong, set out some 
potential costs and benefits of PPI, and said it was something the business offered if she 
wanted it. I dont think this amounted to unfair pressure on Ms T. It looks like these were 
general sales pitches that gave fairly sensible reasons for considering insurance, and offered 
customers a policy if they wanted to choose one. 
The letters recommended PPI  and this was only a recommendation, not a requirement. 
They said PPI was something on offer that Ms T could consider. Ms T wouldve known she 
didnt have to take a policy to get her mortgage, since shed already taken out her mortgage 
the year before. It looks like Ms T submitted an application specifically for PPI, separately to 
applying for any lending. Overall, I think its most likely that Lloyds made Ms T aware she 
had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time.
Its not clear whether Lloyds gave Ms T personalised advice about buying PPI. The 
requirements were stricter on Lloyds if they did so, so to be fair to Ms T, Ive assumed they 
did. That means Lloyds had to check the policy was right for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it seems it was. For example, it looks like Ms T was 
eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations.
Ms T said she had good benefits through work, though understandably she wasnt sure of 
exactly what they were and no longer had any evidence of them. The PPI wouldve paid out 
on top of her work benefits and offered her more comprehensive cover  especially for any 
periods where her benefits reduced to just a fraction of her normal pay. Ms T also may have 
had savings, though it seems these were specifically earmarked for other things. So the PPI 
couldve been useful in protecting those savings, meaning Ms T wouldnt have to sacrifice 
them if she was off sick or lost her job. Its worth bearing in mind that this mortgage was a 
significant, long-term commitment, and there was no guarantee that Ms T would have 
access to the same savings or benefits in the many years to come. And ultimately, if she fell 
behind on the repayments she couldve lost her home. So it seems likely that the PPI 
couldve been useful for her in protecting her home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Lloyds gave Ms T about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. Here, it looks like Ms T chose to take out PPI, which indicates she wanted this 
type of cover. As I explained above, Ms T wasnt affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover, and it couldve been useful for her in case something went wrong. The 
policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. And the PPI was 
paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Ms T could cancel it at any time without a penalty. 
Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put her off taking out the cover 
at the time of the sale.
Lastly, Ms T pointed out that weve found that PPI was mis-sold in many other cases, and 
I do understand her point. But different policies worked in different ways, were useful in 
different circumstances, were sold using different methods at different times, and so on. So 
though some PPI policies were mis-sold, it doesnt necessarily mean that another particular 
one was, too. We look at each case on its own merits, and for the reasons I went through 
above, I have not found that this particular policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained, I dont uphold Ms Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman