DRN-2661813
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain theyve been treated unfairly under the roadside assistance policy 
they hold with Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (AA).
What happened
In October 2020 Mrs N broke down. When Mr and Mrs N called AA they were told they had 
to pay a £49 surcharge, because the car that they were travelling in wasnt covered by AAs 
policy. Mr and Mrs N dont think AA should have charged this, say they werent treated with 
empathy, and think itd be nice if AA allowed discretion to be applied by their call handlers. 
So, they complained to AA.
AA said when a member contacts it at the time of a breakdown and asks for help on a car 
not covered, it can agree to provide assistance on payment of a surcharge. AA said it had 
one car registered, but Mr and Mrs N were asking for recovery on a different car. Because of 
that they were correctly charged the £49 surcharge, as the car wasnt covered. 
Mr and Mrs N werent happy with this and contacted us. They told us theyd changed their 
car previously, and it felt like they were being held to ransom unless they gave AA money. 
They said it was disgusting they had to pay up front, asking AA to implement a deferred 
payment system.
One of our investigators looked into things. She found that the terms of Mr and Mrs Ns 
policy required them to have told AA about the new car if they wanted cover. She couldnt 
see they had, so thought AA had acted reasonably by saying they would attend to the 
incident, but only if the £49 surcharge was applied.
Mr and Mrs N didnt agree that it was effectively OK to leave Mrs N on her own at night 
unless they paid the surcharge  and asked what would have happened if they didnt have 
the money. Because of that, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain I can only require AA to refund the £49 surcharge if it applied 
the policy terms and conditions incorrectly  or if I dont think it acted fairly and reasonably. 
And, while I understand Mr and Mrs N will be disappointed, I wont be telling AA to refund the 
surcharge.
The terms of the policy Mr and Mrs N purchased say that AA cover is only given to the 
vehicle specified on the policy. And its possible to change the vehicle, but cover wont be 
offered for 24 hours after any changes.
Mr and Mrs N have told us they bought a new car, and havent disputed AAs comments, or 
our investigators, that they didnt update their details. Ive also not seen anything to suggest 
they did.
Because of that, I dont think I can say AA have incorrectly applied the policy terms  as it 
was being asked to provide cover for a car it didnt have registered on the policy.
I also dont think AA have acted unfairly. I say that because, despite not having to attend to 
Mrs N under the policy terms, it offered to do so. I appreciate Mr and Mrs N are unhappy 
with the £49 surcharge, but because it didnt have to offer cover, I dont think its acted 
unfairly in saying itd offer cover but only for an additional cost.
Ive noted Mr and Mrs Ns comments about requiring AA to offer deferred payment methods 
and allow staff to have discretion over these kinds of things. These points are about AAs 
processes, which isnt something I can tell it to change.
And I understand their concerns about what could have happened if they didnt have the 
money in their account to pay for the surcharge. But, fortunately, they did so Mrs Ns car was 
attended.
I have significant sympathy for Mr and Mrs Ns situation as it sounds like it was very 
concerning for them  but for the reasons Ive explained above I wont tell AA to refund the 
£49 surcharge.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman