DRN-3951054
Complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt reimburse him after he 
fell victim to an investment scam.
Background
In July 2021, Mr H found a profile on a social media platform where someone was promoting 
their skills in managing investments. This individual had over 10,000 followers on the site 
and their profile was full of pictures of people who had earned extremely generous returns 
after trusting this person to manage their money. Unfortunately, this individual wasnt a 
legitimate investment professional, but a scammer.
Mr H sent them a message. The scammer explained their approach to investing and how 
they would earn Mr H such a generous return. He was told that, if he invested £4,000, he 
could expect to earn a return of £25,000 within five hours.
Mr H made two payments of £2,000 each. At the point at which he was expecting to receive 
the return on his investment, the scammer told him that hed need to pay more in to get the 
amount he was hoping for. Mr H recognised that he must have fallen victim to a scam. He 
notified Halifax promptly, but it declined to reimburse him in full. 
It said that, by the time he made the second payment, it shouldve spotted that there was a 
potential risk of fraud and so displayed a warning as part of the payment process. For that 
reason, it offered to refund 50% of the second payment. However, it didnt think any such 
risk was obvious with the first payment. It also thought that, for several reasons, Mr H had 
acted carelessly in falling for the scam and so it didnt think it needed to reimburse him in full.
Mr H disagreed with Halifax and so he referred a complaint to this service. It was rejected by 
an Investigator. Mr H disagreed with the Investigators opinion and so the complaint has 
been passed to me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common ground that Mr H authorised the two payments in question. Under the relevant 
legislation, that means hes liable for them at first instance. However, Halifax was under a 
range of other duties and obligations at the time. Broadly summarised, it was expected to be 
on the lookout for payments that were unusual or out of character with the aim of preventing 
customers from falling victim to fraud and scams. Its also a signatory to the Lending 
Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. In certain 
circumstances, that code can entitle a customer to be reimbursed by the bank after theyve 
fallen victim to a scam.
Ive looked at the statements for Mr Hs account and considered the value of the two 
payments he made to the scammer. Im not persuaded that Halifax couldve recognised that 
there was an increased risk of fraud with these payments. I therefore wouldnt have 
expected it to display a fraud warning as part of the payment process, nor to proactively 
intervene and question the payments with Mr H before processing them.
Under the CRM Code, the starting presumption is that a customer should be reimbursed 
when theyve fallen victim to a scam, subject to several potential exceptions. One of the 
exceptions to reimbursement is where the customer made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing that  (ii) the payment was for genuine goods and services 
and/or (iii) the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
I know Mr H will be disappointed by my decision, but I agree with the Investigators 
conclusions on this point. He was promised an unrealistically generous return. The scammer 
told him he could earn £25,000 on a £4,000 investment within no more than five hours. This 
is an annual rate of interest of more than one million percent. I also agree that he shouldve 
been concerned that the scammer told him that he mustnt let his bank know what hes 
doing. A legitimate investment advisor wouldnt ask him to do this and so this shouldve been 
a warning sign that he wasnt dealing with one.
I can also see that Halifax took reasonable steps to recover Mr Hs losses from the receiving 
account - that is, the fraudsters bank account. Unfortunately, the funds were moved out of 
that account swiftly and so no recovery was possible.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman