DRN-2704478
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax gave them incorrect 
information about how much they could borrow to buy their new home.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had a mortgage with Halifax and wanted to move house. They approached 
Halifax to find out how much they could borrow, and then phoned a few more times to clarify 
that information. But when they came to apply for the mortgage they were told they couldnt 
borrow as much as theyd been told.
A family member gave them the shortfall so they could buy the new house that they wanted, 
and everything went through.
Unhappy about what had happened, Mr and Mrs M complained to Halifax. It upheld their 
complaint, apologised for what had happened and paid them £500 compensation.
Our investigator thought that was a fair resolution. He said it wasnt in dispute that incorrect 
information had been given, but at the point Mr and Mrs M found out they couldnt borrow as 
much as theyd originally been told, they werent tied into buying the property so could have 
withdrawn from the purchase.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree £500 was enough. They said they felt £500 to Halifax would have 
little effect on its desire not to repeat the issue. They also said theyd fallen in love with the 
property  and incurred costs in putting their property on the market  so it wasnt really an 
option to cancel things. As a resolution couldnt be reached, the matter has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im conscious Ive condensed the events of the complaint into rather less detail than the 
parties have presented them. No discourtesy is intended by this; its merely a reflection of 
the informal nature of our service. Whilst Ive concentrated on what I think is the crux of the 
complaint, I assure Mr and Mrs M that Ive read and listened to everything they and Halifax 
have sent us. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider 
it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Its not in dispute that Halifax made mistakes and gave Mr and Mrs M incorrect information 
about the amount they could borrow, so I dont need to make any findings on that. I just need 
to decide what needs to be done  if anything  to put things right.
Mr and Mrs M say that if they hadnt been given the wrong information then they would have 
looked at more affordable housing, or placed a lower bid on this house. But at the time it 
came to light that Mr and Mrs M couldnt borrow as much as they needed it wasnt too late 
for them to pull out of the purchase. I understand why Mr and Mrs M didnt want to pull out  
which I wont detail here to protect their privacy  but it was still a decision they could make. 
Aware of all the facts, Mr and Mrs M decided to go ahead with the purchase, with a family 
member helping them with the shortfall. 
Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a business makes mistakes, mistakes do 
happen. Buying a house is a stressful time and its understandable to want it to go as 
smoothly as possible. Halifax has accepted it let Mr and Mrs M down here and has 
apologised for that.
Mr K and Miss P say £500 isnt enough compensation as it wont prevent this happening 
again to other customers. Its not our role to fine or punish a business and our awards arent 
punitive. Clearly no amount of compensation can change what happened; all I can do is 
consider the impact of a businesss actions on the consumer. I also look at the awards of 
compensation weve made in other similar cases. Having done so Im satisfied that £500 
compensation is fair.
Were not the regulator and its not within my remit to tell Halifax what it should do to prevent 
anything similar happening again. We look at each complaint individually and what may - or 
may not - happen in the future to other customers isnt something I can consider here when 
deciding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about what happened to them.
Although I recognise Mr and Mrs Ms strength of feeling I consider the offer of £500 
compensation to be fair.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense Im satisfied Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
has already paid fair compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman