The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Usay Business Limited trading as Usay Compare ("Usay") mis-
sold them a private health insurance policy. They want the premium to be set as if there was 
a protected no claims discount in place.
What happened
Mr & Mrs G took out private medical insurance through Usay as their broker in 2018. After 
the policy had been taken out and a claim made, they said that they found out that the policy 
didn't have a protected no claims element; Mr and Mrs G said they didn't know this earlier 
and weren't given the option to add this to the policy They also complained that Usay didn't 
tell them that if they protected the no claims discount, the premiums wouldn't increase due to 
any claims made. The premiums for the policy increased due to the claim according to Mr 
and Mrs G; they wanted the premium set as if there had been a protected no claims element 
for the whole family as they felt the new premium was unaffordable.
Mr and Mrs G complained to Usay. It said its advice was based on the information from Mr 
and Mrs G; they had at first told it that they were more concerned with having the right level 
of cover, as opposed to price. This was why a fully comprehensive policy was recommended 
and this met their needs. Usay said Mrs G later wanted a cheaper product, which was why 
the policy recommended changed. 
Usay noted that it provided details of the policies recommended and that all the documents 
did say that there was no protected no claims discount, including the summaries provided. It 
thought that it was reasonable to encourage clients to read the documents, and Mr and Mrs 
G didn't raise any concerns. The information confirming the policy and the lack of a 
protected no claims discount was sent again after sale, but the policy wasn't cancelled 
during the cooling-off period. Usay said Mr and Mrs G had been made aware of the absence 
of a protected no claims discount, and it wasn't required to talk about every possible benefit, 
only the ones relevant to the needs of a client.
Mr and Mrs G complained to us. The investigator's view was that Usay was not at fault. 
Having listened to the calls between Mr and Mrs G and Usay, it was clear that they wanted 
the best cover and this triggered the first recommendation. And she pointed out that a 
protected no claims didn't mean that premiums wouldn't increase, as they could increase for 
other reasons. The investigator also explained that protecting the no claims discount was an 
optional extra, and there was no obligation to recommend it. The key question was whether 
Usay gave incorrect information, recommended an unsuitable policy or didn't provide the 
required information; the investigator said Usay provided correct and full information 
(including documents confirming that there was no protected no claims), as did the insurer, 
and the policy was suitable to meet Mr and Mrs G's needs.
Mr and Mrs G disagreed. They said that they didn't think the policy was mis-sold but weren't 
given the advice they needed about protecting the no claims discount.
DRN-1600020What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As Usay are the broker, the setting of 
premiums by the insurer on renewal is outside of its control - that means it isn't possible to 
give Mr and Mrs G what they want in resolution of their complaint. And while Mr and Mrs G 
say their complaint isn't about mis-selling, the core of their complaint is about mis-selling as 
they have said that they weren't told about the non-protection of the no claims discount and 
weren't advised about the issue when taking out the policy.
Protected no claims discounts are an optional extra, which if taken out increases the 
premium paid. And it's correct to say that premiums increase for all sorts of reasons. As 
brokers often are paid commission relating to the size of the premium, there's a potential 
concern if they start recommending optional extras not asked about by the consumer or not 
obviously suitable following the fact find. This is why there's no obligation to raise such 
issues, though that doesn't mean that unsuitable policies should be recommended.
Having heard what Mr and Mrs G said to Usay, I don't think it was required to tell them about 
the option of protecting the no claims discount, particularly after Mrs G became concerned 
about price. Mr and Mrs G's didn't ask about protecting the no claims discount, as shown by 
the call recordings.
And in every illustration or document sent by both Usay and the insurer, they were told that 
the no claims discount wasn't protected. I note that in the illustrations this information was at 
the top and immediately below the premium price; I also note that there's evidence at least 
one illustration was opened by Mr and Mrs G to read, and it's fair and reasonable to expect 
consumers to read such documents. The documents sent after sale to Mr and Mrs G (but 
within the cooling-off period) by the insurer set out in detail the absence of no claims 
protection and how it works. I'm satisfied that Mr and Mrs G were told that the no claims 
discount was unprotected and were given correct and full information by Usay.
I'm also satisfied that the policy recommended was suitable to meet Mr and Mrs G's needs. 
The original recommendation was based on Mr G's wish for the best policy. He told Usay 
price wasn't a concern. But Mrs G later told Usay she wanted to try a cheaper policy, and the 
recommended policy changed to reflect her need in this respect. The facts changed, so the 
recommendation changed. And it's worth repeating that if the no claims discount had been 
protected, the premium would've been larger. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to accept or reject my decision 
before 5 August 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman