DRN-2943326
The complaint
R complains HDI Global SE have unfairly declined their commercial buildings insurance 
claim.
Mr C has brought the complaint on behalf of R, so I will refer to him in my decision.
All references to HDI Global, also include its agents.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr C has strong views about what has happened, and he has provided several 
submissions to support the complaint. I want to assure Mr C Ive read and considered them 
all carefully. But my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the 
points raised. 
This isnt meant as a discourtesy, the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single 
point the parties have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the 
evidence presented by Mr C and by HDI Global to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable 
decision based on the facts of the case.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr C said heavy rain and adverse weather between January and March 2020 had 
damaged the roof in his restaurant, causing a leak. Mr C contacted HDI Global in 
March 2020 and has provided photos and quotes for them to consider
In June 2020 HDI Global declined Mr Cs claim. They said the issues occurred as the 
roof had reached the end of its useful life and not due to storm conditions. As such 
HDI Global said no insurable event had taken place, so the claim would not be 
covered under the policy
Ive looked at the photos of the roof provided by Mr C. I can see from the photos the 
damage appears to be consistent with the roof deteriorating. The wooden joists do 
appear to be rotting in places, and the felt and rest of the interior of the roof are also 
showing signs of deterioration  consistent with what HDI Global have said 
One photo shows a hole in the felt. Mr C says this is from a repair to the roof a few 
years before. While I have no reason to doubt what hes said, as this is fairly recent, 
it further supports HDI Globals view the roof was reaching the end of its serviceable 
life
I note HDI Global said Mr Cs contractors also confirmed the roof had reached the 
end of its serviceable life. I cant see anything that supports they specifically said this; 
however, I can see from viewing the quotes Mr C initially provided, both include 
works for replacing rotting joists
Rot or the level of deterioration to the roof shown in the photos generally tends to 
occur over a longer period  and isnt normally consistent with heavy rain. I 
appreciate the storm might have served to highlight the issues described by Mr C, 
but based on the information available to me, I dont think HDI Globals conclusion is 
obviously wrong, so I do not intend to interfere with its decision to decline the claim
Mr C is unhappy HDI Global didnt visit his property to carry out an inspection before 
deciding to decline his claim. Its not unusual in some circumstances for Insurers to 
carry out assessments of claims in this way, and considering the information 
available and the restrictions in place due to the national lockdown at the time, I dont 
think HDI Global have acted unfairly here
Mr C is also unhappy with the length of time taken to provide a decision on his claim.  
HDI Global issued an interim report in April 2020 which suggested the claim was 
likely to be declined. Mr C had made clear his urgency to get repairs done quickly in 
his emails to HDI Global and informed them he had works beginning early in May 
2020. But Mr C was not made aware the claim was declined until nearly a month 
later. So, I do think there were opportunities for HDI Global to better manage Mr Cs 
expectations. Having considered this, I think HDI Global should pay Mr C £100 as 
this fairly reflects the inconvenience, he has been caused
My final decision
My final decision Is that I uphold Rs complaint
HDI Global SE should pay R £100 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman