The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc incorrectly marked his credit file. Hes said that this 
has affected him when applying for other borrowing. 
What happened
In August 2018, Mr M was unfortunately unable to make his full monthly mortgage payment 
on time as some funds that he was expecting were delayed. He made a part payment later 
that month and then paid the remaining due over the course of the following three months. 
Mr M says that he was told to do this by Santander and that he checked his credit file later 
that year and noticed he had three late payments showing. 
He made a complaint to Santander and they replied to say that the information recorded on 
Mr Ms credit file was a true and accurate reflection of his account so they would not be 
doing anything further. In a previous response, Santander apologised for an error they made 
 one of their agents said the credit record would show as being paid up in December, but
this turned out to be January, so they paid Mr M £50 as compensation for this error.
Mr M brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator considered it but didnt think 
Santander had done anything wrong.
Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M said that he spread his payment over the course of three months because he was told 
to do this by Santander  and hes unhappy that this has had an impact on his credit file. 
Santander contacted Mr M when he missed the payment to understand why, and when it 
could be paid. In this call, it was identified that the next Contractual Monthly Payment (CMP), 
which was due in a matter of days, was likely to be late if he made a payment to the account 
then. It was agreed that he wouldnt make the payment that was already missed as this 
would leave him without sufficient funds for his next CMP and the missed payment could be 
made when the funds he was expecting came through. 
I think Santander made it clear in this call that any missed payment would be reflected on 
Mr Ms credit file and that there wasnt anything that they could do about this. But they did 
remove late payment fees that were automatically charged. I appreciate that this was 
provided as a solution, but I think that this was to try to help Mr M get back on track and it 
was something he readily agreed to. 
DRN-1564028Unfortunately, the funds that Mr M was expecting didnt come through when he hoped so he 
wasnt able to make the payment he missed in full until three months after the date it was 
due. I think this was the reason he didnt pay the missing payment in full, rather than 
because of anything Santander told him. Ive listened to the further calls that Santander and 
Mr M had, and I think it was made clear to him that this missed payment would show on his 
credit file. Santander worked with him to make other short-term payment arrangements and 
it was agreed that he could make payments to the best of his ability to get the account back 
on track. 
Mr M asked in the calls whether they could update the credit file and it was explained that 
any arrears would be reflected but that it would be updated to show that payments had now 
been made up to date. I understand Mr Ms concerns, but Santander are required to provide 
an accurate record of how an account has been maintained. Here, the arrears on Mr Ms 
account were not paid in full for three months. These are marked on the credit file, but when 
the account was brought back on track it was reflected that payments were made up to date. 
I understand Mr Ms point that the missed payment is recorded on his credit file for three 
months and appreciate that this must be confusing because he only missed one whole 
payment in August 2018. He was due to make this payment in the period between 10 August 
to 9 September 2018. As Ive explained, he was unable to make the payment in full during 
this time, so a notification was placed on his credit file for the following month. This was 
reported in October, November and December 2018 until it was cleared in full  as he only 
paid part of the missing payment on his mortgage in each of those months, he was still 
behind with his payments until it had been cleared in full. This is an accurate picture of how 
the account was maintained as arrears were present on the account for that period.
Mr M has also questioned why Santander paid him £50 as a goodwill gesture if they didnt 
do anything wrong. This payment was made in recognition of the error an agent made in 
telling him the account would be brought up to date in December rather than January. They 
apologised and offered this payment which I think is fair and I wouldnt expect Santander to 
do anything further.
I appreciate Mr Ms concerns about his credit file and Im sorry to hear that this has had an 
impact on him applying for borrowing. I understand that this is disappointing for Mr M but 
lenders are required to report an accurate picture of how an account has been maintained 
and here I think Santander has done so. Its acknowledged the errors it made in telling Mr M 
that his account would be brought up to date a month sooner than it was and apologised and 
offered compensation for this. But where Santander made a mistake in what it told him, the 
right way to put that right is to correct the mistake  not to act as if the mistake were correct. 
In other words, Santander should make sure the record is accurate and ensure Mr M was 
told the right thing  not change the record because he was told the wrong thing, 
Having considered everything, I dont think Santander did anything wrong, so I dont uphold 
this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against 
Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman