DRN-1769507
The complaint
Miss B insured her motor car with UK Insurance Limited (UKI). Miss B says UKI didnt keep 
her up to date about the repairs to her car or provide a suitable hire car after her accident.
What happened
In July 2019, Miss Bs car collided with a stationary vehicle and had to be recovered to a 
garage for repair. Miss B arranged for her car to be taken to a garage of her choice for the 
repair work to be completed.
UKI initially provided Miss B with a hire car from company E on a non-fault basis. This was 
later corrected by UKI as it was a fault claim. And UKI arranged for company E to collect the 
car it had earlier provided to Miss B and replace it with a smaller car under the terms of the 
policy. Miss B came to an agreement with company E to provide her with a larger car at an 
additional daily rental cost. Miss B agreed to pay company E separately for this.
UKI very quickly approved the repairs to Miss Bs car, and these were completed by the 
repairer she chose in early September 2019.
Miss B complained to UKI that it hadnt kept her up to date with the progress of the repairs, 
and it hadnt provided an appropriate hire car.
UKI said it had provided Miss B with a suitable car in accordance with the cover she had, but 
it did pay her £20 to reflect a breakdown in communication it had with company E about the 
provision of an automatic car. UKI Insurance said it was the responsibility of the garage she 
instructed to provide her with updates about the repairs and didnt uphold this part of Miss 
Bs complaint.
Miss B wasnt happy with the final response from UKI, so she brought the complaint to this 
service.
The investigator thought UKI had taken reasonable steps to recognise the impact on Miss B 
when it didnt provide a hire car that was an automatic. The investigator also thought that 
UKI acted reasonably when it told Miss B it was the repairing garage that shouldve provided 
updates on the progress of the repairs and not UKI. Miss B didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Miss B may be disappointed with my decision, but I think the £20 payment made 
by UKI is a fair and reasonable one, and I wont be asking it to do anything else. 
UKI guaranteed it would provide a small hatchback or similar car to Miss B if her car needed 
to be repaired. Miss B didnt take up the additional option within the insurance policy to 
purchase cover to provide a hire car similar in physical size to her car. Miss B may have 
received a larger car from UKI in a previous claim, but it wasnt obliged to provide one here. 
When Miss B complained the car provided wasnt an automatic, UKI arranged for company 
E to provide one. Miss B was unhappy the small hatchback provided meant it was difficult for 
her to transport her mother around as it couldnt accommodate her wheelchair. Miss B said 
that it also placed restrictions on her business activities, however the policy she had didnt 
cover use of the car for business purposes in any event.
When Miss B raised these issues with UKI, it explained it had provided the type of car it was 
obliged to under the policy. However, it acknowledged it should have told company E that 
Miss B required an automatic car. It then arranged for company E to deliver an automatic 
car. Miss B arranged for company E to provide a larger car than the policy allowed, and she 
entered into a separate agreement with company E to pay the difference in hire cost.
Im satisfied that Miss B is responsible for the additional costs in relation to the agreement 
she had with company E. However, UKI didnt make it clear to company E at the time of the 
initial hire that the car should be an automatic. I appreciate that this caused Miss B some 
frustration at the start of the hire period, but this was quickly put right. I think the £20 already 
paid by UKI reflects the inconvenience caused to Miss B over a relatively short-period. 
Turning to the difficulties Miss B faced in getting her car repaired quickly, Miss B believes 
UKI changed its mind several times over whether it would allow her to use a garage of her 
choice. I havent seen any evidence that this was the case. The policy makes it clear that 
Miss B can use a garage of her choice, and as UKI went to the garage to inspect the car, I 
cant agree there was any occasion when it told Miss B that she couldnt use the garage she 
wanted.
UKI approved and authorised the repairs within two days of the accident. And it has told me 
it is aware there was at least one delay as the steering rack wasnt available from the 
supplier. Miss B used a repairer of her choice and UKI wasnt responsible for completing the 
repairs. Although I empathise with Miss B that the delay in completing the repairs was 
frustrating, Im satisfied UKI acted reasonably when it guided her to the repairer she had 
appointed for updates on the progress of the repairs.
So, although I understand Miss B was frustrated with the delays to the repairs, it was the 
responsibility of the repairing garage to keep her updated, not UKI.  I think UKI recognised it 
could have handled the initial car hire better than it did, but the £20 it paid to Miss B to put 
things right is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive stated above, I wont be asking UK Insurance Limited to do anything 
more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman