DRN-3408849
The complaint
Miss O complains that National Westminster Bank (NatWest) made errors with her
COVID-19 payment holidays.
What happened
Miss O had a personal loan from NatWest. On 1 March 2020, the balance was £3,563.00. 
Repayments were £179.42 a month. In March 2020 and then in November 2020, Miss O 
applied online for two payment holidays from NatWest under the scheme to support 
customers affected by the COVID-19 pandemic  each for three months. But her credit file 
was marked with missed payments for the months of March 2020, April 2020, May 2020 
and for November 2020, December 2020, and January 2021.
In December 2020, a call took place with NatWest and a payment plan for £247 per month 
was discussed  being the contractual payment plus some arrears. No written confirmation 
was sent. Payments of £180.70 were made in February 2021 and March 2021. In April 
2021, Miss O received and signed an agreement to sign to reschedule her loan payments 
to £183.14  to make up for the missed payments during the payment holidays. A payment 
of £183.14 was then made in April 2021.
Miss O complained. The first two payment holidays hadnt been set up properly and so her 
credit file had been marked  this was an error. And then  when she spoke to NatWest at 
the end of December 2020, she was asked to repay the arrears, even though she had 
been on a payment holiday and there werent any arrears due. As a result, her credit file 
had again been marked with a missed payment for March/April 2021  she said this must 
be another mistake. During our investigation, she told us that she had been told by 
NatWest that she is still in arrears by £211  in October 2021. She said NatWest had been 
dismissive of her situation and told she should find a job. She had to called NatWest many 
times to try to sort things out. Because of NatWests errors, she said she suffered a lot of 
distress and mental anxiety.
NatWest apologised. They said Miss Os payment holidays hadnt been set up properly. 
They agreed to remove the markers from her credit file for the months between March 2020 
and May 2020 and from November 2020 to January 2021. They refunded interest arrears of 
£58.99 to the loan account, refunded an unpaid transaction fee of £2.75 and paid 
compensation of £100.
Miss O brought her complaint to us. Our adjudicator said that NatWest had apologised for 
their error in not setting up the first two payment holidays. Theyd put that right, amended 
Miss Os credit file, adjusted the loan account interest, and paid compensation of £100.
NatWest also told us theyd paid two more amounts of compensation, each of £50.
Turning to the arrangements set up at the end of December 2020, our adjudicator said the 
payments of £247 hadnt been made, but the contractual payments had been re-established
 so there had been little impact.
Miss O didnt agree. She said NatWest were still sending her arrears letters up to October
2021, and her credit file was still being marked up until March 2022.
I then reached a provisional decision where I said:
In March 2020, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) announced guidance to lenders 
in response to the effects on customers of the COVID-19 pandemic. All lenders, 
including NatWest, had to put in place payment holidays on many credit agreements, 
including personal loans  to help customers who were affected. Customers could ask 
for a total of two payment holidays, each of three months  whereby payments could be 
suspended. Missed payments would not be reported to credit reference agencies, 
although interest would still be debited to the accounts. This support was provided by 
firms up to the end of October 2020.
In September 2020, the FCA announced that the support scheme would change from the 
end of October 2020. From then, firms could continue to support customers in difficulty  
but it was down to their discretion and customers circumstances. And  reporting to credit 
reference agencies was reintroduced for people that had already had the maximum six 
months of payment deferrals.
There are two parts to Miss Os complaint:
NatWest didnt set up her two payment holidays properly and as a result her 
credit file was marked with missed payments for six months.
When she called NatWest in December 2020, they asked her to pay off arrears 
over a period at a rate of £67 per month  in addition to the contractual payments 
that would be starting again. She couldnt afford that, and it wasnt part of the 
payment holiday scheme that she would have to do that either. And then  her 
credit file was marked with missed payments.
Payment Holidays: March 2020  May 2020 and November 2020  January 2021:
I can see that Miss O asked for her two payment holidays to run from March 2020 to May 
2020 and then from November 2020 to January 2021. NatWest didnt set these up as they 
should have  they were set up a payment arrangements whereby payments were missed 
but the credit reference agencies were notified  and so it affected Miss Os credit file. I can 
see that this came to light when she spoke to NatWest in January 2021. In their final 
response, NatWest apologised, agreed to delete the markers from Miss Os credit file, and 
paid compensation of £100. They also adjusted the interest by £58.99 and refunded a non-
payment fee of £2.75. During our investigation, it also came to light that NatWest had paid 
two more amounts of £50 by way of compensation  on 12 March 2021. One amount was 
credited to her current account, and another amount was credit to Miss Os loan account. 
So  NatWest put things right and paid total compensation of £200 for the errors theyd 
made. And so  I consider that on the first part of Miss Os complaint, NatWest dealt with 
that fairly and reasonably.
What happened from February 2021:
Turning to the second part of Miss Os complaint. There were clearly some mistakes 
made by NatWest at the end of Miss Os second payment holiday  which finished in 
January 2021. In the call on 29 December 2020, NatWest asked her to set up a payment 
plan to repay the arrears. Ive listened to the call  it is a confused conversation, but there appears to be an agreement for Miss O to start payments of £247 per month (being the 
contractual amount of £180 plus arrears of £67). But  this wasnt part of the payment 
holiday scheme: there was no obligation for customers repay the arrears in respect of the 
missed payments under it (although they could make up the payments voluntarily - if they 
wished to do so). And  NatWest couldnt show us any correspondence or confirmation of 
any agreement made in the call in December 2021.
NatWest also told us that the direct debit for the February 2021 payment wasnt reinstated 
after the end of the payment holiday  due to an error. And so, Miss O made the payment 
manually. I can then see that the payments for March 2021 and April 2021 were made. So 
 its not at all clear why NatWest were saying to Miss O there were any arrears.
NatWest then sent to Miss O  on 28 April 2021  a rescheduling agreement to bring her 
payments back on track after the payment holidays  increasing payments to £183.14. 
Miss O signed this and payments were made from then on. We asked NatWest why this 
letter was sent so long after the end of the payment holiday  almost three months later  
but they couldnt tell us. The delay must have caused confusion for Miss O.
NatWest told us that Miss Os credit file wasnt affected. But Miss O has shown us that it 
has been marked with payment arrangement and missed payment markers from March 
2021. NatWest also told us that Miss Os loan is one month in arrears  but they also said 
there werent any missed contractual payments (other than the agreed payment holidays). 
So  there is conflicting information about these points.
And so, in summary, its clear that NatWest havent given Miss O good service here. It 
seems only fair that they should put things right and remove any adverse markers from 
Miss Os credit file from February 2021 to the date of any final decision. And ensure her 
loan is not marked as in arrears internally  and any collections activity should be 
stopped.
Miss O has been trying to get this resolved with NatWest since the end of her second 
payment holiday in January 2021  and there have been several mistakes along the way. 
Its clearly been a source of concern and frustration for Miss O. She was made redundant 
because of the pandemic and was pregnant at the time. NatWest were aware of her 
circumstances. And this, added to the length of time it took to sort things out with NatWest 
leads me to consider that a further payment of £200 for distress and inconvenience is
warranted here.
Responses to the provisional decision:
NatWest agreed with the provisional decision. So did Miss O, and she wanted to ensure that 
the arrears of £211 are removed, with no more correspondence chasing her for it. She also 
wanted to confirm that her account would be managed by the loan team, and not NatWests 
collections team.
I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On Miss Os points  I cannot change the balance of her loan account  so the money is still owed. But this decision does say that as today, her account is not considered to be in 
arrears and so there will be no chasing of arrears. The decision also says her account will 
not be managed by collections  but I am stating that to be the current situation  I cant of 
course predict how Miss O conducts her loan account from now on, or how NatWest might 
manage it in the future  if for example, she missed future payments.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc must:
  Remove any adverse information from Miss Os credit file from February 2021 to the 
date of this decision.
  Ensure Miss Os loan account is not designated as in arrears within the bank and 
stop any collections activity. At the current time, Miss Os loan account should not 
be managed by NatWests collections department.
  Pay Miss O £200 for distress and inconvenience. This is in addition to the 
compensation already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman