DRN-3645516
The complaint
Mr G has complained TSB Bank plc wont refund him for three series of direct debit 
payments he didnt authorise.
What happened
Mr G opened an account with TSB in June 2021. Nearly a year later he complained to TSB 
that there were three sets of direct debit payments on his account, but he didnt have any 
sort of payment agreement with these three companies. One was an energy provider, the 
second a mobile phone provider and the third was a credit card provider.
He asked TSB to refund all the direct debits from these companies. These amount to over 
£2,000. Mr G had told TSB he had evidence from these companies he didnt have any 
relationship with them. TSB wanted to review this evidence before proceeding with 
automatically refunding disputed direct debit payments.
Mr G didnt provide them with any further information. No refunds were made. Mr G brought 
his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator was able to contact two of the three companies involved: the mobile phone 
and credit card providers. The information they provided showed similar details to those we 
held about Mr G. Mr G continued to dispute this as he believed hed been a victim of ID 
fraud. However based on what hed seen, our investigator didnt believe that TSB had done 
anything wrong in not proceeding with processing refunds for disputed direct debits.
Mr G has asked an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
There are rules governing how banks manage the direct debiting scheme. These also cover 
refunds that should be given to customers when direct debits have been collected without 
their consent. When we consider disputes involving direct debits, we therefore look at how 
these rules have been applied.
In this case I can see Mr G disputed three sets of direct debits. TSB are able to ask for 
further evidence to show whether there are valid payment arrangements. Banks have been 
criticised for failing to review disputes like this in enough depth. This can lead to financial 
disadvantage to the customer. For example, if a bank refunded direct debit payments 
relating to a credit card agreement that the customer held, the customer could end up owing 
more than the original financial commitments.
So Im satisfied that TSB were able to ask Mr G for further evidence.
Of course, this can make matters difficult. If Mr G didnt hold financial agreements with any 
of the three companies involved, its quite a challenge to prove thats the case. So I 
appreciate the difficulty Mr G may have had in providing this evidence to TSB.
Thats why its useful evidence that our investigator was able to contact two of the three 
companies. The mobile phone provider gave copies of three agreements which they held in 
Mr Gs name. These have been shared with Mr G.
These agreements share the same personal detail as we hold on our records about Mr G. 
They show three loans for mobile phone devices were taken out in September and October 
2021. Mr G separately told us he had one agreement with the same phone provider. This 
phone provider has also confirmed theyd spoken to Mr G on more than one occasion about 
his agreements.
The credit card provider was also able to confirm the evidence they held about Mr G 
matched ours.
Based on this evidence I believe it would be difficult for TSB to say Mr G hadnt authorised 
the direct debit payments. So I think they did the right thing in not refunding Mr G.
Im aware that Mr G is adamant hes been a victim of ID fraud. Its not TSBs responsibility to 
investigate this when managing a dispute about direct debit payments. Weve confirmed hes 
able to pursue complaints against the mobile phone and credit card providers if he believes 
this is the case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Gs complaint against TSB 
Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman