DRN-3820573
The complaint
Mr J complains Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited trading as Niche Pension
Specialists (Niche) gave him unsuitable advice to transfer the benefits from his defined
benefits (DB) scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says the advice
was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Js employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to
a personal pension arrangement.
Mr J was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security of
his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do so, based on word of mouth
from colleagues, he contacted independent financial adviser Niche. Mr J met with Niche in
2017 and it gathered information about his circumstances and objectives. It advised Mr J to
transfer his BSPS benefits into a personal pension, to be invested in cash and investment
funds. It said this would allow Mr J to retire at 55 and pay off his mortgage.
Mr J accepted this advice, so on 5 September 2017 £503,413.59 was transferred from Mr Js
BSPS to his new personal pension.
In 2021 Mr J complained to Niche about its advice, saying hed become aware he might
have lost guaranteed benefits from his BSPS. In response, Niche said it had undertaken a
full financial advice process with Mr J, considered all his available options and explained the
risks and benefits to him.
Mr J referred his complaint to our Service. He said that after his pension was transferred,
hed drawn down tax free cash (TFC) from it to pay off his mortgage, but this hadnt been a
pressing need  rather, following Niches advice meant the TFC was available so Mr J made
use of it for that reason, but hadnt drawn any other TFC. Mr J confirmed hed not yet retired
and wasnt likely to do so soon, despite now being aged 56.
Niche provided our Service with documents from the time of the advice.
This complaint came to me for consideration. On 28 July 2022 I issued my provisional 
decision. In summary, I acknowledged that retiring earlier, paying off the mortgage, flexibility, 
control and potential for higher death benefits on offer through a personal pension would 
have sounded attractive to Mr J. But I said Niche wasnt there to simply arrange what Mr J 
might have thought he wanted  it was instead obliged to give him an objective picture and 
to recommend what was in his best interests.
I said Niches advice to transfer was unsuitable. Because it meant Mr J was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income, and he was very likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits. And there were no reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh 
this - Mr J shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the scheme based on an 
insubstantial wish to retire at 55 and repay debts that were affordable. And the potential for 
higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme.
So I said Niche should have advised Mr J to opt into the BSPS2, given his particular 
circumstances and lack of certain retirement plans, and the more advantageous annual 
indexation of his pension when in payment under the BSPS2. I thought Niche should 
compensate Mr J for the unsuitable advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension 
transfer redress methodology, and using the benefits available to Mr J through the BSPS2 at 
age 65 for comparison purposes.
Mr J accepted my provisional decision and didnt provide any further comments or evidence 
for me to consider. 
Niche provided further comments in response to my provisional decision, and Ive 
summarised what I see to be the relevant points:
Niches suitability report was clear and not misleading. And Niche didnt accept it 
advised Mr J to transfer knowing it would leave him worse off in retirement  this advice 
was given on the basis of Mr Js specific objectives, and of Mr J getting an ongoing 
service to manage his pension for the retirement he wanted. Mr Js objectives were 
substantial reasons for transferring, and Mr J would have transferred anyway, either as 
an insistent client with Niche or with another independent financial adviser (IFA).
Niches advice was suitable because Mr J was taking advantage of a particularly 
generous transfer value (CETV) he was highly unlikely to benefit from again.
It must be acknowledged just how much Mr J and his colleagues distrusted the BSPS 
and wanted to transfer away. And Niche discussed the PPF in detail with Mr J.
Mr J hadnt previously expressed any concerns about Niches advice, and had 
complained in the hope of compensation rather than any actual dissatisfaction. 
I explained to Niche that I didnt think its comments changed the outcome of this complaint. 
Our Service then contacted both Mr J and Niche to explain that Mr J could choose to have 
any redress calculated now in line with the regulators current guidance in FG 17/9, or he 
could instead choose to wait for any new guidance/rules to be published by the regulator, as 
expected in early 2023. Our Service gave both Mr J and Niche additional time to respond 
about this if they wanted to. 
Mr J told us he chose to have redress calculated in line with the regulators current FG 17/9 
guidance. Niche didnt provide us with any response about this.
Im now in a position to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Niches actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for the same reasons I set out in my provisional decision.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Niche should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Js 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests. Ill explain why.
Financial viability
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a useful indication of
what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr J was 51 at the time of the advice. Niches suitability report says Mr J planned to retire at
age 55. That Mr J was aware he could do this with his BSPS, but the BSPS normal
retirement age was 65 and Mr J was aware an early retirement reduction would apply - so
Mr J thought his pension income wouldnt be enough to meet his needs. So for a more level
retirement income, Mr J preferred to take more money from his pension at an early age and
then reduce that when he began receiving an income from his state pension. But this wasnt
possible within the BSPS.
Niche says its advice was suitable at the time because Mr J was taking advantage of a 
generous CETV he might not have been able to benefit from again. And that Mr Js 
complaint was motivated by the hope of compensation rather than dissatisfaction with 
Niches advice. But Mr J is entitled to complain about Niches advice, regardless of his 
reasons for doing so. And while it may be that the CETV was particularly generous at that 
time, the suitability report nonetheless said the investment return required to match Mr Js 
current pension at age 65 (critical yield) was 8.13% per annum. If Mr Js DB scheme moved 
to the PPF, the critical yield required to achieve the same level of benefits was 4.41%. The 
relevant discount rate was 4.1% a year for 13 years to Mr Js DB scheme retirement age. 
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% a year.I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Js
moderately cautious attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. Even if the CETV was 
generous at that particular time, there would be little point in Mr J giving up the guarantees 
available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits 
outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield was 4.41%, I think Mr B was 
likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a 
result of investing in line with that attitude to risk.
I appreciate that at the time of the advice, the details of the BSPS2 hadnt yet been finalised. 
But on 11 August 2017, the Trustee of the BSPS announced that terms had been agreed for 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) to separate the BSPS from Tata Steel and it 
was expected to be completed in early September. After this, members would be given the 
choice about their pension options going forward. This was announced before Niche had 
given its advice, so in order to put Mr J in a fully informed position, I think Niche ought to 
have given consideration to the benefits Mr J could get from the BSPS2. It was known at the 
time that the benefits offered by the BSPS2 were expected to be better than PPF 
compensation for most members. 
I dont know the level of benefits Mr J couldve taken from the BSPS2 at ages 55 or 65, 
because he transferred out of the scheme before he had the choice to opt into it. But I think 
the critical yields applicable to those benefits were likely to have been in between those for 
the existing scheme and the PPF. And given the PPF critical yields were most likely 
unachievable, it seems to me that Mr J was also unlikely to be able to improve on the 
benefits available to him through the BSPS2 if he transferred out. 
Niche doesnt accept it advised Mr J to transfer knowing it would leave him worse off in 
retirement, and says its advice was suitable because of Mr Js specific objectives. Niche also 
says its suitability report from the time of the advice was clear and not misleading. I note the 
suitability report said, Taking this into account, I would recommend that you do not transfer 
this pension, as you are likely to be financially worse off in retirement. But it went on to say, 
However, as you have advised me that you wish to use your pension in an entirely different 
manner, to that set out by the rules of the [BSPS], I would be happy to give you a positive 
recommendation to transfer this pension for the following reasons: These reasons were 
related to Mr Js other objectives as recorded in the suitability report. Ill return to these later.
But regardless of the warnings Niche set out in the suitability report, its clear that Niche 
advised Mr J to transfer his pension even though it knew it would leave him worse off in 
retirement. Furthermore, it is clear that Niches advice was based on Mr J wanting to retire at 
55. So the figures it provided were less relevant to him. The suitability report doesnt give the 
critical yield that would need to be achieved if Mr J wanted to retire at age 55. But I can see 
in the pension transfer report of 1 September 2017 said that it was 24.71% if Mr J took a full 
pension. This was three times the critical yield for retirement at age 65 and I think that ought 
to have been brought to Mr Js attention as this level of growth wouldve been virtually 
impossible to achieve, bearing in mind his moderately cautious attitude to risk.
And while Mr J might have expressed a wish to retire at age 55, Im not satisfied that this
was Mr Js concrete plan at the time of the advice. I say that because the suitability report
and the other documents Niche prepared at the time of the advice dont record any material
reason for him to retire at age 55. And the data capture form actually said Mr J wanted to
retire at 57. I also think most people would express a desire to retire early if asked. However,
it was Niches role to determine whether that was feasible or whether it was in Mr Js best
interest. Mr J was 51 at the time of the advice, so he still had some years to think about his
retirement plans. And overall, I dont think Mr J shouldve been encouraged to make an 
irreversible decision, when he didnt yet have concrete retirement plans, that would 
undoubtedly leave him worse off in retirement.Ive considered the cash flow forecasts produced by Niche, which Niche says demonstrates
that Mr J could meet his income needs if he transferred out of the DB scheme and would still
have total savings (including his pension) worth £1,121,060 at age 100. In the cash flow
forecasts called with transfer of pension and stress test, its difficult to see the assumed
growth rates over time that have been used, as they vary significantly and are sometimes as
high as 36.3%. Instead, Id expect the growth rates over time used here to be based on the
rate of return that an investor with a moderately cautious attitude to risk like Mr J could be
expected to achieve, which is between about 2% and 5% a year.
In addition, the cash flow forecasts all show large sums left over at age 100. This is because
they are all based on Mr J having very static and minimal expenditure after retiring at age 55,
an expenditure of just under £10,000 each year. I dont think this was a realistic level of post-
retirement expenditure because it made no allowance for clothes and holidays, or significant 
one-off expenses. And I think these are things Mr J was likely to need or want at times in his 
retirement. They also show Mr J withdrawing substantially less from his pension at age 67, 
when his state pension became payable. So, the cash flow forecasts arent comparable with 
Mr Js DB scheme benefits which, under the existing scheme, started at £11,221 at age 55 
and escalated each year.
If the cash flow forecasts had used the growth rates for a moderately cautious investor, and
had assumed a realistic post-retirement expenditure for Mr J, then I think the forecasts would 
have shown that Mr Js funds would be at risk of running out if he transferred. And Im not 
necessarily persuaded that Mr J understood that hed need to take substantially less income 
from his personal pension, instead relying on his state pension, to make his funds last.
In summary, even if the BSPS had moved to the PPF and Mr Js benefits were reduced, he
was very unlikely to match, let alone exceed his benefits by transferring to a personal
pension. By transferring to a personal pension it was highly likely Mr J would be financially
worse off in retirement. So based on the above alone, this transfer wasnt in Mr Js best
interest.
But financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. Other
objectives might mean a transfer is suitable despite providing overall lower benefits, as
Niche has argued here. So Ive thought about whether they applied here, which Ill now
address.
Flexibility and income needs
The suitability report gave another of Mr Js objectives as having complete control over his
pension, including the level of income he withdrew from it at age 55. The suitability report
also recorded that if Mr J retired at age 55, hed still have a large amount outstanding on his
mortgage and so a further objective was for Mr J to have access to TFC from his pension to
fully repay his mortgage.
Before making its recommendations, Niche competed a fact find and data capture for Mr J
and his wife, to understand their circumstances. In terms of their assets, it recorded their
annual income was £40,000 for Mr J and £5,000 for his wife. That Mr J had £4,000 in
savings, another pension worth £2,000, and expected to receive inheritances of over
£100,000 in the next 20 years. Niche didnt record that Mr J had any life or other insurance
protection.
For their liabilities, Niche recorded that Mr J and his wife repaid a total of £190 each month
for loan and credit card borrowing. And that their property was valued at £140,000, with an
outstanding mortgage of £79,000 for which they repaid £442 each month. The fact findsuggested the mortgage term was due to end in 2022. However, based on the outstanding
balance and monthly repayment amount, I dont think this is when the mortgage term was
originally due to end, but rather when it would end if Mr J retired at 55 and used TFC to fully
repayment his mortgage at that time.
Niche recorded that Mr J and his wife had a household monthly income of £2,700 and
monthly expenditure of £2,188. Therefore they had £512 disposable income each month. So
there was nothing to suggest financial difficulties here or that their mortgage, their largest
debt, was unaffordable at that time or was at risk of not being repaid.
Mr J may have liked the idea of paying off the mortgage at age 55, but I dont think there was
any pressing financial need for him to do so. And overall, I dont think the idea of paying off
the mortgage was a good enough reason for Mr J to give up a secure, guaranteed,
escalating pension income in retirement because, as I say, Mr J was easily able to meet his
outgoings without touching his pension and his most significant debt was already being
repaid.
Niche argues that the pension payable from the DB scheme at age 55 wouldnt have been
enough to meet his income needs bearing in mind that he needed to take TFC to repay the
mortgage. But I dont agree, and Ill explain why.
I still think retiring and paying off his mortgage at age 55 was aspirational for Mr J. But even
if I accepted this was Mr Js concrete plan, which I dont, I think this was achievable under
the DB scheme. I say that because Niches cash flow forecast and suitability report say Mr J 
could take TFC of £74,804 at age 55 under the BSPS. And although Niche didnt provide the 
benefits Mr J was entitled to through the PPF at age 55, I think it wouldve been around the 
same if not more. I say this because the PPF had more favourable early retirement factors 
than the BSPS, particularly if TFC is taken. So, Mr J wouldve been able to take enough TFC 
even if his benefits moved to the PPF to repay the outstanding mortgage balance. This was 
recorded as £79,000 at the time of the advice in 2017 and so would likely be covered by the 
TFC when Mr J reached age 55 given hed have been making further repayments during that 
time.
Niches data capture for Mr J and his wife says their post retirement expenses totalled just
under £10,000 per year. And Niches suitability report says the BSPS would leave Mr J with
annual income of £11,221 per year after taking £74,804 of TFC - this is also suggested in
Niches cash flow forecast. So even if it had it been Mr Js concrete plan to retire and fully
repay his mortgage at age 55, his BSPS benefits would have provided sufficient TFC and
annual income to enable him to meet these objectives. And I think that wouldve been the 
case even if the scheme had moved to the PPF. I dont know what benefits Mr J wouldve 
been entitled to through the BSPS2. But I dont think they would likely be substantially 
different to those available to him under the BSPS. 
Mr J would also have additional income from his other pension. Niches fact find says this
was worth £2,000 at the time of the advice, and Niches cash flow forecast says Mr J
contributed £2,400 per year to this, with his employer contributing a further £4,000 per year.
Based on this, I think its reasonable to conclude Mr Js other pension may have been worth
at least about £27,000 by the time he was age 55. He could take 25% of this as TFC and
couldve drawn down further sums if he needed extra income.
So, I dont think Niche should have advised Mr J to transfer out of the BSPS to repay
affordable debts or to have flexibility that he didnt really need. Mr Js desire to access his
pension doesnt outweigh Niches responsibility to provide him with suitable advice and act in
his best interest. And if Mr J did in fact intend to retire at 55, I think he couldve met his
objectives by moving with the scheme to the PPF or opting into the BSPS2.Death benefits
Niche recorded another of Mr J objectives as having more flexible death benefits. His wife
had no retirement savings of her own so he wanted her to receive his residual pension fund
rather than the 50% spouses pension shed receive for the rest of her life under the BSPS. 
And Mr J wanted the option of nominating his children to receive his residual pension fund 
as well.
I appreciate the idea of leaving a large sum to his family in the event of his death may have
sounded attractive to Mr J, as it would to most people. But whilst death benefits are
important to consumers and Mr J might have thought it was a good idea to transfer his BSPS
benefits because of this, the priority here was to advise Mr J about what was best for his
retirement provisions - Niche had to give Mr J an objective picture of the death benefits he
already had and decide whether it was in Mr Js best interest to give up his guaranteed
pension in favour of the death benefits available through a personal pension.
Its important to note that a pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. So
I dont think the potential for greater death benefits should have been prioritised over this. I
say potential, because the sum left on Mr Js death was dependent on investment returns.
And if Mr J lived a long life or investment returns were poor, there may not have been a large
sum to pass on. I dont think Niche gave enough importance to the death benefits Mr J
already had with his existing pension  his wife would have received a guaranteed,
escalating spouses pension for life, which would have been valuable if Mr J predeceased
her.
The suitability report said that under the rules of the BSPS, Mr Js children would receive
nothing if Mr J dies - it seems to note this, rather than highlight it as one of Mr Js objectives.
But if Mr J had wanted to leave a legacy for his children, or to leave more to his wife, which
didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death,
then I think Niche should have instead explored life insurance.
The documents Niche has provided to our Service dont mention Mr J having any health
issues or concerns. And the documents include quotations for Mr J regarding whole of life
insurance. It seems likely this was discounted by Mr J because of the cost (in excess of
£200 per month before underwriting). But I dont think that this was a balanced way of
presenting this option to Mr J.
Basing the quote on the transfer value of Mr Js pension benefits essentially assumed that
he would pass away on day one following the transfer, and that isnt realistic. Ultimately, 
Mr J wanted to leave whatever remained of his pension to his spouse or children, which 
would be a lot less than this if he lived a long life. So, Niche should have asked Mr J how 
much he would ideally like to leave to his children and/or wife, and how much he could afford 
to contribute. Insurance on this basis was likely to be a lot cheaper to provide and would 
have enabled him to leave a legacy without risking his retirement income.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr J. And I dont think Niche
did enough to highlight the value of Mr Js existing death benefits or to explore the
alternatives available to Mr J to meet this objective.
Concerns about financial stability of BSPS
The suitability report said Mr J had lost faith in the trustees of the BSPS, and Niche has 
recently told us it must be acknowledged just how much Mr J and his colleagues distrusted the BSPS and wanted to transfer away from it. So I accept that when Mr J met with Niche, 
he was concerned about his pension, and its possible Mr J was inclined to transfer out of 
the BSPS because of these concerns.
However, it was Niches obligation to give Mr J an objective picture and recommend what
was in his best interest. Mr J was concerned about BSPS moving to the PPF, and Niche has 
told us it discussed the PPF in detail with Mr J. But as Ive said above, if Mr J transferred his 
DB scheme he wasnt likely to be able to match or improve on the benefits hed be entitled to 
if the scheme entered the PPF. So, I think Niche ought to have reassured Mr J that the 
possibility of his scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought.
Furthermore, at the time of the advice, the plans for the BSPS2 had been announced; it 
wasnt yet guaranteed to go ahead, but it was expected to. The fact that Mr J had the option 
to join the BSPS2 ought to have allayed his fears about the PPF, particularly as Mr J was 
likely to be able to meet his retirement needs through the BSPS2 if he chose to join it.
Summary
I appreciate that retiring earlier, paying off the mortgage, flexibility, control and potential for
higher death benefits on offer through a personal pension would have sounded attractive to
Mr J. But Niche wasnt there simply to just arrange what Mr J might have thought he wanted.
It was obliged to really understand what Mr J needed, to give him an objective picture and to
recommend what was in his best interests.
And ultimately, I dont think the advice Niche gave to Mr J was suitable. He was giving up a
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, he was very likely to obtain
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no compelling reasons which would
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr J shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the
scheme based on an insubstantial wish to retire at 55 and repay debts that were affordable. 
And the potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated
with Mr Js DB scheme. So, I think Niche shouldve advised Mr J not to transfer to a personal 
pension.
I have to consider whether Mr J would've gone ahead anyway, had Niche advised him not to
transfer out of his DB scheme. Niche says Mr J would have gone ahead anyway, either as 
an insistent client with Niche or with another IFA. But there is nothing in the evidence 
provided by Niche to make me think Mr J was an insistent client or that hed been in touch 
with other IFAs. Mr J was an inexperienced investor, with a moderately cautious attitude to 
risk. And his BSPS pension accounted for the majority of his and his wifes retirement 
provision. So if Niche had provided Mr J with clear advice against transferring out of the 
BSPS that explained why it wasnt in his best interest, I think Mr J would have accepted that 
advice.
Shortly after the advice was given, Mr J wouldve been faced with the choice of opting into 
the BSPS2 or remaining in the scheme and moving to the PPF. Given Mr Js age at the time 
of the advice and the fact he didnt have concrete plans to retire at age 55, I don't think that it 
would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the 
scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for early 
retirement. Also, Mr J was married, and his wifes pension would be set at 50% of his 
pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at 
retirement (if Mr J chose to do so). The annual indexation of his pension when in payment 
was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think Niche shouldve advised Mr J to 
opt into the BSPS2.
So, overall, I think Niche should compensate Mr J for the unsuitable advice, using theregulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And as per the above, it
is the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 at age 65 that should be used for
comparison purposes.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr J, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Niches unsuitable advice. I consider Mr J would 
have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd 
been given suitable advice. 
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr J whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance/rules to be published. He has chosen 
not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint.
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr J. 
Niche must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr J has no plans at present to retire any earlier than age 65. So, compensation 
should be based on his normal retirement age of 65.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly
following receipt of notification of Mr Js acceptance of my final decision.
Niche may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Js
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Js SERPS/S2P
entitlement.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Js pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr J as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount
must where possible be paid to Mr J within 90 days of the date Niche receives notification of
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Niche to pay Mr J.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Niche deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr J how much has been taken off. Niche should give Mr J a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr J asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Niche to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Niche Independent 
Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr J the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £170,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £170,000, I additionally require Niche 
Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr J any interest on that amount in full,
as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £170,000, I would only require Niche
Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr J any interest as set out above on the
sum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited pays Mr J the balance. I additionally 
recommend that any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr J.
If Mr J accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Niche Independent
Financial Advisers Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr J can accept mydecision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr J may want to consider getting
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited should provide details of its calculations to 
Mr J in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman