DRN-2727293
The complaint
Miss B complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited (HRG) irresponsibly lent 
to her.
What happened
Miss B took out a store card with HRG in October 2015. Her credit limit was set to £750. This 
was increased four times by HRG to:
- £900 in March 2016
- £1,080 in July 2016
- £1,300 in January 2017
- £1,370 in February 2018
Miss B first missed a payment on her store card in November 2018. HRG then took steps to 
reduce her credit limit and froze the card to prevent further spending.
Miss B complained to HRG in August 2020. She said that she shouldnt have been accepted 
for the account and that she was lent to irresponsibly. HRG didnt uphold her complaint. It 
said that it had offered her the limit increases and she hadnt declined them  or opted out of 
automatic increases. And that it carried out the required checks before it accepted her 
application for the store card.
Miss B disagreed and brought her complaint to our service. She said the debt caused her to 
enter a debt management plan and she was never asked to show proof she could afford the 
card. She wanted a refund of all the interest and late payment fees shed paid and the 
remaining debt on the card wiped.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought HRG had done appropriate checks 
at application and there wasnt any indication the increases were irresponsible at the time 
they occurred. Miss B disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
I understand Miss B was unemployed for a period before October 2015. But shes 
provided us with a wage slip dated 30 October 2015 and she completed the 
application form for the card to say she was employed. So when she took out the 
card she was in employment. While I expect HRG to have looked at Miss Bs 
situation before she took out the card in some ways, I cant say that it shouldve 
declined her application simply because prior to taking the card out she had been 
unemployed. Her employment status and her outgoings at the time of taking the card 
out are more important.
I can see that HRG checked Miss Bs credit file and accounted for her other known 
outgoings, such as other credit, when it considered her application for the store card. 
Based on her credit file and the information she provided she received a score that 
meant it was satisfied it could lend to her with a limit of £750. Im satisfied HRG took 
appropriate steps to check the affordability of the store card for Miss B when she took 
it out.
Miss Bs credit file shows no adverse information for this account prior to any of the 
credit increases. And I can see in August 2017 shed cleared the full balance on the 
card and then maintained her required payments until November 2018, when the 
account first went into arrears. This was nine months after the last increase and 
following the arrears HRG then reduced Miss Bs credit limit. So this doesnt suggest 
that the lending was irresponsible and I can see HRG took appropriate steps once 
Miss B did begin to struggle financially.
I can also see that the credit increase letters gave Miss B the option to turn down the 
increases and a three-week window to make this decision. While HRG has to be sure 
the increases are appropriate, Miss B also has a responsibility knowing more about 
her personal situation. So if she didnt consider she could in fact afford the increases 
she needed to contact HRG or not utilise her increased credit.
I appreciate the difficult situation Miss B now finds herself in with this card, 
particularly due to the impact the pandemic has had on her employment. But I cant 
apply hindsight to her case. I havent seen anything to suggest HRG irresponsibly 
lent to her when she took out this card or by it increasing her limit when it did. I 
appreciate she later went into a debt management plan, but this was some time after 
the increases. And, as weve set out to her, her concern around being charged 
interest while shes furloughed is a separate matter to the one Im considering under 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 July 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman