DRN-4275897
The complaint
Mrs N complains about Ageas Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim on her home contents 
insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. This background isnt 
intended to set out every event in detail, but Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on 
within my decision. 
In November 2022, Mrs N had a leak that flooded her kitchen, she says the flood 
damaged the dishwashers control panel.
Mrs N said that due to the amount of water and lack of room in the kitchen, she and a 
neighbour moved the dishwasher to her drive outside the property. Mrs N says during 
the night the dishwasher was taken from the drive without her permission.
Due to some bereavements Mrs N didnt complete making a claim for accidental 
damage to her dishwasher until 2 February 2023.
On 28 March 2023, Ageas declined the claim. It said it was unable to validate the 
claim due to the disposal of the dishwasher.
Mrs N is unhappy with the delay in letting her know of the declination and requesting 
her to send photographs of the damaged area, when Ageas wouldve known that it 
wouldnt be able to accept these for the purpose of validating the claim. Mrs N wants 
Ageas to cover the £350 cost she spent on a new dishwasher.
Our Investigator considered the complaint. She felt it was fair for Ageas to decline the 
claim in line with its policy. However, she awarded £100 in recognition for the loss of 
expectation and delay in Mrs N receiving the outcome of the claim.
Mrs N didnt agree. So, the complaint has been passed to me, an Ombudsman to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to focus on what I consider the crux of the complaint to be, which means I will only 
comment on those things I consider relevant to the decision I need to make. That may also 
mean I dont comment on everything Mrs N has said but I can confirm I have read and 
considered everything said by both parties.
Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions. And under the section Claims Procedure it 
says:
Please do not dispose of damaged items before We have had the opportunity to 
inspect them.
Mrs N has said that she didnt know how long it would take for Ageas to send an engineer to 
the property and asks what more she could have done in the circumstances. I can fully 
appreciate the reasons why Mrs N moved the dishwasher outside, whilst she was soaking 
up the water from the flood. I understand that the leak happened on the Saturday morning 
and the plumber was unable to attend until Monday. But the policy is clear in directing the 
policyholder not to dispose of items before it has had an opportunity to inspect it. 
If Mrs N had contacted her insurer at the time of the flood it could have directed her in what 
to do in her circumstances. From what Ive seen the claim was made at later date. I 
understand the dishwasher was taken without her consent during the night, but I cant hold 
Ageas responsible for that. Im satisfied Ageas has fairly declined the claim in line with its 
policy. I say this because Ageas was unable to validate the claim as it couldnt inspect the 
damage to the dishwasher.
However, I agree with our investigator that Ageas unfairly gave Mrs N false hope in that the 
claim would be accepted when it asked for her to send photographs of the area of the 
kitchen where the dishwasher stood. From what Ive seen I think Ageas was trying to assist 
Mrs N to see if there was another way it could validate the claim. But Ageas should have 
known that photographs without the dishwasher featured in them, and showing the damage 
to it, would not enable it to validate the claim and ultimately inconvenienced Mrs N further by 
asking her to provide the photographs and prolonging the claim.
Im therefore satisfied that the declination of the claim shouldve been made at the time of 
claim notification or soon after. Ageas was aware from the outset that the dishwasher was 
no longer available and therefore delayed notifying Mrs N of the outcome for nearly two 
months. I understand Mrs N also had problems contacting Ageas using its hub which added 
to the inconvenience she suffered.
Putting things right
In summary Ageas Insurance Limited should compensate Mrs N, £100 for the loss of 
expectation and the distress and inconvenience of delays in confirming the declination of the 
claim.
Ageas must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs N 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman