DRN-2901946
The complaint
Ms K complains about Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) for the actions of its surveyor when 
they came to inspect her damaged roof. She wants Aviva to compensate her for damage 
caused by the temporary repair subsequently failing. 
What happened
Ms K had an extension built on her home in 2017. This extension had a fibreglass flat roof 
and housed an elderly relative of Ms K. 
In December 2019, the roof started to leak, and water began penetrating the room below, 
through the light fitting. 
Ms K contacted her Home Emergency insurance and a contractor attended her home to 
carry out a temporary repair.
The initial repair failed immediately, and Ms Ks Home Emergency cover sent another 
contractor. This contractor applied a tarpaulin over the roof to make it watertight.
Ms K also submitted a claim to Aviva, under her buildings insurance. She thought that the 
leak had been caused by storm damage to the roof, as it was still relatively new. 
Aviva initially declined the claim, based on information from the Home Emergency cover 
contractors. Aviva sent a surveyor to assess the roof in February 2020, but that surveyor did 
not lift the tarpaulin. 
Ms K asked Aviva to send its own surveyor to inspect the roof and provide a full report on 
the roof condition. 
Aviva sent a surveyor in March 2020. The surveyor lifted the tarpaulin and carried out an 
assessment of the roof. Aviva then maintained its decision to decline the claim. 
In early May 2020, the tarpaulin flapped off of Ms Ks roof, blocking her door and damaging 
the guttering. She also thought it had likely damaged her security camera as it tipped water 
over it. It appeared to Ms K that the tarpaulin had been cut and re-taped by Avivas surveyor, 
and that this had weakened the roofs temporary protection.
She complained to Aviva.
Aviva sent its final response to Ms Ks complaint in May 2020. Aviva rejected the complaint 
and stated that the surveyor had left the tarpaulin water tight and intact. 
Ms K was not happy and contacted us. 
Our investigator has considered Ms Ks complaint and did not uphold this part of her 
complaint. She explained that the surveyor had to lift the tarpaulin in some way to inspect 
underneath it, and that the tarpaulin was never intended to be a permanent repair, but it had 
still lasted for a number of weeks after the surveyors visit. She therefore did not ask Aviva to 
do anything else. 
Ms K did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Other aspects of this situation have been considered under other complaints and I will not 
consider these again here. These include the service under the Home Emergency cover, the 
decision to decline the buildings claim and the delay in confirming the decision on the 
buildings claim.
I appreciate that this whole scenario has been difficult for Ms K. She has explained that she 
has felt anxious about her elderly relative occupying a room which has penetrating water, 
and that she was unable to arrange permanent repairs due to lockdowns. 
I understand that this has been difficult and stressful, but I must make clear the limitations on 
what I am considering. 
In respect of this complaint I am only looking at whether Avivas surveyor, when they 
attended in March 2020, unreasonably damaged the single piece of tarpaulin which was 
covering the roof, and if so, whether Aviva needs to do anything to put this right.
In her view, my colleague set out the history to this matter and that Aviva had sent out a 
surveyor to conduct a full report on the roof condition at the request of Ms K. 
At that time, a single piece of tarpaulin had been fixed to the roof, as a temporary repair, and 
it was watertight. 
In order to carry out an assessment of the roof, as requested, Avivas surveyor had to lift the 
tarpaulin. It appears it was nailed around the edges in a way which would not cause further 
damage to the fibreglass surface.  
Ms K says that the surveyor cut the tarpaulin in two, and then taped them back together. The 
notes from Aviva and the Home Emergency cover suggest that the surveyor had to cut the 
tarpaulin to view underneath it, but that the cut was small and in an area that would not 
compromise the temporary repair. It therefore appears that the surveyor did make a cut to 
the tarpaulin. 
I do not think that this was unreasonable, however, as it was necessary to remove the 
tarpaulin in order to assess the condition of the roof underneath, and removal from the 
edges would have compromised the nailed down edges. It is a matter of judgement for the 
surveyor which method of lifting the tarpaulin would be most suitable for the purpose of 
looking underneath and I do not think that the approach chosen was unreasonable.  
I would, however, expect that any damage which was necessary, be repaired to a 
reasonable standard, so that the temporary repair remained in place. 
In this case I consider that the repair, by taping, was reasonable. This is because the 
tarpaulin was itself a temporary repair not intended for long term use, and because the roof 
was left watertight and it remained so and in place for around two months until May. I appreciate that Ms K thinks that the tarpaulins lifespan and efficacy were reduced by the 
lifting, but overall I do not think that the surveyors actions invalidated the temporary repair 
which had been carried out. A tarpaulin roof covering would not offer a long term solution to 
the roof leak, and so I do not think that Ms K has materially lost out as a result of Avivas 
surveyors actions. 
Accordingly, whilst I understand that Ms K will find this disappointing, I do not uphold Ms Ks 
complaint and do not ask Aviva Insurance Limited to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Ms Ks complaint and I do not ask Aviva 
Insurance Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman