DRN-3723099
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy about the way Covea Insurance plc handled his enquiry under his 
residential landlord insurance policy.
Covea has agreed to deal with the complaint. But Mr L actually raised the issues with his 
insurance brokers B who he bought the policy from. Mr L thought he was dealing with B 
throughout only to find out that when he raised issues about a potential claim he was dealing 
with another business S. S handle administration and claims issues for Covea and B. But it 
is unclear to me when S were dealing with matters as all calls were answered as B. So, for 
ease Ill refer only to Covea and B throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr L phoned to check some policy details as hed been contacted by his neighbour 
regarding a leak from the flat Mr L owns and rents out to tenants. Mr L explained the details 
he knew about the leak and how he arranged and got it fixed. But hed now received a letter 
from a neighbour saying the leak had caused damage to their property and they wanted to 
claim from Mr L.
Mr L called B to explain all of this. He said he wanted to get advice regarding the terms of his 
policy, find out about his excess, likely costs, and the process around how the claim would 
be dealt with. But B said it wasnt able to give Mr L any information as this situation would be 
handled as a liability claim and it would need to pass the claim details to Covea the 
insurance company so it could contact Mr L. B said it couldnt just give Mr L a number for 
him to contact Covea. It said this was because Covea wouldnt have any details about Mr L 
as it didnt hold any of Mr Ls information. It said this was all held by B. Mr L was clear that 
he was very uncomfortable with this. He made the point to B that as his broker it had sold 
him the policy and so he expected it to be able to help him with his enquiries before he 
decided on next actions and whether or not to make a claim. He didnt automatically just 
want to make a claim. Mr L said B should have made him aware of these issues when he 
bought the policy. There was also some debate around what excess would apply before 
some of the policy excess details were provided over the phone to Mr L by B. Although it 
also confirmed that other excesses may apply by way of endorsements. Mr L confirmed how 
unhappy he was about this situation, how he couldnt find out the details he needed, and 
how long it was taking to discuss these matters rather than just get the answers. Mr L said 
he wanted to raise a complaint about these issues and the poor service. A complaint was 
logged and started although in some of the conversations Mr L was given the impression, he 
couldnt log a complaint until he started a claim.
Mr L found all of this upsetting and frustrating and as he didnt think his points had been 
dealt with, he brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said the calls hadnt been handled well. She said 
Mr L had been clear about what he wanted to do. She said it was unreasonable Mr L had 
been told by B that he could only get details from Covea after it had been provided with a 
claim notification, even though Mr L wasnt sure he wanted to start a claim at that point. Our 
investigator also said she hadnt come across a situation where a customer was unable to 
make a complaint unless there was a claim logged. She said this added to the poor service 
Mr L received. Our investigator accepted that due to the discussion and the length of the call 
it was clear how frustrated Mr L was getting. As the issues couldnt be resolved and Mr L felt 
he had to complain our investigator said Covea should pay Mr L £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
In my recent provisional decision, I said:
It is very clear from listening to the call recordings what Mr L wanted to do. What is also 
clear from the calls is that B either didnt have a way or couldnt find a way to give Mr L what 
he wanted. I think a customer asking questions about a policy he bought through a broker 
seems a perfectly normal occurrence. For whatever reason the processes and procedures 
put in place by B and Covea dont allow such actions to take place. To be told by the broker 
that it couldnt tell him anything (apart from eventually confirming some of the excess 
amounts that apply) doesnt seem right. And to further be told that it couldnt just put him 
through to Covea, his insurance company, because it wouldnt have any of his details would 
seem very odd to a customer. I dont think theres any argument that such a system is unfair 
and unreasonable. Mr L should have been able to get answers to his questions either 
directly from Covea or from B.
During the telephone calls it was clear that Mr L didnt want to immediately set up a claim 
and he felt he was being forced into doing so. From listening to the calls, it is clear that Mr L 
was getting this impression. B wasnt able to put Mr Ls mind at rest or find another way to 
get the relevant information to Mr L.
In terms of setting up a complaint B did accept that it got itself in a bit of tangle on this point 
too. Theres no requirement for Mr L to have needed to make a claim to start a complaint 
and B know this. He was clear that he was unhappy about how long the discussion was 
taking, the service he was receiving, he felt B should have told him at the point of sale that 
Mr L wouldnt be able to call it to ask for advice regarding certain elements of his policy. 
Telling Mr L he wouldnt be able to complain was incorrect.
Theres no doubt that by trying to get advice and resolve the potential issues with B and 
Covea Mr L suffered distress and inconvenience. B on behalf of Covea should have been 
able to provide a better service and help resolve Mr Ls requests. For the distress and 
inconvenience caused Covea should pay Mr L £150.
Initially there was quite a bit of debate about who was to blame and who should deal with the 
complaint. B said all the call and claim handling was outsourced to another business S so 
the complaint should be about S. In turn S said it should be against Covea as the insurance 
company. Covea said initially it should be against B as the broker. All the parties involved 
will have business agreements in place which clearly state who is responsible for each part 
of the process. Mr L was clear he bought from B and he thought he was always dealing with 
B. But for the purposes of this complaint Im grateful that Covea has at least dealt with the 
confusion and agreed it is responsible and will deal with Mr Ls complaint.
responses to my provisional decision
Covea accepted the decision.
Mr L said he wanted more compensation and said hed made this point to our investigator. 
He said his original stress at the time of the incident had been added to by none of the 
businesses taking responsibility and putting the matter right. Mr L said he wants to challenge 
further if the amount of compensation isnt increased.Mr L was also keen to know the consequences for Covea and the other businesses due to 
the lack of responsibility shown in handling his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Mr L didnt accept the £150 award. But my decision is based on the details 
and evidence I have on file. And I think £150 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint.
To ensure Mr L is fully updated I asked our investigator to let him know the options open to 
him in advance of issuing this decision. Mr L can raise the lack of responsibility shown by the 
businesses involved with his complaint to the regulator  The Financial Conduct Authority.
Based on the responses I see no reason to change the amount and so my provisional 
decision will be my final decision.
In terms of challenging the amount of compensation if Mr L doesnt wish to accept the £150 
he is perfectly entitled not to accept this decision and take legal proceedings against Covea.
Putting things right
Pay Mr L a total of £150 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Covea Insurance plc to:
Pay Mr L a total of £150 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Covea Insurance plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
it Mr L accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman