DRN-3300784
The complaint
Mrs D has complained about the advice she received from Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) to 
invest into two Guaranteed Investment Bonds (GIBS).
Mrs D is represented by a third party but for ease of reference I shall refer to Mrs D in my 
decision. 
What happened
In June 2004 and March 2005 Mrs D met with a representative of Lloyds and was advised 
on both occasions to invest into a GIB - £10,500 and £10,000 respectively.
The GIBs matured on 29 July 2009 for £10,531.50 and 17 March 2010 for £11,022. Mrs D 
became concerned about the advice she had received and that no no risk alternatives were 
discussed. The level of risk was too high risk and the product wasnt explained to her. She 
complained to Lloyds.
Lloyds responded to Mrs Ds complaint and didnt think the advice was unsuitable. It said;
For both investments Mrs D had met with a Lloyds representative twice before 
investing during which time all her personal circumstances were recorded.
Her attitude to risk was assessed as low risk.
The GIBs she was advised to invest into were a low/cautious risk investments and 
were considered suitable for an investor with Mrs Ds level of experience. 
Mrs D had complained that no risk alternative products werent discussed. As part of 
the advice Mrs D had received in June 2004, she invested £4,500 into a term deposit 
account. Similar products were available in 2005 and as she had taken out a term 
deposit account the previous year Lloyds didnt think it was unreasonable to consider 
she would have been aware of the availability of this type of product.
Mrs D wasnt happy with the outcome to her complaint and brought it to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. 
He said;
Lloyds had fully considered Mrs Ds circumstances and made the recommendations 
on that basis.
The total amount invested didnt represent a significant portion of Mrs Ds available 
funds. 
The GIBs matched Mrs Ds requirements of capital security and the potential for 
capital growth. Mrs D had no liabilities or planned expenditure and the 
recommendation was suitable. 
Mrs D had previous investments and deposit-based accounts so was aware of 
alternatives available. 
The money was invested into the product which suited her appetite for risk and her 
objective as per the fact find. 
Mrs D didnt agree and said; 
As she was due to retire and had only paid seven years of pension contributions her 
income was going to dramatically drop. 
There were other alternatives that could have been accessed within five years 
without penalties  most notably a multi-year fixed rate bond. 
The 2005 income of £2,440 per month was only for a short period of overlap between 
Mrs D still working and drawing on her pension. 
The with profit bonds Mrs D held were very low risk and less complicated than the 
GIBs which had a complex system of capping every six months. 
The investigator hadnt considered the limitations of the maximum annual growth, 
which was capped, and that the stock market would have had to perform 
exceptionally for the GIBs to provide a better return than fixed rate bonds. 
The investigator responded but said the points made hadnt changed his mind. As the 
complaint couldnt be resolved it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Mrs Ds circumstances
June 2004
Lloyds has given us a copy of the Personal Summary and Recommendations for the     
June 2004 investment. Its recorded that Mrs Ds priority was to receive advice relating to 
making investments. And that she wished to investigate ways to obtain better growth than 
at present over the medium to long term and although you are prepared to accept some risk 
you would like the comfort of some capital security. Her stated attitude to risk was low which 
Lloyds said was typically in cash and fixed interest securities with minimal investments in 
stocks and shares. 
At the time its recorded in the Personal Factfind that Mrs D was 65 years of age, married 
and owned her home mortgage free. She stopped paying into her pension when she turned 
65 years but had only paid about seven years of contributions. She had £7,917 in her current 
bank account and a total of £44,898 spread over four savings accounts. 
Mrs D held a Maxi Equity ISA valued at £7,509 and which had been held since 2002, and 
two growth bonds totalling £21,001 invested into in 1997 and 2000. Its recorded that Mrs D 
wasnt happy with the with profit bonds as they had gone down in value, but one was still in 
profit and she intended on surrendering it but was to retain the second one pending 
recovery.
Mrs D was employed and had been for 47 years. She was earning £24,000 per annum and 
had monthly excess income over expenditure of £550.A £10,500 investment into the five-year GIB was recommended as it would provide the 
potential for capital growth linked to the performance of the FTSE 100 Index with a 
guaranteed return of the capital invested. Its made clear that the performance may be 
limited compared to direct investment into shares but that with the GIB, Mrs D could 
potentially receive stock market growth with her capital guaranteed. 
March 2005
Lloyds has also given us the Personal Summary and Recommendations from 2005. Again, 
its recorded that Mrs Ds priority was to receive advice relating to making investments. And 
her objective was to invest £10,000 over a five-year term for potentially a greater return than 
leaving the cash on deposit but with the capital guaranteed.
It was recorded that Mrs D didnt have anything specific she wished to save for but with her 
current income and the money she held on deposit meant she could afford to commit the 
money for a five-year period. Her capacity and appetite for was risk was cautious which 
Lloyds said meant investment with a relatively modest risk to the capital value and/or 
income. 
At that time Mrs D was 66 years of age and intended to retire at 67. She didnt require 
specific retirement advice, but it was recorded that the representative had taken into 
consideration the likely changes in your circumstances at retirement in respect of the advice 
and recommendation(s) given above. 
The Personal Factfind recorded that Mrs D was still in full time employment. Her financial 
situation was that she had £5,859 in her current account, a total of £49,403 in savings 
accounts for rainy day savings. She also had a one-year term deposit of £4,500 for better 
growth and £9,000 in a Tess ISA invested in 2002 for a five-year term. As well as the GIB 
she had invested into the year before Mrs D had invested £10,000 in a with profits bond in 
2000 and had made a regular monthly investment into an OEIC since 2002 which in total 
were valued at £21,725. The latter two investments were recorded as having a balanced 
investment approach. At that time Mrs D was earning £24,000 per annum plus an annual 
pension income of £6,000.
£10,000 was to be invested into a further GIB for a five-year term. Again, it offered the 
potential for capital growth linked to the FTSE 100 index but with the capital guaranteed. 
Mrs Ds attitude to risk and the advice
Theres no record of how Mrs Ds attitude to risk was established  only that its recorded. 
So, I have gone onto consider whether Lloyds collected sufficient information about Mrs Ds 
circumstances and objectives to enable it to assess her attitude to risk.
While its clear that Mrs D did have some investment experience, Ive borne in mind that   
Mrs D was seeking advice because she didnt have the knowledge or experience to make 
such an investment decision unaided. So, Lloyds needs to demonstrate that it gave suitable 
advice taking into account Mrs Ds circumstances, understanding and knowledge after 
ascertaining her attitude to risk.
Clearly, I cant know for sure what was discussed at the meetings Mrs D had with Lloyds 
representatives but from the documentary evidence that is available, Im not convinced that 
Lloyds has been able to show us how it established Mrs Ds attitude to risk.
However, in the absence of documentation to evidence how the risk assessment for Mrs D 
was carried out I have taken into account her circumstances as recorded in the Personal Factfinds and Personal Summary and Recommendations to see whether the level of risk the 
investments exposed her to was right for her.
As mentioned above, Mrs D was due to retire. She had cash in her current and savings 
accounts as well as other investments whose maximum level of risk was recorded as 
balanced. 
Its recorded that Mrs D did want the possibility for some capital growth but with the capital 
guaranteed. So, it doesnt seem unreasonable for Mrs D to have invested a proportion of her 
funds for capital growth  albeit that growth being capped  but with no risk to her capital. 
And Mrs D had no liabilities or future plans for the money so a medium investment term for 
capital growth for some of her funds doesnt seem unreasonable. 
Overall, Im satisfied that taking into account Mrs Ds circumstances, investment experience 
and objectives I dont think the risk rating of cautious for this portion of her investments was 
unsuitable for her. 
For the investment made in 2004 Mrs D had funds invested of £28,510 and she held 
£44,898 in her savings accounts as well as £7,917 in her current account  a total of 
£81,325. It was recommended that £10,500 be invested which represented 23% of her 
available savings account funds and 13% of her overall assets.
For the 2005 investment Mrs D had total assets of £100,987 and the £10,000 invested 
represented 20% of her available savings or 10% of her overall assets. When both bonds 
were invested into, they represented 20% of Mrs D overall assets. I dont think these 
proportions were unreasonable and theres nothing to suggest they were unaffordable for 
Mrs D, particularly bearing in mind that her capital was protected. 
Mrs D has referred to the limitations to the growth of the GIB as well as that they were 
complex. As Mrs D wanted guarantees for the capital invested its inevitable this would have 
to be balanced with the potential for growth because of the link between risk and reward. 
And I accept these investments may not have been as straightforward as other investments, 
but Mrs D had meetings with Lloyds advisers twice for both investments and also received a 
key features document, an illustration and explanatory brochure prior to investment. So I 
think if she was unsure about what she was investing into I would have expected her to have 
raised her concerns at the meetings or as a result of reviewing the product documentation 
which she confirmed she had read. 
Mrs D had concerns about the pending reduction in her income when she was to retire and 
her limited pension contributions. 
I note that for the 2004 investment the Personal Factfind records that for pension planning it 
said Need identified, but did not wish to investigate. And for the 2005 recommendation its 
recorded that it had been outlined to Mrs D the importance of making financial provision for 
her retirement but that she didnt wish to receive further advice at the time as she didnt want 
to lose access to her capital and didnt require specific retirement income advice. It also 
stated she was aware of the consequences of not taking action in that area. 
After investment Mrs D still had sufficient funds available to her in her current and savings 
accounts to provide any capital or income she may have required plus the knowledge that 
the two GIB investments were guaranteed to return the capital invested upon the respective 
five-year encashment dates. With the pending retirement I dont think Mrs D was in a 
position to be able to replace any capital losses. The capital invested was guaranteed so in 
the circumstances Im unable to say the recommendation was unsuitable for Mrs D.However, I do appreciate that there were probably different investment options available to 
Mrs D at the time  including the fixed rate bonds referred to  that could have potentially 
offered her better returns. But my role isnt to re-visit the advice that she was given and what 
other options were potentially available to her. Rather its to consider whether the advice that 
was given to Mrs D was suitable for her at the time and as identified prior to the investment, 
and I am satisfied that it was.
Taking all of the above into consideration, and in the individual circumstances of this 
complaint, I dont have anything to conclude that the advice given to Mrs D was unsuitable 
for her bearing in mind her personal and financial circumstances, and her investment 
requirements. It follows that I dont intend to uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
No doubt Mrs D will be disappointed with my decision, but I hope I have been able to explain 
how and why I have reached it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman