DRN-2162585
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about the settlement paid by ERGO Reiseversicherung AG 
(ERV) under a travel insurance claim.
What happened
Whilst Mr and Mrs G were on holiday, Mrs G had an injury (near to a place Ill call P). She 
went to hospital and had stitches. Mr and Mrs G then caught an internal flight to another 
part of the country (to a place Ill call B). They contacted ERV as she needed further 
investigations. ERVs medical assistance company arranged for Mrs G to be seen at a 
local hospital. As Mrs G was found to need surgery, the medical assistance company 
arranged for Mr and Mrs G to be repatriated back to the UK.
Mr and Mrs G wanted ERV to reimburse them for their unused return flights back to the 
UK, as well as some taxi fares. They also thought ERV should reimburse them for four 
nights of hotel accommodation where theyd stayed before being repatriated. ERV didnt 
agree, and so they brought a complaint to this service.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 August 2020. My provisional findings were:
Return flight to the UK
The policy explains under Section 2: cancellation and cutting short your trip that the 
following is covered:
Unused non-refundable pre-booked travel and accommodation expenses which 
you have paid or are contracted to pay
I can understand why, based solely on the above, Mr and Mrs G thought ERV ought to 
reimburse them for their unused return flights to the UK. However, under the same 
section of cover, the policy then says under What IS NOT covered:
Any unused or refundable portion of your original travel ticket where repatriation 
has been made.
As ERV had arranged repatriation, that means it doesnt need to reimburse Mr and Mrs 
G for their unused return flights to the UK, as this is specifically excluded.
Mr and Mrs G think the policy terms are confusing. I disagree. The policy terms provide 
cover for unused travel expenses  for example, if Mr and Mrs G had incurred travel costs 
on their trip which they werent able to use, then this would be covered. However, the 
unused part of their original travel ticket isnt covered where ERV has arranged 
repatriation. I therefore dont require ERV to reimburse them for this.
Hotel accommodation
Mr and Mrs G asked ERV to reimburse them for four nights stay in a hotel before they 
were repatriated back to the UK.
As above, the policy covers unused non-refundable accommodation expenses, however 
Mr and Mrs G did have use of the hotel. Therefore, on the face of it, this part of their 
claim isnt covered. However, Mr and Mrs G have explained that due to the nature of Mrs 
Gs injury, they were confined to the hotel room, apart from trips to the hospital.
Ive looked at the medical assistance companys notes, and I see that Mr G made it clear 
to them that he and his wife were confined to the hotel room as his wife was immobile. I 
understand she was in a wheelchair. That being the case, Im satisfied its reasonable to 
say that their holiday was cut short from the date that they checked into the hotel. I 
therefore intend to require ERV to reimburse Mr and Mrs Gs hotel costs for the four 
nights, plus interest.
Internal flight
Before they checked into the hotel in B, Mr and Mrs G had travelled via an internal flight 
from P, near to where Mrs Gs injury happened.
Mr and Mrs G say they were advised by ERV to continue their planned trip from P to B to 
seek medical treatment. Consequently, they say they had no control over whether to 
cancel this travel expense. If theyd stayed in P and been repatriated from there, they 
couldve claimed for the cost of the internal flight (as this wouldve been unused).
In contrast to this, the medical assistance company says that it was only contacted by Mr 
and Mrs G after theyd arrived in B. Assuming thats correct, then since Mr and Mrs G 
made their own decision to use their pre-booked internal flight to B, I dont intend to 
require ERV to reimburse them for this.
However, if Mr and Mrs G have evidence to support that they were advised to continue 
with their journey to B in order to seek medical treatment there instead of P, they should 
provide this in response to this provisional decision. If theyre able to show that ERV 
advised them to travel to B, then Id likely require ERV to reimburse them for this flight, as 
it wouldnt have been Mr and Mrs Gs fault that the flight was used.
Taxis
The policy says under Section 1: Medical emergency and repatriation expenses 
under What is NOT covered:
Any taxi fare, other than those for your travel to and from hospital, relating to 
your admission, discharge or attendance for out-patient treatment or 
appointments; or for the collection of medication prescribed for you by the 
hospital forming part of this claim
Mr and Mrs G want ERV to reimburse them for the cost of a taxi to take them to the airport in 
P. As above, if it was Mr and Mrs Gs decision to get their flight to B, then ERV wouldnt 
need to reimburse them for this taxi expense. However, if they acted on ERVs advice to 
travel to B, then ERV ought to reimburse them for this taxi fare, since they wouldnt have 
incurred it had they been advised to seek the necessary medical treatment in P.
ERV paid for taxi fares that Mr and Mrs G incurred when travelling to and from hospital. 
Im satisfied that was appropriate, and in line with the policy terms.Its not clear whether Mr and Mrs G paid for a taxi on the day of their repatriation back to 
the UK. The information from the medical assistance company says that it arranged for 
their transportation to the airport. Id be grateful if Mr and Mrs G could clarify this. If they 
did pay for a taxi on the day of repatriation, Id require ERV to reimburse them for this, as 
this was a repatriation cost.
I invited both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make. 
ERV didnt have any further comments.
Mr and Mrs G responded to say they think ERV uses doubled meaning language to avoid 
meeting its advertised obligations. Theyve referred me to the Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I asked Mr and Mrs G to provide evidence to support their 
assertion that ERV advised them to continue with their journey to B in order to seek medical 
treatment there, instead of P. They havent done so, and therefore I have to assume that the 
information provided by ERV is correct  and that Mr and Mrs G made their own decision to 
travel to B. 
That being the case, I dont require ERV to reimburse Mr and Mrs G for the internal flight to 
B, or the cost of the taxi to take them to the airport to catch that flight. 
Mr and Mrs G havent said whether they paid for a taxi on the day of repatriation. As they 
havent commented on this, Ill assume that ERV did arrange for their transportation to the 
airport, as the information from the medical assistance company states. I therefore dont 
require ERV to reimburse them for a taxi fare on this day.
Mr and Mrs G say that ERV uses double meaning language to avoid its advertised 
obligations. Its not clear what they mean by this. Theyve referred me to the IPID. This 
document provides a very brief overview of what is insured and what is not insured. At the 
top of the document it explains its only intended to provide a summary of the main coverage 
and exclusions, and pre-contractual information and contractual information on the product is 
provided in the policy document. Im therefore satisfied it was appropriate for me to refer to 
the policy terms in my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs G also say that if they made a decision outside of their normal path for the 
holiday, then ERV could deny payment  for example if they wanted to buy a new flight to 
remain abroad for further treatment, then ERV would consider this a breach. They say that 
means their decisions are locked.
When an insured makes a claim on a travel insurance policy, then so long as the claim 
meets the policy terms, the insurer must meet its obligations under the contract. I agree that 
this does limit the insureds ability to make certain decisions. Using Mr and Mrs Gs example, 
the policy is designed to cover emergency medical costs abroad. Therefore, if they decided 
to remain abroad for further treatment and wanted ERV to cover the cost of that treatment as 
well as the cost of a new flight, then they would need to show the treatment was needed as 
an emergency and so met the policy terms. Mr and Mrs G would be entitled to make their 
own decisions about treatment and flights, but they wouldnt be able to ask ERV to cover 
those costs unless they met the policy terms. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require ERGO Reiseversicherung AG to 
reimburse Mr and Mrs G the four nights hotel cost, plus interest at the rate of 8% simple per 
annum from the date of claim to the date of settlement.
If ERV considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs G how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs G a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman