DRN-4137023
The complaint
Ms H complains about how esure Insurance Limited trading as Sheilas Wheels (esure) 
progressed making recoveries from a third party following a claim under her car insurance 
policy.
What happened
Ms H had a motor insurance policy with esure covering her car.
In September 2022 Ms H was involved in collision with a third-party vehicle, which was 
registered overseas. The third party drove away from the collision without exchanging 
details.
Ms H reported the collision to esure and the police. She was able to obtain some CCTV 
footage of the third-party vehicle. esure repaired her car.
Ms H wasnt happy about the way esure handled her claim. She says she had to chase it 
and it seemed to her that esure mis-filed the claim as one that didnt involve a foreign 
vehicle.
esure later closed Ms Hs claim because the third-partys numberplate couldnt be confirmed. 
Ms H has made a separate complaint about this to this service which has now been 
resolved.
Ms H remained unhappy about esures service during her claim and brought her complaint to 
this service. 
Our investigator looked into it and said he thought esures service should have been better 
and it should pay her £200 for her distress and inconvenience. 
esure didnt agree with the view. It said it had progressed the claim within its timescales. 
Because esure didnt agree, this complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having read the file of evidence Ive been provided, Im upholding Ms Hs complaint and Ill 
explain why.
Ive looked at Ms Hs initial reporting of the collision to esure. In the call, she says that the 
third-party vehicle was foreign-registered and I can see that esure made a note of this on its 
system.
About two months after the collision, Ms H asked esure about its progress in recovering 
costs from the third party. I can see in esures notes that it didnt seem to make further 
enquiries from the DVLA until just after this call. And the response was received one day 
later.
A further two months later, Ms H again called esure about the same matter. Its call handler 
apparently realised esure had made a mistake as it hadnt correctly categorised the claim as 
involving a foreign registered car. A complaint was raised on Ms Hs behalf, and shortly 
thereafter esure contacted Ms H to tell her about the timescales for trying to recover its costs 
from a third-party whose vehicle was registered overseas.
Its important that I say here that this overall timescale of some four months from the collision 
to this conversation is within esures own definition of satisfactory timescales. But I dont 
think its service here has been good enough. 
In its letter to Ms H, esure said:
We will always progress the claim as quickly as we can; however, it is not unusual 
for a claim involving a foreign Insurer to take at least six months to reach settlement.
This letter was sent to her four months after the collision, but I cant see that it was based on 
any new information that hadnt existed shortly after the collision if esure had made the 
appropriate enquiries in good time.
Its clear to me that esure had the information it needed to contact the DVLA shortly after the 
collision, and then to seek to identify which country the car was registered in. But it failed to 
do this until Ms H contacted it twice.
The end result of this claim has been dealt with in a separate complaint with this service so I 
wont talk further about this here, but I feel I should point out that although esure maintains 
the timescales it was working to fit inside its expectations, it seems to me that the claim 
wouldnt have progressed at all without Ms Hs chasing.
So I cant say esure has acted reasonably in the way it handled this claim.
I can see from her evidence that Ms H found these delays stressful and inconvenient. Ive 
thought carefully about this and considered this services guidelines. Being involved in a 
collision like this and then making a claim is going to involve a certain amount of distress and 
inconvenience, but I think its clear esure has caused additional distress to Ms H by not 
attempting to advance the investigation of the third party until she chased it.
Taking everything into account, I think esure should pay Ms H £200 compensation for her 
distress and inconvenience its reasonably caused.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I direct esure Insurance Limited trading as 
Sheilas Wheels to pay Ms H £200 compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman