DRN-3398101
The complaint
Mr P complains about the way Nationwide Building Society handled his ISA transfer.
What happened
Around April 2021, Mr P asked Nationwide to transfer funds from his cash ISA to another 
provider  who Ill refer to as K. Nationwide sent the funds to K via cheque and it took nine 
days from the funds being withdrawn to when the funds cleared into Mr Ps new account with 
K. 
Mr P complained because he moved the funds to access a better interest rate and says he 
lost out on interest for those nine days. Nationwide accepted that it shouldnt have sent the 
funds via cheque, especially given that K had requested an electronic transfer. The bank 
pointed out that an electronic transfer in the form of CHAPS wouldve incurred a £20 fee, but 
recognised it nevertheless made an error. Nationwide paid Mr P £50 compensation because 
of its error. It also offered to consider redress for any loss of interest during this period, if 
Mr P could evidence this.
Mr P later sent Nationwide the details of his account with K. But Nationwide disagreed that 
this showed evidence of a loss. So Mr P asked this service to provide an independent view 
on the matter. Mr P says Nationwide should pay him £27 for the interest he lost out on for 
the nine days and wants £100 compensation. 
Our investigator concluded that Nationwide provided a fair resolution to Mr Ps complaint. 
She also decided that there was no evidence of a loss of interest and pointed out that Mr P 
would still earn a full years interest with K, starting from the date the funds cleared into his 
account. 
Mr P didnt agree and asked for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, its my view that Nationwide has put forward a fair resolution to this 
complaint. I know Mr P will be disappointed to hear this, so Ill explain why.
Nationwide already accepts that it shouldnt have sent the funds to K by cheque. The reason 
being is that K wouldve only accepted an electronic transfer. Fortunately, K was able to 
process the cheque and the funds still cleared into Mr Ps account within a reasonable 
period. And, as our investigator pointed out, Mr P avoided the £20 fee he wouldve likely had 
to pay for the transfer to be made via CHAPS.
To make up for this error, Nationwide paid Mr P £50 compensation. Given that I cant see 
that Mr P was unnecessarily distressed or inconvenienced by Nationwides error, I think the 
compensation the bank has paid is fair.
Mr P remains adamant that he lost out on interest during the nine-day period between the 
cheque being issued and the funds clearing into his account with K. Mr P feels hes being 
penalised and feels he didnt have control of his funds for that period. However, as 
Nationwide and our investigator pointed out, Mr P hasnt suffered a loss despite the banks 
error.
The information Ive seen shows me that Mr Ps account with K started from the date the 
funds cleared, rather than from when the cheque was issued or cashed. So the interest he 
wouldve earned on his funds started from that day too. Nationwides information also shows 
that the account with K is a one-year ISA. Given the rate on this account is set at 5% per 
annum and Mr P will earn this for the year starting from the date his funds cleared - Im 
satisfied theres been no loss of interest as a result of Nationwides error.
Nationwide did point out in one of its communications with Mr P, that there was some loss 
from Mr Ps Nationwide account. The bank tells us it calculated this to be £0.36 during the 
period in question and I can see it offered to redress Mr P. I think this was reasonable so I 
wont ask the bank to award further interest. 
Awarding Mr P the interest figure hes requested will effectively result in him earning more 
interest than what hed be due to receive from K for the whole year. This services role is to 
put Mr P back in the position he wouldve been in had the wrongdoing hes complained 
about not occurred. I dont think it would be fair to award Mr P this amount as this would 
result in him being in an advantageous position, which he otherwise wouldnt have been in.
To summarise, I think Nationwide has paid Mr P a fair amount of compensation for the error 
it made when it transferred his ISA funds via cheque. But I cant see that Mr P has lost out 
on interest earnings, so I wont be asking the bank to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not asking Nationwide Building Society to do anything 
further in relation to this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman