DRN-2381961
The complaint
Mr C complains that he was mis-sold a Gold Added Value Account (GAVA) in July 2002 and 
a Platinum Added Value Account (PAVA) in September 2009 by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our adjudicator for the following 
reasons.
In July 2002, Mr C had previously had a fee free bank account, so he knew these were 
available. Lloyds has provided his bank account records from the time which show he was 
experienced in handling financial matters, and he doesnt appear to have had any 
circumstances which would lead him to believe he had to take the GAVA. So, I think its 
more likely than not that he knew he had a choice and chose to take out the GAVA rather 
than he was pressured into doing so.
Likewise, in September 2009, he knew he had a choice and by this time had previously 
downgraded his account so he knew he could do this. So, I think its more likely than not that 
he didnt upgrade his account to a PAVA due to pressure.
Mr C has described his circumstances at the time of both sales, and he was in a position to 
use the key benefits of the GAVA in 2002 and the PAVA in 2009. He also couldve closed 
the accounts at any time but didnt for many years. So, in my view I cant say its more likely 
than not that the accounts were unsuitable for him.
Lloyds has provided evidence of the information packs it gave Mr C, and Mr C went on to 
make multiple and extensive use the benefits. So, in my view I cant say its more likely than 
not that Mr C didnt receive enough information about the GAVA and PAVA, and I cant see 
any evidence that Lloyds didnt tell Mr C something that would have put him off buying them.
So, although I know Mr C will be disappointed with this, in my view, its more likely than not 
that Lloyds didnt do anything wrong in these sales.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman