DRN-4295673
The complaint
Mr D complains that Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon has failed to effectively manage 
his pension investments, resulting in them suffering a large fall in their value.
What happened
Mr D held pension savings with Aegon. Those savings originally arose from a group pension 
scheme set up by Mr Ds employer that received contributions from both the employer and 
Mr D. Mr D retired from his job in early 2019.
When the pension scheme was originally set up in 2010, Mr Ds employer engaged a firm of 
financial advisors to assist. That firm remained noted as Mr Ds financial advisor on the 
pension plan until 2020. Mr Ds employer set the investment approach for the pension plan. 
His pension savings were placed in a lifestyling arrangement, that was designed, in the 
period approaching his retirement date, to reduce the risk of falls in the value of any annuity 
that Mr D might purchase.
Mr Ds selected retirement date was on his 65th birthday in September 2019. In line with the 
terms and conditions of his pension plan, his pension savings were moved into Aegons 
Retirement Fund the following January. From that time they were invested in a mix of 
long-dated UK government bonds (gilts) and cash. Mr D was given information to show his 
pension savings were invested in the Retirement Fund on the annual statements he received 
in April 2020 and April 2021.
In 2022 external economic factors caused a significant fall in the value of gilts. So that meant 
the value of Mr Ds pension savings also fell. Mr D estimated that fall to be approximately 
30%, compared to falls in other pension savings he held that amounted to around 10%. He 
complained to Aegon that it had failed to make him sufficiently aware of the nature of his 
pension investments, and that the switch into the retirement fund had been contrary to the 
instructions he had previously given for his pension investments to remain unchanged.
Aegon didnt agree with Mr Ds complaint so he brought it to us. The complaint has been 
assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that Aegon had acted in line with the terms 
and conditions of the pension plan in moving Mr Ds pension savings into the Retirement 
Fund. And he thought that Aegon had provided Mr D with enough information to make him 
aware of that change, and that he could request any alternative investments. So he didnt 
think that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld.
Mr D didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr D and by Aegon. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I think it is important to first set out the basis of the relationship between Mr D and Aegon. 
Mr Ds pension had been with the firm for many years, and his pension savings were 
originally set up to be invested via a lifestyling approach. That meant that Mr Ds pension 
investments would alter as he approached and reached his normal retirement age to reduce 
their risk. That approach was determined by Mr Ds employer, and should have been 
explained to Mr D either by the employer or the financial advisor it added to his pension plan 
at the outset.
Aegon was not Mr Ds financial advisor. So it simply acted on the instructions he provided. It 
wasnt for Aegon to ensure that any investment choices were suitable for Mr Ds needs  
those were essentially decisions he needed to make for himself or with the support of a 
financial advisor. 
The way in which the lifestyling option would work was set out in the terms and conditions 
that applied to Mr Ds pension plan. Those terms said;
The investment funds may include funds that we call lifestyle funds. A Lifestyle fund 
uses a two-stage investment strategy. In the early years, theyre designed to grow 
your pension fund. In the second stage, during the last few years before you retire, 
these funds are designed to automatically change your mix of investments as you 
approach retirement.
With effect from 00:01 hours on the 1st of January immediately after your pension 
date, we will cash in allotted units in any lifestyle fund and allocate the value to the 
Retirement fund.
Unless we agree otherwise, no lifestyle fund is available for investment after the 
pension date except:
The Retirement fund; and
Until the 1st January immediately following pension date, the lifestyle fund 
which had allotted units at pension date
I think those terms and conditions, that should have been provided to Mr D by his employer 
at the inception of his pension plan, set out the basis for the actions Aegon took in 2019 and 
2020. They allowed Aegon to alter the underlying investments in the lifestyle fund that Mr D 
held in the lead up to his retirement  that was why the fund had a designation of 2019. And 
to allow that approach to be applied equally to all customers who had a retirement date in 
that year (including Mr D) Aegon then automatically moved those investments into its 
Retirement fund the following January. From that time Mr D was not permitted to hold any of 
his pension savings in the lifestyle fund.Ive listened carefully to the call Mr D had with Aegon in October 2019. That call took place 
after his selected retirement date, but before his pension investments were required to be 
moved into the Retirement fund. Whilst there was discussion on that call about Mr D wanting 
to keep his pension savings invested, there was no instruction to Aegon to change the 
investment approach. 
I accept that, at the time of the call, Mr D might not have understood that his pension 
investments would shortly be moved into the Retirement fund. And that he might not have 
understood the nature of that fund. But I dont think it was for Aegon to warn Mr D that the 
forthcoming changes might not be suitable for his circumstances. Aegon had no information 
about Mr Ds financial plans on which it could base an assessment of that nature. And giving 
that warning would most likely be considered by the regulator to be financial advice. It was 
for Mr D to understand the way in which his pension savings were, and would be, invested 
and to instruct any changes.
In April 2020 Aegon provided Mr D with a statement showing the value of his pension 
savings, and that they were invested in the Retirement fund. I appreciate that statement was 
only made available to Mr D through Aegons online portal. But I have listened to a call 
where Mr D was instructed on how to access the portal, and he confirmed he had done so 
successfully. So I think the nature of Mr Ds investments should have been clear to him at 
that time. If Mr D had wanted more information about the Retirement fund, he could have 
asked Aegon at the time.
Mr D says that he had a call with Aegon on 27 April 2020. And he says that, on that call, he 
confirmed that his pension investments should remain within the lifestyle fund, and he says 
that Aegon confirmed the management charges for that fund. Aegon says that it has no 
record of that call taking place. Mr D has pointed out that the call took place during the early 
stages of the Covid pandemic, and that Aegon has confirmed to him it was experiencing 
some difficulties with its call recording systems when staff were working remotely. So he 
says that is most likely why there is no recording of the call.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr D has said about that call. He has provided plausible 
testimony including the name of the person he says he spoke with. But Ive also listened to a 
recording of a call from just three days later. It doesnt seem to me, from the nature of that 
discussion, that another call had taken place just three days earlier to discuss the way in 
which the pension savings were invested. During the call Mr D apologised for not responding 
to an email hed received from the individual hes named, about his online access to Aegons 
systems. That email was solely about online access to Mr Ds account, and from a member 
of the eService Helpdesk. So on balance, I cannot conclude that he was told, on 
27 April 2020, that he remained invested in the lifestyling fund.
In his response to our investigator Mr D has asked whether Aegons actions are in line with 
the regulators expectations that have been recently set out in what has been called the 
Consumer Duty. Those regulations were only introduced on 31 July 2023 and do not apply 
retrospectively. Aegons adherence to the regulations that were applicable at the time of 
Mr Ds retirement are what I have reasonably considered here. And I am satisfied that 
Aegons actions have been appropriate.
Ultimately it fell to Mr D to monitor his pension investments, and instruct Aegon to make 
changes to his portfolio if he felt it had become unsuitable for his circumstances. I think that 
Aegon has met its obligations in the information it provided to Mr D whilst he held his 
pension investments.
 
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr D. But I dont think that Aegon has 
treated him unfairly, or done anything wrong. So I dont uphold his complaint.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman