DRN-1669669
The complaint
Mr B has complained that a broker, Towergate Underwriting Group Limited mis-sold a 
caravan insurance policy to him. The insurer declined a theft claim Mr B made.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr B brought his caravan to a seasonal pitch for a weekend and intended to 
return about a week later. He said it was very muddy due to heavy rain and so he locked up 
the caravan on the site which had CCTV, ANPR barrier exit and entry, fences and high 
hedging. 
Three days later the site owner told Mr B that his and another caravan had been stolen. 
Thieves had gained access from an adjoining field and caused damage to the adjoining farm 
and caravan site. Mr B said the hitch lock attached to his caravan had been cut off.
Mr B reported the theft to the police, tracking company (as his caravan had a tracker) and to 
his broker, Towergate. 
The insurer declined Mr Bs claim because it said Mr Bs caravan wasnt in use at the time of 
the theft and wasnt either in storage or at his home address. These were the requirements 
set out under the policy to provide cover.
Mr B complained to Towergate. He said he didnt receive the policy wording at renewal and it 
didnt highlight the not in use term to him. Mr B said if hed been aware of it, he wouldnt 
have taken out the policy as it was impractical for him and how he used the caravan. Mr B 
said Towergate had mis-sold the policy.
Towergate said it had highlighted Mr Bs obligation to tell it if he changed the location of the 
caravan when it wasnt in use. So it said it hadnt mis-sold the policy to Mr B.
Mr B asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator thought Towergate had mis-sold the 
policy as it hadnt made Mr B aware of significant limitations and exclusions. So he 
recommended Towergate meet Mr Bs losses as the insurer would have under the policy.
Towergate didnt agree. It provided a copy of an Insurance Product Information Document 
(IPID) to support its decision. It says Mr Bs complaint was that it had mis-sold the policy. It 
believes any complaint about the decline of the claim should be directed to the insurer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr Bs caravan was stolen while not in use, the insurer said cover was excluded. So it 
rejected his theft claim. The policy wording gives the following definitions: 
In Use
When You or Your Family are using or visiting Your Caravan for holiday purposes or 
when the caravan is attached to a towing vehicle. This includes, the 24 hour, period 
immediately prior to and returning from You or Your Family using or visiting Your 
Caravan for holiday purposes.
Not In Use
When Your Caravan is in storage at the Storage Address or when Your Caravan is 
not going to be, In Use.
We view security requirements for caravan insurance policies to be a significant term. We 
dont think they are matters of obvious common sense for many consumers and they allow 
claims to be rejected if they are not satisfied. So we think they need to be clearly drawn to 
the consumers attention when they take out the policy, so they can make a properly 
informed decision on whether the policy is right for them and know exactly what to do to 
make sure theyre fully covered for theft. 
In this case, as Towergate is the broker that sold the policy, it is their responsibility to make 
sure the consumer is aware of significant limitations end exclusions. 
We dont generally consider it good enough for significant conditions to just be included in 
the policy document. Theyre important, so must be prominent in the schedule or policy 
summary or key facts document.
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) is the document Towergate is relying 
on to highlight the key exclusion to Mr B. It says under the section: 
What are my obligations;
You must inform us as soon as reasonably possible if there is any change to the 
information you have supplied to us, such as a change to the location at which your 
caravan is being kept whilst not in use
Towergate has provided us with a copy of the renewal document which it said was available 
to Mr B on the online portal. Although the renewal documents dated 8 January 2019 say that 
the IPID is enclosed, I cant see that it was. Separately Towergate provided a copy of its 
IPID, which it referred to when it replied to Mr Bs complaint. From a recording of the renewal 
call provided by Towergate, the IPID wasnt mentioned. In any event, Mr B asked for his 
renewal documents to be sent to him by post.
So overall I havent seen enough to show that Mr B was alerted to the significant exclusion 
of not being insured if there is a change to the location of the caravan while not in use. 
Ive considered whether this has prejudiced Mr Bs position. We take the approach that most 
consumers will comply with security requirements if they know about them. In this case, Mr B 
left his caravan securely on the pitch site due to heavy rain and mud. Im satisfied that had 
the security requirements under the policy been highlighted to him, Mr B would have 
followed them.
So Im upholding Mr Bs complaint that Towergate mis-sold the policy to him. And so it 
follows that the losses Mr B incurred as a result of the mis-sale should be met by Towergate in order to put things right. This means I think Towergate should meet Mr Bs claim for the 
theft of his caravan in line with the remaining terms and conditions of his policy with the 
insurer at the time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Towergate Underwriting Group 
Limited to meet Mr Bs claim for the theft of his caravan in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of his policy with the insurer at the time of the event.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman