DRN-2856870
The complaint
Ms C says that she was pressured into taking out a finance agreement with Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) and that she should not therefore be bound by it.  
What happened
In June 2020 Ms C entered into a three-year hire agreement for a new van. Under the
agreement she was to make an advance rental payment of £2,400, followed by 32 monthly
payments of £396.14, the first payable four months after the van had been registered.
Soon after she collected the van Ms C says she tried to end the hire agreement. She
explained that she had been persuaded by her then partner to take it out, but that the van
had been for his use. He had also persuaded her to sell her own car. She was, she said, in
an abusive relationship and had not wanted to take out the hire agreement. VWFS ought to
have been aware of this; she had explained that the van was not for her use and had tried to
delay completion of the agreement.
Ms C referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered it. Having
done so, she recommended that VWFS end the hire agreement at no further cost to Ms C,
refund the payments already made, with interest, refund the advance payment and pay Ms C
£300 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
VWFS agreed that it was right that the agreement should be brought to an end. It queried
however why Ms C had waited until the agreement had been signed to mention her
concerns. It had offered to end the agreement and accept a lower settlement figure than that
set out in the agreement. It also said that some allowance should be made for the use of the
vehicle.  
Because VWFS and Ms C had been unable to agree the exact terms on which the dispute 
should be resolved, the case was passed to me to consider. 
I accepted that Ms Cs partner had exercised undue influence over her to force her to enter 
into the hire agreement. I also thought the circumstances in which she signed the agreement 
were such that VWFS was on notice of the likelihood of undue influence. It should have 
taken steps to ensure that Ms C was acting of her own volition but did not do so. I noted that 
Ms C had told VWFS very soon after she signed the agreement what had happened. 
VWFS had, as I say, accepted that the agreement should be brought to an end. It said 
however that some allowance should be made for the use of the van. I agreed and 
suggested that this be based on the excess mileage rate in the hire agreement. My 
provisional decision was therefore that VWFS should:
end the hire agreement at no cost to Ms C;
arrange for collection of the van; 
refund the total monthly payments made by Ms C, as well as the advance payment of 
£2,400;
pay interest on the refunds at 8% a year;
pay Ms C £300 in recognition of the distress she had suffered and the inconvenience to 
which she had been put; and 
amend Ms Cs credit file as appropriate.  
To reflect the use of the van VWFS could, if it wished, deduct a figure based on the excess 
mileage rate in the hire agreement. 
Ms C was broadly in agreement with the recommendations in my provisional decision. I 
understand that the van has now been collected and that Ms Cs credit file has been 
amended. VWFS made some further observations in response to my provisional decision. It 
said:
Based on the recommendation in my provisional decision, a figure of just over £500 
would reflect the use of the van by reference to its mileage. 
The advance payment of £2,400 included £1,000 paid by the dealership.
The van had some damage and needed cleaning, but it was prepared to reduce the fee 
it would have otherwise charged from around £315 to £100. 
Ms C had not made any payments for several months. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Those circumstances here are rather unusual and accordingly my findings here are specific 
to the facts of this complaint. 
As far as the advance payment is concerned, I note that Ms C is unsure exactly what she 
paid. Some of the deposit  which was not all paid at one time  was paid in cash. I think it 
likely however that the figures provided by the dealership and VWFS are correct and that the 
advance payment paid by Ms C was £1,400.  
I have seen a copy of the inspection report prepared when the van was returned, and there 
is some damage. I agree that it would not be fair to hold Ms C liable for all damage and 
cleaning costs and that a reduction to £100 is fair in the circumstances. 
The main issue that VWFS has raised however is that of refunds of monthly payments. 
VWFS says that there are arrears from April 2020. That cannot be right, however, since the 
agreement was not signed until June 2020. For the avoidance of doubt, however, I believe 
that VWFS should (i) refund to Ms C any monthly payments that have actually been made 
and (ii) agree to not to pursue her for any that have not been made. I believe any use of the 
van is best reflected in the way I indicated in my provisional decision.  
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that, to resolve this complaint in full, Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited should (to the extent it has not already done so):   
end the hire agreement at no further cost to Ms C;
arrange for collection of the van at no cost to Ms C; 
refund the total monthly payments made by Ms C;refund the advance payment of £1,400 made by Ms C;
pay interest on the on the monthly payments and advance payment at 8% a year simple 
from the date of payment to the date of the refund; 
pay Ms C £300 in recognition of the distress she has suffered and the inconvenience to 
which she has been put; and
amend Ms Cs credit file as appropriate.
To reflect the use of the van and some of the damage to it, Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited may, if it wishes, deduct £600 from the sums above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman