DRN-3312452
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund money he lost, which 
he believes was as the result of a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all in 
detail here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to 
be as follows;
In January 2020, Mr P was looking to purchase a van. He saw one that interested him on a 
social media marketplace. Mr P contacted the seller, who he believed to be a dealer, and 
arranged to go and see the vehicle.
Mr P attended the premises, at the address he was given by the seller, and took the van for 
a test drive. Hes said that all seemed ok, there were some minor issues with the van, but 
the seller confirmed he would get those fixed. Mr P also discussed part exchanging an 
existing vehicle he had, with the seller. Having agreed a price Mr P paid a deposit of £250, 
by bank transfer, on 10 January 2020.
On 25 January 2020, Mr P returned to the same premises and collected the van, paying the 
balance of £5,950 by bank transfer through his mobile banking. But he has told us that, 
when he was halfway home, lights on the dashboard started flashing. Hes said that he was 
able to continue his journey and get home, but about an hour after getting home a family 
member looked at the vehicle, but it wouldnt start. Mr P has said that the vehicle had come 
with a three-month warranty, so he called the seller about the problems. The seller told Mr P, 
that as he lived too far away for them to come and recover the vehicle, Mr P should arrange 
to get it fixed locally and the seller would cover the cost.
 
Following the conversation Mr P had with the seller, he took the vehicle to a local garage for 
the repairs to be carried out. Mr P has said on inspecting the vehicle, the local garage told 
him it was like the vehicle had been through an MOT but that the engine and some 
component parts may have then been removed/replaced. They added that the engine wasnt 
bolted in and it was lucky it hadnt fallen out. They explained to Mr P that the reason for the 
lights flashing, was due to water getting into the fuse box. It is Mr Ps belief that these parts 
were changed after he had initially inspected the vehicle. 
Mr P has said that he kept the seller informed of everything that was being done and they 
told him that they would sort it, but hes said when it came down to the seller paying him the 
money for the repairs, they became harder and then impossible to get hold of. Mr P has said 
at one stage he spoke to who he was told was the person who dealt with the finances, who  
told him their bank account had been frozen due to unauthorised activity, but that the money 
would be returned to him as soon as that had been cleared up.
Mr P considers this was a ruse in order to waste time and believes the seller set out to scam 
him and he ended up with a van that was not roadworthy or mechanically sound. Mr P has 
confirmed he still has the vehicle, but that it cost him a lot of money to put right. He told us 
that due to the lack of contact, he visited the sellers premises again, but there were different 
people there and he was told that the seller was not known at the address. Despite attempts 
hes said hes been unable to now find the business or the seller but believes they have set 
up another business.
Mr P has said that he initially raised the matter twice with Barclays a few weeks after he had 
purchased the van, but hes said it told him there was nothing it could do. Hes said it wasnt 
until several months later, when he was reading about scams on his banking app, that he 
contacted Barclays again and it agreed to look into things.
Barclays looked into the concerns that Mr P had raised. It considered its obligations under 
the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code), of which it is a signatory and sent its 
final response on 21 November 2020, not upholding Mr Ps complaint. It deemed the matter 
to be a buyer/seller dispute between Mr P and the seller.
Mr P didnt agree with Barclays position, he thought this was a scam and that Barclays could 
have done more to help him when he first contacted it. Hes said it gave him wrong 
information about not being able to help him and if it had of helped, when he had first made 
contact, the funds may still have been in the recipients account. 
Mr P then brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into things 
but didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. In summary, he considered this was a dispute between 
Mr P and the seller, who he had made the payment to, so he didnt think the payment was 
covered under the CRM Code. Our investigator didnt think Barclays had done anything 
wrong by deeming this as a dispute between a buyer and a seller.
 
Mr P didnt agree with our investigators view. He believes this was a scam from the start and 
that the seller was not a legitimate trader and had misrepresented the sale from the outset. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Having considered everything, I can see no basis on which I can fairly require Barclays to 
refund the money Mr P sent. I can appreciate that this outcome is not the one Mr P was 
hoping for. Hes told us that this has had a massive impact on his financial situation and, 
against that backdrop, I can understand why he wants to do all that he can to try and recover 
his money. But having thought about Barclays actions, I am unable to say it has 
responsibility for refunding the money Mr P sent. I will explain why.In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. When Barclays made 
the payments, it was complying with Mr Ps instructions. At the time, Mr P wanted to pay the 
seller and there was no mistake made as the money was sent to the correct account details. 
As I dont think Barclays acted incorrectly by making the payments, Ive gone on to consider 
whether it should have refunded Mr P for any other reason.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary CRM Code, which Barclays has signed up to and was 
in force at the time Mr P made these payments.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam. Ive thought about if the CRM code applies in the 
circumstances of the payment Mr P made and, in particular, whether Barclays ought to 
reimburse him under the provisions of the CRM Code. But the CRM Code is quite explicit 
that it doesnt apply to all push payments. It says: 
DS2(2) This code does not apply to: 
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier 
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint. 
Both the bank and our investigator felt the payments Mr P made formed part of a 
buyer/seller dispute and, as such, are not covered by the CRM Code. Mr P strongly 
disagrees. He feels the seller has scammed him.
From what I have seen, I dont think I can fairly say that the situation Mr P finds himself in is 
a scam, although I accept and acknowledge that the seller has treated Mr P poorly and the 
van he received was not in, as good an order as he expected. I think the payments Mr P 
made do form part of a civil dispute and, as such, are not covered by the CRM Code. 
This means I dont think Barclays is responsible for reimbursing Mr P because of any 
obligation under the CRM Code. I can appreciate why Mr P feels he has been deceived. He 
had the impression the van was sold with a warranty and the seller has not kept their word 
about repairing the van. And then, when trying to get the money back for the repairs, despite 
his best-efforts Mr P has lost contact with the seller. But I am mindful that Mr P did receive a 
van for the money he paid and he still has and uses the van, albeit I do understand Mr P has 
had to pay to get it fixed.
With the evidence that is available to me I cant fairly or reasonably say with any certainty 
that the seller was not legitimate and had set out to deceive Mr P. I say that as I wouldnt 
have expected the seller to complete the sale if he intended to steal Mr Ps money and not 
provide anything in return. There is no dispute that the van existed as Mr P drove and took 
ownership of it, and Ive not seen anything that makes me think the person selling it did not 
have the right to do so (i.e. Ive not seen anything to suggest the van had been reported as 
stolen). The problems Mr P experienced stem back to the condition of the vehicle - it was not 
of a satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him and it broke down very quickly 
afterwards. But this is an issue thats clearly stated as not being catered for within the CRM 
Code.Alongside this, Im also mindful that there are some other factors, in the circumstances of 
this case, that dont carry the typical hallmarks of these particular types of scam or a trader 
setting out with an intent to defraud. The seller, at least for a time, was still contactable after 
Mr P had made the payment. This is not typically the case with fraudsters, who more often 
than not are not able to be contacted after they have taken a victims money. As well as this, 
evidence Ive seen from the receiving bank (the bank to which the money was paid), 
indicates that the seller had previously successfully carried out similar transactions with 
other customers, without any concerns being raised.
 
I appreciate Mr P thinks that if Barclays had acted sooner, when he first contacted it, that it 
may have been able to recover the funds he paid. If I were to consider that what happened 
in the circumstances of this case was a scam, which for the avoidance of doubt and as 
explained I don't, I would have expected Barclays to act in a timely manner in attempting to 
recover the payments Mr P had made. But in any event, evidence Ive seen from the 
receiving bank shows, that by the time Mr P had contacted Barclays, a few weeks after he 
had made the payments, the funds he had paid had already been spent from the receiving 
account. So, I don't think Barclays would have missed an opportunity to recover the funds.
Mr P has my considerable sympathies. Hes found himself in an unenviable situation that he 
had to pay a substantial amount of money to repair the van, and the seller has reneged on 
the agreement to pay for the repairs. But overall, I dont think Barclays has treated Mr P 
unfairly when it concluded this was a civil matter. For the reasons I have explained, Im 
satisfied Mr P isnt due a refund under the CRM Code. Nor can I see there are other grounds 
on which I could say that Barclays should, fairly and reasonably, bear the responsibility for 
Mr Ps loss.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint 
against Barclays Bank UK PLC
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman