DRN-2473492
The complaint
Ms K is complaining about a fee Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd charged in relation to her 
investment account. 
What happened
Ms K historically paid her quarterly account fee to Vanguard out of her investment account. 
She decided to change this and asked Vanguard to collect her fee by direct debit from her 
bank account from January 2020. However, due to a technical fault by Vanguard, the £16.05 
fee wasnt collected when it should have been. Vanguard said they would pay the January 
fee on Ms Ks behalf to apologise for their error.
In April 2020, Vanguard collected the £15.56 fee by direct debit from Ms Ks bank account. 
But when she looked at her statements, Ms K noticed that an amount of £31.61 had been 
deducted from her market gains on the investment. This amount was the sum of the January 
2020 and April 2020 fees. Ms K complained to Vanguard  as she was paying the fees 
directly from her bank account so didnt expect any fees to be deducted from her market 
gains.
In response to her complaint, Vanguard wrote to Ms K, explaining why they werent 
upholding her complaint. They said that for transparency theyre required to show all fees 
going into Ms Ks investment account and then being paid from there. They acknowledged 
that it was confusing that the January fees and April fees were shown together as a 
deduction to market gains. But they said all that was needed to correct this was to split the 
fees out and show them separately. They said they hadnt overcharged Ms K  it was simply 
a question of interpreting the statement theyd sent her.  
Ms K wasnt happy with Vanguards resolution. And she was unhappy about how long it had 
taken so she wanted compensation for the effort and distress shed experienced. So she 
brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Ks complaint. She said Vanguard had done what theyd 
said theyd do in relation to the technical error in January. And that Ms K hadnt been 
overcharged. She said Vanguard had responded to Ms Ks complaint within the regulators 
time limits  and that theyd made an additional payment of £16.05 into Ms Ks account in 
June 2020.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Ms Ks complaint - Ill explain why.
I appreciate Ms Ks found the information shes had from Vanguard confusing. And when Ive 
looked at it I can see that the main problem was that the summary screen showed a £31.61 
deduction from her account in April 2020.
Ive been through all the information and I can see Vanguard said they would cover the fee 
for January 2020. The intention was that they would do this by making a payment 
themselves into Ms Ks account and then taking the fee from it. I can see they paid the 
£16.05 amount to cover the fee into Ms Ks account on 17 January. But the January fee 
wasnt actually charged until 16 April 2020  just a few days after the April fee of £15.56. 
I can also see that the April direct debit from Ms Ks bank account shows as a payment into 
her investment account on 8 April 2020, and then out again on the same day to pay the April 
quarterly fee.
So thats what caused the confusion  the total of fees charged to Ms K in April included 
both the January fee and the April fee because the January fee hadnt been charged when it 
should have been.
I can see Ms K complained to Vanguard in April about this and it took them 8 weeks to issue 
a final response. But this is within the regulators time limits so I cant say Vanguard took too 
long. 
And I can see Vanguard paid an additional £16.05 into Ms Ks account on 11 June 2020. 
This was in addition to covering her January fees which is all theyd initially said theyd do.
In summary, Vanguard made an error which resulted in Ms Ks direct debit for January not 
being collected. Theyve paid Ms Ks January fees of £16.05, and then paid her an additional 
£16.05, i.e. total compensation of £32.10. Im satisfied this is fair compensation for the 
inconvenience Ms Ks experienced as a result of Vanguards error. So I wont be asking 
Vanguard to do anything further. 
My final decision
Im not upholding Ms Ks complaint against Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman