DRN-3133890
The complaint
The estate of Mr K is unhappy that Astrenska Insurance Limited has declined a claim made 
on his personal accident insurance policy. 
Mr Ks wife, Mrs K, brings this complaint on behalf of his estate. Therefore, Ill refer to Mrs K 
as making this complaint.
What happened
Mr K had a personal accident insurance policy with Astrenska Insurance Limited. In 2017 he 
climbed a volcano in South America and sadly died during the climb. Ill refer to the volcano 
as O. 
Mr K climbed the volcano alone and he was unfortunately found by a group of climbers who 
were undertaking a separate climb. Mrs K made a claim on Mr Ks travel insurance policy for 
the benefit payable in the event of the policyholders death. Shes unhappy with the delays in 
handling the claim and Astrenskas decision to decline the claim. 
Astrenska declined the claim because they said that the policy excluded mountaineering or 
rock climbing which normally required the use of ropes or guides and accidental injury 
sustained while engaging in, or taking part in, any similarly dangerous recreational or work 
activity which the insured knew or should have known could result in accidental injury. 
They relied on information available about climbing O which suggested that guides and 
ropes were recommended to climb the summit. And they also highlighted that Mr K had 
previously attempted to climb O with a guide but the attempt had not been successful. 
Information about the climb said, altitude about 6200m revolt guide refusal to co-operate. 
Astrenska did offer $500 compensation to Mrs K in recognition of delays in handling the 
claim. Unhappy, Mrs K complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. In 
summary, she thought that it was reasonable for Astrenska to decline the claim based on the 
available evidence. And, whilst she acknowledged that there were some delays in handling 
the claim they were not solely due to Astrenska. She didnt think Astrenska needed to do 
anything further to put things right. 
Mrs K didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. She said that 
recommendations to use ropes and guides were published on commercial websites, which 
have an interest in hiring out guides and equipment and there was no obligation by law to 
use ropes or guides. Mrs K also highlighted that the claim had been escalated to a senior 
level at Astrenska and reiterated that there was no official advice or recommendation to 
climb O with ropes or guides. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to say at the outset that I am very sorry to hear of the circumstances of Mr Ks death 
and the impact on Mrs K and his other family. Im mindful that my decision does contain 
information about Mr Ks death which may be upsetting and, whilst Ill only refer to the 
information and evidence which I think is relevant, Ive taken into account all the comments 
made by Mrs K. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Astrenska has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy excludes cover for: 
Diving involving the aid of breathing apparatus, mountaineering or rock climbing 
normally requiring the use of ropes or guides . Or Accidental Injury sustained while 
engaging in, or taking part in, any similarly dangerous recreational or work activity 
which the Insured knew or should have known could result in Accidental Injury.  
The key issue for me to determine is whether it was unreasonable for Astrenska to conclude 
that this exclusion applied in the circumstances of this case. I think it was fair and Astrenska 
to rely on this exclusion. 
Mr K was climbing O which has an elevation of approximately 6, 900 metres. The police 
report indicates that Mr Ks body was found at approximately 6, 500 metres and his mobile 
phone was last activated at around 6, 300 metres. The post mortem report also references 
GPS data and says: 
The analysis of the satellite tracking equipment (GPS) carried by the deceased, 
record that he summits the volcano and record erratic wanderings on the night of 
[redacted] and early morning of [redacted] on a date and time with matas conditions 
and temperatures close to or above thirty degrees below zero, at a height close to 
seven thousand meters by a period of permenance in the place extremely long, 
conditions make it practically incompatible with life.
A photograph of Mr K at the summit was also referred to in the post mortem report which 
was consistent with the GPS data mentioned. 
Astrenska has also provided evidence, available in the public domain, which references 
some of the challenges involved in climbing the summit of the volcano including very low 
temperatures and high winds. There is also reference to climbing the summit being 
technically challenging and the need for guides, ropes and other equipment. Taking into 
account the evidence available in the post mortem and police reports I think it was 
reasonable for Astrenska to conclude that Mr K had been attempting to ascend to the 
summit. 
I also think it was reasonable for Astrenska to conclude that a guide or ropes were normally 
used for this part of the climb. Thats consistent with the evidence Ive been provided with 
which suggests that it is most likely that guides and/or equipment are commonly needed for 
this part of the climb. Ive taken into account Mrs Ks argument that there is no legal obligation to employ a guide 
or use ropes when climbing to the summit. And, Ive considered her comments about local 
businesses having a commerical interest in recommending a guide to climb O. But these 
comments havent changed my thoughts about the outcome of this complaint. The policy 
wording refers to mountaineering or rock climbing which normally requires the use of ropes 
and guides  it doesnt refer to there being a legal obligation to use them. And, although 
businesses do have a commerical interest in promoting guides the overall evidence 
suggests to me that its most likely it was normal to do so when undertaking this part of the 
climb. Taking all of this into account I still think Astrenska has fairly and reasonably relied on 
this exclusion. 
Ive also taken into account that Mr K was undertaking a solo climb. Hed previously 
attempted the climb and it had been abandoned. The reason given was the guide revolting 
and a refusal to co-operate. So it seems most likely that Mr K had previously employed a 
guide for the climb, but chose not to do so during this attempt. And it also seems most likely 
that Mr K had an understanding of the nature of the climb and that it was normal for a guide 
to be used. 
I appreciate that the circumstances of the claim were esclated to a senior level at Astrenska. 
Given the circumstances of this claim I think that was reasonable. But its not an indication 
that the claim was unfairly declined. Based on the evidence Ive been provided with Im 
satisfied it was fair and reasonable for Astrenska to decline this claim. 
In response to the investigators opinion Mrs K didnt make any further comments or 
observations about the handling of the claim. Nor did she disagree with the timeline set out 
by our investigator. In any event, I think the compensation of $500 fairly reflects any distress 
and inconvenience resulting from delays during the claims handling process and, ultimately, 
I think the claim was fairly declined. So, I dont think Astrenska need to do anything further to 
put things right here. 
 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr K 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman