DRN-3016089
The complaint
Miss K is unhappy National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont reimburse her fully for 
her loss of £3,950, which she lost to an investment scam.
What happened
Miss K says she made trading investments from someone she found through Instagram.
Miss K followed and messaged the person who claimed to be a full licenced trader who 
worked on behalf of clients for 15% commission fee. Unbeknownst to Miss K at the time, the 
trader was in fact a fraudster.
The fraudster told Miss K her success rate was 97.6%, with investments starting from £650 
with a return profit of £1,500-£2,000 guaranteed to be made within the same day. Miss K 
was told there was a no loss guarantee and that she couldnt lose money on her investment 
and as a first-time trader she was entitled to a full refund. 
The fraudster told Miss K once the payment was made, shed be issued with a digital receipt 
as well as a confirmation text and terms and conditions. And that at the end of the trade an 
official invoice would be sent with a breakdown of the stock.
The fraudster also said Miss K would have all its bank account information, which is easily 
traced, its office-based address and personal contact number. 
Contact between Miss K and the fraudster then moved across to a messaging service, 
outside of the social media platform. 
Miss K proceeded to make payments from two separate banking service providers. As this 
complaint is against NatWest, Ill only be considering the transfers made from her NatWest 
account within this decision, which were as follows:
Payee Date and time Amount
Payee 1 24 July 2020 £650
Payee 2 26 July 2020 £600
Payee 2 27 July 2020 £1,200
Payee 3 27 July 2020 £1,500
Miss Ks complaint about the payments she made with the other banking service provider 
have been considered under a separate complaint with our service. 
Miss K made the initial payment from her account with the other banking service provider for 
the trade. She was then told more was needed to improve the trade and she sent another 
payment from the same bank account. Miss K was told the trade had been done and she 
had made a profit of £2,485.85. To withdraw the funds, she was told she needed to pay a 
fee  which she again sent from her account with the other banking service provider. 
Miss K was told the fee was late and that she needed to pay this again but that this had 
increased. This payment was made from the same account as the earlier payments. She 
was again told the fee had been paid late and so she needed to pay this again. As a result 
of this, Miss K made three payments in respect of the late fee  two of these payments are 
shown above of £650 on 24 July 2020 to payee 1 and £600 on 26 July to payee 2.
Miss K says she was told by the fraudster she would be paid the profit on top of the money 
shed put in. 
Following this Miss K was passed to a financial coordinator who asked her to pay a final fee 
of £1,200. This was paid from Miss Ks NatWest account on 27 July 2020 to payee 2. 
However, she was told again that this was late and so Miss K made a further payment of 
£1,500 from her account the same day. This payment was initially blocked, and Miss K 
spoke with NatWest. NatWest say during this call Miss K said the payment was for a family 
friend who she was lending the money to. The payment was then sent. 
After the fraudster confirmed the fee Miss K was expecting her return payment. But Miss K 
was told as the profit had increased there was one last fee to pay. Miss K made the payment 
of £2,500 from her account with the other banking service provider on 28 July 2020. The 
fraudster then told Miss K there was a mistake and at this point Miss K asked for a refund of 
the money shed paid. 
It was at this point, after making all payments to the fraudster, Miss K saw shed been 
blocked by the fraudsters (the finance coordinator and the trader shed initially been in 
contact with). Its then she realised shed been the victim of a scam. 
Miss K says contact was made via a friend with the fraudsters in an attempt to resolve 
things, but she was subsequently blocked again. 
 
Miss K reported the incident to NatWest on 3 September 2020 and it investigated her fraud 
claim. NatWest say the beneficiary bank confirmed no funds remained. 
NatWest went on to consider its obligations to provide Miss K with a refund. It is a signatory 
of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code which 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. Having considered the matter, NatWest held 
Miss K liable for the loss. However, it has said under a separate complaint it paid Miss K £50 
compensation in relation to service received. 
Unhappy with NatWests answer Miss K brought the case to us. Once the complaint was 
brought to our service NatWest made an offer to resolve the matter under the CRM code. It 
offered to reimburse Miss K 50% of her outstanding loss and pay 8% interest on the refund 
from the date it declined the claim under the code until the date of the refund. It held Miss K 
partially liable for the loss as it says she didnt complete sufficient due diligence, the rate of 
return was too good to be true and, because she misled the bank when she discussed what 
the payment was actually intended for. 
Our investigator considered NatWests offer and thought it was fair and reasonable. She said 
the concerns NatWest had raised about the legitimacy of the payments were enough to 
support its position that Miss K failed to meet her requisite level of care under the code and 
so thought its offer outlined above was enough. 
Miss K also raised she was unhappy with the service shed received from NatWest  
specifically that when she realised shed been scammed and tried to contact it to report this, 
the waiting times on the phone were over an hour, that she was passed to different departments and the calls were disconnected. Miss K says because of this it took a few days 
to reach the bank. Our investigator thought carefully about this. She referred to the concerns 
relating to the calls with NatWest were addressed under a separate complaint and that it 
paid £50 compensation. Our investigator wasnt persuaded any bad service from NatWest 
impacted on the recovery of Miss Ks funds. This was because the funds had been removed 
from the receiving accounts the day the payments were made. It followed that she didnt 
think any poor service Miss K may have received meant she should receive a full refund of 
her loss.
 
Miss K disagreed and so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset Id like to recognise Miss K has raised a number of points in response to her 
complaint. While I may not specifically comment on each and every point thats been raised 
this does not mean I have not considered all of the information thats been given to me by 
both Miss K and NatWest. Simply, I have commented on the aspects that I feel are key to 
this complaint.
 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Having done so, I think NatWests offer to refund 50% of Miss Ks loss is fair. And I make no 
additional award in relation to the £50 compensation NatWest has already paid relating to 
service received. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
NatWest should have reimbursed Miss K under the provisions of the CRM Code and 
whether it ought to have done more to protect Miss K from the possibility of financial harm 
from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Miss K was tricked into making the payments. She thought she 
was making a genuine investment and that didnt happen. But this isnt enough, in and of 
itself, for Miss K to receive a full refund under the CRM Code. The Code places a level of 
care on Miss K too. 
The CRM Code 
As Ive mentioned, NatWest is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited 
number of circumstances and it is for NatWest to establish that a customer failed to meet 
their requisite level of care under one of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate. 
*Further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case.
Here, I think NatWest has been able to establish that it may choose not to fully reimburse 
Miss K under the terms of the CRM Code. Im persuaded one of the listed exceptions to 
reimbursement under the provisions of the CRM Code applies. 
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of the 
customer and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns NatWest has raised about the 
legitimacy of the transactions Miss K was making are enough to support its position that she 
failed to meet her requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the payments she made. I 
dont think she had a reasonable basis for believing the payments were for a legitimate 
investment or that the person(s) she transacted with were legitimate. So, it follows that I find 
NatWest has fairly held Miss K responsible for half her loss. Ill explain why.
The channel in which Miss K came across and then made the investment, was through a 
social media platform which then moved on to a messaging app. While Ive not seen all the 
communication between Miss K and the fraudster, she has provided us with some of the 
messages. From those Ive seen, I dont find the tone and informal language used to be in 
line with what Id expect of a genuine investment firm. 
Miss K has also said she tracked what the trader did and her clients for a few weeks before 
she talked and asked her questions. When looking at the social media posts weve been 
given for the trader, Im mindful these are pictures of the person themselves as opposed to 
anything specifically relating to trading. And whilst Miss K says social media has become 
one of the many places people have businesses and is one of the reasons she didnt think 
this could not be a way of going through a legitimate trade, I find it unlikely a genuine 
investment firm would arrange genuine investments via a social media platform or 
messaging app. Im not persuaded the channels used in this case, for finding and making 
the investment, is consistent with the usual set up for a legitimate investment company.
As mentioned above, Miss K says she tracked what the trader did and her clients for a few 
weeks before she got in touch herself. Shes also told us she read peoples stories on their 
successful trades  so doesnt think it possible for so many people to lie or be fake given 
their proof of transactions. Im afraid I dont agree. While Miss K may have thought the 
fraudsters page appeared more convincing, due to the stories of others and that to her this 
seemed genuine, there is little way to check the legitimacy of those posts and whether they 
had actually made money through the fraudsters services. I also dont think this point 
outweighs other elements of the scam that ought to have caused Miss K concern. 
When thinking about the investment offered  Miss K was told for an investment of £650 
shed received a profit of £1,500-£2,000 within the same day. I consider this offering to be 
too good to be true. I take on board what Miss K has said about a friend going through the 
same kind of trade where their money doubled and while that might be true for Miss Ks 
friend, I dont think the rate of return offered here was plausible. Further, Miss K was offered 
a no loss guarantee and that shed never lose money on her investment as she was entitled 
to a full refund. I have considered carefully that Miss K has said she had no knowledge or 
experience of investing, but I think there were enough warning signs here for Miss K to have caused her to question what was being offered. This seems an unrealistic feature of any 
investment opportunity. 
Across Miss Ks accounts (NatWest and the other banking service provider) she was asked 
to make numerous payments to different payees  all in personal names. Miss Ks explained 
this was because she was told to make the payments to the accountant available at the time. 
I think this ought to have caused Miss K some concerns about the payments as to why they 
werent being made to an actual investment company but instead going to several 
individuals. Again, I find this inconsistent with the usual set up of a legitimate investment 
firm. I also think the continued requests for further payments became increasingly 
implausible as the time went on. When the fraudster asked Miss K to pay more fees on the 
basis that the previous payment was received late and, that the amounts increased - I think 
this ought to have raised questions with Miss K especially given the amount of profit she was 
expecting to receive at this point. I also havent seen that Miss K carried out any 
independent checking of the trader  such as checking the legitimacy of the position the 
trader claimed to hold (licenced trader) or about the proposed investment being offered  
such as understanding how the money would be made. 
The last payment Miss K made from her NatWest account for £1,500 was flagged and a call 
took place. While Ive not been provided with a copy of this call, NatWests notes from the 
time of the scam show the payment she was asking to make was to a family friend who she 
was lending the money to. This is also consistent with what Miss K says the fraudster asked 
her to do, so Im persuaded by NatWests submissions. She said she was told to tell the 
bank the payments were to a family friend so they would go faster. And that due to a time 
limit on taking the money out of what profit was made and being told the fees would 
increase if the payment was late Miss K felt pressurised into doing so. I think this ought to 
have caused Miss K concern - I dont find it consistent with the usual practices of a legitimate 
investment firm that an investor/client would be asked to mislead their bank about the 
payments they were asking to make. 
NatWest has offered to pay 50% of the amount Miss K lost as it accepts its likely it could 
have done more to prevent the scam  so all thats left for me to look at is whether or not 
Miss K met the requisite level of care which Ive addressed above. It follows that I believe the 
50% refund offered represents a fair and reasonable settlement of Miss Ks complaint. 
I appreciate Miss K feels the bank hasnt done enough and should reimburse her more than 
50% of her loss. But Im satisfied NatWest has fairly applied the CRM Code in respect of her 
complaint. I am sorry that Miss K has been the victim of a cruel scam and Ive no doubt that 
the £1,975 is a significant sum to her. But I cant fairly ask the bank to compensate her for 
the full amount of her loss for the reasons Ive explained above. 
I have also taken into account what Miss K has told us about her family situation. But I dont 
think these circumstances meant she was unable to protect herself from the scam. So this 
doesnt change my findings. 
Service 
Miss K has raised a delay was caused in reporting the scam to NatWest when she tried to 
call. She says the waiting times on the phone were over an hour, that she was passed to 
different departments and the calls were disconnected. 
NatWest paid Miss K £50 compensation under a separate complaint in relation to this 
aspect. Miss K feels in the time that NatWest delayed the process more funds could have 
been traced and recovered. Ive carefully considered this point, but from the information Ive 
seen Im satisfied the funds had already been moved from the receiving accounts the same day the payments were made. So, I dont find that any possible service failings impacted the 
recovery of the lost funds in this particular case. I also make no further award in relation to 
this point or find that any service failings mean NatWest should reimburse Miss K for the full 
loss. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct National Westminster Bank 
Plc to:
Refund Miss K 50% of her outstanding loss (£1,975) under the CRM code, within 28 
days of receiving notification of her acceptance of my final decision if it hasnt already 
done so; plus 
Pay interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) from the date NatWest should reasonably have refunded Miss K under 
the CRM Code to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman