DRN-3296146
The complaint
Ms L has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) increased the policy premium when 
it offered renewal terms for a commercial insurance policy.
References to Allianz include agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Ms L was insured by Allianz. When Ms L was provided with renewal terms for the policy, the 
premium had significantly increased. Ms L didnt renew the policy and complained to Allianz 
about the premium increase.
When Allianz replied to the complaint, it said it reviewed policy rates across different sectors 
and changed these as deemed necessary according to its underwriting appetite. This was 
due to various factors, including the impact of claims and could contribute to changes in 
policy premiums from year to year. It also used internal underwriting commercial judgement. 
It had made the renewal terms available to Ms Ls broker one month before the renewal 
date, which gave the opportunity to check the information and for Ms L to shop around. The 
policy had been priced as a fair representation as to the risk Ms Ls business presented.
Ms L then complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
that based on what he had seen Allianz had fairly calculated the premium.
As Ms L didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
It is a commercial decision for insurers about what premium they charge for a policy and 
what factors they take into account when calculating that premium. Allianz has provided this 
service with information about how it calculated Ms Ls renewal premium. That information is 
commercially sensitive, so I cant share it with Ms L. However, I have looked at it carefully to 
see how Allianz calculated the renewal premium and whether it did so fairly.
I can see that the renewal premium offered by Allianz was a significant increase on the 
premium charged for the previous year. So, I can understand why Ms L would be concerned 
by this. Im aware that Allianz provided Ms L with details of some of the types of information 
it took into account when it calculated premiums when it replied to her complaint. Having 
looked at the information provided to this service about how Allianz calculated the premium, 
Im satisfied that the premium quoted was calculated correctly and other customers in Ms Ls 
position will have been offered a similar renewal premium by Allianz. 
Ms L has also said she only received the renewal quote about nine days before renewal. Ive 
seen evidence that Allianz provided Ms Ls broker with the quote a month before the policy 
was due to renew. This included details of the terms of the renewal and other items, such as 
the claims history it held. The documents said Ms L should review the documents. So, Im 
satisfied that Allianz provided the quote within reasonable timescales. If the quote wasnt 
then promptly passed on to Ms L, I havent seen anything to show this was due to the 
actions of Allianz. I understand that despite the timescale in which Ms L said the quote was 
passed on to her, when she decided she didnt want to accept Allianzs renewal terms, she 
was able to find a new policy with another insurer during the renewal period.
So, having thought about all of the above, Im satisfied that Allianz dealt with the renewal 
fairly and reasonably. As a result, I dont uphold this complaint or require Allianz to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman