DRN-3734133
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy with the continuing issues shes faced when trying to use the internet 
banking and mobile banking app facilities offered by TSB Bank plc.
What happened
Mrs W raised a complaint about TSBs internet banking facility in January 2021. Mrs W 
raised a further complaint with TSB in May 2021, this time about their internet banking and 
mobile banking app facilities. On both occasions, TSB upheld Mrs Ws complaint, apologised 
for any trouble she may have incurred, and made compensation payments of £50 to her.
In July 2022, Mrs W contacted TSB again as she was unhappy that she continued to have 
trouble using TSBs internet banking and mobile banking app facilities. Mrs W wasnt happy 
with the response she received from TSB, including that shed been told previously that TSB 
were using a third-party company to fix their online and remote banking platforms, but that 
problems with those platforms were seemingly never resolved. So, she raised a complaint.
TSB looked at Mrs Ws complaint. They noted that Mrs W had successfully used the mobile 
banking app successfully on several occasions, and they confirmed to Mrs W that they had 
engaged the continuing services of a well know IT company to improve online and remote 
banking platforms, and they provided Mrs W with some detailed technical suggestions which 
they felt might resolve some of the issues that Mrs W was encountering. 
TSB ended by apologising to Mrs W for her continuing unhappiness and made a further 
payment of £50 to her as compensation for any upset or inconvenience she may have 
experienced. TSB also offered to reimburse any costs Mrs W could evidence shed incurred 
because of the accessibility issues shed encountered. Mrs W wasnt satisfied with TSBs 
response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel it could be said for 
certain that TSB were solely responsible for that the issues Mrs W had faced, and they felt 
TSBs response to Mrs Ws complaint already represented a fair and reasonable resolution 
to what had happened. Mrs W remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, its clear that Mrs W has experienced long-standing, intermittent problems 
with TSBs internet banking and mobile banking app facilities, and I can appreciate how this 
would have been frustrating for Mrs W.
TSB acknowledge that theyve had problems with the facilities that Mrs W had been 
attempting to use. But theyve also noted that Mrs W has successfully used those facilities to 
access her accounts and to instruct transactions on numerous occasions over the past 
several months.
The intermittent nature of the problems that Mrs W has encountered here makes it difficult to 
reasonably understand whats been happening. For instance, while it seems fair to assume 
that there may have been instances where faults with TSBs systems and platforms were the 
cause of the accessibility issues Mrs W encountered, it also seems reasonable to me to 
consider that on other occasions the issues may have arisen for reasons outside of TSBs 
control, such as network connectivity issues or similar problems.
It's also evident from TSBs responses to Mrs Ws complaint that they themselves were 
uncertain as to why she was experiencing the ongoing problems that she was, and its 
notable that TSB provided Mrs W with some detailed technical suggestions which they felt 
might alleviate any problems that could potentially arise with how Mrs W herself was 
attempting to access the platforms she was having problems with. 
This provision of attempted assistance to Mrs W by TSB seems reasonable to me, as does 
the payment of a further £50 compensation to Mrs W in light of the possibility that the fault 
for some or all of the problems Mrs W had encountered may lie with TSB. And I also feel that 
TSBs offer to cover any costs Mrs W may have incurred is also fair for the same reason.
But it's difficult to say what more TSB can reasonably do here. And it may be the case that, 
for reasons that remain unknown or unconfirmed at this time, Mrs W simply wont be able to 
consistently and unproblematically access TSBs internet banking and mobile app facilities 
as she would like - although it would be expected that TSB would continue to try to help Mrs 
W if the problems that shes unhappy with persist.     
I realise this might not be the outcome Mrs W was wanting, but I do feel that the response 
TSB issued to Mrs Ws complaint already represents a fair and reasonable outcome to 
whats happened here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or 
instructing TSB to take any action beyond that which theyve already taken. This isnt to 
discredit the frustration I dont doubt that Mrs W has experienced here, but only to say that I 
dont feel that TSB should fairly expected to do anything more that they have. I hope that 
Mrs W will understand, given all Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman