DRN-3409587
The complaint
Mrs Fs complaint is about the refusal of a claim under her pet insurance policy with Zenith 
Insurance plc.
What happened
In August 2021, Mrs Fs dogs vet submitted a claim to Zenith for pre-authorisation of costs 
for investigation and treatment of some neck issues suffered by Mrs Fs dog. 
Zenith refused to meet the claims, as it said they related to a condition the dog had been 
suffering from since 2019. Zenith says the policy excludes cover for pre-existing conditions 
and as the policy was taken out in October 2020, the claim is not covered. 
Mrs F is very unhappy about this. Mrs F has made a number of submissions, which Ive 
summarised below: 
her vet confirmed that her dog had not been diagnosed with any condition in 2019, so 
it is impossible to link the cervical pain the dog was experiencing then with the 
intervertebral disc disease diagnosed in 2021. 
She wasnt aware of any spinal issues her dog had, so could not have disclosed 
anything when she took out this policy.
She took the highest level of cover available from Zenith and feels the policy was 
never worth having, as Zenith has effectively said her dog was uninsurable from the 
start. 
Zenith told her it would cover the investigative work and later retracted this.
Zenith says it had told Mrs F that it might pay for the investigative work but its agent called 
her back later the same day to say it would not cover any of the costs. It also says the vets 
notes show that the treatment needed was a result of recurrence of neck pain episodes 
and so it maintained its position that this condition pre-dated the start of the policy. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter and did not recommend it be upheld. 
Mrs F does not accept the Investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Fs policy, like most other pet policies, does not cover any conditions which began 
showing any signs before the start date of the policy. 
Pre-existing conditions are defined as: 
Any illness or injury or complication directly resulting from an injury or illness, that has
been identified or investigated by a vet or is otherwise known to you prior to the start of
the insurance or within the first (14 days for illness) and (48 hours for injury) of the
policy.
This is not unusual or unfair. The policy will cover new conditions, so the dog was insurable,  
but not for conditions that started before the start of the policy. Most pet insurance policies 
contain a similar exclusion and similar definitions of pre-existing conditions. I am also 
satisfied that this was sufficiently clearly set out in the documentation provided to Mrs F. 
So it is not necessary for any condition to have been diagnosed, or for Mrs F to have been 
aware that her dog had a particular condition, for it to fall within this definition and exclusion. 
But the symptoms which occur before the start of the policy must be a clinical sign or 
symptom of the condition claimed for. So in this case, this means that Zenith must establish 
that the problems in 2019 are linked, were a clinical sign of, the later problem in 2021. 
Mrs Fs dog was seen by her vet in September 2019 with neck pain. The dog had an x-ray 
and some abnormalities were noted. Some vertebrae were abnormal in shape and other 
matters were found, including mineral opacity between C4-5 (vertebrae in the neck). The 
vets notes say the neck pain was likely either disc disease or due to vertebral 
conformation. 
Theres a note in August 2020 that Mrs F had been in touch with her vet concerned about 
neck pain  has intermittent flare-ups. It seems it was managed with pain relief again. 
Then in July 2021, Mrs F took the dog back to the vet who recorded recurrence of neck pain 
episodes and in early August 2021, the dog was diagnosed with cervical intervertebral disc 
extrusion at C4-C5 (essentially a slipped disc) which was treated surgically. 
The treating vet disputes Zeniths refusal of the claim saying Having not been definitively 
diagnosed, it would be impossible to prove that [the dogs] cervical pain in September 
2019 was also due to intervertebral disc diseasealthough intervertebral disc disease is a 
very common cause of cervical pain in dogs,  in the absence of neurological deficits her pain 
could have originated from any of the structures of the neck (e.g. muscular or soft tissue) 
therefore it is impossible to prove that the underlying cause for her pain in September 2019 
was also secondary to intervertebral disc disease. 
However, in the claim form the same treating vet reported this as a continuation claim, which 
meant they thought it was linked to previous issues and they also said the dog had a history 
of progressive cervical pain and tetra-ataxia [i.e. loss of balance]. And as mentioned above, 
the vets notes record that they thought it was likely the neck pain in 2019 was due to disc 
degeneration.
 
In addition, the mineral opacity noted in the x-rays in 2019 is I understand an indication of 
degeneration of the disc. And this was noted in the same disc that was the cause of the 
claim in August 2021. Given this, even though Mrs F may not have known all that was 
recorded in the vets notes, I think Zenith has done enough to establish that it is more likely 
than not that the symptoms in 2019 were the first clinical signs of the disc extrusion which 
needed treatment in 2021. Therefore, having considered all the available evidence, I am not 
persuaded that Zenith acted unfairly or unreasonably in refusing the claim. The evidence is 
that Mrs Fs dog was suffering from an ongoing disc problem, which started before the policy 
and the claim was reasonably deemed to be a continuation of a condition which showed 
clinical signs prior to the start of the policy. Mrs F is also unhappy as she says she was told that some of the costs of investigating the 
cause of her dogs pain would be covered. Even if an agent told her that it might cover part 
or all of the claim, it is not bound by this, if the policy terms mean it is not covered. Zenith 
says it told her it was a possibility only and that it rectified this promptly. There is no 
evidence that Mrs F went ahead with any tests or treatment that she would not otherwise 
have done, relying on what she had been told, so while I can see it might be disappointing if 
she initially thought it might be covered to then find out it wouldnt be, I do not think any 
award is warranted for this. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman