DRN-3881473
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as N, complains about the amount American International 
Group UK Limited (AIG) has offered to pay for a claim made on its commercial insurance 
policy.
Mr and Mrs R bring the complaint on behalf of N. For simplicity, Ill refer to Mr R only, as he 
has primarily dealt with things.
Reference to AIG includes things said and done by its agents and representatives.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the key points:
N has a commercial property insurance policy underwritten by AIG. It was taken out 
through a broker, M.
There was a fire at the property in July 2021, which caused substantial damage. Mr 
R got in touch with AIG to make a claim on the policy. AIG accepted the claim and 
made arrangements to settle it.
AIG said Ns buildings were underinsured. At the renewal prior to the claim, Ns sum 
insured was £112,216. AIG said it should have been £228,000. That meant N was 
only insured for around 50% of what it should have been  so AIG would only pay 
50% of the buildings claim.
AIG also carried out other estimates, ranging from £180,000 to £190,000. Mr R 
disputed these valuations. He provided one for £124,000.
Separately, Mr R had replaced the roof at a cost of around £18,000 and asked AIG to 
reimburse it. AIG didnt agree the entire roof needed replacing and included the cost 
of localised repairs in its schedule of work.
AIG agreed to pay for an independent valuation to be carried out to resolve this 
dispute. That valuation estimated the rebuild cost of the property at £156,000. 
Accordingly, AIG offered to pay for 71.93% of the cost of building repairs.
Mr R complained about the offer. AIG thought it had acted fairly. It pointed to a policy 
term to explain why it had reduced the buildings claim settlement and reiterated that 
the roof didnt need replacing.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She said it was reasonable 
for AIG to rely on the rebuild estimate of £156,000. And that meant Mr R hadnt 
provided the right information at the renewal prior to the claim. She said the 
appropriate remedy for that was for AIG to follow the Insurance Act 2015. And doing 
so would mean AIG paying 97.31% of the claim. She thought AIGs position on the 
roof repair was fair. And she recommended it pay £750 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs R during the claim.
Mr R didnt think this amount of compensation reflected the experience he and Mrs R 
had been through since the fire. And AIG thought it was entitled to apply the policy 
term, rather than the remedy set out in the Insurance Act.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
N has a related dispute with AIG about its claim for business interruption. Thats being 
considered separately. In this decision, Ill only be considering the buildings claim.
AIG accepted the buildings claim and has offered to settle it. This complaint is about the two 
deductions AIG made  for the roof and the proportionate settlement.
Roof damage
I understand Mr R was concerned about the condition of the roof following the fire and 
arranged for it to be replaced. AIG included the cost of localised repairs in its schedule of 
work but didnt think full replacement was necessary.
If Mr R was able to show that a repair wouldnt be successful and a full replacement was 
required to achieve a lasting and effective repair of the fire damage, then I may consider it 
fair to ask AIG to pay for it. But he hasnt provided any evidence to show this.
So, as it stands, I dont think it would be fair to ask AIG to pay more towards the roof 
damage. If Mr R provides evidence to support this point, I would expect AIG to consider it.
Proportionate settlement
AIG has relied on a policy term to proportionately settle the buildings claim. The policy term 
says, in summary, that AIG will pay the cost of restoring the damage, provided:
if at the time of the damage the Sum Insured is less than 85% of the full 
reinstatement value of the buildings, the amount payable by the insurer will be 
reduced in proportion to the amount of underinsurance.
Based on the independent valuation of the rebuild cost at £156,000, AIG said the sum 
insured was around 70% of what it should have been and therefore this policy term applied.
Im satisfied the term is in the policy and sufficiently clear. But I must also consider whether it 
would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for AIG to apply it.
AIG has proposed to reduce the claim settlement because it doesnt think Mr R insured the 
property for its full rebuild cost. Whilst I recognise AIG is seeking to rely on the policy term to 
reduce the settlement, its doing so because it doesnt think Mr R provided the right 
information at the 2020 renewal.
Ns is a commercial policy. So the relevant law relating to the information Mr R had to give 
AIG at the renewal is the Insurance Act 2015. Amongst other things, it requires Mr R to make a fair presentation of the risk to AIG. Relevant to this complaint, that meant providing 
a reasonable estimate of the cost of rebuilding the property.
As the broker selling the policy to N, it was Ms responsibility to provide appropriate guidance 
and support about what information to provide at the renewal  including about the sum 
insured and rebuild cost. So I wont be able to consider those things in this complaint against 
AIG. Ill focus on the things AIG is responsible for.
Insurance Act 2015
The Act sets out the remedies available to AIG if Mr R breached the duty of fair presentation. 
For deliberate or reckless breaches, the Act entitles AIG to void the policy and decline all 
claims. Its accepted the claim, so it doesnt think Mr Rs made a deliberate or reckless 
breach. For all other breaches, the remedy available to AIG depends on what it would have 
done had a fair presentation been made.
Relevant here is that if AIG would have offered the policy for a higher premium, it may 
reduce the claim proportionately  based on the amount of premium paid compared to the 
higher premium it would have charged. AIG seems to recognise this, because it sent an 
extract from the Act highlighting this remedy to our investigator.
AIG has argued that the Act doesnt prevent an insurer from relying on an average clause.
The Act includes a contracting out section. In summary it says that a term of a policy that 
would put the commercial customer in a worse position in relation to sections 2, 3, or 4 
would have no effect unless certain transparency requirements are met. The sections 
mentioned include the duty of fair presentation.
Im satisfied the policy term AIG has relied on puts N in a worse position than the Act. Ill 
explain why.
Theres been a lot of dispute about the value N should have given for the sum insured at the 
2020 renewal. Both parties provided estimates. To resolve that dispute AIG agreed to pay 
for an independent valuation. Its unclear whether the valuation estimated the rebuild cost at 
the time of the renewal (November 2020), the time of the damage as the policy term requires 
(July 2021) or the time the valuation was carried out (March 2022).
However, I understand both parties agreed to settle this point by relying on the advice of the 
independent valuation. And even if they didnt, given the range of other values suggested 
(£124,000, £180,000, £190,000 and £228,000), an estimate of £154,000 doesnt seem 
unreasonable to me.
AIG has said that if Mr R had given a sum insured of £154,000 at the renewal, it would have 
charged an additional premium of £46.34. N actually paid £1,676.52, so that means it should 
have paid £1,722.86. Accordingly, the proportionate settlement set out in the Act is 97.31%. 
By relying on a policy term, AIG has offered 71.93%. So the policy term is clearly 
disadvantageous to N compared to the remedy set out in the Act.
So, unless AIG met the transparency requirements, the Act makes clear that the policy term 
is of no effect in this situation. AIG hasnt sought to argue that it met the transparency 
requirements or otherwise contract out of the Act. Accordingly, Im satisfied the policy term 
is of no effect and therefore cant be applied in this case.
Other considerationsAIG has argued the Act doesnt prevent it from applying the policy term. Even if I were to 
accept that argument, which I dont, Im required to look not only at the relevant law and the 
policy terms, but also at what I consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
At its simplest, the situation is as follows: Mr R has paid 97.31% of the premium it should 
have done to ensure the sum insured reflected the likely rebuild cost of the property. 
However, AIG would like to pay N only 71.93% of the claim value. That doesnt seem 
equitable, and Im not persuaded it treats N fairly and reasonably in the circumstances.
So even if my understanding and interpretation of the Act is incorrect, Im not satisfied AIG 
has treated N fairly and reasonably. Because of that Im satisfied it would be fair to uphold 
this complaint and require AIG to put things right.
Putting things right
AIG has already established the cost of repair. It should settle the claim by applying a 
proportionate settlement of 97.31% to that cost. It can also take into account the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy, such as the excess. If it has already made any interim 
payments towards the full settlement amount, they can be deducted.
The policyholders are Mr and Mrs R, trading as N. So whilst this is a commercial policy, the 
insured party is effectively two individuals. In these circumstances, I think its fair to consider 
whether they should be paid compensation for any distress and inconvenience 
unnecessarily caused by AIG.
Mr and Mrs R have found things very difficult since the damage happened. It wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to go into too much detail here, but its clear the impact of the damage 
has been significant on them both. Particularly Mr R.
However, I must keep in mind that AIG isnt responsible for the fire itself, or the damage and 
upset it inevitably caused. So it wouldnt be fair for me to ask it to compensate for those 
things. But if the way it has handled the claim has avoidably added to Mr and Mrs Rs 
distress and inconvenience, I think it would be fair for it to pay compensation.
I think AIG should have reached this position much sooner. Its initial estimates of the rebuild 
value were significantly higher than the independent valuation, suggesting they were 
unreasonable and avoidably caused delays to the claim process. And its insistence on 
relying on the policy term has meant Mr and Mrs R going without a considerable amount of 
money for many months.
Thats impacted their ability to have the building repairs carried out and get their lives back to 
normal. Its clear thats had a big impact on their day to day lives and wellbeing for a 
prolonged period of time.
Taking into account all the circumstances, Im satisfied £750 compensation is reasonable 
and proportionate to the avoidable distress and inconvenience caused by AIG.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require American International Group UK Limited to:
Settle the claim without reliance on the policy term and subject to the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy.Pay £750 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N and N to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman