DRN-3090076
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain Santander UK Plc didnt provide them with sufficient information 
when they applied for consent to let (CTL) on their residential mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had a mortgage with Santander. In 2016, they applied for CTL as they wished 
to move into rented accommodation and rent out their current property. This was agreed by 
Santander. In July 2018, Mr and Mrs B took a new fixed rate mortgage product through 
Santander whilst it remained rented out. The fixed rate carried an early repayment charge 
(ERC) for five years. 
In 2020, due to financial difficulties, Mr and Mrs B looked into releasing some of the equity 
from their property to repay other debt. They say this is when they first became aware that 
Santander didnt allow borrowers who held a mortgage with CTL to either apply for further 
advances, or arranged second charges with other lenders. They complained to Santander 
saying had they been told about this, they wouldve changed the mortgage to a buy to let. Mr 
and Mrs B remortgaged elsewhere and paid the ERC. They think Santander should refund 
this. 
Santander responded to the complaint saying it couldnt confirm whether Mr and Mrs B had 
been made aware that further borrowing wasnt allowed when CTL is agreed on a mortgage. 
But it wasnt willing to refund the ERC. It offered £100 compensation as a gesture of 
goodwill.
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy with this and referred the complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint, but he didnt think it should be upheld. Mr and Mrs B 
didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint. So its been passed to 
me consider and make a final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its unclear whether Mr and Mrs B were told about the restrictions regarding additional 
borrowing when CTL is agreed. Santander has shown us that its within its script which its 
staff are supposed to read when handling CTL requests. But, at the same time, Santander 
has agreed it cant evidence they were told this. However, I dont think I need to make a 
finding on this point. Ill explain why. 
Whether to agree additional borrowing, or not, isnt a term or condition of the mortgage. Its 
something a lender will typically consider in line with its criteria at the time of any application. 
Lenders arent required to explain lending criteria when borrowers apply for a mortgage or a 
change to an existing mortgage. And lending criteria is typically considered commercially 
sensitive. Furthermore, lending criteria can and does change over time. In this case, 
Santander didnt allow further borrowing at the time of Mr and Mrs B applying for CTL. And it 
still doesnt. But for the reasons Ive just explained, I dont think this is something it was 
required to make Mr and Mrs B aware of. Whilst Santanders internal guidance did suggest 
at the time that its staff should make customers aware of this restriction, this doesnt mean 
its a requirement. 
Like our investigator, I also agree that even if Mr and Mrs B were made aware of this 
restriction, I dont think the evidence supports their suggestion that they wouldve acted 
differently at the time. With hindsight, I can see why Mr and Mrs B would have preferred to 
be with a provider that would allow them to release equity now. But Im not persuaded this 
wouldve been a priority at the time of applying for CTL. CTL was the simplest option 
available to them to rent their property out with minimum formalities and likely the least 
amount of costs. 
Furthermore, I dont think that releasing equity was on Mr and Mrs Bs mind at the time of 
committing to a five year fixed rate product. Had it been, Id question why they committed to 
a product with an ERC given it was never guaranteed that Santander would agree to a 
further advance. I note it was two years until they did actually decide to apply for further 
borrowing. And before doing so, they explored many other options such as personal loans. It 
seems to me that releasing equity from the property was a last resort. And as such, wouldnt 
have been an important consideration when arranging a CTL.
I also note that Mr and Mrs Bs credit history was less than perfect at the time the applied for 
CTL. So, its not possible to safely say that they wouldve been able to obtain a BTL 
mortgage given that would essentially be a new application. Mr B has said that BTL 
mortgages dont focus on credit history but on rental income and loan to value. But I dont 
agree this is the case in my experience. 
Mr B has said that, given the nature of his job which gives him a strong knowledge of 
financial services, he wouldve known this was important and had he been made aware, he 
wouldnt have chosen this mortgage. But had this been an important factor at the time of him 
applying for CTL, I wouldve expected him to clarify this with Santander before agreeing to 
the CTL.
Overall, I dont think Santander was required to inform Mr and Mrs B of the additional 
borrowing policy at the time they applied for CTL. Because of this, Im not going to ask 
Santander to do anything further. Santander has offered £100 as a gesture of goodwill. Ill 
leave it to Mr and Mrs B whether to accept this or not.
My final decision
Whilst I understand that Mr and Mrs B feel very strongly about this matter, my final decision 
is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman