DRN-4292610
The complaint
Mr R complains that Lendable Ltd irresponsibly lent him a loan.
What happened
Lendable lent Mr R a loan in July 2020, the loan was for £5,000 repayable over 60 months 
with 59 instalments of £162.10 and one instalment of £175.26.
When Mr R complained to Lendable, it didnt uphold his complaint and so he referred it to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and 
didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld.
Mr R disagreed and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lendable is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the time 
of this lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I wont 
repeat them here. Briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to ensure that 
Mr R could repay the borrowing in a sustainable way. As set out in CONC 5.3.1G(2) that 
means that he could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences
Lendable has said before it lent to Mr R, he completed an application form where he 
declared his monthly income as £1,500 and the purpose of the loan as debt consolidation. 
Lendable also searched Mr Rs credit file and said it thought about the effect of its loan on 
Mr Rs finances after any debt consolidations.
The results of the credit search showed Mr R had a balance on his current account overdraft 
and around £1,350 balance on his credit card with £1,500 limit. Apart from these, there were 
no other active accounts with balances on his credit file. Lendable says it verified Mr Rs 
income using credit reference agencies and he got a high confidence score and so it didnt 
think it needed to request bank statements. It said Mr Rs low credit commitments compared 
to his income left with sufficient income to cover his monthly living costs and other expenses.
Based on these checks, Lendable thought Mr R had sufficient disposable income to afford 
the loan repayment over the term. It points to the fact Mr R repaid his borrowing within the 
term and didnt inform it of any financial difficulties.
The loan was committing Mr R to repayments for five years and in those circumstances, Id 
have expected Lendable to consider Mr Rs monthly living costs as well. I say this because 
even though he appeared to have a low debt burden, an understanding of his living costs to 
would have given Lendable a reasonable picture of Mr Rs finances and the impact of his 
loan over such a long period.
Mr R has provided bank statements, Ive used this to get an understanding of Mr Rs 
financial circumstances at the time. From what I can see his income was around £1,500 this 
included his wages and some benefits he received. Those bank statements also show 
Mr Rs living costs were around £300. So even if Lendable had checked Mr Rs living costs 
as I think it should. Itll likely have found that he could afford the loan over the term based on 
reasonable checks. Mr Rs living costs and credit commitments appeared to be between 
£500 - £600 and that compared to his income meant he was left with sufficient disposable 
income.
In response to the adjudicators view, Mr R has said he was borrowing from family and 
friends for day to day living. He also says he was in over £7,000 worth of arrears on his rent 
and had borrowed money from his parents.
Having carefully looked at Mr Rs bank statements which he provided, it didnt appear to be 
dependent on borrowing, so I dont think this is something Lendable would have found from 
reasonable checks. I also havent seen evidence Mr R gave Lendable this information when 
it agreed to lend to him.
I appreciate my findings will likely disappoint Mr R but based on reasonable checks and the 
available information, I dont think Lendable was wrong to lend.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman