DRN-3455547
The complaint
Mr W complains National Westminster Bank Plc sent him misleading emails regarding 
repayment of his overdraft, which have affected him financially. In particular the impact on 
his credit report.
 
What happened
Mr W had a student bank account with NatWest. The account had an interest free overdraft. 
In May 2019 Mr W received an email which said his account was changing from a student 
account to a graduate account. In that email NatWest confirmed for the next year Mr W 
would still get an interest free arranged overdraft.  Mr W says in June 2020 he received 
another email from NatWest bank regarding the account which told him NatWest would 
extend the interest free overdraft for another year. 
Mr W was therefore unhappy to find the account had been passed to the recoveries team in 
August 2020 and therefore had been reported to credit reference agencies. Mr W says 
NatWest had his email address and so could have told him what was happening with his 
account. He feels he was misled into believing the account was in a good position until he 
was contacted by a debt collection agency for recovery of the account balance. 
Mr W complained to NatWest in February 2021. He said he wanted his credit score to be 
rectified. 
NatWest responded to Mr Ws complaint in March 2021. It didnt uphold it. NatWest said the 
terms and conditions stipulate the graduate account must be used as a main account but Mr 
W hadnt used it since 2019. So its debt manager attempted to contact Mr W at the address 
it had on file for him but didnt receive a response. And so the account was moved to the 
collections team. NatWest also confirmed the emails Mr W referred to were issued to all 
account holders, and they were clear the terms and conditions of the account still applied. 
Mr W wasnt happy and asked NatWest to look at his complaint again. It did so but didnt 
uphold it. It said the emails were generic and sent to all customers with a graduate account. 
It said it had sent a number of letters to Mr W at the address it had on its system regarding 
the debt owed but didnt receive a response. So the account was passed to recoveries. 
Mr W remained unhappy and so brought his complaint to our service. After the complaint 
was referred to us NatWest made a proactive offer of £100 to settle matter. Mr W declined 
the offer. So our investigator looked into his concerns. She said she thought NatWest had 
followed the terms and conditions of the account and took steps to contact Mr W regarding 
the debt. And so she didnt think it needed to take any further action in respect of the 
complaint. The investigator also said she thought the £100 offered by NatWest was fair and 
in line with what she would generally see awarded in similar situations. 
Mr W wasnt satisfied with the investigators view and so the complaint has come to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at complaints like these I look at the terms and conditions of the account as 
well as whether NatWest has acted fairly in reporting information to the credit reference 
agencies. 
Having done so I think NatWest have acted reasonably. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr W. I dont doubt how difficult the matter has been for him and I 
acknowledge how strongly he feels about events. 
Account passed to recoveries 
I have looked at the terms and conditions of the account. They say, you must use your 
Graduate account as your main account by depositing your wages, salary or other regular 
income into it. Mr W only credited £35.00 over a period of 19 months. So it appears the 
account wasnt being used as a main account as per the terms and conditions. 
NatWest started to contact Mr W in January 2020 using the address it had on file for him. So 
prior to the overdraft extension email Mr W received. And Mr W didnt receive that important 
information about his overdraft because he hadnt updated his contact details with the bank. 
If he had he would have known something was wrong before the email regarding the 
extension of the overdraft. The default was issued on 8 July 2020 with the demand sent on 6 
August 2020. When NatWest didnt receive a response to any of this correspondence it 
passed the account to its recoveries team on 20 August 2020. So NatWest provided Mr W 
with the opportunity to contact it regarding the overdraft. But since it didnt hear from Mr W it 
passed the account to its recoveries team. 
And so NatWest did take steps to let Mr W know what was happening with his account. I 
appreciate Mr W says he didnt receive the letters. However, as NatWest did what it was 
supposed to under the policy I dont think it did anything wrong here.
Like all lenders NatWest has to comply with regulatory requirements when communicating 
with customers about outstanding debt. And I think NatWest acted fairly in communicating 
with Mr W at the address hed last provided. 
Communication from NatWest regarding the debt 
Mr W forwarded the emails he referred to in his initial complaint. I can see those emails 
explain the overdraft facility would remain available when the account moved from a student 
account to a graduate account in August 2019, for a period of two years.  And another email 
saying the overdraft facility was being extended for a further 12-month period following the 
pandemic in 2020. The emails also confirm the terms and conditions of the account 
remained the same. 
The emails appear to be generic emails and I note they contain links to the account terms 
and conditions. But I can see why Mr W thought this meant his overdraft facility was being 
extended for a further 12 months. It was being extended for a further 12 months, but to 
customers who were using the account within the terms and conditions, which Mr W would 
have agreed to when he opened the account. Since Mr W wasnt using the account as his 
main one the offer wasnt available to him. That wasnt made clear but by this stage NatWest 
was already requesting repayment of the outstanding debt.NatWest have made a proactive goodwill offer of £100 to settle the complaint. Mr W rejected 
that offer.  
Credit file 
I can appreciate Mr W may have been keen to avoid his credit file being impacted, especially 
given he has now repaid the debt. He may feel aggrieved he received an email telling him he 
had an extended interest free period on his overdraft when in fact the account was in 
recoveries. NatWest, like all credit providers, have an obligation to report accurate 
information to the agencies. And Im satisfied that NatWests actions in reporting in this way 
were fair and reasonable, and in line with its obligations as a credit provider. 
I think the crux of the issue here is that the account was passed to the recoveries team due 
to lack of contact from Mr W regarding the debt. And I appreciate the markers on Mr Ws 
credit file has had a significant impact on him. But I have seen evidence that NatWest sent 
letters and made telephone calls over a period of at least six months. So I cant say NatWest 
did anything wrong or treated Mr W unfairly, despite the consequences for Mr W.
My final decision
National Westminster Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is NatWest should pay Mr W £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman