DRN-2006155
The complaint
Miss L says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Miss L bought a monthly premium PPI policy in 1992 to protect her mortgage repayments. It 
gave her protection against accident, sickness and unemployment. She paid a monthly 
amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss L disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here) I have reached my decision based 
on the balance of probabilities  so, on what I consider is most likely given the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Miss Ls mortgage (taken out at the time through Town & Country Building Society) started in 
July 1991. At the time the society wrote to her about PPI, but theres no evidence she 
responded and applied for PPI then. Both the banks and the insurers records show her 
policy started in 1992. I note Miss Ls believes this was when her mortgage and PPI policy 
transferred to The Woolwich, saying she didnt have a meeting or take out the policy then. 
But the sale was a long time ago, and quite reasonably Miss L originally told us she couldnt 
remember how the cover was arranged. Barclays no longer has the application form it says 
she would have completed at the time. So, after looking at all the available evidence, as the 
banks system and the insurers records show the cover started in 1992, I am using that date 
for my analysis. 
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss L hasnt been able to give us many details about the sale and, as Ive said earlier, 
Barclays no longer has any of the paperwork. It says Miss L bought PPI as an optional 
standalone product. So she would have completed a PPI application and a separate direct 
debit mandate. Without stronger evidence to the contrary, I cant fairly conclude Barclays 
didnt make it clear the PPI was optional and Miss L didnt choose to take it out. 
Barclays recommended the policy to Miss L so it had to check it was suitable for her. I note 
she feels strongly she didnt need it as she had excellent benefits and a secure job. But Ive 
looked at her circumstances at the time and I think it was right for her. I say this because: 
Miss L met the policy requirements, so she was eligible for the cover. 
Miss L was entitled to six months full pay and six months half sick pay. But the PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to her work benefits for up to 12 months for each 
successful claim. It also offered up to 12 months unemployment cover. Miss L told 
us she had some savings, but the PPI would have allowed her to use any savings 
she had to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep them intact for 
her future needs. So as she had a long-term debt secured against her home, and 
given the serious consequences of missing mortgage payments, I think the PPI 
couldve been useful if Miss L was sick or lost her job. 
It seems there wasnt anything in the PPI that would make it difficult for Miss L to 
claim. She wouldnt have been affected by the main exclusions or limitations. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable and it was competitively 
priced. 
Overall, I think the PPI was suitable for Miss L.
Barclays also had to give Miss L information that was clear, fair and not misleading so that 
she could make an informed choice about the policy. Its possible she didnt have everything 
she needed. But for much the same reasons that I found the policy was suitable, I dont think 
Miss L wouldve decided not to take out this policy if better information had been provided. 
Miss L was eligible, it seems the PPI was affordable, it was competitively priced, and she 
wasnt affected by any of the major exclusions or limitations. So I dont think better 
information wouldve changed her decision.
But Barclays will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss L because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss L about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Miss L, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs to do
Barclays has to pay back to Miss L any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Barclays should also pay back to Miss L any extra interest 
she paid because of that.
Barclays should pay back to Miss L the extra she paid each month because the commission 
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Barclays should also pay Miss 
L 8%* simple interest on each payment (15% on payments before April 1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss L can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss L.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC must now pay back to Miss L any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman