DRN-3242072
The complaint
Mr C complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money (MCF) lent to him 
in an irresponsible manner.  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in November 2021. In that decision 
I explained why I thought part of the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received 
a copy of the provisional decision but, for completeness, I include some extracts from it 
below. In my decision I said;
Mr C was given two loans by MCF in October 2015 and December 2016. Mr C first 
borrowed £1,000 that he agreed to repay in 24 monthly instalments. Around a year 
later Mr C refinanced that loan, taking some additional borrowing of £1,350. In total 
Mr Cs second loan was for just over £2,000 and again he agreed to repay it in 
24 monthly instalments. Mr C appears to have faced problems repaying the second 
loan and his debt was transferred to a third party in 2018.
MCF gathered some information from Mr C before it agreed each loan. It asked him 
for details of his income, and his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file to 
assess how much he was repaying to other creditors and how he had managed 
credit in the past.
When he asked for the first loan Mr C was entering into a significant commitment with 
MCF. He would need to make monthly repayments for a period of two years. So 
I think it was right that MCF wanted to gather, and independently check, some 
detailed information about Mr Cs financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to 
him. I think that the checks Ive described above were sufficient to achieve that aim. 
I think MCFs checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs 
to react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. So Ive looked at the 
results of MCFs checks to see whether it was reasonable to give the first loan to 
Mr C.
Mr C told MCF that he was earning £1,450 each month, and that his normal 
expenditure amounted to just £300. So it would seem reasonable to conclude that 
Mr C would be likely to be able to repay this loan from his disposable income. And 
the results of the credit check showed that Mr C was making little use of credit at that 
time. He had a small outstanding balance on a credit card hed opened a few months 
before, but otherwise he didnt appear to have any other active accounts.
 
I have considered that Mr Cs credit check showed that hed faced problems in the 
past, with three accounts having been defaulted. Two of those defaults took place in 
2012, with the third default in 2014. All of those debts had been settled shortly after 
the defaults had been added. On balance, given its age, I dont think that adverse 
information should have caused undue concerns to MCF when it was considering 
Mr Cs application.
There was also another piece of information that might have caused some concerns 
to MCF. Mr C had told the lender that he wanted to use the loan to consolidate some 
other debts. But as Ive explained earlier, Mr C didnt appear to have much other 
borrowing. So that might have caused MCF to question Mr C further about his 
reasons for taking the loan. But, on balance, I think it unlikely that those additional 
enquiries would have led to MCF declining Mr Cs application.
So, in summary, I think the checks MCF performed before agreeing the first loan 
were proportionate and they didnt suggest Mr C might find it difficult to repay the 
loan in a sustainable manner. I dont currently think MCF was wrong to give the first 
loan to Mr C.
Just over halfway through the agreed loan term, Mr C asked to refinance his loan and 
take some additional borrowing. Again he said the loan would be used to refinance 
some debts. I think that Mr C needing to take some additional borrowing at that time 
might have put MCF on notice that he was facing some problems managing his 
money.
As before, I think that the checks MCF did before agreeing the second loan were 
proportionate. But the credit check results showed a marked deterioration in Mr Cs 
finances during the previous year. By the time he asked for this loan he had at least 
six other active credit accounts with a combined outstanding balance of almost 
£4,000. Four of those accounts had been opened in the previous three months. That 
suggested that Mr C was becoming reliant on credit to meet his day to day living 
costs.
And of even more concern was a loan that Mr C had taken out in June 2016  less 
than six months earlier. The credit check showed that Mr C was only making token 
monthly repayments of £1 against an outstanding balance of more than £1,000. That 
again would be indicative that Mr C was facing significant pressure on his finances.
I have considered that Mr C said he again intended to use this loan to repay some of 
his debts. But the amount he was borrowing was significantly less than what he owed 
to other lenders. And given his obvious problems in meeting his prior obligations 
I cannot agree that this additional borrowing would have done anything other than 
worsened Mr Cs indebtedness.
So I currently think the results of MCFs checks on the second application should 
have resulted in the lender declining to give Mr C a second loan. And so MCF needs 
to put things right.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Both MCF and Mr C have said they accept my provisional findings.  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that both parties have accepted my provisional findings I see no reason to alter the 
conclusions I reached in that decision.
I think the checks MCF performed before agreeing the first loan were proportionate and they 
didnt suggest Mr C might find it difficult to repay the loan in a sustainable manner. I dont 
think MCF was wrong to give the first loan to Mr C.
But I think the results of MCFs checks on the second application should have resulted in the 
lender declining to give Mr C a second loan. And so MCF needs to put things right.  
Putting things right
I dont think that MCF should have given the second loan (in December 2016) to Mr C. As 
I said earlier, MCF has sold that debt to a third party  and I dont know whether Mr C has 
made any further repayments on the debt. So MCF should liaise with the third party to 
understand the current position of the debt and ensure that the following actions take place;
remove any interest and charges (including any interest and charges added by the 
third party) still outstanding on the loan and treat all the payments Mr C has made 
towards this loan as payments towards the capital
if reworking Mr Cs loan account as Ive directed results in Mr C effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then MCF should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement.
If reworking Mr Cs loan account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
I remind MCF (or the third party) that it should take a sympathetic view when seeking 
to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr C for the remaining capital
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file in relation to loan 2
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MCF to take off tax from this interest. MCF must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Cs complaint and direct Madison CF UK Limited 
to put things right as detailed above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022. 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman