DRN-2777338
The complaint
Ms O complains Santander UK Plcs (Santander) staff member stole £100 from her. And 
because of this, it should compensate her for the trouble and upset caused. 
What happened
In February 2020, Ms O visited a Santander branch to deposit £2,000 cash which she says 
her son gave to her. Ms O says she, and her son counted the money beforehand and then 
placed it into two envelopes which were then sealed. 
She says they both counted out £2,000. 
At the branch, one of Santanders counter staff took Ms Os cash to be counted in an 
adjacent room. Ms O says after he returned, he told her the amount he counted was £1,900 
- £100 short of the £2,000 she told him was there. 
Ms O says she then gave him another £100 that was her shopping allowance for the week. 
Ms O says this matter caused her substantive trouble and upset, especially as she 
suspected the same staff member had stolen money from her in the same way before.  
Ms O complained to Santander. In summary Santander said the following in its response: 
That its credited Ms Os account with £100 as a goodwill gesture, and its sorry shes 
had cause to complain
Its unable to disclose detail about any internal investigation that may have been 
conducted. Santander has a duty of care to all staff and cant share any information 
with her about any investigation.
Unhappy with what Santander said, Ms O referred her complaint to this service. In addition 
to further detailing the impact this matter has had on her wellbeing, Ms O also explained she 
now goes to another Santander branch which is further away and causes her increased 
trouble. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. They didnt uphold Ms Os complaint. In 
short, they said: 
There wasnt any evidence to show Ms O had £2,000 cash in those two envelopes
Santander no longer has CCTV footage of the area the cash was weighed and 
counted in for the date the event is said to have occurred  
As theres little evidence to determine what happened, our investigator said she 
wouldnt be asking Santander to do anything more than it had already done   
Unhappy with this, Ms O asked for an Ombudsman to decide the matter. Ms Os added 
Santander could clearly see on its cameras its member of staff had stolen from her, but it 
chose to get rid of this evidence, and allowed him to continue working for it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done that, I have decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint. I know this will 
disappoint her  so Ill explain why. 
I have no reason to doubt Ms Os testimony  specifically that she and her son had counted 
out £2,000, placing it in sealed envelopes, and then taking it to the branch she regularly 
used. But Ms O doesnt have any compelling information to show she had this exact amount 
of money  and that it was earmarked for deposit. 
So, because of that, I cant say either way whether Santanders staff member had 
dishonestly undercounted her money. To be clear, Im not concluding and attributing fault to 
either party here, just that I dont have enough information to make a finding on this point. 
Its quite possible CCTV footage from the branch may have proved conclusive in showing 
whether Santanders staff member had acted fraudulently in the way Ms O alleges. 
In its response to this service, Santander has said that 
As part of its investigations, the branch manager has spoken to its staff member and 
they have no recollection of this matter. And there otherwise isnt any issue with this 
member of its staff. 
The Note Counter is placed beside the counter, and out of customer view, as this is 
the only space Santander has to keep it. Because of this, customers are asked if its 
okay to us the machine to count their money. 
This machine is normally covered by CCTV, and recordings are kept for a fixed 
period of time. But this recording isnt available on the date Ms O complains about, 
given the time elapsed.  And because Santander had given her £100  the money 
she alleges to have had stolen  it thought the matter was concluded. 
Its unfortunate Santander doesnt have CCTV footage available. But I must decide this 
matter on the evidence I do have. Where evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I can 
decide matters based on the balance of probabilities  what I think is most likely to have 
happened. 
But in the individual circumstances of this complaint, I simply dont have anything to fairly 
conclude a Santander branch member dishonestly retained £100 of Ms Os money. I accept 
its a possibility, but Im unable to perform what would in effect be a criminal investigation. 
I also dont have any information to show Santander deliberately destroyed any evidence. 
Nor am I best placed to make a determination on how and when it conducts an internal 
investigation.  
It follows I wont be upholding this complaint and asking Santander to do anything more than 
it has already done. That means I wont be asking it to pay Ms O any compensation for the 
trouble and upset she says this matter has caused her. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman