DRN-3043105
The complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
February 2002. Mr M and the estate of Mrs M say AXA France IARD mis-sold the late Mrs M 
the PPI.
I am sorry to see Mrs M has passed away. In the hope that Mr M and the late Mrs Ms estate 
wont mind, I will refer to her as Mrs M in my decision.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Ms 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ms. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think AXA made it clear that Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. Ill explain why. 
AXA has provided a copy of the application form Mrs M completed at the time of sale. 
Within this application form, I can see there is a separate section called: Protecting Your 
Account. The form goes on to give a brief description of the cover and the applicant the 
option of adding PPI to their account. The applicant then needed to indicate if they 
wanted the cover by signing in the relevant box. On Mrs Ms form she has signed within 
this section, indicating that she wanted the cover.  
If Mrs M didnt want the cover, she couldve left this section blank, like she had for other 
sections on the form for additional products. I dont know what was discussed at the time 
Mrs M took out the card, but I would have expected Mrs M to have had an opportunity to 
read over the form and raise any questions she had at the time before signing it. Taking 
everything into account, I think its more likely that Mrs M knew the policy was optional 
and she agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M, so it didnt have to check that the PPI was right 
or suitable for her. But it did have to give Mrs M enough clear and timely information so 
she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. However, Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs M  for 
example she wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. It also 
wasnt too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the 
information she was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong.  
Mrs M has referred to her employee benefits and says they wouldve covered her for up 
to 12 months if she was made redundant or unwell. The PPI wouldve paid out alongside 
these employee benefits. Mrs M has also referred to her plans to retire, which means 
she didnt need the PPI. Looking at the dates Mrs M has given us it seems she wouldve 
had the PPI for three years before retiring. This means she wouldve had the protection 
offered by the policy for a reasonable amount of time. Also, as AXA didnt provide Mrs M 
with advice it wouldve been for her to think about her retirement plans and how they fit in 
with her application for PPI. Overall, I dont think Mrs M would have declined the cover 
had AXA done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So, I think she 
would have still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mrs M would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently 
close to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Ms representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ms particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr M and the estate of Mrs Ms complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and the 
estate of Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman