DRN-1709648
 
The complaint
Mrs B says MBNA Limited mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened 
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1996. The policy was added to 
Mrs Bs credit card account when she applied for the card by post. 
Mrs B mainly told us that PPI wasnt something she wanted or needed.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
and she has asked for a review. So this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Based on all the information Ive seen Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
I think MBNA made Mrs B aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it. Its 
completely understandable that Mrs B mightve forgotten this now as it was so long ago. But 
on the application form she filled in Mrs B ticked a box saying Yes to the policy. There was 
a No option Mrs B couldve ticked instead if she hadnt wanted PPI. This is left blank on 
Mrs Bs application. 
MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for her. 
But Ive looked carefully at whether MBNA gave Mrs B enough information to make a proper 
decision about whether PPI was right for her  and if it didn't do this, Ive thought about 
whether that makes any overall difference to what happened.
Mrs B was eligible for the cover according to the policy terms and conditions.
Ive taken into account that Mrs B told us that she wouldve been entitled to full sick pay for 
3 months then half pay for the next 3 months if she was off work sick. The policy wouldve 
paid out for up to 12 months per claim if Mrs B was too sick or disabled to work. So having 
PPI provided her with significantly better protection in the event of accident or sickness. 
Also the policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if Mrs B lost her job unexpectedly and 
was out of work. So I think that the PPI couldve benefitted Mrs B. 
Its possible some of the information MBNA gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if Mrs B wouldve been affected by any of those things. So I dont think having more 
information about things the policy didnt cover wouldve put her off taking it out. 
I dont think its likely that MBNA properly explained the policy cost, or exactly what it might 
pay out if Mrs B made a claim. But Mrs B chose to take out the policy when she didn't have 
to - so she appears to have wanted this type of cover. And Ive seen nothing to make me 
think that the policy wasnt affordable for her. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered Mrs B, I think it unlikely she wouldve made 
a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I think shed still 
have taken out the policy.
This means that, even though MBNA mightnt have done everything it shouldve done, I dont 
find that Mrs B lost out because of anything MBNA did wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman