DRN-3147132
The complaint
Miss I complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) didnt tell her that it 
would default her loan account when she agreed for it to be frozen.
What happened
Miss I has a loan with M&S. In December 2019, M&S agreed to an arrangement where    
Miss I didnt need to make any payments for six months. That was extended in June 2020 
for a further six months. But in October 2020 M&S recorded the account was in default.
Miss I considers that M&S didnt explain that it would default her loan account if she entered 
into the arrangement.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Miss I didnt agree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear of the difficulties Miss I faced that were no fault of her own. But Im afraid 
after looking at the evidence we have I dont consider M&S has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably.
When the arrangement was first agreed in December 2019, M&S took details of Miss Is 
income and expenditure. It was clear that Miss I couldnt afford the loan payments and she 
had other debts that were a priority. So it acted reasonably in offering a no payment 
arrangement. The evidence we have doesnt support that a payment arrangement was 
discussed  and nor does it support that any payment would have been affordable. And 
M&S sent a letter explaining the consequences of the arrangement and the impact on     
Miss Is credit file.
In June 2021, when the arrangement was extended, M&S told Miss I that the only way to 
prevent the account defaulting was for her to make a payment of £1,675.64 and then 
continue to make the monthly payments that were due. But Miss I was unable to do so. 
In August 2021, M&S sent Miss I a final demand letter that gave her the opportunity to bring 
the loan up to date and avoid a default. But when Miss I spoke to M&S she said she wasnt 
able to bring the account up to date.
Looking at the evidence I have Im satisfied that M&S gave Miss I clear and fair information 
about the impact of taking the no payment arrangement. In any event, I consider that a 
default is a fair and accurate reflection of the conduct of the account. If M&S had not agreed 
any arrangement there is no evidence to support that Miss I would have been able to 
maintain the contractual payments to the loan. And she was given a number of opportunities 
to bring the account back up to date. As she was unable to do so, it was reasonable for M&S 
to record the loan as being in default.
My final decision
My final decision is tat I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman