DRN-2902484
The complaint
 K a limited company, complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc unfairly declined its application for 
a Bounce Back Loan.
In bringing this complaint, K is represented by its director, who I refer to as Mr B. 
  
What happened
 In January 2021, K opened a business account with Clydesdale. Later, on 5 March 2021, K 
applied for a £50,000 Bounce Back Loan. 
To progress K s application, Clydesdale wrote to K on 8 March 2021 to request proof that it 
had been trading before 1 March 2020 given this was a requirement under the Bounce Back 
Loan Scheme (the Scheme). In particular, Clydesdale asked to see bank statements and 
invoices.  
Mr B provided a VAT registration certificate for K, his personal bank statement with another 
bank dating back to 2015, and a purchase order addressed to K for a cargo ship. But 
Clydesdale didnt think the evidence that had been provided sufficiently demonstrated K was 
eligible for a Bounce Back Loan. Therefore, Clydesdale declined Ks application. K 
appealed, but Clydesdale maintained their decision. K didnt think Clydesdales decision was 
fair. 
K believed it met the eligibility requirements for a Bounce Back Loan and thought 
Clydesdales interpretation of what amounted to trading within the Scheme rules was too 
narrow. And it believed Clydesdale were asking K for more information than was necessary, 
under the Scheme rules and more broadly. Clydesdale disagreed and so K referred its 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He concluded  in summary that:
Before agreeing to the Bounce Back Loan, Clydesdale were entitled to carry out 
certain checks to make sure the declaration K had made in its application about the 
operation of its business was correct. 
Clydesdale had provided information to demonstrate how trading and carrying on 
business were interpreted under the Scheme rules. And the information showed that 
Clydesdale had interpreted those terms reasonably when considering Ks application. 
Clydesdales checks were in line with those expected under the Scheme rules and 
because K had failed the checks, Clydesdales decision to decline its application 
wasnt unreasonable.  
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. He said - in summary, that:
The Bounce Back Loan Scheme rules had been designed by the government to be 
less stringent than usual lending processes. This was done in order to allow 
businesses to obtain a Bounce Back Loans through self-certification. The rules didnt 
require interpretation by lenders and there was no requirement to obtain evidence of 
trading. 
Clydesdale declined Ks application on the basis of insufficient trading activities, but 
the investigator did not ask the bank to define trading activities and how they 
interpret what they deemed to be insufficient.
Initially in December 2020 Ks business account application was declined. However, 
K was given the opportunity to provide further mitigating evidence  including 
evidence of trading to support the banks review. So, its unclear why, shortly after 
presenting that evidence which allowed Clydesdale to progress Ks business current 
account application it then became insufficient evidence to obtain a Bounce Back 
Loan. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so Ive reached broadly the same conclusion as our investigator and for similar 
reasons. Ill explain why.
The aim of the Scheme was to provide financial support to business quickly. K is right about 
that. And Mr B is right in identifying certain checks lenders were expected to carry out before 
approving a Bounce Back Loan  including, KYC, fraud and anti-money laundering.
At the heart of Ks case, however, is that the checks Clydesdale carried out went beyond 
those Ive just referred to and were therefore unjustified.  
Ive thought carefully about Mr Bs argument that checks were already carried out when Ks 
business account application was made. And hes explained that hed presented evidence of 
trading which ensured the application was successful and by implication therefore, should 
have sufficed for the purposes of the Bounce Back Loan. But I dont agree.  
It was, of course, a requirement under the Scheme rules that to be eligible for a Bounce 
Back Loan, the applicant had to be engaged in trading or commercial activity in the UK at the 
date of application as well as carrying on business on 1 March 2020. Mr B declared that K 
had been trading and at the level commensurate with the £50,000, that K wished to borrow 
from Clydesdale.
K became a customer of Clydesdale in January 2021. And as Clydesdale explained they 
needed some additional information to prove K was trading on 1 March 2020 and was 
therefore eligible for the loan and the amount applied for.  
I am satisfied Clydesdale were entitled to carry out the checks they deemed appropriate in 
order to ensure the information they were provided with about Ks business was indeed 
correct. Inevitably, because of the nature of the information that needed to be verified for the 
Bounce Back Loan, the scope of the checks extended beyond those that were necessary for 
the opening Ks business current account. I do not find Clydesdale acted unreasonably when 
they did not simply rely on the previous checks that they had done for K business current 
account. I think their request for bank statements and invoices was reasonable in their 
attempt to corroborate the information they were provided with about the extent of Ks 
business activities.
Mr B explained that because of the nature of K s business, it was difficult to provide the 
actual evidence Clydesdale requested. Ive seen an email exchange, for example, between 
Mr B and a local authority representative in 2019 regarding an international event Mr B was 
intending put together on behalf of K in 2020. Unfortunately, the event didnt go ahead. 
Given such setbacks I can see why Mr B says it was difficult to provide such things as 
invoices that Clydesdale needed to see. And Mr B explained he had no bank statements 
more recent than 2015 that he could present to Clydesdale. Despite Mr Bs assertion that a VAT registration certificate is the gold standard relied on by 
the British Business Bank as proof of business activities in the UK, I dont think Clydesdale 
were obliged to treat the VAT registration certificate that Mr B provided as sufficient 
satisfaction of the checks they were required to carry out.
I understand Mr Bs point that registering for VAT with HMRC is generally done by 
companies that are trading. Im aware it enables a company to add VAT to their sales 
invoices as well as being able to reclaim VAT on purchased items. But I dont think the 
possession of a VAT certificate alone amounts to proof of trading if alongside it there are no 
sales invoices demonstrating the company has been accounting to HMRC for VAT. 
I note K did also provide a purchase order to Clydesdale alongside the VAT certificate. But 
that purchase order related to a transaction that didnt actually go ahead. And it seemed 
Clydesdale didnt think it amounted to evidence of trading activity in the UK in any event. 
So, overall Clydesdale didnt think Ks evidence was enough to satisfy their checks. Thats a 
decision Clydesdale were entitled to take. And in the circumstances, I dont think that was an 
unreasonable conclusion for them to come to. 
In summary, I am satisfied that as part of their checks before approving Ks loan it was 
reasonable for Clydesdale to ask for evidence K was trading before 1 March 2020 and to 
see whether it was at a level that matched the loan amount it applied for. It is unfortunate 
that K was unable to provide the evidence Clydesdale required. That being the case, I am 
not persuaded Clydesdale reached an unfair decision when they declined Ks application for 
the Bounce Back Loan
   
My final decision
  My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman