DRN-3600264
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy about the service received from DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company 
Limited during the period July to September 2021.
The legal expenses insurance policy is held jointly with Mr S however as Mrs S has been 
dealing with the claims and complaints for ease, I will only refer to her. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
again here. Instead, I will focus on providing my reasons for my decision. 
In summary, Mrs S had different legal expenses claims lodged with DAS. She was 
experiencing difficulties in communicating with the panel solicitors handling those claims and 
asked DAS for assistance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs S has strong views about what has happened. I want to assure her Ive 
read and considered carefully everything shes said. However, my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. This isnt meant as a 
discourtesy. But the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties 
have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence 
presented by Mrs S, and by DAS, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision 
based on the facts of the case.
This decision only considers the customer service provided during July 2021 and September 
2021. I appreciate the underlying legal claims have been ongoing for some time and Mrs S 
has experienced other issues in the past with the panel solicitors, however this does not 
impact the decision I need to make here.  
Having reviewed everything, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator that DAS 
should pay Mrs S £150 to reflect the poor service it has provided. I do so for the following 
reasons.
DAS has acknowledged there were small delays in responding to Mrs S 
communications
I can see from the file that DAS did contact the panel solicitors and asked them to 
provide an update to Mrs S 
DAS has acknowledged it could have been more persistent in ensuring the panel 
solicitors had contacted Mrs S as requested
Complaint handling itself is not a regulated activity so this isnt something I will 
consider here. I appreciate however Mrs S is concerned that DAS initially chose to 
interpret her communications as a complaint and that some of the content it added in 
its final response letter was factually incorrect. And I understand this caused her 
inconvenience as she had to take time correcting those errors. 
It is not the role of this service to oversee how insurers handle their day-to-day 
operations, how effectively they monitor/audit preferred solicitors, or look at why they 
choose to use/continue with certain solicitor firms. While I understand Mrs S point 
that she believes DAS has not carried out these functions correctly and had it of done 
so, the issues she has experienced may not have happened, this isnt something I 
will be looking into. 
Mrs S has also raised concern about how DASs delays/conduct may have impacted 
her underlying legal claim(s), especially since protective proceedings have had to be 
issued. The conduct of a legal claim is the responsibility of solicitors, if Mrs S 
believes her claim(s) have been handled ineffectively then that is something that 
must be raised with the firm of solicitors directly. DAS role is purely administrative in 
that respect. 
From the evidence available to me, I have not seen any evidence which suggests 
during July to September 2021 DAS asked that the claims should be put on hold. I 
believe any reference to the matters being put on hold referred only to the complaint 
process. 
It is evident from the file, and DAS has accepted, there were small delays in it acting 
on communications from Mrs S. DAS has also accepted it could have done more to 
ensure Mrs S was receiving a response from the panel solicitors. At such a late stage 
in the legal claim this would have added to the worry Mrs S had and as such, I think 
DAS should make a total compensation payment of £150 to Mrs S.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs S complaint against DAS Legal Expenses Insurance 
Company Limited. I direct DAS to pay Mrs S £150 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman