complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
July 2004. Mrs B says Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
Mrs B bought the policy at the same time she applied for a credit card in July 2004.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Bs case.
I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mrs B says the PPI was taken out online. Barclays on the other hand says the PPI was sold 
to Mrs B during a telephone call a few days after Mrs B completed an expression of interest 
form for the credit card. In support of what its said, Barclays has provided our service with a 
copy of Mrs Bs expression of interest form. This form doesnt mention PPI. Having thought 
about what Barclays has told us and using what we know generally about Barclays sales 
practices at the time the PPI was sold to Mrs B, I think its more likely than not the PPI was 
sold to Mrs B during a telephone call.
Barclays says Mrs B would have been given a choice about the PPI. Unfortunately, Barclays 
hasnt been able to provide a recording of the call in which the sale took place  which isnt 
surprising given the sale took place over 15 years ago. So I dont know what was said in the 
discussion between Mrs B and the Barclays' representative. But Barclays has referred me to 
a PPI sales script which it says its telephone staff would have used in 2004 when Mrs B was 
sold the PPI. Looking at the sales script, its clear Mrs B would have been asked whether 
she wanted to take out the PPI. 
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely than not Mrs B would have understood 
the PPI was optional. And I dont think she would have agreed to the cover if she didnt want 
to take it out.
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Mrs B, and the policy seems to have been right for 
her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. She was eligible for cover and 
I cant see that she would have been affected by any of things the policy didnt cover  such 
as pre-existing medical conditions. DRN-1049718
Mrs B has told us she didnt need PPI as she would have received generous sick pay from 
her employer if she was too unwell to work. She says she would have been entitled to at six 
months full pay followed by six months half pay from her employer. But the PPI would have 
paid out in addition to any sick pay Mrs B would have received from her employer and would 
have paid out for up to 12 months. The PPI also would have paid a benefit if Mrs B was ever 
made redundant or in the event of death. So I dont think the sick pay Mrs B says she had 
would have meant that Barclays was wrong to recommend the PPI to her.
I also havent seen anything to make me think that the PPI was unaffordable for Mrs B when 
she took out the policy  or that she had a particular need to keep costs down. So, overall, I 
think Barclays recommendation was suitable. And I think Mrs B could have found the cover 
useful if she ever fell on hard times.
In addition to making sure the policy was suitable for Mrs B, Barclays also had to give her 
clear enough information about the PPI. I think its possible that Barclays didnt give her all 
the information it should have. But, even if the information wasnt as clear as it should have 
been, for the reasons Ive already explained, I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have stopped Mrs B buying it.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold. Which means Barclays 
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium)  so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because Barclays didnt tell
Mrs B, that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Barclays Bank UK Plc does have to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman