DRN-4158588
The complaint
Mr B complains that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
Mr B says that when he couldnt repay the loan, Loans 2 Go didn't deal with him 
sympathetically and positively.
Mr B says that when he couldnt repay the loan, Loans 2 Go didn't offer to freeze interest 
and charges when he was unable to make payments under a reasonable repayment plan.
What happened
Mr B was approved for one loan of £250 in December 2020 repayable over 18 months at
£57.14 each month. The total amount to pay was scheduled to be £1,028.52. Information 
Ive been given by Loans 2 Go indicates that Mr B has repaid two instalments and the debt 
was sold to a third party debt collector in August 2021. That debt collector has reported to 
Loans 2 Go earlier this year (January 2023) that Mr B has made no payments towards the 
debt. Mr B told us he had made two which dovetails with what Loans 2 Go has told us.  
After Mr B had complained using an on-line complaints management service it sent to him 
the final response letter (FRL) in January 2023 from Loans 2 Go. It did not agree that it had 
lent irresponsibly but it did make an offer to Mr B that it would reduce the interest on the 
amount owed by 30%. That would have meant that Mr B would have had just under £681 to 
pay back rather than just over £914. 
Mr B referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He said that hed not 
received the FRL. One of our adjudicators thought that the credit search Loans 2 Go had 
done showed that Mr B had been over his credit limit and/or in arrears on other accounts 
and so the £250 ought not to have been lent to Mr B.
Mr B did not respond. Loans 2 Go disagreed and so the unresolved complaint was passed to
me to decide. I issued a provisional decision on 13 June 2023 in which I gave reasons why 
I thought the complaint ought not to be upheld. I gave each party time to respond. 
In the provisional decision I asked Loans 2 Go to confirm either way whether that offer in its 
FRL had been withdrawn. Loans 2 Go has confirmed that offer has been withdrawn. 
I duplicate here the provisional decision  it is in smaller type to differentiate it but it forms 
part of this final determination. 
My provisional decision dated 13 June 2023
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to
complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including all the relevant rules,
guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.
Looking at the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to consider
in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are whether
Loans 2 Go completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B would
be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have shown that Mr B
wouldve been able to do so? 
If I determine that Loans 2 Go did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr B and that he 
has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mr Bs ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether
repaying the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for
Mr B. In practice this meant that Loans 2 Go had to ensure that making the payments to the
loan wouldnt cause Mr B undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr B.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon
several factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their
financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial
difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that 
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context
and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Loans 2 Go has provided details of the information it obtained from Mr B when he applied for
the £250 loan. As he was a new customer application and it was for a modest sum then my
view is that Loans 2 Go was entitled to rely on the information Mr B had provided to it. Mr B
had said he earned £2,100 a month after tax. In its checks Loans 2 Go reduced that figure to
£1,879 after using an on-line verification tool. 
This demonstrates that Loans 2 Go preferred to take a cautious approach when carrying out the 
creditworthiness assessment by using the lowest income figure it had established.
Mr B had given to Loans 2 Go the information about his expenditure which was home costs
£590, groceries £123, utilities £120, transport £1, credit commitments £300 and other regular
expenses as £179. All that added up to £1,313. Loans to go had increased that to £1,612.
So, it left him with a disposable amount of income of £267. So, Loans 2 Go said he could
afford the £57 a month.
Loans 2 Go carried out a credit search and it has sent to us the results. Ive reviewed them
and it does appear that Mr B had just taken out a substantive mortgage costing him £523 a
month but that had been declared to Loans 2 Go by Mr B (home costs £590) and so it had
factored that into the calculations.The rest of the credit search results did show that Mr B was a little over his limit on two credit
cards and had taken a new telephone contract. He had a modest balance (£430) on a mail
order account. But the arrears to which our adjudicator has referred are historic, if any, and
not prolific. So, I discount that issue as being the basis to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Loans 2 Go could see that Mr B had a loan of £3,000 since September 2021 costing him
£161 a month plus another at £119 a month with only a few more payments to make
(balance was £408). And those figures had also been declared by Mr B and had been part of
what Loans 2 Go had used to do its creditworthiness assessment.
And so, I consider that Loans 2 Go had carried out proportionate checks and I do not think
that it lent to Mr B irresponsibly.
I plan not to uphold his complaint about this loan.
Loans 2 Go can confirm either way whether the offer in the final response letter is still
available by responding to this provisional decision.
Dealing with Mr B positively and sympathetically & freezing interest
Ive received copy notes from the Loans 2 Go account relating to the dealings with Mr B.
Hes not responded at all (apart from one brief on-line chat) despite lots of reminders about
late or non-payment. And so, I cant really come to any conclusion as to his complaint that
Loans 2 Go has failed to assist him in one way or another when hes failed to engage in any
way at all.
I plan not to uphold these parts of Mr Bs complaints.
This is the end of the duplicated provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave time to both parties to respond.
Loans 2 Go has replied to confirm that the offer in the FRL is not available to Mr B now.
Mr B has responded with useful information which was that he has paid the debt off on 
23 March 2023 and he has sent confirmation of that to us. 
However, Mr B has also said that 
I have not received any reduced offer from Loans 2 Go through this portal. Further to 
that the reason for complaint is that they never responded to my original resolver 
correspondence.
Mr B did not appear to be aware of the offer in the FRL and so I have reviewed the FRL 
again which is dated 20 January 2023 responding to his correspondence to Loans 2 Go 
dated 7 January 2023. The offer is clearly written there. 
The complaint was commenced by Mr B through the on-line complaints management service 
I mentioned in the provisional decision. The copies of the loan account notes received from 
Loans 2 Go shows me that Mr B received an acknowledgement of the complaint from it on 
12 January 2023 sent to him using that on-line management contact email address. But the FRL dated 20 January 2023 was sent to Mr B at an icloud email address. The FRL 
was in the form of a letter and addressed to the postal address we have for Mr B. The notes 
indicate it was sent by email. 
The account notes show that on 4 March 2023 Mr B emailed Loans 2 Go and informed it of a 
new email address which was added to the account and a duplicate of the FRL was sent to 
him at that new email address on 8 March 2023. Mr B referred his complaint to us on 4 
March 2023 but that would have been before he had received the duplicate FRL from 
Loans 2 Go on 8 March 2023. 
So, I am confident on the evidence I have that Mr B did receive a copy of the FRL through 
one of the registered addresses he had given to Loans 2 Go. Mr B referred his complaint to 
us on 4 March 2023. But still he would have received the FRL soon after that date. 
Mr B commented in relation to the irresponsible lending as follows:
Regarding the level of checks etc. based on the amount loaned I feel were 
inadequate. I would also go as far as to say that actually the lower the amount the 
greater the checks required to make sure the applicant can afford the repayments in 
relation to actual loans already in receipt of as well as any outstanding store cards 
etc.  I have with the help of family and professional help managed to turnaround my 
financial status whilst still been solvent.
I have reviewed the complaint and I consider that Loans 2 Go had carried out proportionate 
checks and I do not think that it lent to Mr B irresponsibly.
Mr B has commented but has not sent to me anything further to persuade me to alter my 
view and so I do not uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold his complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman