DRN-4197459
Complaint
Ms A has complained about a guarantor loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as George 
Banco.com) provided to her. 
She says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
George Banco provided Ms A with a guarantor loan for £3,000.00 in August 2018. This loan 
had an APR of 61.8% and a term of 36 months. This meant that the total amount to be 
repaid of £5,785.92, including interest, fees and charges of £2,5785.92, was due to be 
repaid in 36 monthly instalments of just over £160. 
One of our investigators reviewed Ms As complaint and she thought George Banco hadnt 
acted fairly or reasonably towards Ms A when it provided this loan, as it provided the loan in 
circumstances where it ought to have realised it was unaffordable. So she thought that         
Ms As complaint should be upheld. 
George Banco disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider the case.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms As complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Ms As complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
George Banco needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is George Banco needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
Ms A could afford to repay any credit it provided. The fact that George Banco may also have 
been able to seek payments from a guarantor did not alter or dilute this obligation in any 
way.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information George Banco has provided suggested that it carried out a credit check 
before this loan was provided. The results of which showed that Ms A low outstanding 
balances on her active credit accounts. However, there were accounts which Ms A had 
previously fallen into difficulty on and which hadnt been brought up to date. 
Furthermore, George Bancos income and expenditure assessment was calculated with the 
use of estimated expenditure where Ms As previous difficulties suggested she fell outside 
the profile of the average borrower. Im also mindful that there was a suggestion that the 
funds were for home improvements, despite the fact that Ms A was renting.
So its unclear to me how or why Ms A was going to improve a home which she didnt own 
and more importantly why she would take out this loan, which was on such disadvantageous 
terms, for this particular purpose, given the circumstances. 
 
Overall and having considered everything, Im persuaded by what Ms A has said about 
already being in a difficult financial position at the time. And while its possible Ms As 
troubles reflected her choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of 
these types of cases suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible 
arguments from George Banco, Ive been persuaded to accept Ms As version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Ms As existing financial position meant that she was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this guarantor loan, without borrowing further or 
suffering significant adverse consequences. And Im therefore satisfied that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would more like than not have shown George Banco that it shouldnt 
have provided this loan to Ms A. As George Banco provided Ms A with this loan, 
notwithstanding this, Im satisfied that it didnt act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Ms A ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a guarantor loan she shouldnt have 
been provided with. So Im satisfied that Ms A lost out because of what George Banco did 
wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what George Banco needs to do to put things right for  Ms A
Having thought about everything, Im satisfied that George Banco should put things right for 
Ms A by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Ms A actually paid on her loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded interest payments from the 
date they were made by Ms A to the date of settlement;
removing all adverse information it recorded on Ms As credit file as a result of this 
loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires George Banco to take off tax from this interest. George 
Banco must give Ms A a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms As complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman