DRN-3827546
The complaint
Mr L complains about the quality of a scooter that was supplied to him under a conditional 
sale agreement with Moneybarn No. 1 Ltd, trading as Moneybarn.
What happened
On 15 February 2022 Mr L took out a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn for a 
three-wheeled scooter. At the time, this scooter was just under four years old and had 
travelled around 8,000 miles. The cash price was £6,048. Mr L told us that he paid extra to 
have it delivered to his home because hed never ridden a motorbike before. He said it 
arrived five days later. 
Mr L said he drove the scooter for around two and a half weeks without any problems. But 
he told us that, whilst he was waiting at traffic lights one day, it fell over into the dual 
carriageway. After hed managed to get the scooter to the side of the road, Mr L said he 
could see one of the front wheels was significantly higher than the other. He provided a 
photo showing the wheel in this position. 
Mr L said he complained to the dealer that the right front wheel had locked in the raised 
position - but they said this couldnt happen. On 16 March 2022 Mr L complained to 
Moneybarn.
Moneybarn sent their final response to Mr Ls complaint in July 2022. They said the dealer 
had asked Mr L to take the scooter back so they could give it a thorough check and explain 
how the front wheel-locking mechanism works. Moneybarn said theyd emailed Mr L twice, 
asking for his permission to share his details with an independent engineer so they could 
arrange to have the scooter inspected. They said that, as Mr L hadnt taken up either of 
these offers, they were unable to uphold his complaint. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr L brought his complaint to us. He told us that he hadnt 
ridden the scooter since the incident because he felt it was dangerous. He said hed made a 
statutory off-road notification, cancelled the road tax, and stopped making payments to 
Moneybarn. He said Moneybarn were chasing him for payment.
Our investigator said that, as the scooter hadnt been inspected, she was unable to say 
whether it was faulty. She didnt feel the photo Mr L had provided was enough to persuade 
her that it wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Mr L disagreed with our investigators view. He said he was concerned that, if hed agreed to 
an inspection, theyd simply say there was nothing wrong with it. He stressed that he wasnt 
prepared to get back on the scooter - regardless of what any inspection found. 
Mr L said hed only covered around 200 miles since he got the scooter because he hadnt 
used it at all after he fell off it. He said he believed it had a hydraulic fault and that the photo 
hed provided showed this. Mr L felt his consumer rights had been ignored. 
Mr L asked for an ombudsman to review things again. So, the case has come to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ls complaint is about a scooter supplied under a conditional sale agreement. Entering 
into consumer credit contracts like this as a lender is a regulated activity. So, Im satisfied I 
can look into this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that 
under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory.
The CRA says the quality of goods includes their state and condition. It says things like 
fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, and safety can be 
aspects of the quality of goods. 
Where a business has supplied goods that arent of satisfactory quality, the CRA explains 
the actions the consumer is entitled to take to enforce that right. So, my starting point is to 
consider whether theres evidence showing that this scooter wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Mr L believes the scooter has a hydraulic fault. Hes shown us a close-up photo of the front 
wheels, showing the issue hes complaining about. Ive examined this photo carefully. The 
scooter appears to be stationary, parked off the road. I can see that the right-hand front 
wheel isnt touching the ground. But Im unable to assess from this photo whether the 
scooter has a fault  or whether the wheel is in this position due to user error.
In the absence of supporting evidence about this, Im not persuaded that this scooter has a 
fault. 
Mr L feels his consumer rights have been ignored. Hes told us that hes been advised he 
had the right to reject the scooter because he told Moneybarn about this problem within 30 
days. But as Ive explained, Mr L would only have the right to reject the scooter if it was 
found to have a fault that meant it wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Ive considered whether Moneybarn did enough to look into whether the scooter had a fault.
Moneybarn have told us that the dealer offered to check the scooter over and show Mr L 
how the front wheel locking mechanism works. Moneybarn provided copies of emails they 
sent to Mr L, dated 7 June 2022 and 6 July 2022, which Ive reviewed. Ive seen that they 
advised him that theyd like to arrange an independent inspection of the scooter and asked 
his permission to share his contact details with the inspector. 
Ive also seen a copy of Moneybarns letter to Mr L dated 15 July 2022, setting out their 
response to his complaint. They explained again that theyd like to arrange an independent 
inspection of the scooter to establish whether there was a fault with it. They confirmed that 
theyd pay for this inspection. Although Moneybarns letter informed Mr L that theyd be 
closing his complaint, Ive seen that they invited him to contact them within the following five 
days if he wished to accept their offer of an independent inspection. Having reviewed this evidence, Ive seen that Moneybarn made three offers to arrange an 
independent inspection of the scooter at no cost to Mr L. He hasnt accepted this, so I 
wouldnt expect Moneybarn to do anything more. 
I appreciate Mr L feels an inspection arranged by Moneybarn wouldnt be impartial. But if he 
didnt want to accept Moneybarns offer, I think Mr L could have arranged his own 
independent inspection of the scooter to confirm whether theres a fault with it. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman