DRN-3400095
The complaint
Ms B complains about West Bromwich Building Societys (West Bromwich) handling of her 
mortgage account. 
What happened
Ms B and her partner took out a mortgage with West Bromwich in 2001. This was followed 
by further loans over the years. Ms B says the total they borrowed was £760,938. 
In 2010, Ms Bs partner died, and following this, there were several months where payments 
werent made. In May 2021, Ms B sold the property and she was told the redemption figure 
owing was in excess of £782,000. She says this is some £21,000 higher than they borrowed. 
Ms B didnt understand this, nor why it appeared she was being charged interest for the 
entire year, despite the intention to redeem the mortgage in May. She has said all mortgage 
payments were met, so she didnt understand why the amount owing was so high. Ms B also 
said she couldnt understand how the capital borrowing seemed to have increased to an 
amount she didnt recognise. 
Ms B logged a complaint. West Bromwichs final response letter stated Ms Bs mortgage was 
interest only, so the monthly payments covered the interest charged, but not the capital 
borrowed. West Bromwich said the two amounts of interest referred to represent the interest 
applied up until 31 March 2021, and between 1 April and the date of redemption in May 
2021. West Bromwich noted while a payment concession had been agreed in 2010, interest 
was still applied on the borrowing. Finally, West Bromwich said the way it had communicated 
this to Ms B on the phone could have been clearer. It offered £25 in respect of this. 
Unhappy with West Bromwichs response, Ms B referred her complaint to this service. She 
said to put things right, she wanted the amount she had been overcharged reimbursed, 
along with interest. Our investigator looked into what happened and said she considered the 
outstanding mortgage balance had been calculated correctly. 
As Ms B remained unhappy, this matter has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ms B has experienced some very difficult times for the duration of the 
mortgage. Im sorry to see all that shes been through. And while Ive carefully considered all 
that both sides have said, my decision here focuses on those issues I think central to this 
dispute. 
Ive stated by considering how the mortgage terms set out interest will be applied. The 
mortgage terms from 2000 say: 
3.2.1 Interest is calculated annually by reference to the Year and in the first Year is 
charged on the Loan from and including the date of issue of the Societys cheque to 
and included the succeeding 31st March
Im satisfied that this term supports what West Bromwich said, in that the interest on the 
mortgage is calculated annually. They say from April to March each financial year, Ms B 
makes the monthly payment and the interest for that year is added to the mortgage account 
at the end of the financial year, on 31 March. The mortgage statements Ive seen support 
this. 
So, Ms B isnt right when she said that interest was added on in advance of the year ahead, 
it was added at the end of the financial year. But Ms B is right in saying the balance quoted 
on the redemption statement was higher than the initial and further borrowing. Ive reviewed 
the mortgage statements and Im satisfied West Bromwichs explanation as to why the 
balance increased beyond the original amounts borrowed makes sense. 
West Bromwich says the mortgage balance increased because there were charges applied 
when the account was in arrears. I can see from the statements there were a number of 
missed payments in the years leading up to the payment concession which lasted between 
March and November 2010. And the payment concession meant the interest charged during 
those months wasnt paid but was still added to the mortgage. A combination of these two 
things increased the balance. Ms B says all mortgage payments were met, but I can see 
from the notes that there was a long period of time when payments were delayed or missed. 
Ill turn now to the point Ms B has raised about the redemption figure of £789,504.79, which 
she says is some £21,000 higher than the sums borrowed. Its clear from reviewing the 
statements that, at the end of March 2021, the outstanding balance was £781,917.80. This 
figure included the interest incurred during the financial year 2020  2021. Ive also reviewed 
the redemption statement dated 7 May 2021. This set out if the mortgage isnt redeemed 
then interest will be incurred at a daily rate of £79.39. 
While its for this service to perform an actuarial service, Ive reviewed the statements for this 
mortgage. Im more persuaded by West Bromwichs account that the interest has been 
added to the mortgage in line with the terms and conditions than I am by Ms Bs view the 
interest hasnt been added correctly. Im not going to require it to make any adjustments as 
Ms B asked. 
Recently, Ms B has also said that she feels the buildings insurance, which was added to the 
mortgage, led to this increasing. Any complaints Ms B has about the addition of the buildings 
insurance need to be addressed by West Bromwich in the first instance. 
West Bromwich had offered Ms B £25 in relation to what it said was poor communication. 
While I realise Ms B will be disappointed with my decision, and Im sorry for that, Ill leave it 
for her to decide if she wants to accept this offer, if she hasnt already done so. But I dont 
consider West Bromwich needs to take any further action in respect of Ms Bs complaint 
about how the final redemption figure was calculated.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman