DRN-4490465
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) has declined a claim made under
their landlord property insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A let their property out to a tenant. The tenant wouldnt allow access to the
property and sadly died some time later. Mr and Mrs A discovered someone else was living
at the property, and they had to gain access via the courts with an eviction.
Mr and Mrs A gained access to their property in December 2022. They discovered a
significant amount of rubbish, human waste and some damage to their property. They made
a claim to HDI, their landlord property insurer.
HDI ultimately declined the claim. They said there wasnt an insured event which had
occurred and instead it was as a result of a lack of care by the tenant. There was then a
dispute between the parties over the applicable terms and conditions at the time of the loss.
As Mr and Mrs A remained unhappy with HDI, they approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things and upheld the complaint. She said that HDI
hadnt provided clarity over the terms and conditions, and she thought there had been
malicious damage. So, she recommended HDI should settle the claim and pay £100
compensation.
HDI didnt agree. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to
decide.
I reached a different outcome to our investigator, so I issued a provisional decision to give 
both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I reached my final 
decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I appreciate itll come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs A, 
Im minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator.
There has been a lack of clarity around the terms and conditions which applied at the 
time of the loss being claimed for. HDI say the policy renewed in August 2022, and 
the policy terms changed at that point. However, Mr and Mrs A say they were only 
able to access a different set of policy documents on their online portal. They say the 
documents werent changed on their portal until after they made the claim.
The difference between the two policies and how they work is significant. The older 
terms are all-risk which means everything is covered, unless otherwise excluded. 
Whereas the later terms are insured peril which means a specific insured event has 
to have occurred (and an exclusion doesnt apply to that event) otherwise it isnt 
covered.
Based on what Ive seen, I think it would be fair for the all-risk terms to apply here 
when considering the claim. Im persuaded these were the documents that Mr and 
Mrs A were told applied after renewal, and that they werent provided with any other 
terms until after the claim had occurred. So, I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to say different terms would retrospectively apply when Mr and Mrs A 
havent had an opportunity to see these previously. Furthermore, looking at the 
August 2022 renewal documents, when the change was said to have occurred, it 
doesnt list any change in terms, instead it refers to:
Schedule version 1
Wording version 1
And this same section is included in previous years, identically, so there isnt any 
reference to a change of policy wording since the previous year.
But having said that, whilst I think the all-risk terms are the applicable terms for the 
time of loss, I dont think there is a valid claim in any event. But for completeness, I 
also considered the peril-based terms, and even if those were the terms 
Mr and Mrs A were provided, I still dont think there would have been a valid claim 
either.
As Im persuaded the all-risk terms would have been relevant, Ill focus on those.
The policy covers:
The cover
The Insurers will indemnify the Insured as stated in the Schedule against 
Damage arising from any accidental cause not being an Excepted Cause, 
occurring during the Period of Insurance, subject always to the Excess(es) 
and the limits, terms, conditions and exclusions of this Section and the 
policy.
And damage is defined as:
Damage/Damaged
Means accidental physical loss of, destruction of or damage to the Property 
Insured.
So, the starting point of a claim is that there needs to be damage as defined, and 
unless otherwise excluded, Mr and Mrs A would have a potential claim.
Mr and Mrs A discovered a significant amount of rubbish, decomposing food, 
personal belongings and human waste in their property. They also discovered a 
bookcase was missing, a wall had been damaged, along with the smoke detectors. 
This was after the tenant had sadly passed away, and another person was living in 
the property, and they had to have them removed via eviction proceedings.
From my understanding, the tenant was lawfully living at the property via a tenancyagreement. But the second person living there wasnt permitted to live there. So, it 
does seem that there was a period of time where someone was lawfully, and 
unlawfully, living at the property. And due to Mr and Mrs A not gaining access to the 
property until an eviction had taken place, its uncertain exactly what point everything 
happened and whether it was as a result of the lawful tenant or the unlawful 
occupant.
However, based on what Ive seen, I dont think the policy provides cover for what 
happened in any event. Ill explain why.
Firstly, the policy covers Damage  as defined above.
Each room had a significant amount of rubbish and belongings in it. An excess 
amount of rubbish and belongings in my view wouldnt be damage as defined. There 
was also a large amount of human waste. But again, the presence of this in itself 
wouldnt be damage as defined. Instead, the property required a considerable 
amount of cleaning. This is supported by the view of the independent contractors 
Mr and Mrs A appointed:
In the first instance the entire property will be fogged with the chemical 
known as (name). This process will be repeated throughout the clean-up as 
the rubbish is removed in stages.
The overwhelming bulk of strewn debris, general rubbish and decomposing 
food means that that the technicians will clear one room at a time, ensuring 
that the entire house is cleared prior to undertaking any cleaning/disinfection 
treatment.
Once the rooms are cleared. We would advise all carpets are uplifted and 
placed in several 14 yard skips for disposal. The floor structure would then be 
hard swept, sanitised and left in good order.
The bathrooms throughout the dwelling highlight evidence of bio-hazzard(sic)
material which will require to be medically incinerated and a full deep clean of
sanitary ware and structure would be highly recommended before strip out.
The final phase would be to undertake a deep hygienic clean and to ensure 
all touch points are sanitised inorder(sic) to hand the property over to you in a 
hygienic state.
The kitchen will be lightly washed and sanitised as this will be completely 
removed by yourself.
So, this shows that rather than damage being caused, there was significant debris 
which needed removing, along with very extensive cleaning being required. And I 
dont think this is damage which is what the policy covers.
I recognise the carpets needed disposing of, and there are also notes that the 
furniture was covered in waste, and the fridge freezer was damaged. But 
Mr and Mrs A dont have contents cover so these items wouldnt be covered. And 
whilst the above says the kitchen would be removed by Mr and Mrs A, there isnt 
reference to this being due to damage as the contractor says this can be cleaned.
Mr and Mrs A, and our investigator, argued that what occurred was malicious. This 
was on the basis that there was human waste throughout the property. Our investigator said that she thought this was done maliciously as shed have expected 
the tenant or person after the tenant to have known how to use a toilet, and the fact 
they didnt, she believed was a malicious act.
However, as I say, the policy covers damage. And I dont think damage has been 
caused. Instead, a significant clean was required. Even if it could be classed as 
damage  which I dont think it can  I dont think, on balance, its been shown to 
have been caused maliciously anyway.
I say this because the notes indicate the tenant was suffering a terminal illness and 
was incontinent. In the images, there are bathroom related personal hygiene 
products, it is noted the tenant was undergoing medical care, and required a hospital 
bed. I dont know the full details of the medical condition, but the fact there is a 
hospital bed, sanitary personal hygiene items, and significant human waste, I think 
on balance, this supports that the human waste was most likely as a result of medical 
circumstances, rather than maliciously done.
The policy does also cover accidental damage, but the policy also has a general 
exclusion for damage caused by anyone lawfully on the property:
Excepted Causes
The Insurers shall not indemnify the Insured for:
4. Damage caused directly or indirectly by any person lawfully in the 
Premises.
So even if I was satisfied the human waste was damage (which Im not), I dont think 
its been shown it was done maliciously, and the policy doesnt cover damage caused 
by anyone who was lawfully on the premises. And there is nothing to show that this 
was solely caused by the person who resided in the property after the tenant, rather 
than it being as result of the tenants medical circumstances. But in any event, 
crucially, I dont think its damage which is what the policy covers.
I note Mr and Mrs A have said a bespoke bookcase has been removed. I understand 
this was fitted, so would form part of the buildings (they dont have contents cover). 
However, it is unclear what has happened to the bookcase, and theft by persons 
lawfully on the premises isnt covered either. So, in the absence of knowing who this 
was taken by or when, Im not persuaded its been shown an insured event occurred 
 i.e. theft by someone not lawfully on the premises.There is also reported damage to walls and smoke alarms are reported to have been
tampered with. But it isnt clear if this was done with malicious intent, accidentally, by
someone else, or by the tenant. But as outlined, damage caused by anyone lawfully 
at the property isnt covered. However, from what Ive seen, this wasnt fully 
considered yet as HDI were awaiting quotes from Mr and Mrs A. Instead, the dispute 
over all-risks vs specific perils in the policy terms occurred instead. But if 
Mr and Mrs A have further information in support of the wall or smoke detector 
damage (or any other damage) and that this should be covered under the terms, they 
should submit this to HDI to consider further.
I do recognise Mr and Mrs A have been left in a very difficult and costly position as a 
result of what happened to their property. And they do have my sympathy for what 
happened to them through no fault of their own. But I do also need to take into 
account the terms of the policy. And having done so, unfortunately, I dont think there 
is cover for what has happened here.
Therefore, based on what Id seen, I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint.
The responses to my provisional decision
HDI responded and said they had nothing further to add.
Mr and Mrs A responded but they didnt agree. They provided a detailed list of items where a 
clean was initially attempted but was unsuccessful, so they said there was actually damage 
and those items required replacement. They said the garden had been left untended to, and 
gates were rotten due to the accumulation of leaves and debris, along with the gutters being 
full of debris. And they said the tenant hadnt complied with the tenancy agreement.
They said much of the human waste was most likely to have been from the other occupant, 
rather than the tenant. They also said the removal of the bookcase, and cigarette burns to 
the carpet and bath, were likely to be due to the other occupant too. Mr and Mrs A also said 
the carpets should be covered under their policy in any event.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the provisional conclusions I reached and the responses to 
it. Having done so, whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs A, my 
final decision remains the same as my provisional decision.
In my provisional decision I explained why I considered the all risks terms would apply. But 
also, why I didnt think, based on the evidence provided, there was a valid claim at this 
stage.
This is outlined in my provisional decision, but in summary, as a starting point, the policy 
covers damage as defined. I explained that based on what Id seen, each room had a 
significant amount of rubbish and belongings present, and I didnt consider this would be 
damage as defined in itself. I also said I recognised there was a significant amount of 
human waste too, but I also didnt consider that to be damage either. This is because the 
report from Mr and Mrs As contractors said, aside from the carpet requiring disposal, a 
significant amount of clearing and cleaning was required  and that isnt damage as defined, 
which is what the policy covers.In response to my provisional decision, Mr and Mrs A have provided a detailed list of where 
they say cleaning was later attempted but was unsuccessful, and therefore those items 
ultimately needed replacing as they were beyond cleaning and therefore were in fact 
damaged. They also say that smoke alarms and the toilet were damaged, and there were 
cigarette burns to the bath. However, as I outlined in my provisional decision, the only report 
Mr and Mrs A have provided outlined that, aside from the carpet, only cleaning was required.
Therefore, as it stands, Mr and Mrs A havent provided a report, or any evidence, in support 
of demonstrating any damage as defined which should be covered under the policy. Based 
on what Ive seen, the only evidence provided outlines that all that is required is cleaning. 
So, at this stage, I dont think its been shown they have a valid claim. But as I also outlined 
in my provisional decision, if Mr and Mrs A have any further evidence that damage has been 
caused (including after cleaning wasnt possible), which should be covered, they should 
send this to HDI for consideration.
However, to manage Mr and Mrs As expectations here, whilst the policy does cover 
damage, there are also a number of exclusions, such as rot, gradual deterioration and wear 
and tear. So, if Mr and Mrs A are able to obtain a report which shows damage has been 
caused, HDI will then need to consider whether it is covered under the policy against the 
remainder of the terms. But it does seem that much of what they have said, for example the 
human waste build-up resulting in staining which went beyond requiring cleaning, the rotten 
gates and the build-up of burnt on food and waste to the kitchen appliances, would have 
occurred over time. So even if Mr and Mrs A are able to obtain a report or evidence showing 
damage as defined has been caused, it may be that the claim (or some parts of it) are still 
not covered due to the policy exclusions.
After sending any evidence of damage to HDI, if Mr and Mrs A remain unhappy with 
whatever decision HDI then reaches after considering this, theyd be free to bring a new 
complaint to this service to consider that new evidence and information further  subject to 
our usual rules and timescales. But based on the evidence provided at present, Im not 
persuaded Mr and Mrs A have shown damage as defined has occurred, so I dont think HDI 
has acted unfairly by declining their claim at this stage.
I recognise that in the loss adjuster report a hole in the wall was present. But as outlined in 
my provisional decision, it isnt clear if it was caused by the tenant, the other occupant or 
someone else. Mr and Mrs A said previously this may have been caused by moving the 
tenants hospital bed or chair and they later said it may have been caused by someone else. 
And I recognise there is a bookcase missing, but again it isnt clear how or why this is 
missing, and whether it was the tenant or someone else. Whilst damage is covered, and 
damage as defined includes loss of (i.e., theft), the policy also excludes if it has been caused 
directly or indirectly by anyone lawfully on the premises. And the policy also excludes 
unexplained disappearance, and it isnt clear who took or removed the bookcase, when or 
why. So, at this stage Im not persuaded its been shown this should be covered. But if 
Mr and Mrs A have any further evidence in supporting these items should be covered, they 
should send it to HDI for consideration.
One further point Mr and Mrs A mentioned in response to my provisional decision is that they 
think the carpets should be included as they were damaged. As I outlined in my provisional 
decision, I recognise the report from Mr and Mrs As contractor does say this is the only 
element which required removal, rather than just cleaning, so I accept on balance damage 
has been shown to have occurred here (putting aside any exclusions which might have 
applied). However, Mr and Mrs As policy terms confirm that carpets would be considered 
contents items, and Mr and Mrs A only have buildings cover, so this unfortunately wouldnt 
provide cover for the carpets in any event.My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman