DRN-2575736
The complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax UK has charged him excessive 
interest on his credit card, didnt send him correspondence for a number of years and wont 
write off the outstanding balance of the card.
Mr W is represented by his niece in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill refer 
to any submission and comments she has made as being made by Mr W himself.
What happened
Mr W opened a credit card with Halifax in 2005. He set up a direct debit to pay the minimum 
payment due each month.
Mr W was diagnosed with a serious medical condition which affects his memory. To assist 
him his niece looked at his direct debits on his bank account. She queried a direct debit 
payment to Halifax. Mr W initially he thought the direct debit was for life cover but his niece 
later discovered it was for the Halifax credit card.
Mr Ws niece contacted Halifax on his behalf. She complained about the interest charged on 
the account since Mr W opened the credit card. Mr W wasnt sent any statements for the 
credit card so she asked Halifax why he hadnt been sent any statements or a new card 
when his current card expired. Mr Ws niece informed Halifax that Mr W had a serious 
medical condition and financial difficulty. Mr Ws niece asked Halifax to deal directly with her 
based on her uncles condition. 
Halifax didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. They said they were unable to refund the interest 
charged as it was in line with their terms and conditions. Halifax said they had mail returned 
to them and thats why they placed a gone away block on the account for security reasons. 
This is what prevented statements and a new card being sent to Mr W. Halifax said they will 
not continue to send correspondence to an address where mail has been returned from. 
They also said that they werent aware of Mr Ws medical condition or financial situation 
previously but have now made a note of it on their system. 
In Halifaxs final response letter they advised that in an effort to assist Mr W they would ask 
their Customer Priority Team (CPT) to see if there was anything they could help Mr W with. 
The CPT contacted Mr W directly instead of his niece which distressed Mr W. His niece 
complained to Halifax about this and Halifax upheld the complaint and offered £75 which Mr 
W rejected.
Mr W brought his complaint to our service as he wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response to 
his complaints. He asked for the remaining balance of his credit card to be written off due to 
how much interest hed paid since the account was opened. He wanted compensation for 
Halifax not treating him well and them not sending him correspondence for several years. Mr 
W added that if he had received the credit card statements then he wouldve been able to 
see what the outstanding balance was and pay his balance off sooner by making increased 
payments.
Our investigator did not uphold his complaint. The investigator said the offer of £75 was 
reasonable. They also explained that our service could only consider complaints if they were 
made in certain time limits. The investigator explained our time limits to look at complaints in 
detail and explained that he could only look at the interest charged over the last six years 
due to these time limits and not from 2005 when Mr W opened his credit card.
The investigator said that the interest had been changed in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account and the interest may seem high to Mr W as he was only paying the 
minimum repayment which meant interest was being charged on a larger outstanding 
balance. The investigator said that Halifax werent unreasonable to put a block on 
correspondence to Mr W as this would prevent potentially sensitive data getting into the 
wrong hands if Halifax continued to send mail to him when it had been returned previously. 
The investigator noted that the CPT were aware of Mr Ws circumstances now and that an 
agreement may be reached with both parties.
Mr W wanted his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. He said that he didnt believe 
the postal service would return his mail after living in the property for so long as he had 
known his postman for several years. He also said he shouldnt have been charged interest 
on an outstanding balance he wasnt aware of.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, we can only consider the interest applied over the last six 
years, I cant consider all of the interest charged from when Mr W opened his account. But I 
can consider the merits of this complaint surrounding the correspondence being stopped, Mr 
Ws medical and financial situation worsening and some of the interest which has been 
charged.
I asked Halifax to send me the statements of Mr Ws credit card. They provided statements 
from June 2013 onwards which would help me see what interest was charged in the six 
years prior to his complaint. Where statements havent been available theyve sent me 
details of the interest which was charged. 
Ive looked at the interest charged and Im satisfied that its broadly in line with what Halifax 
say they would charge. I say this as the statements clearly set out how the interest is 
calculated and estimated interest for the following month. But Im aware that will give little 
comfort to Mr W as he hadnt received his statements for some time, so he wont have seen 
this information. 
Ive thought about whether this is fair to Mr W. Despite him not receiving his statements Im 
still satisfied the interest was applied correctly here. The reason Mr W didnt receive his 
statements or a replacement card for the account was because Halifax says it received 
return mail from the postal service which was intended for Mr W. 
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mr W has regarding the return of his mail from Halifax. I 
understand that he has lived at the same property for many years before he opened his 
credit card account and is very familiar with his postman. But, while Mr W has said that he 
and his postman wouldnt return any mail, this doesnt mean that an item of post wasnt 
returned. 
Ultimately though Halifaxs records are limited here, but they suggest that dating back as far 
as 2011, there was a gone away marker on Mr Ws account. Its simply too long ago to know the details of what happened here and to fairly say that Halifax made a mistake or 
otherwise. Ive taken into account what Mr W has said about this, but in the absence of any 
clear information to suggest how or why that happened and where its too long ago to expect 
Halifax to have kept records, I dont think itd be fair for me to impartially say that Halifax may 
have made a mistake here.
But, Ive also taken into account here what I think would most likely have happened even if 
Mr W did receive his statements. Ive considered what Mr W has said about how he wouldve 
reduced his outstanding balance quicker had he received his statements but Im not 
persuaded that he would have. I say this as Mr W opened the credit card in 2005 and had 
always paid the minimum payment by direct debit. He wouldve received statements for a 
considerable number of years before he stopped receiving them and he never increased the 
direct debit payment while he was receiving those, so I think its unlikely that he wouldve 
increased his payments in the timeframe he was without statements. His recent statements 
show he is still making the minimum payment, which makes me think that it would be more 
likely than not that he wouldve continued to make the minimum payments here even if he 
did receive his statements.
Im aware of Mr Ws personal circumstances in the six months or so before the statements 
stopped and I can understand why he wouldve forgotten about his credit card or receiving 
correspondence from Halifax, such as his credit card statements. Im aware that his health 
deteriorated around this point and thats why his niece has been helping him with his 
finances. As Halifax hadnt received contact from Mr W to let them know he was still living at 
the address then I can understand why Halifax didnt send any further correspondence to 
him after the returned mail. As the minimum payment was still being paid on his account as 
he instructed from the outset, then Halifax wouldnt have been aware of his personal or 
financial circumstances either. It would have looked like things were just progressing as they 
had been for a long time.
Ive looked at what Halifax have done since they were aware of Mr Ws condition and 
financial situation. Halifax have tried to speak with Mr Ws niece as he may qualify for a write 
off of the current outstanding balance of the credit card. 
Its worth me saying that generally banks wont write off debts in terms of stopping the 
pursuit of balances that are legitimately owed. But, it is an option that is open to a bank and 
customer and I was pleased to see that Halifax are exploring that here. I realise that Mr Ws 
niece feels like some of the information Halifax asked for was very personal, but they are 
entitled to ask about the details of Mr Ws situation to see what they can do to help him. That 
might involve some fairly personal questions. Mr W doesnt have to answer these questions, 
but if he does, it might help Halifax understand what it can do to help him better.
Halifax also waived the interest on the credit card from the 16 August 2019 in an effort to 
assist Mr W while the account was referred to the CPT to see what they could do to further 
assist him. Halifax have said that as the information requested by CPT to assist Mr W wasnt 
provided then the interest waiver was removed in March 2020 and interest is being charged 
on the outstanding balance. I think this is fair as they gave Mr W several months to get in 
contact with them and when he didnt get in touch with them, they resumed charging interest. 
I realise why that may seem unfair here, but Halifax is under no obligation to stop applying 
interest to the account here or to keep the account on hold indefinitely. Mr W is currently 
still making his contractual monthly minimum repayment. Halifax have said that the offer of 
assistance is still available from the CPT if Mr W or his niece wish to contact them to discuss 
this. Halifax have admitted they gave Mr W poor customer service as the CPT contacted him 
when they should have contacted his niece. Mr W thought this was harassment. So what I 
would expect them to do here is to apologise for the error and recognise the impact this will 
have had on Mr W. Im satisfied this is what they did here. They apologised and offered £75 
to Mr W as they recognised this would be distressing to Mr W. While this offer was rejected, 
Halifax say this is still available to Mr W should he wish to accept this. So it follows that I 
wont be asking Halifax to do anything further apart from to pay Mr W what they previously 
offered him for the poor customer service.
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax UK has already made an offer to pay £75 to settle 
the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax UK should pay £75 to Mr W. 
But I wont be requiring them to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman