DRN-4125333
The complaint
Mr S complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) wont refund the money he lost 
when he fell victim to an investment scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, Nationwide is expected to execute 
authorised payment instructions without undue delay. As Mr S authorised the payments hes 
disputing, albeit due to being tricked by a scammer, the starting position is that hes liable for 
them.
 
However, there are circumstances when it might be appropriate for Nationwide to take 
additional steps before processing a payment. Such as when there are grounds to suspect it 
presents a fraud risk. That might occur when a payment is significantly unusual or 
uncharacteristic compared to the normal use of the account. And/or if the account activity fits 
a known pattern of fraud. 
It appears Mr S didnt use his account regularly. Regardless, Im not persuaded these 
payments were so unusual that Nationwide had cause for concern. They were spaced out, 
so it didnt appear Mr S was being pressured. And none were for significantly high amounts. 
This was a current account, and held a reasonable balance, so I dont think it would have 
looked suspicious to Nationwide that Mr S would occasionally use it to make payments.
While Mr S says the payments cleared his balance, this didnt happen all at once. He started 
with a balance exceeding £3,000. In that context, I dont think the first scam payment of 
£1,000, utilising less than a third of his available balance, looked concerning. The next 
payment was around a week later, and still left a balance of over £1,000. Although the third 
payment (again around a week later) used most of the balance, it didnt completely clear the 
account. And by that point, the pattern of transactions looked regular. 
There was a further gap of around three weeks before the final scam payment, which again 
fitted this pattern  and the account was topped up prior. So I dont think this looked 
suspicious either.
Nationwide initially didnt make it clear whether these payments were card payments or bank 
transfers. It has since clarified they were transfers. As our investigator covered off, the 
payments were sent to an account in Mr Ss name, which he set up, before being sent on to 
the scammer. So they dont fall under the scope of the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) code, as it doesnt cover me-to-me payments. And Nationwide couldnt have 
successfully recalled the funds when the scam was reported  as they had been moved on 
from the account they were sent to. Otherwise, Mr S could have retrieved them himself.
I dont doubt Mr S has lost out to a scam. But Im not persuaded its fair to expect Nationwide 
to reimburse him for this, or to take other action to put things right. Thats because Im not 
persuaded Mr Ss loss is attributable to any errors by Nationwide. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman