DRN-1393637
The complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, closed his credit card 
account. He thinks they shouldve given him the option to keep it open.
What happened
Barclaycard wrote to Mr D in June 2019 to let him know that, due to his credit card not being 
used for some time, they were reducing his credit limit to £50 and that his account would be 
closed in September 2019.
Mr D complained to Barclaycard as he was unhappy about his account being closed but they 
didnt change their position. Barclaycard explained it was their policy to review accounts on 
an on-going basis where there had been no activity for a number of months. They said Mr 
Ds account had been selected to be closed as it hadnt been used since December 2003.
The complaint was referred to our service. Our investigator said a credit card provider should 
give enough notice of their intention to close an account to allow the account holder to 
manage their finances. As Barclaycard wrote to Mr D in June 2019 to inform him of this he 
didnt think theyd acted unfairly. He also added that while
Mr D thought Barclaycard, as a common courtesy, shouldve offered him the opportunity to 
keep the account they werent obligated to do so.
Mr D disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive come to the same 
outcome as our investigator and for largely the same reasons.
The terms and conditions of the account say that in the event Barclaycard decide to close an 
account theyll provide at least two months written notice. In this case, I can see Barclaycard 
did that by writing to Mr D in June 2019 before they closed his account in September 2019. I 
think this was reasonable notice in the circumstances and Im satisfied Barclaycard acted in 
line with the terms of the account.
I appreciate Mr D is unhappy with Barclaycards decision to close his account. And that he 
thinks they ought to have given him the opportunity to keep it open, as they did when they 
wrote to him previously in 2017. But Barclaycard isnt obligated to do this as they can decide 
who they wish to offer lending facilities to. So, given Mr D hadnt used the credit card 
account since December 2003, I dont think it was unreasonable for them close his account 
in line with their dormant accounts policy. 
I know this outcome will come as a disappointment to Mr D. But I dont think Barclaycard has 
acted unfairly, or outside the terms and conditions of the account, when closing Mr Ds 
account
 My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2020.
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman