DRN-2998016
The complaint
  This complaint is about a mortgage that Mr S holds with Barclays Bank UK PLC. He is 
unhappy with the slow processing of his over-payments, and with the way certain staff 
behave when dealing with him.
What happened
The background of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat it in detail 
again here. Instead Ill give a brief summary of where the dispute is at and then focus on 
giving the reasons for my decision. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be settled by Barclays paying Mr S £100; both 
parties agreed initially and the payment has been made. Mr S later asked for the case to be 
reopened after having apparently detected a renewed deterioration in service after hed been 
assured things had improved. He also specified the names of certain staff he refused to 
have any dealings with in future, otherwise hed insist on being allowed to repay the 
mortgage free of any early repayment charge (ERC). 
  
What Ive decided  and why
If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because 
I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the 
wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority.  We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions 
on how we investigate a complaint, or when we have enough information on file to decide it.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Having done so, Ive reached the following conclusions.
As far as the underlying complaint is concerned, Im satisfied the payment of £100 
compensation recommended by the investigator  which was accepted by both parties and 
implemented  is a fair and reasonable settlement in the wider context. I would not award 
more.
If Mr S has encountered fresh problems with payments hes made since this complaint came 
to us, hell need to raise those issues with Barclays in a new complaint first, and refer that 
complaint to us if not happy with Barclays response. But I cant deal with it here.
If Mr S repays his Barclays mortgage from choice during a period when the contract allows 
Barclays to apply an ERC, then hell have to pay it, regardless of what prompted him to 
make that choice. There no provision in the contract between him and Barclays that allows 
him to specific which staff remembers he will and wont interact with.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint but make no further award of compensation beyond that which has 
already been accepted. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman