DRN-2450747
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs A complain that HSBC UK Bank plc caused an international payment to be 
unreasonably delayed. They also complain about poor service.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A had a joint current account with HSBC. 
On 11 May 2020 Mr A sent an international payment using HSBCs online banking. He says 
he expected the payment to arrive in the destination account within a few days. It hadnt 
arrived by 14 May 2020 so he contacted HSBC using the online chat facility.
Mr A says he wasnt provided with a reason for the delay in the payment being made. He 
was told to contact the international payment team. He phoned them on 15 May 2020 and 
was told the payment had been stopped by the intermediary bank because it needed further 
information. Mr A provided the information requested. He wasnt told what action HSBC 
would take to make sure that the payment was made.
The payment still hadnt been received on 18 May 2020 even though the intermediary bank 
charges were debited to the account on that date. He phoned HSBC again several times 
over the next few days. He asked HSBC to send a chaser to the intermediary bank on 20 
May 2020 but it didnt do this until the next day. The payment was released by the 
intermediary bank on 22 May 2020 but due to bank holidays in the destination country Mr A 
says it wasnt credited to the destination account until 29 May 2020.
Mr A says hes lost out financially as a result of the unnecessary delays caused by HSBC. 
He wanted to make an investment in the destination country as soon as the money was 
received but this was delayed. He says HSBC has treated him unfairly and not 
communicated clear information to him. He complained to HSBC.
HSBC investigated his complaint. It didnt uphold his complaint. It said it had sent him a letter 
and a secure message on 13 May 2020 informing him that the intermediary bank required 
additional information. He hadnt provided this until 15 May 2020 and HSBC had passed the 
information on the next working day. It said thered been no bank error. It wasnt unusual for 
an intermediary bank to request additional information for international payments. This was 
in line with internal compliance regulations. So, it didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr A wasnt satisfied. He referred his complaint to our service. Because this was a joint 
account Mrs A agreed to be joined as a party to the complaint. Our investigator looked into 
the complaint. He said that HSBC had made it clear on its website, and when Mr A made the 
payment, that additional information might be requested. He said HSBC had sent an email 
and a letter on 13 May 2020 requesting this information. It hadnt received the information 
until 15 May 2020 and had passed it on the next working day. He didnt think thered been an 
unreasonable delay. He agreed with Mr A that HSBC shouldve sent a chaser on 20 May 
2020 to the intermediary bank, but he didnt think this guaranteed the payment would have 
been released earlier. He didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr A said he hadnt received an email on 13 May 2020. He said he was only told he needed 
to provide additional information after hed contacted HSBC using the chat facility. He 
thought HSBC had fabricated information.
Our investigator considered what Mr A had said. He contacted HSBC. It confirmed that the 
email hadnt been sent until 14 May 2020. But it said it had sent this email before Mr A had 
contacted it on 14 May 2020. Our investigator didnt change his view. 
Mr A and Mrs A didnt agree and the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at HSBCs terms and conditions which apply to international payments. These 
state that it usually takes up to four working days for an international payment to reach the 
destination account. The terms state that it may take longer depending on the country the 
money is being sent to. The terms also state that HSBC may need to use an intermediary 
bank to make certain international payments.
It is the case that the payment Mr A was making was made using an intermediary bank. It 
raised a request for additional information which it sent to HSBC via SWIFT message on 12 
May 2020. SWIFT is an electronic messaging system used to send messages between 
financial organisations. The message stated that the payment had been stopped and set out 
the additional information the intermediary bank required. The message also stated that 
HSBC should respond within five working days.
HSBC has provided evidence that it raised an internal memo on 13 May 2020. The purpose 
of the internal memo appears to have been to allocate a task to a member of its staff to 
action the SWIFT message. I can see that on 13 May 2020 a letter was created and sent to 
Mr A asking him for the additional information. An electronic message  which was destined 
for Mr As online banking  was also created. HSBC has clarified, after Mr A queried this, 
that the online banking message wasnt sent until 9.51 on 14 May 2020. 
I can understand why Mr A was concerned that HSBC said it sent this message on 13 May 
2020 when he didnt receive it until 14 May 2020. But, having looked at the documentation 
provided Im satisfied HSBC made an error in its final response letter. It has acknowledged 
this error and, on balance Im not persuaded it sought to fabricate information.
It is the case that Mr A contacted HSBC later on 14 May 2020 (at 12.12). At that time, he 
says he wasnt told why the payment hadnt been received at the destination bank. He was 
only told to contact the international payments team. Mr A says he shouldve been given full 
details at this stage. 
Ive thought about what Mr A has said. Im satisfied HSBC had sent him an electronic 
message earlier on 14 May 2020 giving him full details. And during the online chat he was 
told to contact the international payments team. He says he shouldve been given full details 
when he was in the online chat. But, having thought about it I dont think that wouldve been 
appropriate or necessary. Hed already been sent full details in the electronic message sent 
to his online banking. And, hed been asked to phone HSBC in response to that message. In 
the online chat he was told again to contact the international payments team. He didnt do 
that until the next day. Mr A provided the information requested on 15 May 2020 and HSBC passed this information 
on to the intermediary bank the following day. I think it did this within a reasonable 
timeframe. After that date it was up to the intermediary bank to process the payment. Mr A 
says HSBC shouldve sent a chaser to it. Hed been in contact with HSBC on several 
occasions and it wouldve understood the urgency of his request.
I can understand why Mr A thinks HSBC, after he contacted it on 19 May 2020, shouldve 
sent messages to the intermediary bank to ask it to process the payment without further 
delay. It didnt do that until 21 May 2020. But, as our investigator said, even if it had sent a 
chaser earlier, I dont think that would have guaranteed the payment wouldve been released 
sooner. The intermediary bank would have followed its own processes and procedures. 
Having considered everything here, Im satisfied HSBC didnt do anything wrong. There 
were warnings in its terms and conditions and online that international payments of this type 
could take longer than four working days. I think it processed the payment and dealt with the 
intermediary bank requests within a reasonable period of time. So, Im satisfied HSBC acted 
fairly and reasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman