DRN-1571394
 
The complaint
Mr R says Barclays Bank UK PLC (previously Egg) mis-sold him payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr R applied for a credit card and PPI online in 1999. He says he was told his card 
application was more likely to be accepted if he took out PPI.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Rs complaint didnt uphold it. Mr R disagrees and so his 
complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. I know this will disappoint him 
but I hope the reasons Im about to give help him to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
Although Mr R says he was told taking PPI would increase the chances of his card 
application being accepted, Ive seen no evidence from the time that this was the case. I 
cant see anything in the online application I think its likely Mr R wouldve followed that gives 
this impression. From what Ive seen of Mr Rs likely online journey, I think he wouldve been 
given clear yes and no options for PPI. And so I think its likely he chose the yes option 
at the time, since PPI was added to his account.
Egg didnt recommend the PPI to Mr R so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr R got the information he needed to make that decision himself in 
an informed way. 
The information Egg gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But the 
on-line application Mr R is likely to have followed did set out what type of cover the PPI gave 
(accident, sickness and unemployment) as well as explaining that it would cost 59p in every 
£100 of his outstanding balance every month. And I think Mr R chose to take it out based on 
this information  despite the sick pay hes told us he wouldve got from his employer and 
the savings he says he had. 
The information Egg gave Mr R about the exclusions to and limits on the PPI cover could 
also have been better. But based on what Ive seen of Mr Rs circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like he was affected by any of these  so I think the PPI wouldve been useful to 
him if something went wrong. Mr R has told us about some health conditions he had  but from what he says he developed these after he bought this particular PPI policy. He also 
says the PPI didnt pay out when he had some periods of sickness. But, from information 
Egg has shown us, I think it paid out two sickness claims, in 2001 and 2003.
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So all in all I dont think better information about the 
PPI wouldve put Mr R off taking out the cover. This means Egg doesnt have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Egg has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because: 
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr R about that. Because Egg didnt tell Mr R, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive given, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC 
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.                                                
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr R any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2020.
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman