DRN-2623697
The complaint
Mr B complains that the conditional sale agreement he signed with Close Brother Limited to 
obtain a car was misrepresented to him.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint in my provisional decision dated 27 January 2021 
and wont repeat it again here. In my provisional decision I set out why I thought the 
complaint should be upheld. I said:
Having carefully considered what happened, I find that the conditional sale 
agreement was misrepresented to Mr B. I think its clear that he only realised he 
would need to pay £172 each month when his account was debited for the first time. 
This was when he immediately contacted Close Brothers and the supplying garage to 
query the amount. He was expecting to pay £71.93, as set out in the first agreement.
I am also persuaded that the supplying garage misrepresented how the outstanding 
finance on his existing agreement would be dealt with. Mr Bs testimony has been 
consistent throughout about this. He told us that the supplying garage arranged to 
add £1,000 of the finance outstanding on his existing agreement to the new 
agreement and that this is contained within the total cash price of goods figure of 
£7,495. And that the supplying garage agreed to contribute the remaining amount 
towards his outstanding finance. I accept this does appear to be a very generous 
offer by the supplying garage. But the member of staff who made that offer also failed 
to tell Mr B the actual cost of his monthly payments and changed the contact details 
on the second agreement so that Mr B did not receive any information about it. So 
Im persuaded that the same individual, in all likelihood, told Mr B he would write off 
all but £1,000 of his outstanding finance.
Close Brothers suggests Mr B should reasonably have known he would have to pay 
more than £71.93, and Ive carefully considered each of its arguments:
The second agreement was discussed  Mr B says he was told a mistake had 
been made on the agreement and he needed to pop back to the supplying 
garage to re-sign. He says when he arrived, the member of staff had the 
signature screen open and he was simply asked to sign. This is supported by the 
text message he received. Theres no evidence that a discussion took place by 
phone, and the text message indicates theres been a minor mistake and all Mr B 
needs to do is sign again. Theres nothing to suggest that the mistake meant the 
monthly payments would be higher. I cant say for sure whether anything was 
discussed when he arrived at the supplying garage. But I think Mr Bs testimony 
is plausible and is supported by the fact that the first time he knew that the 
monthly payment was higher was when it debited his account.
Mr B should have read the agreement before he signed it  Mr B read the first 
agreement and he understood that all he needed to do was re-sign due to a 
minor error. Im persuaded by what hes told us  that he was presented with the 
signature screen which wouldnt have allowed him to read the agreement. This is 
supported by the
text message he received which said, itll only take two minutes to do.
Mr B should reasonably have known the monthly payments would be higher  I 
accept Mr B had been paying around £154 for an older car. But I dont find Mr B 
did anything wrong by relying on the expertise of the supplying garage to 
calculate the repayments under the terms of this new agreement.
The welcome pack set out the payments  after Mr B complained, he obtained 
details of the second agreement. His email and postal addresses had been 
changed from the details hed provided in the first agreement. So he didnt 
receive any information about the second agreement until after hed complained.
Overall, I find that the agreement was misrepresented  both the amount Mr B 
needed to pay and how the outstanding finance on his existing agreement would be 
dealt with.
I also find the agreement was mis-sold, because it wasnt affordable. Close Brothers 
was responsible for carrying out proportionate checks to ensure Mr B could afford the 
monthly repayments, and Ive not seen evidence that it did this. Whilst the payment 
of £172.92 wasnt much more than the £154 hed been paying under the terms of his 
old agreement, Mr Bs insurance premium was higher, meaning the agreement was 
unaffordable.
In the circumstances, I agree with our investigators recommendations on how to put 
this right. But the situation has changed since our investigator set out his 
recommendations.
By around October 2019, Mr B could not afford to meet the monthly payments and he 
cancelled his car insurance. As this was in breach of the conditional sale agreement, 
Close Brothers issued a default notice and collected the car in March 2020. After 
selling the car at auction, Close Brothers told Mr B that he owed £5,930.05 and it 
passed the debt to a debt collection agency.
Having decided the agreement was misrepresented to him, and the payments 
werent affordable, I need to decide what, if anything, Mr B owes.
Firstly, I dont agree with Close Brothers that this was simply an administrative error 
which doesnt justify unwinding the agreement. The second agreement substantially 
changed Mr Bs financial commitment and he wasnt given the opportunity to 
consider whether the higher payment was affordable. I find the agreement was 
mis-sold and should be unwound.
Mr B didnt pay a deposit, so no deposit refund is due to him.
I think its fair that Mr B does pay for the use hes had of the car. And I agree with our 
investigator that a fair way to resolve this is for him to pay £71.93 for each month that 
he had use of the car  so from June 2019 to when he cancelled the car insurance in 
October 2019. Close Brothers should repay the amount Mr B paid each month in 
excess of £71.93, plus interest. For the remaining months when the agreement was 
in place  November 2019 to March 2020, Close Brothers should refund any 
payments made by Mr B in full, plus interest.Mr B needs to repay £1,000 for the finance outstanding on his previous agreement. 
Close Brothers can use the refund its calculated to repay this figure. If the £1,000 is 
not repaid in full, Close Brothers should tell Mr B how much he owes. And it should 
allow Mr B to repay this in affordable instalments.
Its not clear why Close Brothers thinks no distress was caused by the mistakes that 
were made here. Mr B was not made aware of the payments he was contracted to 
pay, and he could not afford them. This was very upsetting for him and hes been 
caused a lot of trouble trying to sort this out. The cars been returned and Mr Bs 
received contact from a debt collection agency. Close Brothers should compensate 
Mr B for the trouble and upset hes been caused. I agree with our investigator that 
£200 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances here.
Neither party provided any additional information or evidence in response to my provisional 
decision.
.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
As Ive not received any additional information or evidence, I see no reason to depart from 
the conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that Close Brothers Limited should:
1. Recall the debt from the debt collection agency and ensure Mr B receives no further 
contact about the debt.
2. Record the conditional sale agreement as settled or remove it from Mr Bs credit file 
altogether.
3. For June 2019 to October 2019, refund any payments Mr B made in excess of £71.93 
each month, plus interest at 8% simple from the date of each payment to the date of the 
refund. *
4. For November 2019 to March 2020, refund any payments Mr B made in full, plus interest 
at 8% simple from the date of each payment to the date of the refund. *
5. Pay £200 compensation to Mr B for the trouble and upset caused.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Close Brothers Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
Close Brothers Limited must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman