DRN-2676615
The complaint
Mr M complains Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr M took out a mortgage with BoS in July 1992. He applied for a PPI policy at around the 
same time. It gave Mr M a monthly benefit for up to 12 months for each successful accident, 
sickness or unemployment claim he made.
Mr M says the PPI was presented as being part of a bundle of products and he was under 
the impression that, if he didnt take it, he wouldnt get the mortgage. Mr M says he had 
savings of around £20,000 at the time, so the PPI wasnt suitable for him.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Ms complaint didnt uphold it. Mr M disagrees and so his 
complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account when looking at this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I know this will disappoint him 
but I hope the reasons Im about to give help him to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
BoS needed to make it clear to Mr M he had a choice about PPI and get his agreement to it. 
BoS says it believes its more likely than not that the optional nature of the policy was 
verbally explained to Mr M in good time before the sale of his PPI policy was concluded.
Mr M says he agreed to the PPI. But he says, especially being self-employed, he didnt think 
hed get the mortgage without the PPI. He says it was my genuine belief based on the 
discussion with the bank at that time that if I did not take that product, then my application 
would be in jeopardy. The money I had saved backs my assertion. 
So Ive got two different accounts of how BoS presented the PPI to Mr M. And theres very 
little documentation from the time. But one thing I have seen is Mr Ms signed mortgage 
application from June 1992. 
Theres a section in the application about PPI. It includes three questions, which are broadly 
as follows:
1. Will your income be reduced if you are off work due to accident or illness? Yes/No
On Mr Ms application form, this question hasnt been answered.
2.If no payment or salary is made by your employer when you are off work, what 
arrangements have you made to protect your financial responsibilities during the first 
12 months of your incapacity?
On Mr Ms application form, this question has been answered with the handwritten 
word: SAVINGS.
3.What arrangements have you made to provide for your responsibilities should you 
become unemployed or made redundant?
On Mr Ms application form, again, this question has been answered with the 
handwritten word: SAVINGS.
There is then a final question: Do you want the Bank to arrange this cover [that is, the PPI] 
on your behalf? There are Yes and No boxes for this question. And, on Mr Ms 
application form, the Yes box has been ticked.
I think its clear from the mortgage application form that an applicant has a choice about 
whether or not to take out PPI. And I can see at the end of the form, in the section For Bank 
Use Only, it says Mr M has requested three insurances  house buildings, house contents 
and PPI.
Its possible, as Mr M says, that  despite whats in the application form itself  BoS led him 
to believe he had to take the PPI to get the mortgage. But the evidence pointing to this  
essentially, Mr Ms recollections more than 25 years on about what happened  isnt strong 
enough for me to think, on balance, it would be a fair and reasonable basis on which to 
uphold his complaint. I dont doubt that Mr M has given us his honest recollections. But, from 
the information I have from the time, it looks to me more likely he chose the cover, despite 
his savings (which are referred to on the application form), knowing he didnt have to.
Ive gone on to see if there are any other reasons why I should uphold Mr Ms complaint but I 
dont think there are. 
BoS has treated the sale as if it recommended the PPI to Mr M. So it needed to take 
reasonable steps to make sure it was right for him. With so little information from the time, I 
dont know if BoS did this. But Ive looked at what Mr M has told us of his circumstances at 
the time. And, although BoS hasnt been able to give us a copy of Mr Ms actual PPI policy 
document from the time, Ive looked at a BoS policy document from a while after the sale, 
whose terms and conditions are, I think, likely to be similar to those in Mr Ms policy. And 
based on Mr Ms circumstances and the likely policy terms, I think the PPI was suitable for 
him. I say this because:
I think its likely Mr M was eligible for the cover. And I dont think he was affected by 
any of the limitations and exclusions the policy was likely to contain  for example in 
relation to health problems or unusual employment terms. Although Mr M was self-
employed, I think the policy he had was unlikely to make it more difficult for a self-
employed person to make an unemployment claim. So I dont think there was 
anything to stop Mr M getting the full policy benefit if hed needed it.
Although Mr M had savings  and has shown us various records of these (some of 
which, though, are in the name of a company that I assume he ran his business 
through)  I dont think this made the PPI unsuitable for him. I say this bearing in mind a mortgage is a significant and long-term financial commitment secured on your 
home, which is at risk if you fall behind on your mortgage repayments. So I think it 
wouldve been prudent of Mr M to want to protect against the risk of sickness and 
accident or of running out of work by taking out such cover, especially since he was 
self-employed. And it wouldve meant he couldve used his savings for other 
necessary living expenses  rather than for paying the mortgage  if things did get 
difficult.
I havent seen anything to make me think Mr M couldnt afford the cover.
As well as making sure the PPI was suitable for Mr M, BoS also had to give him enough 
clear information about the main features of the policy for him to be able to make an 
informed decision about whether he wanted it. Again, I dont know what steps BoS took to do 
this. But, as Ive said, I think its more likely than not that, at the time, Mr M agreed to the PPI 
knowing he had a choice about it. And I think it was suitable for him. So clearer information 
(if it had been needed) would, I think, only have confirmed this to Mr M and wouldnt have 
changed his decision.
It follows that, on balance, I dont think Mr M has lost out because of anything BoS has done 
wrong, so I dont think it needs to do anything to put things right for him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman