DRN-2665929
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy with the level of compensation offered to her by Lloyds Bank PLC in 
relation to an account switch being declined and the return of the funds she had deposited 
as part of the switching process.
What happened
Mrs G made an online current account switch application to Lloyds in October 2019. The 
application was unsuccessful, so Mrs G complained to Lloyds about it.
Lloyds sent their final response on the matter to Mrs G in November 2019. Mrs G didnt 
receive the letter, so she contacted them in early December to see what was happening with 
her complaint.
Lloyds explained that the application was declined because her credit score didnt meet their 
requirements. They resent the letter to Mrs G and asked her for details of the account she 
wished to transfer the money held in the account to. Mrs G didnt give the account details to 
Lloyds agent as she wanted to wait for the letter to arrive.
After the letter arrived, Mrs G complained to Lloyds again as she didnt think they had 
answered her complaint. In addition, she queried why the letter said she would need to visit 
her local branch with photographic identification to withdraw the funds she had deposited in 
the account.
The nearest branch to Mrs Gs home address was 150 miles away, so Mrs G complained to 
Lloyds about the inconvenience this would cause her.
Lloyds sent a further letter to Mrs G in December 2019 confirming that their decision was 
unchanged. As the complaint wasnt resolved to Mrs Gs satisfaction, she brought her 
complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into things for Mrs G. He issued a number of views on this 
matter - based on additional information that was provided by Lloyds and Mrs G throughout 
his investigation.
In summary, he felt that Lloyds had inconvenienced Mrs G in a manner that was avoidable 
by not returning the funds and asking her to visit a branch to provide photographic 
identification when they knew the nearest branch to her was a 300-mile round trip.
Our investigator thought Lloyds should return the funds currently in the account, pay £100 in 
compensation to Mrs G and cover any telephone costs relating to her complaint with them, if 
she provided evidence of those costs.
Mrs G was unhappy with the amount of compensation suggested by our investigator, so she 
asked for her case to be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
Mrs G has suggested that an appropriate level of compensation would be as follows:
The deposited funds are returned.
Payment of the £125 switch incentive which was offered at the time of opening the 
account.
Payment of £50 for deprival of funds and accrued interest since October 2019.
Payment of £50 for timeliness in resolving the complaint and the anxiety caused by 
Lloyds.
Payment of £20 cost of telephone calls and protracted hold periods in the course of 
the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to a similar conclusion to our investigator and Ive explained my 
reasons below.
 
Lloyds have now agreed to re-open the account and return the funds to Mrs G. So once 
Lloyds arrange for this to happen, the issue of returning the funds will be resolved. 
However, I need to consider the impact this situation has had on Mrs G, if it was fair to ask 
her to make this journey to get her money back and whether any compensation is warranted 
in the circumstances.
Lloyds are entitled to make a commercial decision with regard to opening accounts for new 
customers. In this case, Mrs Gs account was closed during the initial switching process as 
her application didnt meet Lloyds second stage credit check requirements.
While there is a clear process for switching accounts and set timescales, they dont apply if 
the switch is cancelled as it was here. So, I dont think it is reasonable to expect Lloyds to 
pay an incentive fee as the switch never completed.
Mrs G has proposed that a payment of £50 for deprival of funds and accrued interest since 
October 2019 is warranted in this case however, I dont agree. The interest accrued on the 
funds that were deposited would amount to not much more than a few pence and I think the 
impact of not having access to these funds would have been minimal. As such I dont think 
compensation is necessary for this aspect of the complaint as Lloyds have already agreed to 
return the funds including any accrued interest.
Nonetheless, I think Lloyds couldve resolved this complaint sooner and I think it was 
unreasonable for them to expect Mrs G to make a 300-mile round trip to retrieve the funds. I 
think it is fair to say that alternative arrangements shouldve been made at an earlier stage. 
This is considering the specific circumstances of this complaint and the fact that the UK was 
in lockdown and this wouldnt have been considered to be an essential journey. 
By the time Lloyds decided they could re-open the account and return the funds to Mrs G 
without seeing the photographic identification, we were already a year down the line from 
when the complaint was first made to them. During this time, Mrs G has had to make 
numerous phone calls and send numerous emails to try and reach a resolution.
So, I can understand Mrs Gs frustration about the inconvenience this delay has caused and 
particularly the additional administration she has had to undertake to resolve the issue.   
On the other hand, Mrs G didnt ever make the journey and she hasnt been inconvenienced 
by having to travel anywhere. 
Putting things rightTaking all of the above into account I consider that a payment of £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mrs G is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Lloyds have also said they are willing to meet the telephone costs incurred by Mrs G, 
specifically relating to this complaint, if they are provided with evidence of these costs.
The above is in addition to Lloyds returning the original deposit and accrued interest to the 
account it originated from.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to:
- return the original deposit and accrued interest to the originating account;
- pay £100 to Mrs G in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused and 
- pay any telephone costs incurred by Mrs G in the process of her complaint to them - 
provided she sends them evidence of these costs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman