DRN-4311361
The complaint
Mrs W complains that payments she made to a customer of Nationwide Building Society 
werent credited to their account. 
What happened
On 29 December 2022 Mrs W sent payments of £2,700 and £1,000 from her bank account 
with a business Ill refer to as L to a third party that banks with Nationwide. 
Mrs W has explained that in May 2023 the third party contacted her to advise they hadnt 
received the funds which were being held in a sundries account by Nationwide. Mrs W adds 
the third party also advised their account had been blocked a the time Nationwide received 
Mrs Ws payments and they hadnt subsequently been credited to them. 
A complaint was raised by Mrs W and Nationwide issued a final response on 8 June 2023. 
Nationwide said the payments Mrs W made on 29 December 2022 were successfully paid 
into the nominated account and that no error had been made. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mrs Ws complaint. They said that Nationwide was 
limited in the information it could provide as Mrs W wasnt complaining about a payment 
made to an account in her name. The investigator didnt ask Nationwide to take any further 
action. Mrs W asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
As the investigator has said, because the account that Mrs W sent payments to belongs to a 
third party Nationwide is limited in the information it can provide. When a business receives 
notice that something may have gone wrong with a payment it received wed expect it to 
investigate and respond to the sending bank. Im satisfied Nationwide complied with that 
obligation when contacted by the sending bank. 
When Nationwide responded to Mrs Ws complaint it confirmed the payment had been 
credited to the nominated account as instructed and that no errors had been made. 
Nationwide added that Mrs W should contact the third party to take the matter up further. As 
Im satisfied Nationwide responded to Mrs Ws enquiries to confirm the payment was 
successfully made and dealt with her complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman