DRN-3994520
The complaint
Mr B is represented. His representative says Sterling Wealth Ltd (SWL) is responsible for 
the unsuitable advice given to him in 2015 to transfer his Legal and General (L&G) 
Personal Pension (PP) to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with Novia, and then to 
invest the SIPP in risky funds (the Dolphin, Olmsted Bond, Enviroparks and The Resort 
Group funds, or the funds) he neither understood nor had the risk profile for. 
SWL disputes the complaint. It says it did not recommend the PP to SIPP transfer or the 
SIPPs investments, so it is not responsible for the complaint and, for that reason, this 
service does not have jurisdiction to address it.
What happened
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) for this complaint on 14 February 2023 and invited 
both parties to provide their comments in response. They were given a deadline to do so, but 
neither party appears to have submitted comments. After the PD this service received notice 
from an SWL email address saying SWL had gone into administration due to insolvency. We 
enquired further into this and updated Mr B, but the task remains to complete our process, 
hence this final decision.
The main contents of the PD were my provisional findings. They were set out in detail, and I 
consider it helpful to quote them in the same level of detail. I do that as follows  
Jurisdiction
Before addressing the rules that define our jurisdiction, I consider it helpful to summarise 
relevant background information. 
Background  
According to the regulators records for firms, TFCL ceased to be authorised on 21 
September 2015, and SWL has been authorised since 4 February 2015. I have 
checked the principals records too. His regulatory functions also ended on 21 
September 2015, and that happened under TFCL. He also appears to have had an 
employed connection with an Appointed Representative (AR) firm called Life Time 
Independent (LTI), whose AR authority appears to have ceased on 20 April 2006. I 
have noted this because, as I address next, LTI exists in the background of Mr Bs 
case.
Between 24 January 2015 and 20 February 2015 Mr B and LTI exchanged email 
correspondence. The exchange appears to have led to the suitability letter sent to 
him by the principal on 5 March 2015  however, the letter is not on headed paper 
and it is undersigned without reference to any particular firm. The exchange begins 
with Mr Bs email of 24 January to LTIs office manager, in which he referred to a 
discussion with the office manager on 23 January, to attachment of the letter of 
authority they discussed and to his request for advice on  whether to stay put or 
move to another scheme. 
The suitability letter recommended transfer to the Novia SIPP, and the 75%/25% 
investment split within the SIPP, between the LTI portfolio (which the letter described 
as one of the principals portfolios) and the GAM portfolio. It concludes with 
confirmation of a £500 initial advice fee and a 1% (of the value of the pension fund) 
per year on-going service fee.
There is a Memorandum of Understanding (MU) document dated 27 April 2015, 
signed by both the principal and by SWL. It described LTI as a trading style of TFCL 
and it mainly said both parties had agreed the transfer of TFCLs client book to SWL 
by way of novation, with all ongoing fees revenue from the client contracts being 
split between them on a 70/30 basis (the former to the principal and the latter to 
SWL). The document says new business referred to SWL by the principal would earn 
him a 25% introducer fee and that he was to continue as a consultant for SWL, 
dealing with TFCL clients, until both parties decided otherwise.
Novia has shared evidence with us, with regards to the setting up of the SIPP, the 
transfer of the PP into the SIPP and the transactions in the SIPP. The evidence 
supports the summary the investigator gave on these matters and I briefly repeat that 
as follows  the SIPP was created on 23 July 2015; the L&G PP was transferred in 
on 11 August 2015; TFCL was the adviser on record/servicing firm for the SIPP from 
23 July to 10 August 2015; then SWL was the adviser/servicing firm from 11 August 
2015.
Documentation for setting up of the SIPP included LTIs letter to Novia of 23 July 
2015 instructing the set-up (enclosing the transfer authority and L&G Discharge form, 
and giving notice of the 75%/25% investment split for the SIPP) and a SIPP 
Application Summary document in which TFCL was stated as the advising firm. 
Furthermore, there is evidence from Novia that its SIPP illustration document had 
been prepared for Mr B on 5 March 2015 (which also stated TFCL as the advising 
firm).
On 2 September 2015 SWL submitted to the DFM firm the completed application 
(dated 28 August) for its service  related to the GAM portfolio that was intended for 
the SIPP  and the DFMs terms document (signed by Mr B on 1 September). 
However, the application form still referred to TFCL as the adviser/intermediary firm. 
Also on 2 September, SWL issued instructions to Novia to give effect to the 25% 
GAM portfolio allocation in the SIPP and to move money (in the SIPP) for that 
purpose to the DFM. From 4 September 2015 onwards communications from Novia 
were only with SWL, and on 29 September 2015 Novia sent SWL the switch 
transaction statements for all the investments made in the funds (within the GAM 
portfolio) with attachments to forward to Mr B. On 6 October 2015 the DFM firm wrote 
to SWL to reconfirm the funds invested in the GAM portfolio.
In order for this service to have jurisdiction to address Mr Bs complaint it must fall within our 
territorial remit, it must have been a complaint made in time, it must be a complaint about a 
regulated activity and he must be an eligible complainant. These are the rules set out in the 
Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of the regulators Handbook. Our territorial remit and the 
timing of his complaint are not in dispute, so I will concentrate on the last two requirements. 
However, before doing so, I should note that based on SWL taking over servicing of the 
SIPP on 11 August 2015 and then communications with Novia from 4 September 2015,     
Mr Bs complaint in October 2021 could be viewed as outside the regulators six years time 
limit for complaints (beginning with the complaint event) and out of time. I have not taken this view because of the approach I consider the complaint requires, as I set out in this PD. I will 
provisionally find that SWLs responsibility in the complaint is about reviewing 
appropriateness of the SIPPs investments, that review being the relevant complaint event. 
The investments were made between early and late September 2015, so the review ought to 
have happened between September and, to allow for reasonable time that such reviews can 
take, October 2015. In this context, the timing of the complaint is no longer an issue  that is, 
an appropriateness review that should have happened by October 2015, at the latest, is 
within six years of the complaint in October 2021. A different conclusion might apply if the 
complaint event relates to an earlier date.
Regulated Activity defined  
DISP 2.3.1 R says we can consider complaints about regulated activities (or any ancillary 
activities, including advice, carried on by a firm in connection with them). The Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (RAO) provides a list of 
regulated activities. In the context of investments, they include advising on investments and 
arranging deals in investments  both of which should be considered for Mr Bs case.
Investment advice (advising on investments) is defined as:
[advice] given to the person in his capacity as an investor or potential investor, or in his 
capacity as agent for an investor or a potential investor and advice on the merits of his doing 
any of the following (whether as principal or agent)  
(i) buying selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which is a 
security or a [relevant investment], or
(ii) exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, subscribe for or 
underwrite such an investment.
Arranging deals in investments is defined as:
(1) Making arrangements for another person (whether as principal or agent) to buy, sell,
subscribe for or underwrite a particular investment which is
(a) a security,
(b) a contractually based investment, or
(c) an investment of the kind specified by article 86, or article 89 so far as relevant to that
article 
(2) Making arrangements with a view to a person who participates in the arrangements
buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting investments falling within paragraph (1)(a), (b)
or (c) (whether as principal or agent) 
Eligible Complainant defined  
The Handbook says  an eligible complainant must be a consumer, a micro-enterprise, a 
charity, a trustee of a trust, a small business or a guarantor. [DISP 2.7.3 R]; an eligible 
complainant must also show that the complaint comes from a relationship covered by the 
rules [DISP 2.7.6 R]
My Provisional Findings  
I begin with Mr Bs eligibility as a complainant. I consider that he is a consumer, so he 
satisfies the first test. In this respect, guidance for the rules says a consumer is any natural 
person acting for purposes outside his [or her] trade, business or profession. Available evidence is that his transfer of the PP to the SIPP and the investments that followed were all 
done in his capacity as a natural personal acting outside his trade, business or profession. 
The second test covers a number of relationships, including that between a customer and a 
firm. As I set out above, Mr Bs engagement with TFCL in March 2015 included an initial 
service and an ongoing service; the ongoing service, at least, was transferred to SWL in 
April 2015, along with the client book sale that happened that month; and I have referred to 
evidence from September 2015 onwards in which SWL led in providing ongoing servicing to 
Mr Bs SIPP. I consider these grounds to conclude that Mr B was SWLs customer, so he 
satisfies the second test too.
For the above reasons, Mr B is an eligible complainant.
In terms of determining the regulated activity that existed within the customer service given 
by SWL to Mr B, the facts must be given their due weight. 
I do not consider it necessary to give detailed treatment to the activity of arranging deals in 
investments. It is quite clear from the background summarised above that SWL conducted 
this activity in its service to Mr B. There is documentary evidence that it made the 
arrangements, from 1 September 2015 onwards, to engage the DFM for the GAM portfolio, 
to inform Novia about the 25% GAM portfolio allocation within the SIPP and to instruct Novia 
to allocate money to the DFM for the purpose of investing in the GAM portfolio.
As I mentioned earlier, Novias records confirm that SWL became the SIPPs servicing firm 
from 11 August 2015. The SIPPs transactions statement shows that the funds in the LTI 
portfolio, broadly as they were set out in the suitability letter, were invested on 9 September 
2015, so these too were done under SWLs service.
SWL arranged the investments made within Mr Bs SIPP. However, evidence does not 
extend to say SWL arranged the transfer from the PP to the SIPP. It did not. As I said above, 
the SIPPs illustration document (from March 2015) referred to TFCL only, documentation for 
setting up the SIPP was submitted by LTI to Novia in July 2015, and the documentation also 
referred to TFCL. Novias records show that the SIPP was created on 23 July 2015. These 
events happened before TFCLs regulatory authority ended in September 2015, so it still had 
the authority and scope to conduct the activities at the time, and before 11 August 2015 
when SWL started servicing the SIPP. 
The above supports the conclusion that TFCL continued to service the SIPP up to August 
2015, inclusive of arranging the setting up of the SIPP. 
I acknowledge that questions can be applied to some aspects of TFCLs role in this case  
such as the fact that TFCL featured in some aspects of work for Mr B, but LTI features in 
other aspects (and does so from the beginning of contact with Mr B); such as the fact that 
TFCL described LTI as its trading style, but the regulators records show that LTI was a 
distinct AR firm that had employed the principal but does not appear to have been an AR for 
TFCL and that had ceased to be authorised as an AR since 2006; and such as the fact 
TFCL appears to have recommended an LTI model portfolio to Mr B. These are not matters 
that SWL can answer for, given that it was not part of TFCL, and the present complaint is 
about SWL. As such, I am not persuaded that I need to make findings on them.
Evidence shows that advice to Mr B to transfer his PP to the SIPP, and on how to invest the 
SIPP, was given by TFCL. It was advice given almost two months before the MU and client 
book sale between TFCL and SWL, and over a month after Mr B contacted LTI for advice on 
moving the PP. I have not seen evidence that any aspect of the pension switch/investment advice request or provision involved SWL, so the conclusion that fairly follows is that SWLs 
service to Mr B did not include advising on investments.
Mr Bs representative has argued that SWL ought to have had an obligation to advise on the 
SIPP and its investments, arising from taking over his account and from an associated duty 
to review suitability within the account. It has also highlighted that deduction of the £500 
initial advice fee from the SIPP was on 11 August 2015, that the first ongoing fee deduction 
happened thereafter, that SWL became the servicing firm for the SIPP on the same date and 
that, it argues, it must have received both fees.
I can consider complaints about regulated activities or any ancillary activities, including 
advice, carried on by a firm in connection with a regulated activity. As I have set out above, 
my provisional finding is that SWL conducted, only, the regulated activity of arranging deals 
in investments within its service to Mr B (and to his SIPP). Whether (or not) it had an 
ancillary advice related role alongside this regulated activity, is a matter of fact and merit, 
and I will address that below.
Novation  
My analysis above did not include the notion that TFCLs liability for advice passed to SWL, 
because I do not consider that it did. The MU refers to the client book sale happening by way 
of novation but I consider that the word novation was probably mistakenly used, because 
nothing in the MU describes a novation and the circumstances around the client book sale 
do not appear to amount to a novation.
Client book sales between firms are not uncommon in the industry. In doing so, the firms 
involved in the sales must actively address what is (and/or is not) being transferred and the 
rights and responsibilities in the client accounts that are being transferred. Legal and 
contractual considerations therefore arise, and in Mr Bs case this appears to have taken 
the form of the MU between TFCL and SWL.
Each contracting party can potentially assign its rights in a contract, because in general 
terms the rights usually belong to those who hold them. TFCL partly did that in the MU, 
whereby it agreed to transfer its client book and to share its right to ongoing fees revenue 
from the client book with SWL. An assignment achieves this, but it does not cover the 
transfer of a partys liabilities. That requires novation.
Mr Bs rights in his client contract with TFCL were matched by obligations/liabilities owed 
by TFCL towards him. He did not have such a contract with SWL. Without that, he had 
nothing to hold SWL responsible for in terms of the service previously provided by TFCL. 
The necessary alternative, in order for him to have such a standing, would have been an 
arrangement in which TFCLs past liabilities towards him were novated to SWL. Thereafter, 
in theory, SWL would have been responsible for TFCLs past service to Mr B.
Novation requires consent across the three relevant parties  the transferor firm, the 
transferee firm and the client whose account is being transferred. The first must agree to 
transfer its client liability to the second, the second must agree to accept that liability and 
the client must agree that the liability towards him/her can be transferred. In the absence of 
such tripartite express consent, novation would not have been properly executed. There is 
no evidence in Mr Bs case of such tripartite express novation consent. The MU does not 
refer to it and I have not seen evidence of any other transfer related documentation that 
shows it happened.I consider that TFCL did no more than assign its rights in the client book it sold to SWL; so, 
responsibility for the client service it provided prior to that sale  including the advice it 
gave Mr B in March 2015  remained with TFCL despite the sale.
Merits
Before giving my provisional findings on the merits of the case  in the context of SWL 
arranging the investments in Mr Bs SIPP  I have considered the argument that it had or 
ought to have had an ancillary advice related role in the switch to the SIPP and/or its 
investments.
The SIPP had been established by the time SWL became its servicing firm. The same 
applies to the receipt within the SIPP of the transferred PP, which happened on the same 
date SWLs servicing of the SIPP began. The notion of SWL reviewing the advice to transfer 
the PP to the SIPP therefore appears to be arguably redundant, it had already happened by 
the time it took over. Furthermore, there is no evidence Mr B sought initial advice from SWL 
to review TFCLs transfer advice.
Did SWL have an ancillary advice related role in the SIPPs investments, or a duty to review 
suitability of the investments that had been recommended by TFCL? On balance, I 
understand the reasoning behind this argument and in another case with different 
circumstances the full extent of the argument could be a viable, but in the present case I am 
not persuaded to agree with the full argument. However, as I explain below, I agree with a 
part of it, in terms of SWL reviewing appropriateness (but not suitability) of the investments.
I do not consider there was a role for or duty upon SWL to review suitability of the SIPPs 
investments. Having said this, the fact was that the investments related to a pension and to 
unregulated investments. SWL knew that. Mindful of the regulatory guidance around the time 
about pension switches and unregulated investments within pensions, I consider that SWLs 
obligation to assess the appropriateness of the investments it was arranging should have 
been heightened. There appears to be no evidence that it conducted any appropriateness 
assessment, or did so properly. Had it done so, properly, the assessment ought reasonably 
to have ended with a warning to Mr B that implementing the GAM portfolio was inappropriate 
for him. Had it done that, he would probably not have invested in that portfolio. This finding 
does not include implementation of the LTI portfolio, it did not include unregulated 
investments, for the reasons I address below, I do not consider that it was inappropriate. 
My reasons are as follows:
To recap, SWL took over servicing of the SIPP on 11 August, on 9 September the 
SIPP was invested in the LTI portfolio and on 29 September the SIPP was invested 
in the GAM portfolio. Based on the evidence I have already mentioned, it is safe to 
say SWL was involved in all the relevant investment arrangements in between these 
dates. 
The circumstances were different to that in which a client changes advisers, and in 
which a duty to review existing and/or planned investments could be said to exist 
upon the new adviser. No such instruction (or payment) for advisory investment 
review, by a new adviser Mr B had moved to existed in the present case. Instead,   
Mr Bs ongoing account had been sold to SWL and SWLs role was limited to taking 
over the servicing the SIPP that was already in the account. 
However, this case is not about servicing investments or a portfolio of investments in 
isolation. It is about servicing a pension arrangement  created by a PP to SIPP 
transfer and then investment of the SIPP in the LTI and GAM portfolios. In undertaking the role of arranging the investments for Mr Bs pension, SWLs work 
was subject to the following  
oThe regulators Principles for Businesses  Principle 2, which generally 
requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence; and 
Principle 6, which generally requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests 
of its customers and to treat them fairly.
oThe regulators Conduct of Business (COBS) rules  COBS 2.1.1R, which 
generally requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its clients and in relation to designated 
investment business carried on for a retail client. 
oThe regulators industry alert for pensions issued in April 2014, which 
included  We believe pension transfers or switches to SIPPs intended to 
hold non-mainstream propositions are unlikely to be suitable options for the 
vast majority of retail customers. Firms operating in this market need to be 
particularly careful to ensure their advice is suitable.
I maintain that SWL is not responsible for advising on investments in this case, but it 
is a fact that it was a firm operating in the market where pension investments were 
concerned, hence its role in arranging Mr Bs SIPP investments. Even though the 
alert refers to ensuring suitability of advice but SWL did not advise the transfer or 
investments, in the context of its awareness of the alert (which it ought reasonably to 
have been aware of) it could not reasonably have ignored the pension switch 
followed by planned high-risk unregulated investments in the GAM portfolio in Mr Bs 
case. In addition, Principles 2 and 6 and COBS 2.1 compounded its responsibility to 
do the opposite and to address Mr Bs best interests, with care and diligence, in such 
a scenario. As I address next, this should have been done in an appropriateness 
assessment.
Appropriateness, under COBS 10 and 10A, must be assessed by a firm in order to 
determine whether (or not) a client has sufficient knowledge and experience to 
understand the risks involved in a financial service or product. This is distinct from 
the provision of risk warnings. Risk warnings that a client might receive give 
information on risks. Appropriateness is the process by which firms consider whether 
(or not) a client has enough knowledge and experience to understand such 
information and the true nature of the risks associated with a service or product. It is 
also distinct from the assessment of suitability, where the relevant considerations go 
beyond a clients knowledge and experience. A firm is not required to notify its client 
if the assessment concludes that the relevant service or product is appropriate. 
However, it is obliged to warn the client if the assessment concludes that its service 
or product is inappropriate. 
As I said above, SWL does not appear to have conducted any such assessment. I 
have not seen evidence that it was provided with, or obtained, information that said 
Mr B had previous knowledge and/or experience of high-risk unregulated 
investments. Available evidence is that he had neither, so the idea of exposing 25% 
of his pension to such investments, and in the context of the regulators alert at the 
time, ought reasonably to have prompted it to assess appropriateness. Had it done 
so, it would and should have concluded that the GAM portfolio was inappropriate for 
Mr B, because of his lack of knowledge and experience of that type of portfolio and of 
the type of high risks inherent within it. SWL would then have been obliged to warn 
him against investing in it. As I said above, he would probably have heeded such 
warning. The portfolio was not his idea and there is no evidence that he was insistent upon it. He appears to have followed TFCLs advice on it, so he appears to have 
been a client that followed advice and it is more likely (than not) that he would have 
continued to follow advice and would probably have followed a warning from SWL 
against investing in the GAM portfolio.
The same does not apply to the LTI portfolio. SWLs failure to conduct an 
appropriateness assessment remains an omission on its part, but even if it had 
conducted that assessment, I do not expect that it would have found the LTI portfolio 
to be inappropriate for Mr B. I have not viewed this from the perspective of suitability 
that the investigator used. For the sake of appropriateness, it is sufficient to consider 
whether he had the knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved in 
the portfolio. His pre-existing L&G PP shows he was not a novice to risk-based 
investments in his pension. There is evidence of the PPs contents in its February 
2015 Pension Statement. Almost 51% of it was held in the L&G (PMC) Multi-Asset 
Fund  which, according to the funds factsheet, consisted of around 37% 
international equities, around 9% UK equities, around 32% global fixed interest 
securities, around 5% in UK corporate fixed interest securities, around 8% UK Gilts 
and the minority remainders in property, managed funds and money market 
securities  around 36% of it was held in the L&G Over 15 Year Gilts Index fund and 
around 13% was held in the L&G Cash Fund. The LTI portfolio was broadly 
comparable, overall, in its constitution, so it would have been reasonable to conclude 
that Mr B had knowledge and experience that allowed him to understand the risks in 
the portfolio  and that the portfolio was not inappropriate for him.
I return, briefly, to the matter of advice and to Mr Bs representatives argument about the 
inference to be drawn from the fee deductions in the SIPP. The deductions are indeed in the 
transaction statement, but the statement does not say who the payments were made to. 
With regards to the initial advice fee, the SIPP was created on 23 July and TFCL was the 
servicing firm at the time; the MU only provided for sharing, between TFCL and SWL, 
ongoing income from the client book (with the principal taking the majority 70% share); there 
is no provision for transferring or sharing the right to the initial fee for advice (advice given, in 
Mr Bs case, almost two months previously); overall and on balance, I do not consider that 
the initial advice fee deduction shows that SWL was paid, and responsible, for the initial 
advice to Mr B. With regards to the ongoing fee for ongoing service, SWL probably received 
the former for performing the latter. That would have happened on the basis set out in the 
MU and in the context of SWL taking over servicing of the SIPP on11 August 2015. 
However, this alone does not automatically mean it had a duty to review suitability of the 
investments in the SIPP, and I have already addressed, above, my provisional findings on 
the review matter.
Conclusion
My provisional conclusion is that SWL is responsible for failing to review the appropriateness 
of the GAM portfolio investment in Mr Bs SIPP and that had it done so, it would have found 
the investment to be inappropriate for him, it would have been obliged to warn him about that 
and he probably would have heeded the warning by not investing in it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the case, and in the absence of comments from the parties, I retain the 
findings I made and the conclusions I reached in the PD. I incorporate both, as quoted above, into this decision. I also retain and incorporate the findings and provisional orders I 
set out in the PD for redress to Mr B. They are the basis for the redress provisions below.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr B as close as possible to the position he would now be in if he had not 
invested part of his SIPP in the inappropriate GAM portfolio. On balance, I consider that he 
would have behaved differently if he was warned against the portfolio and that he would not 
have invested in it. This means he should be compensated on the basis of what he would 
probably have done instead. It is not possible to say precisely what he would have done, but 
I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given his circumstances 
at the time of advice.
Mr B is ordered to engage meaningfully and co-operatively with SWL (and/or its agents) to 
provide it with all information and documentation relevant to its calculation of redress.
What SWL must do?
To compensate Mr B fairly, SWL must do the following:
Compare the performance of the allocation within Mr Bs SIPP that was initially 
dedicated to the GAM portfolio (including any investment/reinvestment activities 
within the allocation thereafter)  the GAM portfolio allocation  with that of the 
benchmark shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value the 
difference must be paid to him in compensation. If the actual value is greater than 
the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Pay any interest set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If 
SWL is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the 
interest, it must tell Mr B the deduction amount and give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, for him to reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Pay the compensation into Mr Bs pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation should not be 
paid into his pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance. If the compensation (and interest) cannot be paid into his pension plan, 
pay it directly to him. Had it been possible to pay it into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income, so the compensation should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional 
allowance should be calculated using his actual or expected marginal rate of tax at 
his selected retirement age. For example, if he is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer 
at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of 
tax. If he would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should 
be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Provide the calculation of the compensation to Mr B in a clear and simple format.
investment 
nameStatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to     
(end date)additional 
interestThe GAM 
portfolio 
allocation 
within Mr 
Bs Novia 
SIPPMixedFor half of the 
investment: FTSE UK 
Private Investors 
Income Total Return 
Index (prior to 1 
March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock 
Market Income Total 
Return Index); for the 
other half: the Bank 
of England average 
return from fixed rate 
bonds date of 
investment 
in the GAM 
portfoliodate of 
settlementnot applicable
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If at the end 
date the investment (or any part(s) of it) is illiquid the actual value of the investment (or its 
illiquid part(s)) should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr B agrees to SWL taking 
ownership of the investment (or its illiquid part(s)) if it wishes to. If that is not possible then 
SWL may request an undertaking from Mr B  to be drawn up at SWLs expense  that he 
repay to SWL any amount he may receive from the investment (or its illiquid part(s)) in the 
future. 
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the 
benchmark, SWL should use the monthly average rate for fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 
months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown 
as at the end of the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an 
annually compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations 
simpler, I will accept if SWL totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end 
instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Mr Bs L&G PP presents a constitution that can broadly be compared to an equal split 
between the FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index), which is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds, and the Bank of 
England average return from fixed rate bonds. I consider the L&G PP broadly indicative of 
his profile in 2015, with regards to his pension investments. My use of the combined 
benchmark does not mean he would have invested the GAM portfolio allocation strictly in 
line with either or both elements. I consider that the combination of both, as a benchmark for 
compensation, will broadly amount to fair redress for Mr B in the circumstances of his case 
and based on my findings on merit, and that it would reasonably reflect the sort of return he 
could have had to date, but for the inappropriate GAM portfolio investment.compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000, £355,000 or £375,000 (depending on 
when the complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any 
interest that I consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the 
respondent firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of 
my determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept the decision. 
In Mr Bs case, the complaint event occurred before 1 April 2019 (it happened in 2015) and 
the complaint was referred to us after 1 April 2020 (it was referred to us in 2022), so the 
applicable compensation limit would be £160,000.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint in terms of the inappropriateness of 
the GAM portfolio in his SIPP. I order Sterling Wealth Ltd to calculate and pay him 
compensation as set out above, and to provide him with calculation of the compensation in a 
clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman