DRN-3935247
The complaint
Miss H complains about the amount paid out by QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) under her car 
insurance policy when her car was stolen.
What happened
Miss H had a motor insurance policy with QIC covering her car.
In February 2022 her car was stolen and she made a claim from QIC.
QIC said it would settle her claim for £2,200, which was the amount Miss H had paid for the 
car in 2019, and was the amount shown on her policy schedule.
Miss H didnt agree with this amount, and she complained. She says car prices have 
generally risen since she bought her car and she couldnt find a similar one for the value QIC 
had given her.
QIC looked into her complaint and didnt uphold it. It said it had applied the limit shown on 
her policy schedule to the claim:
Market value - the cost of replacing the vehicle with another of a similar make, 
model, age, mileage and condition as at the time of the loss or damage, up to the 
value stated in your policy schedule.
Miss H remained unhappy with QICs valuation and brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into Miss Hs complaint and upheld it. He said QICs policy was 
written on a market value basis and as such Miss H could reasonably expect to receive the 
market value of her car from it. So, he said QIC should settle Miss Hs claim by paying her 
the market value for the car, plus interest. He looked at the trade guide values which gave 
an average value for the car of £5,395. 
Miss H accepted the view, but QIC didnt agree. It referred to other cases with this service 
where the amount paid was limited to the amount on the schedule. 
Because QIC didnt agree, this complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at QICs objections to the view. It sent this service details of two other cases in its 
objections, but they arent relevant to Miss Hs complaint. This service considers each case 
on its own merits, and having looked carefully at Miss Hs complaint, Im going to uphold it. 
Ill explain why.
Policy cover
QIC has said in its final response letter:
Your policy held with [QIC] is a market value policy.
Its important that I say that this policy is a market value policy, rather than an agreed value 
policy. When she applied for cover originally, Miss H put the value of the car as £2,200 
because that is what she had paid for it in 2019.
By using the amount on the schedule as a limit to the claim, QIC have applied a limit that 
only benefits itself, not Miss H. If the market value of Miss Hs car is above the amount 
shown on the schedule, QIC only need pay the lower amount; if the market value is below 
that stated on the schedule, again, QIC only need pay the lower amount. 
From the evidence I have, had Miss H said her car was worth £5,395 then QIC would not 
have charged her any more to insure it. So, QIC hasnt been prejudiced by Miss H using the 
price shed bought the car for as the value on her policy schedule, and I dont find that 
limiting the value of Miss Hs settlement to the amount shown on her schedule leads to a fair 
result. 
Valuation
This service doesnt provide valuations for vehicles, but looks to whether the insurers offer is 
reasonable. 
But Ive said above that I dont think its reasonable for QIC to have limited Miss Hs claim in 
the way it did.
Our usual approach is to use trade guides to establish whether an offer is fair and 
reasonable.
Miss Hs car is a rare model, and its age means that theres limited data available to 
understand its market value.
Ive done some research into the car and Ive found these values, provided by two different 
trade guides, for the month her car was stolen, which are based on a vehicle with the same 
specification and mileage:
Company A: £3,770
Company B: £7,019
Taking the average of these two values gives a market valuation (rounded) of £5,395.
Its my understanding that QIC has already settled Miss Hs claim for £2,200, less her 
excess. So I also think its fair to ask QIC to pay interest on the difference between the 
market value above, less Miss Hs excess, and the amount it has already settled the claim 
for. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct QIC Europe Ltd to settle Miss Hs 
claim at a market value of £5,395.
QIC Europe Ltd should also add interest at 8% a year simple to the difference between the 
amount it has already settled Miss Hs claim for, and the market value Ive said above less 
Miss Hs excess, from the date it original settled her claim, to the date it makes this payment.QIC Europe Ltd must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Miss H 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the amount 
from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman