DRN-1820186
 
The complaint
Mr B and Miss P complain about how The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc ('RBS') dealt with their 
joint bank account following Miss P entering into formal insolvency proceedings. Mr B also 
complains that once the account was put into his sole name, RBS were wrong in 
requiring him to undergo further credit checks before it would agree to an overdraft.
Although this complaint is brought with the agreement of Miss P, its primarily concerned 
with how Mr B's been treated by RBS.
What happened
From 2001 Mr B had an account with RBS and he successfully applied for an overdraft 
facility in 2010. In March 2016, Miss P was added to the account as joint account holder. 
In June 2019 Miss P entered into an Individual Voluntary Arrangement ('IVA'), a formal 
insolvency procedure. But RBS only became aware of the IVA in early October 2019. And 
when it did find out, it wrote to Mr B and Miss P informing them that it would remove the 
overdraft facility and downgrade the account to a basic account. In the same month, Mr B 
arranged for Miss P to be removed from the account. Despite Mr B once again being the 
sole account holder, RBS said it'd only reinstate the overdraft with credit checks. 
Mr B complained to RBS saying it should've given more notice before removing the overdraft 
from the joint account. RBS didn't uphold Mr B's complaint. It said its policy is that where it 
receives notice of a customer entering into formal insolvency procedures, it will prevent any 
further lending on the account. 
Unhappy with the way RBS handled things in relation to the joint account, Mr B transferred 
to different bank. He was also unhappy that he was still required to undergo credit checks for 
an overdraft even once the account was put into his sole name.
One of our investigator's looked at Mr B's complaint. In brief, the investigator was satisfied 
that RBS had acted in line with its processes, so didn't uphold the complaint. Mr B 
disagreed. He felt that despite being a long-standing customer of RBS he was being 
"punished" for Miss P's situation. So the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I'm very aware that I've summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and I've 
done so using my own words. I'm not going to respond to every single point made by all the 
parties involved - no discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, I've focused on what I think are 
the key issues here.I can see the reason RBS removed the overdraft facility from the joint account was because 
it found out about Miss P's IVA and I'm satisfied this was in line with their processes. Mr B 
said this caused him financial hardship as he'd bills to pay, and he wasn't given any notice 
about the withdrawal of the overdraft which he relied on to meet some of these costs. But 
looking at the statements from October 2019, I can see there were funds available in the 
account to meet these costs. 
I can also see that neither Mr B nor Miss P told RBS about the IVA when it happened in 
June 2019 - this event was three months before the overdraft facility was withdrawn. I 
appreciate they may not have realised this was necessary, but I think it was reasonable for 
RBS to take the action it did, which was in line with its processes, as soon as it became 
aware of the IVA particularly given the late notice it received.
In terms of Mr B's complaint that he was required to undergo credit checks before it would 
agree an overdraft once Miss P had been removed from the account, I don't think RBS have 
been unfair in this respect. Mr B chose not to apply because RBS required him to undergo 
credit checks to see if he met their eligibility criteria. Mr B didn't think that was fair given 
RBS had agreed to an overdraft previously in 2010 before Miss P joined the account. But 
ultimately its for a bank to decide who it lends to and what its criteria is. I don't think the fact 
Mr B had undergone credit checks five years previously, meant that RBS were treating him 
unfairly by asking him to do so again once his circumstances changed.
Mr B says he's being punished by RBS through no fault of his own. But RBS did agree to 
him opening an account in his sole name by removing Miss P from the account and didn't 
deny him the opportunity to re-apply for the overdraft. So under these circumstances, I 
think RBS have acted fairly and I've seen nothing to suggest it treated Mr B any differently to 
its other customers in the same situation.
I know Mr B considers his treatment is indicative of the way the industry works, and he'd like 
to see this service make changes to the banking system in this regard. But this is not 
something I'm empowered to do. My role is to look at the individual circumstances of each 
case and decide whether the business has acted fairly in all these circumstances. And 
for the reasons I've set out above, I think RBS has acted fairly in this particular case, so I 
won't be upholding the complaint.
My final decision
I'm not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss P to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman