DRN-2544086
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Amtrust Europe Limited unfairly withdrew cover for a claim she made 
on a legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs N holds legal expenses insurance with Amtrust. Handling and administration of claims 
on the policy are handled by a representative of Amtrust. Where I reference Amtrust in this 
decision, it includes this representative who was in contact with Mrs N.
In 2019, Mrs N made a claim on her legal expenses insurance policy, after a neighbour 
erected a sign on her property. After undertaking its initial enquiries, Amtrust appointed a 
solicitor to review the prospects of success, proportionality and other checks required to 
confirm cover for the claim. 
At the conclusion of these enquiries, Amtrust said it could no longer cover the claim 
(although it did cover the costs incurred to that point). It said that the dispute with the 
neighbour pre-dated the inception of her policy. 
Mrs N complained to Amtrust. When it rejected her complaint, she referred her complaint to 
our service. Our investigator thought that Amtrust had acted reasonably when it declined 
cover for the claim. But she thought that this issue could have been noted earlier, and so 
Amtrust should pay £150 compensation.
Amtrust accepted this, but Mrs N didnt. Shes asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ns policy say theres cover for costs as detailed under 
various sections of cover where The insured incident takes place in the insured period. For 
the purposes of the policy, an insured incident is defined as The incident or the first of a 
series of incidents which may lead to a claim under this insurance. Only one insured incident 
shall be deemed to have arisen from all causes of action, incidents or events that are related 
by cause or time. 
In this case, the issue in question is when the insured incident occurred. Mrs N says it was 
when her neighbour put up the sign, but Amtrust says that the dispute between Mrs N and 
her neighbour had been ongoing for several years, and so the insured incident occurred 
before the policy cover started. That would mean it wasnt while the policy is in force  in 
which case theres no cover.
I can understand why Mrs N says the dispute arose when the sign was put up. But I agree 
with Amtrust. The sign being erected was part of a course of conduct in the dispute between 
Mrs N and the neighbour. Going back to 2015 there had been disputes about access to Mrs 
Ns property and the infringing of boundaries. I think its reasonable for Amtrust to say that 
the insured incident should be considered the start of the dispute between Mrs N and her 
neighbour, which by her account goes back to 2015. The apparent infringing of Mrs Ns 
rights over her property date back to then, and this sign being erected is another example of 
this behaviour. Mrs Ns cover with Amtrust started in 2018. The insured incident which led 
to this claim was before the policy cover was in place. The terms and conditions are clear 
that in such a situation, theres no cover on the policy.
For these reasons, I conclude that Amtrust acted reasonably when it withdrew cover for Mrs 
Ns claim. 
I do find myself in agreement with our investigator that this could have been established 
sooner, however. It seems that the matters relating to the length of time the dispute had 
been ongoing were first raised by the solicitors appointed by Amtrust after it completed its 
initial enquiries. But the documentation which led to this being queried had been provided to 
Amtrust at the outset of the claim. It could have queried this further at an earlier stage and 
established that no cover could be afforded. As a result, Mrs N has provided further 
information to Amtrust and the solicitors, and had the same outcome which could have been 
established sooner. While shes not out of pocket as a result of this (Amtrust has covered the 
costs incurred up to the point that cover was withdrawn), she has been inconvenienced. I 
agree with our investigator that £150 compensation suitably recognises this inconvenience 
caused.
 My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint in part. In order to put things right, I direct 
Amtrust Europe Limited to pay £150 compensation to Mrs N. Amtrust must pay this 
compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Mrs N accepts our decision. In the event that 
it does not, it must pay interest at a rate of 8% simple per year from that date until the date of 
settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman