DRN-3497828
The complaint
Ms N complains about a default entry recorded on her credit file by Cabot Financial (Europe) 
Limited.
 
What happened
Ms N had a credit card with another business Ill call A. Ms N has explained that she fell ill 
and had to go to hospital. Ms N contacted A and asked to put her account on hold, but says 
it reduced her credit limit instead. A went on to close Ms Ns credit card. 
In January 2020 Cabot acquired the debt from A. Cabot sent Ms N a Notice of Assignment 
(NOA) that set out the new arrangements and the outstanding balance. Cabot also reported 
a default on Ms Ns credit file. 
Ms N contacted Cabot and explained she was in dispute with A abut the credit card and its 
decision to reduce her credit limit. Ms N said she wanted statements to show the balance 
Cabot was seeking to collect was correct. Cabot contacted A and referred Ms Ns request for 
statements. Cabot later went on to send Ms N statements for the months before her credit 
limit was reduced. Payments Ms N made directly to A were forwarded to Cabot and used to 
reduce the balance. 
Ms N has told us she was able to obtain the credit card statements and, in the months that 
followed, agreed a lower outstanding balance figure with A. In June 2021 Cabot received a 
payment from A and marked the default as partially satisfied on Ms Ns credit file. After 
speaking with Cabot again, Ms N was told the she would have to clear the remaining 
balance in full for the default to be marked as satisfied. 
At the beginning of July 2021 Ms N notified Cabot that shed made the final payment to A. A 
short time later, A forwarded the payment to Cabot and requested that the default be marked 
as satisfied on Ms Ns credit file. Cabot went on to amend the default record to show Ms N 
had satisfied the outstanding balance. 
Ms N complained to Cabot and it sent her a final response but didnt agree it had acted 
unfairly. Cabot said lots of the issues raised relate to As actions. 
An investigator at this service looked into Ms Ns complaint but thought Cabot had dealt with 
it fairly. Ms N asked to appeal and said she was in dispute with A around the time it closed 
and defaulted her credit card. Ms N also said thered been problems and delays getting 
account statements to verify the final balance Cabot was seeking to collect. As Ms N asked 
to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties involved 
and Ive done so in my own words. I want to assure both parties that Ive read and 
considered all the information provided in reaching my decision. Im not going to respond to 
every point made by all the parties. No discourtesy is intended by my approach. Ive focused 
on what I think are the key issues in this case. 
My approach is in line with the informal nature of this service as a free alternative to the 
courts and the rules we operate under. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every 
argument made to be able to reach what I think is the fairest outcome. 
Id like to explain that in this decision I can only look at Cabots actions. I know Ms N has lots 
of concerns about the circumstances under which her credit card was closed and defaulted, 
but those issues occurred when the account was still with A. Cabot purchased the debt from 
A after it had already been closed. So my focus is on whether Cabot treated Ms N fairly after 
it acquired her credit card debt from A  Im only looking at Cabots actions.
Im satisfied Cabot was unaware of Ms Ns dispute when it purchased her credit card debt 
from A. Cabot sent Ms N a Notice of Assignment when it purchased the debt. And that 
confirmed the amount owing was £898 at that point. Ms N went on to challenge the final 
balance with A. And I can see she repeatedly requested statements from both businesses. 
Its clear Ms N wanted to check she was being asked to pay the correct amounts. 
Cabot contacted A and asked for statements. I can see Ms N did receive the statements 
requested and was able to discuss the outstanding balance with A, although I appreciate it 
took some time. Whilst I dont doubt Ms N found that process frustrating and longwinded, its 
not something I can fairly say Cabot was responsible for. The statements had to come from 
A and havent seen evidence of unreasonable delays from Cabot in requesting or forwarding 
them. 
Ms N has told us shes upset that Cabot is recording a default on her credit file. But Cabot 
took on responsibility for reporting the account status when it purchased the debt from A. I 
understand Ms Ns view that her account should not have been closed and defaulted in the 
way it was. But, again, thats not something I can hold Cabot responsible for. If A tells Cabot 
to remove the default from Ms Ns credit file, Id expect it to follow the instruction. But without 
a request from the original lender to remove it, I havent been persuaded it was unfair of 
Cabot to report a default. 
As noted above, Cabot has marked the outstanding balance of the default as satisfied which 
shows Ms N paid it off. Im satisfied that fairly reflects the account as matters stand. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms N, but as Im satisfied Cabot dealt with her complaint fairly Im not 
telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ns complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman