DRN-4090962
The complaint
Miss V says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday Loans, irresponsibly lent 
to her.
What happened
Miss V took out three instalment loans from ELL. A summary of her borrowing follows:
Loantaken 
outvalue, 
£term in 
monthsmonthly 
repayment, £total 
repayable, £
1 Jul-19 3,000 36 234.42 8,439.12
2 Jul-20 2,000 24 187.19 4,492.56
3 Feb-21 5,000 36 263.54 9,487.44
Miss V says she was in spiral of debt and as ELL nevertheless agreed to lend to her at 
extortionate interest rates she ended up having to enter a debt management plan (DMP). 
This has impacted her mental health. She says ELL did not help her when she rang for 
advice. She says ELL has made things very difficult compared to other creditors. 
Miss V wants the existing debt to be written-off and asks for an apology.
Our investigator upheld Miss Vs complaint. She said ELL was wrong to lend to Miss V as 
there was evidence she was having problems managing her money. 
ELL disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. It said its 
affordability calculations showed Miss Vs loans were affordable when they were taken out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when ELL lent to Miss V required it to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what she owed in a 
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an 
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So ELL had to think about whether repaying
the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss V. In
other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss V.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether ELL did what it needed to before agreeing to lend
to Miss V. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Miss Vs 
loan applications to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loans in a 
sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did ELL make fair lending decisions?
did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see ELL asked for some information from Miss V before it approved the loans. It asked
for details of her income and checked this on pay slips. It asked for copies of recent bank
statements. It estimated her living costs using national statistics and added a buffer to cover
unexpected expenses. It also checked Miss Vs credit file to understand her existing monthly
credit commitments and credit history each time. It asked about the purpose of the loans,
Miss V said they were for debt consolidation. From these checks combined ELL concluded 
Miss V could afford to take on the loans and repay them sustainably.
I think these checks were proportionate for the loans. But based on the information it
gathered I m not satisfied ELL made fair lending decisions. Ill explain why.
Loan 1
ELLs checks for loan 1 showed Miss V had a monthly income of £1,319 and non-
discretionary outgoings of £1,463.73. So initially the loan did not seem affordable. But     
Miss V was going to use it for debt consolidation and based on which debts she told ELL she 
was going to settle this reduced her existing credit commitments to £362.21.  ELL felt she 
would therefore have enough disposable income remaining after this new loan (£246.26) for 
it to be affordable. 
But ELL was required to do more than check the affordability for Miss V on a pounds and 
pence basis, it needed to make sure she would suffer no adverse financial consequences 
and I am not persuaded it has adequately evidenced it did this. Giving this loan would leave 
Miss V needing to spend around 45% of her income each month on unsecured credit. This is a large proportion of what was a relatively low income  and frequently an indicator of future 
financial difficulties. 
So I think ELL ought to have realised that there was a high risk that Miss V would need to 
either borrow to repay this debt, or experience some other financial harm. ELL knew from its 
credit check that Miss V had needed to take out four payday loans already in 2019  so 
there were already indicators of financial instability.
It follows I think ELL was wrong to give loan 1 to Miss V.
Loans 2 and 3  
Miss V returned to extend her borrowing again for debt consolidation less than 12 months 
after she had taken out loan 1. And she was again using payday loans so I find ELL should 
have seen she continued to have problems managing her money. I think ELL ought to have 
realised that, despite the apparent pounds and pence affordability, having to repeatedly take 
out longer-term high-cost credit to settle short-term high-cost loans was most likely causing 
Miss V financial detriment. After all it was aware Miss V was taking out other high-cost loans 
to repay its debt. And this was the same overall pattern when Miss V returned seven months 
later for loan 3. I find ELL irresponsibly allowed Miss V to survive financially by borrowing to 
repay at a high cost. 
It follows I think ELL was wrong to give loans 2 and 3 to Miss V.
Did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Miss V says the interest rates were extortionate. I accept the APR was high, but Miss V had 
to actively engage in the application process, so I think its likely that she was aware of what 
she was agreeing to pay each time. I havent seen anything which makes me think that ELL 
treated Miss V unfairly or breached industry practice regarding interest charges. But the 
interest and charges will be refunded anyway as it has been agreed the loans shouldnt have 
been given. 
I have also considered Miss Vs comments that ELL was not helpful when she told it she was 
struggling. I can see from its contact notes that it did engage  but it had queries about 
aspects of the proposal her DMP administrator put forward. This is reasonable. I also note 
there is contradictory evidence from the parties about how a branch manager spoke to Miss 
V. But equally I note ELL apologised if the conversation had negatively impacted Miss V as 
that was not the intention. I do not think it needs to take any further action in this regard.
I am sorry this has all impacted Miss Vs mental health and I hope she now has the support 
she needs.
Putting things right
It is fair for Miss V to repay the capital part of the loans she borrowed as she had the benefit 
of that money. But she had been charged interest and fees on loans that should not have 
been given to her. So ELL must:
Add up the total amount of money Miss V received as a result of having been given 
all loans. The repayments Miss V made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Miss V having paid more than she received, then any
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the
date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement). If any capital balance remains outstanding, then ELL should work with Miss Vs DMP 
administrator to agree a suitable payment plan.
Remove any negative information recorded on Miss Vs credit file regarding
loan 1 & 2.
Remove negative information recorded on Miss Vs credit file in relation to
loan 3 once the capital balance has been cleared.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. ELL Loans must 
give Miss V a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Miss Vs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday 
Loans, must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman