DRN-2046844
 
The complaint
Mr A complains on behalf of his limited company, J. Briefly, he says Paymentsense Limited 
mis-sold a card payment machine contract to J.
To resolve the complaint, Mr A wants Paymentsense to cancel all charges from 9 April 2019 
onwards.
What happened
In early 2018, Js directors wanted J to be able to take payments by card. They approached 
Paymentsense to discuss the possibility of Paymentsense providing that service.
There was a discussion between Paymentsenses representative and Mr As wife (Mrs A, 
who is also a director of J). Neither party has a written record of those discussions. Mrs A 
says Paymentsense told her the contract would be for a trial period of one year, and some of 
Js staff members remember Mrs A mentioning a one year trial at the time. 
Following those discussions, Paymentsense considers that J entered into two separate 
contracts:
A Merchant Services Agreement with Paymentsense Limited, to allow J to process 
credit card, debit and other payments. Clause 3 of the contract said the initial term 
of this Agreement shall be for a period of five years. Clause 1 said should [J] cancel 
this agreement, a cancellation fee of £120 plus vat shall apply.
A terminal hire agreement with FDR Limited trading as First Data Global Leasing. 
The Hire Term in the agreement was just over three years (it was defined as a 
minimum period of hire starting with the day [J] receives the Equipmentthrough to 
the last day of the 36th Hire Month following the Hire Commencement Date.)
Paymentsense says that both of these contracts were signed electronically by Mr A.
Mr As recollection is that Mrs A sent the [Paymentsense] representative in to me to walk 
me through the steps on the computer to accept it electronically and since my wife told me it 
was a one year contract I did not notice anything else and nor was it pointed out to me. He 
believed he was entering into a one year trial with effect from 9 April 2018.
Mr and Mrs A were not satisfied with the service Paymentsense provided to J. On 14 May 
2019, Mr A told Paymentsense he would like to terminate Js account with them.
Paymentsense told Mr A that various fees would apply if he were to terminate Js account 
early. The total fee was £790 plus VAT, comprising of £480 plus VAT for the remaining 
terminal rental, a £190 plus VAT restocking fee for early termination of the terminal hire 
agreement, and £120 plus VAT for Paymentsenses early termination fee.
Mr A did not agree that any early termination fees were due; his position was that J had 
completed the one year trial. Paymentsense considers that both contracts are still in force, because J has not paid the 
termination fees. J is still being billed monthly for both contracts.
Paymentsense has previously offered to reduce Js closure fees by 20%. J did not accept 
that offer. 
Mr A referred Js complaint to our service, and one of our investigators looked into the 
matter. Our investigator said there wasnt enough evidence to show that Mrs A had been told 
the contract would be for only one year, and so he did not uphold the complaint.
Mr A remained unhappy, so Js complaint was referred to me.
I issued a provisional decision in June 2020, explaining why the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is only able to consider part of Js complaint. Briefly, we can only consider Js 
complaint about its merchant services agreement with Paymentsense. Js complaint about 
its terminal hire agreement with First Data Global Leasing is not about an activity we cover. 
Although we can consider complaints about regulated consumer hire agreements, J is a 
limited company  and so its hire agreement is not regulated under the relevant legislation. 
I went on to explain why I didnt think Paymentsense had done anything wrong. I said:
Like our investigator, I dont think theres enough evidence for me to be satisfied that 
Paymentsense agreed that J could have a one year trial. 
I acknowledge that Mrs A recalls being told the contract would be for only one year, 
but that is not reflected in the documentary evidence. I cant be sure exactly what was 
said when she discussed the contract with Paymentsenses representative, but I am 
sure that both the initial five-year term of the agreement and the £120 plus VAT 
cancellation fee are clearly stated in the contract. 
I know Mr A didnt notice the five year term when he electronically accepted the 
contract, but nevertheless he did accept the contract.  This is a commercial 
agreement, and I see nothing unfair about J being bound by the terms its director 
agreed to. Similarly, I see nothing unfair about a cancellation fee of £120 plus VAT. 
For the reasons Ive given above, I make no comment on the fees for the cancellation 
of the hire agreement.
Mr A did not accept my provisional findings. He said he remains unhappy about what he 
considers to be a fraud. His view is that Paymentsenses representative acted unethically at 
best, and he believes he was intentionally misled. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint about J's merchant services agreement.
I am sorry to further disappoint Mr A, but I have reached the same conclusions as I did in my 
provisional decision, for the same reasons. There simply isnt enough evidence for me to find 
that it would be fair to set aside the contract between J and Paymentsense.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Paymentsense Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2020.
Laura Colman
Ombudsman