DRN-3643926
The complaint
A company Ill call L complains that Santander UK PLC (Santander) unfairly blocked its 
account and made it unnecessarily difficult for the block to be lifted.
L is represented by one of its directors, Mr W.
What happened
The full history of this complaint is known well to both parties and was set out in detail by our 
investigator. So, Ive provided a brief summary of the timeline below.
In April 2021, Santander tried to contact Mr W to ask some questions as part of its Know 
Your Customer (KYC) procedure. It says it made several phone calls, and wrote to Mr W 
asking him to call Santander to answer some questions. On 19 April 2021, Santander sent a 
letter to L saying it had blocked Ls account pending completion of KYC. It said Mr W could 
regain access to Ls account by calling Santander to discuss the matter.
Mr W says he tried to call Santander several times, but said Santander obstructed him, were 
difficult to communicate with and wouldnt comply with his requests to write to him. He says 
Santander agreed to call him back to discuss the KYC, but that call didnt materialise. 
Because Santander didnt get the information it needed it blocked Ls account, pending 
completion of its KYC procedure.
Mr W contacted Santander after the block and ultimately answered Santanders questions. 
However, Santander decided it no longer wished to offer banking services to L, so it issued a 
notice to close Ls account on 12 July 2021.
Mr W sought banking facilities elsewhere and told our service he spent several days making 
arrangements, which was made more difficult due to the ongoing Coronavirus pandemic 
which was causing backlogs with banks. Mr W eventually managed to open an account with 
a third-party bank on 9 July 2021. He complained, but Santander didnt uphold his complaint, 
saying Mr W could now use the account as Santander had received the information it 
required. 
Mr W complained again after Santander delayed closing his account. Santander issued 
another final response letter, this time saying it hadnt provided the level of service Mr W 
could expect, and confirming it had waived the fees that were also preventing the account 
closure. It said the situation could have been avoided if Santander had provided a better 
level of service relating to its due diligence process.
Mr W didnt feel Santander had done enough, so he brought his complaint to our service, 
seeking compensation from Santander for the distress and inconvenience it had caused him. 
Santander offered L £100, but Mr W declined the offer, and sought £6,250 representing 26 
days of his time at £250 per day.
Our investigator was satisfied Santander was entitled to ask Mr W KYC questions, but felt its 
process had caused confusion and unnecessary inconvenience. So, she said Santander 
should increase its compensation award to £250. Mr W rejected the outcome, saying it didnt 
match the compensation he had set out. He asked for an ombudsman to review the matter 
afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander, like all banks in the UK, is under a legal and regulatory obligation to maintain up 
to date information about its customers. That means that it sometimes has to request 
information and documents from customers from time to time, in order to comply with its 
obligations. In this case, Santander asked Mr W questions he felt he couldnt answer, and 
that Santander could answer themselves based on the information it held about him.
But all banks have to set their own processes by which they can obtain this information, and 
its not our services role to interfere with that process. Instead, we look to see if Santander 
has applied its process correctly and treated its customer fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstances of each particular case.
So, while I understand Mr W found Santanders processes frustrating, I cant say it acted 
unreasonably given it was complying with its legal and regulatory obligations. And Im 
satisfied Santander was entitled to set the parameters within which Mr W had to provide the 
information it requested. That meant it couldnt agree to write to Mr W, as he requested, or 
deal with him in branch. And it meant he had to spend time on hold while he tried to call 
Santander.
However, Santander has accepted it didnt do enough to help Mr W during this process. It 
didnt call him back when it said it would, and Mr W struggled to get through to the relevant 
person when he called.
With that being the case, Ive looked to see what Santander should do to put things right for 
Mr W. Mr W has told our service how frustrating this experience was, and about the 
inconvenience it caused. And hes set out the losses hes claiming, totalling £6,500, which is 
based on 26 days of work at a daily rate of £250.
Before I assess Mr Ws claim for compensation, I should set out the parameters under which 
our service can make a compensation award. Because L was Santanders customer, not Mr 
W, I can only make an award in respect of losses suffered by L. And while our service can 
make an award for distress and inconvenience suffered, because L is a limited company, it 
cant feel distressed and I cant consider the distress experienced by Ls director, because 
Mr W was not Santanders customer.
Nor would I be in a position to compensate L based on Mr Ws daily rate. Mr Ws time away 
from day-to-day business matters will have caused L inconvenience, which I can award 
compensation for, but I havent seen any evidence to show L suffered a loss equal to the 
daily rate Mr W is claiming, and L cant simply charge Mr Ws daily rate for the usual services 
it provides its customers under contract, because Santander is not its customer and L has no 
contract to provide services to Santander.
However, I do think Santander should pay compensation for the inconvenience it caused L. 
Santander didnt call Mr W back when it said it would, which ultimately led to the first block, 
Mr W had to make several calls and wait on hold, and Santander made mistakes in closing 
Ls account, which led to Mr W making a further complaint. And I think that caused Mr W to 
spend a fair amount of time rectifying the issues, which caused L a reasonable amount of inconvenience. So to put things right, Santander must pay L £250.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK PLC must pay L £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman