DRN-4191169
The complaint
Miss Z complains that Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax (Halifax) debited her account 
in error.
What happened
On 24 January 2023 and 25 January 2023, Miss Zs mother visited her branch of Halifax to 
make some withdrawals from her account. But the debits were applied to Miss Zs account 
instead, as follows:
24 January 2023: £300
25 January 2023: £100, £89.
Miss Z complained. She said Halifax had committed a data breach and her mother shouldnt 
have to pay the money back to her. She said her mother couldnt afford to repay it and it was 
causing relationship issues between them.
Halifax apologised and said a mistake had been made, as the correct identification 
procedures hadnt been followed. Halifax paid compensation of £200 to Miss Z, and said 
theyd need to ask her mother to pay back the £489. They would do that following Miss Zs 
agreement to do so.
Miss Z brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said the errors had been made by 
Halifax, but it wasnt fair that Halifax should be asked to cover the amount of the withdrawals 
 because Miss Zs mother was effectively better off by that amount, and he gathered shed 
already agreed to pay the money back to her daughter. He said Halifaxs payment of 
compensation of £200 was reasonable for what happened.
Miss Z didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint, and so it has come 
to me to make a final decision. Miss Z added that she had previously put in place an extra 
layer of security on her account  whereby her ID and signature were needed for any 
withdrawals.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Halifax made an error here. Their cashier didnt look at the ID of Miss 
Zs mother and debited the wrong account.
Halifax have apologised and paid compensation of £200. I understand the cashier has 
offered an apology and taken responsibility for their mistake.
I looked at the Payment Services Regulations (PSR) which apply where payments are made 
by mistake  which is the case here. These say that Halifax should see if the money is still 
available in the recipients account (i.e. Miss Zs mother), then they can take the money from 
that account and put it back into Miss Zs account. The process is expected to take 20 
working days. So  Halifax can do that if they must go down that formal route.
But - in practice, I would hope that the recipient (Miss Zs mother) agrees that the money can 
be transferred back to her daughters account. That would clearly be the best and most 
amicable way to settle this issue and get some closure.
Miss Z argues that she has additional security on her account whereby ID and a signature is 
needed for any withdrawals  but Halifax explained that is their checking process anyway  
and they failed to apply it in this case. So  that doesnt affect my decision here.
Miss Z has been directed to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) regarding her 
complaint regarding a possible data breach - and shes told us she has informed the ICO.
Given the circumstances of what happened, I dont think its reasonable to ask Halifax to 
write off the amount of £489. I accept and appreciate that there has been upset caused and 
for this, I think the compensation paid is in line with what happened, and what we would 
expect to see. 
In summary, while Miss Z will be disappointed by my decision, Im not asking Halifax to do 
any more than they already have. I hope that the transfer of money back to Miss Zs account 
can be concluded amicably.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman