DRN-2930015
The complaint
Mr L complains about the quality of a caravan he has been financing through an agreement
with Oplo CF Ltd, trading as 1st Stop Car Finance Limited (1st Stop).  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in June 2021. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Mr L took receipt of a seven-year-old caravan in August 2019. He financed the deal through
a hire purchase agreement with 1st Stop.
An independent inspection was organised in October 2019 to review some issues Mr L had
identified with the caravan that he said were there from the outset.
The inspector identified that the caravan hadnt been serviced before being supplied to Mr L
and 1st stop paid for a service and a gas safety inspection/certification. They also agreed to
refund the cost to fix a support leg. 1st Stop thought some of the other issues identified in the
inspection were cosmetic and could be expected on a caravan of this age and mileage.
Mr L didnt think the first inspection was detailed enough and arranged a further inspection in
which many other faults were identified.
Our investigator didnt think 1st Stop had done enough to resolve matters for Mr L. He
suggested faults with a damaged 13 pin cable, faulty LEDs, issues with the blinds and lock
catches, a broken breakaway cable and faulty 12v TV socket were most likely related to
wear and tear in a vehicle of this age and that it wouldnt be fair to ask 1st Stop to repair
them.
But he thought it was likely the chassis damage was present when Mr L took receipt of the
caravan and he thought it was likely the water pump was missing and the tyres were out of
date at that point too. So, he suggested 1st Stop repair/replace those and 1st stop agreed.
Mr L didnt agree with that resolution. He accepted that window fittings and missing light
fitting etc are down to wear and tear but, in addition to the chassis, tyre and water pump
work, he wanted 1st Stop to repair the braking system, bare electrical cables; the toilet motor; 
the broken brake away cable; toilet seat; 12v TV socket; missing battery tray; centre hub nut
and the towing damper that wasnt holding grease.
There was no agreement to resolve these additional issues, so Mr Ls complaint was
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think the investigators proposed resolution provides sufficient remedy for Mr L and I
think 1st Stop should fix a few more of the problems that have been identified. I know that will
disappoint 1st Stop so please let me explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr L acquired his caravan under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the caravan should have been of
satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then 1st Stop, who are also the supplier of the
caravan, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if
they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into
account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a caravan the other relevant circumstances would include
things like the age at the time the caravan was supplied to Mr L. This caravan was seven
years old so I think a reasonable person would expect quite a bit of wear and tear.
I think the damage that has been reported to the curtains, blinds, light fittings, window and
cupboard locks, fridge pockets, toilet seat, awning rail, noisy heater and window seals are all
issues that could reasonably be described as normal wear and tear on a vehicle of this age
and I dont think its fair to ask 1st stop to rectify those issues.
The relevant legislation explains that if a fault (thats not related to normal wear and tear)
occurs within the first six months we are to assume it was present at the point of supply,
when 1st Stop were responsible for the caravans quality, unless they can demonstrate
otherwise.
Mr L reported some issues in the first few weeks, but I dont think the first independent
inspection identified, or was asked to identify, all the issues. The second independent
inspection appears to have been carried out in January/February 2020 within the first six
months. So, it was for 1st Stop to demonstrate any problems were not present at the
inception of the agreement.
The relevant legislation gives a business one opportunity to repair faults that are present at
the point of supply. I dont think it would be fair to say 1st stop have had that opportunity yet
because, although they have completed some remedial work, the initial inspection was 
limited, and they were only aware of the full scope of damage in about February 2020 when
the subsequent inspection was given to them. So, I think they should still be entitled to repair
any issues that were likely to be present when the caravan was supplied to Mr L.
The investigator thought there was evidence that the chassis damage, missing water pump
and out of date tyres were most likely to have been present when the caravan was supplied,
and I note that 1st stop accepted his view on that.
Id also agree with that view. The business storing Mr Ls caravan have explained that its
been in dry storage from the beginning and that its only been taken out of storage for repairs
or inspections. The owner of the storage business has told us that Mr L has had no use of
the caravan. Im persuaded its more likely these faults were present when the caravan wassupplied because Mr L has had no use of the caravan and therefore limited opportunity to
incur any damage, and because the independent inspector has explained that there were no
service checks done on the caravan before it was supplied to Mr L.
Ive thought about the issues Mr L still wants repairing. As Ive explained, I think some of
those issues are examples of expected wear and tear, but I think others arent.
I think in addition to fixing the chassis and replacing the water pump and tyres, 1st stop
should:
repair the failing brakes as the caravan has been in storage since inception and
theres been no, or limited opportunity for any fault to occur in Mr Ls tenure and its
more likely the fault was present from the beginning;
repair any bare electrical cables identified in the second inspection as theres been
no, or limited, opportunity for any fault to occur in Mr Ls tenure and its more likely
the fault was present from the beginning. These are safety issues that should have
been resolved before the caravan was supplied;
repair the toilet motor as theres been no, or limited, opportunity for any fault to occur
in Mr Ls tenure and its more likely the fault was present from the beginning;
repair the TV socket as I think a consumer is entitled to expect this to work and I
dont think it can fairly be considered a wear and tear item. And, again, theres been
no, or limited opportunity for any fault to occur in Mr Ls tenure and its therefore 
more likely the fault was present from the beginning;
replace the battery tray and gas bottle holding strap as I think these are essential
items likely to have been missing from the beginning;
repair the centre hub nut and the damper as theres been no, or limited opportunity
for any fault to occur in Mr Ls tenure and its therefore more likely the faults were
present from the beginning;
replace the brake away cable for the same reasons. This is a safety component and I
understand legislation requires it to be present, and functioning, on all caravans.
Mr L has been paying for a caravan hes had no use of since the inception of this agreement.
1st stop should therefore refund all the finance instalments hes paid. Theyll need to add 8%
interest to that refund as Mr L has been deprived of the money. I understand that some of
the delays getting the van inspected, or quotes organised, have been caused by pandemic
restrictions. Ive thought about whether its fair to ask 1st Stop to refund finance instalments
paid during these delays but I think it is as 1st stop hadnt resolved Mr Ls complaint 
satisfactorily at that point.
Its clear Mr L has been inconvenienced by these matters. It must have been disappointing
and frustrating not to be able to use the caravan for the holidays hed been expecting in it
and hes had to arrange inspections and call suppliers to get quotes for repairs and
transportation, when I think the business could have done a little more to help. I note,
however; that 1st Stop have been prepared to accept the resolution the investigator proposed
and have been hampered to some extent by the Covid restrictions. In the circumstances I
would agree with the investigators suggestion that 1st stop pay Mr L £200 to compensate
him for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
I can see that Mr L has had to pay to store the caravan whilst waiting for a resolution to his
complaint. Im not persuaded theres sufficient evidence that these are consequential losses
that 1st stop should refund as I think storage costs would always have been likely, regardless
of faults.
Whilst Im expecting to ask 1st stop to repair the caravan it may be that the repairs are not acommercially viable option. In those circumstances I think it would be fair for them to allow
Mr L to reject the vehicle and end his contract with them. If thats the option 1st choice prefer
they will need to refund any deposit Mr L has paid, although I cant see one recorded in the
finance agreement, and Id still expect them to refund the finance instalments Mr L has paid,
pay for any transportation of the caravan, remove any adverse credit file reports and provide
the compensation Im suggesting.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Im giving above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Oplo CF
Ltd to:
replace the out of date/damaged tyres;
cover the cost of repairs to the damaged chassis; brakes; bare electric cables; toilet
motor; TV socket, centre hub nut and damper;
replace the battery tray, water pump, gas bottle retaining strap and brake away
cable;
refund monthly payments from the beginning of the agreement until caravan is
repaired and add 8% simple interest per year to the refund from the date of payment
to the date of settlement;
pay Mr L £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused;
if its necessary to move the caravan to complete repairs 1st stop should arrange and
pay for transportation;
1st Stop should remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ls credit file
in relation to this issue.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L accepted my provisional decision and 1st Stop didnt provide any further information, 
although I note that they have been in touch with Mr L to assess the repairs.  
Putting things right
As neither party had any further information to add, Ive not found any reason to change my 
provisional decision and that now becomes my final decision on this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and to tell Oplo CF Ltd to:
replace the out of date/damaged tyres;
cover the cost of repairs to the damaged chassis; brakes; bare electric cables; toilet
motor; TV socket, centre hub nut and damper;
replace the battery tray, water pump, gas bottle retaining strap and brake away
cable;
refund monthly payments from the beginning of the agreement until caravan is
repaired and add 8% simple interest per year to the refund from the date of payment
to the date of settlement;
pay Mr L £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused;
if its necessary to move the caravan to complete repairs 1st stop should arrange and
pay for transportation;1st Stop should remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ls credit file
in relation to this issue.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman