DRN-3842179
The complaint
Mr R and Ms R complained that Society of Lloyd's (Lloyds) initially declined their claim for a 
lost / stolen ring which led to delays in their claim being accepted under their home 
insurance.
What happened
Mr R and Ms R made a claim to Lloyds following the loss / theft of several of pieces of 
jewellery. They provided several documents to allow Lloyds to validate the claim. However, 
Lloyds initially declined part of the claim in respect to a high value piece of jewellery, as it 
said the claim wasnt covered by the policy.
Due to Mr R and Ms Rs circumstances, Lloyds had added an endorsement to the policy. It 
meant Mr R and Ms R were required to provide an up to date receipt / valuation for the high 
value piece of jewellery within 30 days of the inception of the policy. As Mr R and Ms R 
hadnt met the condition of the endorsement, Lloyds felt that Mr R and Ms R hadnt met the 
terms and conditions of the policy, so declined the claim.
Mr R and Ms R complained as they didnt think this was fair. After review, Lloyds decided 
that the the claim would be reconsidered under the remaining terms and conditions of your 
policy and in addition to acknowledge any delays, the higher excess applied of £2,500.00 
would be waived and the lower excess applied. Lloyds did then accept the claim  but the 
process took over 12 months.
Mr R and Ms R said they remain unhappy about the length of time the claim has taken, the 
way in which it has had to be resolved i.e. [escalation to our service], and the
stress, inconvenience and my time taken in getting to this point which has not been 
recognised.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. She thought Lloyds had unnecessarily 
delayed the claim and thought Lloyds should pay £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience that the delays caused. Lloyds disagreed, so the case has been referred to 
an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 21 September 2022. I said:
I want to clarify my decision is focused only on Mr R and Ms Rs complaint relating to the 
delays in Lloyds accepting Mr R and Ms Rs claim in relation to the stolen / lost high value 
piece of jewellery. Mr R and Ms R have raised a subsequent complaint in relation to the 
settlement value  however, as this wasnt raised as part of this complaint I wont cover this 
in my decision here.
The delays on the acceptance of the claim have been well documented and Im pleased that 
Lloyds changed its original decision and decided to accept the claim. The overall timeframe 
from the claim been made and to Lloyds accepting the claim was around 13-14 months. I 
havent considered the period after this where Lloyds made a settlement offer and beyond as 
this is not relevant to this specific complaint.
With any claim there will be a period of validation to allow the insurer to review the 
circumstances of the claim. However, I think the time this claim has taken has far exceeded 
anyones expectations of what would be reasonable. However, Lloyds hasnt disputed this  
it agreed its service shouldve been quicker.
Lloyds decided as way of compensation for the delays to waive the higher excess that was 
applicable to this policy because of the endorsement that had been added to it. So, I have 
considered what Mr R and Ms R were liable to pay as excess on the policy for the claim. The 
endorsement on the policy, meant Mr R and Ms Rs excess payment was £2,500 due to their 
circumstances which led to the endorsement. It was higher as the circumstances posed a 
higher risk to Lloyds to insure Mr R and Ms Rs contents. 
Lloyds decided to waive the higher excess, charging Mr R and Ms R £100 excess which is 
its standard fee. Lloyds has reduced the excess payment by £2,400, which otherwise it 
wouldve charged Mr R and Ms R by deducting it from the final settlement for the claim. It 
didnt automatically need to do this  so, I think this is a reasonable approach for them to 
take. 
So, whilst I think the claim has taken far too long to resolve, I think the action Lloyds has 
taken to reduce the excess is fair by way of compensating Mr R and Ms R for the delays and 
stress they have experienced. It provided a significant level of compensation. I wouldnt 
expect Lloyds to have paid further compensation in addition to this. Therefore, I dont intend 
to uphold this complaint.  
Responses to my provisional decision
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision and it provided some further comments and 
supporting information. Lloyds said, the issue is that [Mr R and Ms R] failed to disclose 
important information at the start of each policy contract. Lloyds explained Mr R and Ms R 
failed to disclose important information about a change to their circumstances when they 
renewed their policy in October 2020.
Mr R and Ms R disagreed with my provisional decision. Mr R and Ms R said the excess you 
refer to was imposed by the insurer post insurance, and after we have been insured with 
them for 2 years. They made no attempt to seek up to date valuations even after renewal. 
We have been uninsurable for the period of the claim. We have lost complete enjoyment of 
this item during the claim. They think £250 is appropriate compensation for the severe 
delay by the insurer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this has been a frustrating time for Mr R and Ms R. However, I think Lloyds has 
recognised the distress and inconvenience caused as it has waived the increased excess 
that wouldve applied to the claim.
When Mr R and Ms R renewed their policy, they didnt provide an update to Lloyds on a 
change in their circumstances. Its important any significant changes are notified to the 
insurer as these could change the risk an insurer takes on when providing cover. It can 
impact the terms of the policy the insurer is willing to provide. In some cases, a failure to disclose key information can mean an insurer can void the contract of insurance and not 
cover the claim at all. I can see Mr R and Ms R were asked to check the information that had 
been provided when the renewal took place. So, I think its reasonable that Lloyds expected 
Mr R and Ms R to disclose the new information about their circumstances.
Ive looked at Lloyds supporting information to see if the change in Mr R and Ms Rs 
circumstances wouldve impacted the terms of insurance it offered. Lloyds hasnt voided the 
contract of insurance and decided to cover the claim. I think this is fair. However, I have 
reviewed Lloyds underwriting criteria and I can see that it deems the change in 
circumstances of Mr R and Ms R as a significant event which wouldve changed the terms of 
the insurance it offered at contract renewal in October 2020. In this case it wouldve 
increased the excess it applied to claims made.
So, whilst I can understand Mr R and Ms R felt the excess was initially increased post 
insurance, I think Lloyds has reasonably shown that had it known of the information on the 
change of circumstances at the contract renewal it wouldve taken action to change the 
terms of the policy offered. It wouldve increased the excess on the policy to £2,500.
However, Lloyds accepted the claim had taken too long to resolve and it decided to 
compensate Mr R and Ms R for the delays by waiving the higher excess payment. This act 
increased the net settlement by over £2,000. I think this is fair compensation for the delays 
that have occurred.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Society of Lloyd's to do 
anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman