DRN-1505439
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the service esure Insurance Limited has provided in relation to 
his motor insurance policy
What happened
In late September 2019 Mr S parked his car outside of his brothers house overnight. The 
following morning Mr S found that his car had been involved in an incident. It appeared that 
another vehicle had hit Mr S car. The other driver didnt leave any details or notify Mr S that 
they had hit his car. 
Mr S reported the incident to esure, who appointed an engineer to assess the damage 
caused to Mr S car. The engineer confirmed that Mr S car had been hit twice and therefore 
two separate areas of damage had occurred.
Esure has said that because the car was hit twice it will be two separate claims, and 
therefore Mr S will have to pay an excess fee on two claims. So, Mr S will need to pay 
£1,100.00 in order for his car to repaired. The total cost of the repairs is £3,989.94. As there 
is no known other driver to recover costs from, esure has said the excess fee is required.
Mr S has said because he wasnt in the car at the time the incident took place, he cant be 
sure exactly what happened; but he says as the damage was caused during the same 
period of time and both areas of damage had white paint remnants, he feels it should be 
covered under one claim. As he remained unhappy with esures response, he brought his 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Mr S complaint and she recommended it be upheld. To 
summarise, she said Mr S found white paint on the passenger side door of the car and the 
front bumper, and that this occurred during the same time period. She went on to say having 
looked at the pictures of the damage, while she agreed there were two different points of 
impact, she didnt think it was unreasonable to suggest it was caused by the same car and 
same incident.
She went on to say that no evidence has been presented to show that Mr S vehicle had 
been hit by two separate vehicles at different times. She concluded by saying she didnt 
think it was fair to register two claims on Mr S policy and that Mr S should only pay £550 (in 
relation to the excess fee) and for his car to be fully repaired. She also awarded Mr S £100 
for the trouble and upset caused in relation to have to wait to get his vehicle repaired and 
she felt the advisor who assisted him during his claim could have been more empathetic.
Esure didnt agree with the investigators findings. It said there have been two points of 
impact, which didnt occur at the same time, as it wouldnt have been possible. So, it said 
this means the damage has been caused by two separate incidents. So, there should be two 
separate claims. It said whether or not it was the same driver or car that caused the damage 
is irrelevant. It felt the correct process had been followed and therefore asked for the case to 
be passed to me to consider.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why.
I have considered the report esure has sent from the approved repairer. And having done 
so, I cant see where the garage has confirmed that there must be two separate claims. The 
garage says there are two points of impact. 
I have also listened to the calls which took place between an engineer from esure and Mr S. 
The engineer states that there are two areas of impact, so there must have been two 
incidents, as both areas of impact couldnt be damaged at the same time. So, it appears this 
is esures justification for two claims having to be made. 
As I have already stated above, its not in dispute that there are two areas of Mr S car that 
are damaged. I have reviewed the pictures provided and I agree that due to where the 
damage is, its unlikely the other vehicle hit both areas at the same time
However, I can also see remnants of white paint on both of the areas where the car is 
damaged. I have also considered the fact that there has been no evidence presented by 
esure - or the engineer to suggest any of the damage caused to Mr S car was pre-existing. 
Therefore, I am satisfied its likely the damage caused to Mr S car occurred once he had 
parked his car (and entered his brothers house) and prior to him returning to his car the 
following morning. So, taking all that into account, I think on balance it is most likely the 
damage caused to Mr S car was caused by the same vehicle during one manoeuvre and 
therefore I think it would be unfair to classify this as two separate incidents or claims. 
While I accept the argument that the damage couldnt have been caused simultaneously by 
one isolated incident, there could have been multiple impacts during the same event which 
caused damage to Mr S car. For example, the same car could have hit Mr S car at two 
different points during a limited timeframe. And I think it would be unfair to classify this as 
two separate incidents or events.
I have also reviewed the policy terms and I cant see where esure defines the term impact 
or incident. So, I think it would be unfair to rely on the fact that just because there are two 
areas of damage it has to be treated as two separate claims, not relating to the same event.
Having listened to the call, I feel Mr S was clearly distressed. He didnt appear to understand 
esures logic or how it had arrived at that conclusion when advising the claim must be 
treated as two separate claims. And for the reasons Ive mentioned above, I can understand 
why that was the case. So, in turn, I can see how Mr S has been impacted by this. 
With this in mind, esure should treat Mr S claim as one claim. Therefore, only one excess 
fee is to be applied, and only one claim recorded.  Esure should fully repair Mr S car and 
also pay Mr S £100 for the trouble and upset it has caused.
Putting things right
My final decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint.
To put things right, esure Insurance Limited should:only record one claim in respect of this matter;
charge only one policy excess towards this claim;
fully repair Mr S car, and; 
pay Mr S £100 for the trouble and upset it has cause.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman