DRN-1352940
 
The complaint
Miss W complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has turned down a claim 
she made on her contents insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2019, Miss W lost a ring within her home. She thought it mightve got caught 
up in the debris when a ceiling fall was cleared up. She made a claim for its loss on her 
contents insurance policy. 
RSA turned down the claim. It said Miss Ws claim wasnt one of the listed insured events 
the policy covered. And it said this type of accidental loss would only be covered under an 
additional add-on to the policy - Out and About cover. Miss W hadnt chosen to add this 
cover to her policy and she hadnt paid the additional premium for it.
Miss W was unhappy with RSAs decision and she complained. She felt the policy wording 
was unclear and open to interpretation. She asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Miss Ws complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
accidental loss was something the policy covered. She said this type of cover was usually 
bought as an add-on. She thought that as RSA had sent Miss W a copy of the policy 
documents, itd been up to her to check the cover and see if it was right for her.
Miss W disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think it was fair for 
RSA to turn down Miss Ws claim. Ill explain why.
Miss Ws policy is marketed by her bank and insured by RSA. Before the 2018 policy 
renewal, Miss Ws policy was insured by a different insurer. So when the time came for 
renewal, Miss W was sent a pack explaining that RSA would be underwriting her policy. 
This pack included a copy of the new policy wording. The covering letter attached to it 
suggested that Miss W carefully check the policy to see if it still provided the cover she 
needed. I think its most likely this letter was sent. I appreciate Miss W says the policy auto-
renews, so its possible she might not have read the new policy wording. But I think RSA 
included appropriate information in its documentation to explain the changes to the policy.
Miss W was sent renewal documents in May 2019, which included a policy summary. This 
summary explained the main things the policy covered.Ive first looked very carefully at the policy wording to decide if Miss Ws loss shouldve been 
met under the contents section of the policy. This says that the policy covers loss of or 
damage to contents inside the home. It then goes on to state:
We cover loss or damage caused by the following.. This section lists the insured events 
that are covered  including fire; storm; escape of water and theft amongst others. 
Accidental loss isnt one of the insured events listed. And from what Miss Ws told us, it 
doesnt seem that the loss of her ring was caused by any of the specified insured events. So 
I think it was fair for RSA to conclude her loss wasnt covered under this section of the 
policy.
Miss W feels the policy wording was unclear and open to interpretation. So Ive looked at the 
policy summary Miss W was sent with her renewal documents. Under the What is Insured 
heading, it states:
The policy provides cover the following cover for the buildings and or/contents depending on 
what cover you have selected: Loss or damage by specific causes, including fire, storm, 
flood, escape of water, theft and subsidence.
I dont think this is unclear. I think it sets out that loss or damage for specified causes will be 
covered and that these tie-in with the insured events set out in the policy wording.
Ive then turned to look at the Out and About section of the policy. The policy summary Miss 
W was sent refers to out and about cover as an optional add-on and sets out the cover 
limits. It doesnt explain what Out and About cover is or what it does. So Ive carefully 
considered what the policy wording says.
Under the What We Cover section, it firstly states:
Accidental loss or damage to contents owned by your family or to contents which are your 
familys responsibility under contract, for example, hiring a suit or dress for a special event.
The cover applies:
 anywhere within the British Isles; and
 worldwide for up to 90 days in any insurance period
while in the possession of any of your family.
The second page then goes on to state:
What We Cover
The Out and About optional extra covers your personal possessions  for example your 
laptop, camera, mobile phone and clothes  for accidental loss or damage inside and 
outside your home, up to the limit shown on your policy schedule.
I think this section makes it apparent that the Out and About cover doesnt only cover losses 
that occur outside the home. I think its clear that it covers accidental loss within the home 
too. If Miss W had taken out this add-on cover, its likely her claim wouldve been dealt with 
under this section of the policy. But as she didnt, unfortunately, her loss simply isnt covered 
by the terms of her policy.
Overall, I think RSA has treated Miss W fairly. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ws 
complaint. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman