DRN-3215695
The complaint
Ms H complains of poor customer service from National Savings and Investments.
Ms H is represented by her niece in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill
refer to any submission and comments she has made as being made by Ms H herself.
What happened
Ms H attempted to open an account with National Savings and Investments (NS&I) for
£50,000 via a cheque. Her niece, who was acting in her capacity as attorney under a Lasting
Power of Attorney (LPOA) said she included a certified copy of the LPOA with the
application and cheque.
NS&I wrote to Ms H on 18 September 2020. They said that they couldnt accept the LPOA
document as it was a photocopy. NS&I said that they would return the photocopy separately
and that she would need to send them a certified copy of the LPOA.
Ms H noticed that NS&I had processed the cheque and the funds had been debited from her
bank account. The attorney rang NS&I to inform them that they hadnt sent the LPOA
document back yet. Ms H says that her attorney was promised that NS&I would send back
the LPOA document to prove whether it was a photocopy or a certified copy.
The attorney says she paid for another certified copy and asked her solicitor to write NS&I a
letter confirming the new LPOA was a certified copy. NS&I then sent her solicitor a letter
dated 25 November 2020, to say the premium bonds were open and they sent Ms H a letter
showing a summary of her premium bonds.
Ms H complained to NS&I via her attorney. She also complained how NS&I were handling
the complaint as they were taking longer than expected to respond to her complaint. NS&I
did not uphold the complaint. They said that she had sent a photocopy of the certified copy
of the LPOA and as a photocopy had no monetary value then the photocopied LPOA
document was destroyed. NS&I apologised for previously giving her incorrect information on
this matter.
NS&I also said that Ms H had not missed out on any of the premium bond draws, as she
was eligible for the November draw, having applied for the premium bonds on 14 September
2020. NS&I explained that due to the pandemic it was taking longer to answer calls and
handle complaints.
Ms H brought her complaint to our service. She said to resolve the complaint she wanted
NS&I to pay her interest for the funds not being in the prize draw until November, cover the
costs of her getting a new certified copy of the LPOA and solicitor costs which she estimated
to be approximately £240. She also wanted NS&I to compensate her attorney for the time
she has spent trying to resolve the situation, which she estimates to be approximately £240.
In total she thinks £500 compensation would be fair.
Our investigator did not uphold Ms Hs complaint. She said that when NS&I receive
documentation, they complete a checklist. The checklist showed that the LPOA document
was a photocopy of a certified LPOA document. Our investigator said that based on this, Ms
H was always going to have to pay to get another certified copy of the LPOA if she wanted to
invest through NS&I. So, she didnt think it would be fair for her to ask NS&I to cover the cost
of having the document reissued.
Our investigator also explained to Ms H that we can only look at complaints about regulated
financial activities and complaint handling isnt one of the regulated activities, so she was
unable to address her concerns relating to complaint handling. Our investigator also said
that our service doesnt award compensation to people acting in their legal capacity as
representatives or attorneys  it would be Ms H only who would be eligible for any
compensation  but she didnt think NS&I should pay any compensation in this instance.
Ms H asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She said it was unacceptable for
NS&I not to have returned the LPOA document, but instead they destroyed it. She said in all
probability the copy that we received from the NS&I is a copy of the second certified copy
that was sent. Ms H also requested that the phone calls were listened to that were made
with NS&I as she was concerned they could be covering things up. Before the complaint
reached an Ombudsman decision, NS&I offered Ms H £50 for giving her incorrect
information in the letter they sent her. Ms H wanted the complaint to go to an Ombudsman.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H has made a number of points to both NS&I and this service and Ive considered
and read everything shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and
informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and
reasonable here.
When it comes to complaints where its one word against another, I have to consider the
evidence available to me. I then have to weigh the evidence against the balance of
probabilities, that is, whats more likely to have happened in the circumstances. In all
honesty, I cant say for certain if the copy of the LPOA that Ms H sent NS&I was a certified
copy or a photocopy of a certified copy of a LPOA, as the physical document sent has been
destroyed. So Im unable to rely on this document when making my decision here.
I asked NS&I to send me the call recordings that they have from Ms H/her attorney. From
the recordings Ive listened to, there is no evidence Ive heard of them trying to cover
anything up. All of the call handlers are consistent that NS&I records show that a photocopy
of a certified copy of the LPOA was received by them.
During a call on 28 September, Ms Hs attorney explains to the call handler that she had
paid for 10 certified copies of the LPOA document. She says she is pretty sure that she
would have sent one of those copies and she says the certified copies shes still got show
that a solicitor has certified each page. She says that she cant say for sure (if its a certified
copy) until (she) receives that copy back.
So there is a level of uncertainty that the attorney has on the call, whether one of the
certified copies she had, has been sent. But I can understand why she wanted the copy back
to definitively prove one way or another whether the copy was certified or not. Ive heard on
another call she had with NS&I, that she agrees with the call handler that NS&I wouldnt be
able to accept a photocopy of the certified document and is adamant on this call that shesent an original copy.
I have looked at the copy of the LPOA document which was first sent by Ms H. This was
scanned onto NS&Is system. So while the physical copy had been destroyed, this was after
NS&I had scanned it onto their system. It isnt possible for me to say for certain whether this
was a certified copy or not. Even if there are indications that this could be a photocopy, I
wouldnt be able to tell from this document, as NS&Is scanning equipment may have caused
lines/imperfections on the document. But I can see this document was certified in 2018, so
this may have contributed to any marks on the scan due to how long ago it had been
certified.
Next, Ive looked at how NS&I record documents which are sent to them. I can see that NS&I
complete a checklist with each cherished document sent to them such as a LPOA. For the
first copy of the LPOA, sent with the application, the checklist clearly shows under the
photocopy of a certified copy, that this section is ticked. Although I have considered whether
human error could have resulted in a photocopy of a certified copy being ticked instead of
certified copy, Im persuaded this is unlikely and on the balance of probabilities a photocopy
was sent, and Ill explain why.
As our investigator has explained, NS&I have said that the document was physically
examined by staff who are trained to spot the difference between a photocopy and a certified
copy. So I am persuaded, that as the checklist is clear that a photocopy of the document had
been sent, that on the balance of probabilities, a photocopied version of the document was
sent. I can see when the solicitor sent a certified copy of the LPOA in November 2020, that
the checklist which was completed shows that this is a certified copy, and not a photocopy.
So its likely that both checklists have been completed accurately and I have no evidence
that a human error has been made. NS&I provided us with both scanned copies of the 2018
and 2020 LPOA documents, so they did not just send us the same copy as the second
LPOA document as Ms H thought they may have done.
NS&I have said that their process around receiving photocopied documents is to destroy the
physical document as they would have no monetary value. I must explain to Ms H that it is
outside of our remit to tell a business how to run their processes. So even if Ms H believes it
is unfair that they have destroyed the document originally sent, it is not their process to send
what they believe to be a photocopy back, even if they told her they would return the
document. But this information is different to what Ms H was originally told in NS&Is letter
dated 18 September 2020.
So I am persuaded here that NS&I set an expectation for Ms H that the LPOA would be sent
back to her and gave her incorrect information about their process. While it wouldnt change
the fact that Ms H believes that a certified copy had been sent to NS&I, it wouldnt have
resulted Ms H originally believing that the copy had been lost in the post when she didnt
receive the LPOA document back from NS&I. Im glad to see that NS&I have realised that
giving the incorrect information would have had an impact on Ms H. They have offered her
£50 compensation for poor customer service. Im persuaded this offer is fair as it shows
NS&I have admitted that they have given poor customer service in relation to telling Ms H
they would send the copy back, when their process is to destroy photocopied documents.
Ive considered the amount of compensation that Ms H wants to resolve the complaint. I will
clarify our approach to complaints brought to our service by an attorney/representative. In
this case, Ms H gave the LPOA the authority to act on her behalf in relation to all her
property and affairs with no restrictions. As our investigator has explained, we couldnt
consider any inconvenience to an attorney/representative and this is because the attorney
wasnt the NS&I customer, who would be the eligible complainant. However, I would like to
explain we can only tell a business to pay compensation for trouble and upset experiencedby their customer  not by a third party. So, although an attorney can act on behalf of Ms H,
we couldn't award compensation to an attorney who has brought a complaint on her behalf.
So I cant award for time spent by the attorney here.
Ive then considered what Ms H has said about the cost of getting a new certified copy of the
LPOA document and this has cost £240. But Im not persuaded that she needed to pay for
this. As mentioned on the telephone call, there had been 10 copies of the certified LPOA
document. And her attorney said she had looked in her envelope and these have been
certified by the solicitor on each page. So Ms H could have sent one of these copies if she
believed they werent photocopies and were certified copies instead. She also confirmed in
her letter to NS&I on 30 September 2020 that she had the original copy of the certified
LPOA. So again, this could have been sent to NS&I. I know that Ms H didnt trust NS&I with
the original document, however, I cant say that NS&I should be responsible to pay for a new
copy if Ms H did not trust them, as they had made an alternative option available apart from
paying for a new certified copy, which wouldnt have cost her any more money.
Im also persuaded that a solicitor did not need to certify the document, or to send a letter to
NS&I. As confirmed by NS&Is letter on 18 September 2020, it states that the certification
must be signed personally by either the donor (who must still have mental capacity), a notary
public, or a solicitor. So Im not persuaded that NS&I should be responsible for any extra
costs that Ms H has had from the solicitor sending a letter to NS&I and providing a new
certified copy of the LPOA, when a copy could have been sent without a solicitor sending the
documents.
Ive thought about what Ms H has said about how NS&I have handled her complaint. But, as
our investigator has explained, we can only look at complaints about regulated financial
activities and complaint handling isnt one of the regulated activities, so Im unable to
address Ms Hs concerns relating to this.
Ive then thought about what Ms H has said about her losing interest as the premium bond
application was sent in September and the cheque was cashed in September, but the
premium bonds werent entered until the November draw. Ive looked at the customer
agreement for the premium bonds. Here, it gives an example of when a customer is eligible
for their first draw. It says youll need to hold them for a whole month before theyre eligible
for the prize draw. For example, if you buy Premium Bonds any time in November, theyll be
in the draw in January. So Im not persuaded that Ms H had lost out by the delay with the
LPOA document and Ill explain why.
The cheque was paid in the middle of September. I know that Ms H was originally concerned
that NS&I had lost the cheque, but the customer agreement shows that cheque deposits will
clear no later than the seventh banking day after being received. So Im persuaded that
NS&I hadnt done anything wrong by cashing the cheque shortly after it was received, in line
with their customer agreement, even if NS&I believed the correct documents hadnt been
received yet.
Ive seen from NS&Is systems that from a system entry of 14 September 2020, it says
issue date 14 September 2020 followed by eligibility start date 1 November 2020. So Im
satisfied that Ms H was in Novembers prize draw, which was the first draw she was eligible
to be part of, based on the customer agreement example given above, even if the
acceptable LPOA documents were received after 1 November 2020.
In summary, I agree there were service failings. However, I dont consider these service
failings are sufficient to enable me to conclude that NS&I should pay higher compensation. I
agree that £50 is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation to reflect the service failings
identified by NS&I.I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. NS&I did not respond to the provisional decision. Ms H did not accept the 
provisional decision and made a number of points.
In summary, Ms H said that the crux of the complaint shouldnt be overlooked  NS&Is poor 
financial management practices in handling a new customers application, which resulted in 
the loss of a customers legal document and the temporary loss of £50,000 within its system, 
without any reference number being provided to the customer, therefore it was unknown if 
the account was opened or if the money was safe.
Ms H said she did not send another copy from her pack of certified LPOA documents as 
NS&I didnt accept the first one sent. She said that in order to bring about the quickest 
resolution to finding out where her money was being held, it was reasonable to ask her 
solicitor to send another certified copy directly, so that its validity could in no way be 
questioned. She said this strategy worked and NS&I responded quicker. Ms H said she had 
to rely on the solicitor for an update as NS&I responded to the solicitor rather than her.
Ms H said on balance, the fact that the information on returning the certified copy was both 
in a letter and then repeated after an operator spoke to the back office would more likely 
indicate that there was either no such policy in place at the time to destroy documents or the 
system in place including how information is stored and communicated, was not understood 
or followed by NS&Is own employees here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Ms H has said regarding the poor experience she had when opening 
the account and the temporary loss of the £50,000 cheque. The application was dated on 10 
September 2020 and NS&I wrote to Ms H on 18 September 2020. The letter did include a 
reference number. As I said in my provisional decision the customer agreement shows that 
cheque deposits will clear no later than the seventh banking day after being received. So 
Im persuaded that NS&I hadnt done anything wrong by cashing the cheque shortly after it 
was received, in line with their customer agreement, even if NS&I believed the correct 
documents hadnt been received yet. So Im not persuaded that NS&I did anything wrong 
on this point as the cheque hadnt been temporarily lost.
I appreciate the reasons why Ms H didnt send another copy from the pack of certified 
copies. But here I was pointing out that there were alternatives which could have been done 
without incurring an extra cost to herself. So although it may have resulted in a quicker 
outcome, it was her decision to pay for a solicitor to write NS&I a letter and send a new 
certified copy of the LPOA and so I cant hold NS&I responsible for the extra costs she 
incurred here. I addressed this in my provisional decision when I said the following:
Ms H also confirmed in her letter to NS&I on 30 September 2020, that she had the original 
copy of the certified LPOA. So again, this could have been sent to NS&I. I know that Ms H 
didnt trust NS&I with the original document, however, I cant say that NS&I should be 
responsible to pay for a new copy if Ms H did not trust them, as they had made an 
alternative option available apart from paying for a new certified copy, which wouldnt have 
cost her any more money.
Im also persuaded that a solicitor did not need to certify the document, or to send a letter to
NS&I. As confirmed by NS&Is letter on 18 September 2020, it states that the certificationmust be signed personally by either the donor (who must still have mental capacity), a notary
public, or a solicitor. So Im not persuaded that NS&I should be responsible for any extra
costs that Ms H has had from the solicitor sending a letter to NS&I and providing a new
certified copy of the LPOA, when a copy could have been sent without a solicitor sending the
documents.
Ive considered what Ms H has said about needing to rely on her solicitor for an update as 
NS&I had wrote to her solicitor to confirm the account was open. But I can see that NS&I 
also wrote to Ms Hs attorney on the same day to confirm the account was open. So Im not 
persuaded that she wouldnt have known the account was open if her solicitor didnt update 
her.
In response to Ms Hs comments about NS&Is systems in place, including how information 
is stored and communicated, was not understood or followed by NS&Is own employees,
Im satisfied that the service failings were because the staff did not follow the procedure 
here. I havent been able to listen to the conversation between the call handler who told Ms 
H that the document would be returned to her and the back office staff. So I cant say what 
the back office staff were asked (whether the call handler explained that NS&I believed it 
was a photocopy sent or had a general conversation about returning documents), but 
regardless, Ms H was told incorrect information here. I addressed this in my provisional 
decision when I said the following:
So I am persuaded here that NS&I set an expectation for Ms H that the LPOA would be 
sent back to her and gave her incorrect information about their process. While it wouldnt 
change the fact that Ms H believes that a certified copy had been sent to NS&I, it wouldnt 
have resulted (in) Ms H originally believing that the copy had been lost in the post when she 
didnt receive the LPOA document back from NS&I. Im glad to see that NS&I have realised 
that giving the incorrect information would have had an impact on Ms H. They have offered 
her £50 compensation for poor customer service. Im persuaded this offer is fair as it shows
NS&I have admitted that they have given poor customer service in relation to telling Ms H
they would send the copy back when their process is to destroy photocopied documents.
In summary, Ms Hs response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Ms H will be disappointed with the 
decision, but I hope she understands my reasons. 
My final decision
National Savings and Investments have already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that National Savings and Investments should pay Ms H £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman