DRN-3030914
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken with a credit card 
that started in 1996. Miss M says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include Miss Ms 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint but thought Lloyds offer to pay back 
some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-disclosure of high commission and profit 
share Miss M paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Miss Ms representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. 
Miss M also requested a decision.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ms. Ive not set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Miss Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that Lloyds offer to refund some of the cost of PPI, to 
compensate for the unfairness caused, is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below.
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
Lloyds no longer has papers or records showing how the PPI was sold to Miss M. This 
isnt too surprising given the time thats passed since. Miss M has said the PPI was just 
included on her card. I give her recollections some weight, but I also bear in mind she set 
out her recollections for us well over 15 years after the sale - so it wouldnt be surprising 
if she didnt recall all the details.
With that in mind, Miss Ms recollections arent, on their own, enough to make me think 
Lloyds just included the PPI without giving her a choice about it  and I havent anything 
else to make me think that. For example, I havent anything to make me think Lloyds 
wouldnt usually have given a consumer like Miss M a choice about the PPI at the time 
she took her card or in the period that followed, or that Lloyds wouldnt usually have got 
the agreement of a customer like Miss M before adding PPI to a card like hers.
 
Taking everything into account, and although theres not much to go on, I think its more 
likely Lloyds made it clear Miss M didnt have to take the PPI and she chose to take it  
but it would be understandable if she didnt recall this now.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Miss M, so it had to check the PPI was right for her. And 
the evidence about her circumstances shows it wasnt unsuitable for her. For example, 
she was eligible for it and shed suffer a loss of income if she couldnt work for longer 
than her full sick pay lasted. The PPI benefit could pay for up to 12 months and what 
Miss M has told us about her savings makes me think it unlikely these wouldve covered 
her loss of income for as long as that if she were unemployed or too sick to work. So I 
think she still had a need for cover. From what Ive seen, the cover wasnt unaffordable 
and nothing about Miss Ms employment or occupation wouldve made it hard for her to 
claim  also she hasnt told us of having had any health issues prior to the sale, so she 
wouldnt have been affected by policy exclusions relating to pre-existing health issues.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found she chose to take it, and I dont think it likely she wouldve 
taken it without at least a broad understanding of what it covered - so it looks to me like 
she wanted this type of cover. It wasnt unsuitable for her, as I concluded above, and it 
seems like it wouldve been useful for her if something went wrong in the circumstances 
it covered. Overall I dont think the cover was too dissimilar to what its likely Miss M 
thought she was buying from the information its likely she was given  and, with this and 
all Ive said above in mind, I dont think she wouldve declined it had Lloyds done more.
While the policy contained limitations or exclusions on claims relating to back issues and 
excluded claims relating to mental health issues, in light of Miss Ms circumstances, and 
despite the policys limitations and exclusions, it wasnt unsuitable for her  and I think 
she wouldve still thought she had some good reasons to take it.
Overall, I consider Miss M wouldve still taken the PPI. Given her circumstances, I think it 
couldve provided a useful benefit at a difficult time if she couldnt work in the circumstances 
it covered. I also think it was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. 
And, in those circumstances, I think she wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Miss Ms representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and that the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim.
Miss Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Ms particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and, if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so, Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Lloyds offer to refund some of the cost of PPI, to compensate for the unfairness 
caused, is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Miss M about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So, taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Lloyds and Miss M was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Lloyds didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case; 
I dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss M, because it failed 
to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances, to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Miss Ms representatives have made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint, including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary they have said Miss M should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: Lloyds failed to tell Miss M about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipmeant the policy was poor value, they say I should find that Miss M wouldnt have taken the 
policy had she known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all 
the premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Miss M in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Lloyds not disclosing the high level of 
commission to her before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Miss Ms representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt 
have purchased the policy but for Lloyds failure to disclose the level of commission for 
the reasons Ive given above;
I think it was fair for Lloyds to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Miss M paid for her PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Miss M 
with the policy Ive concluded above she would still have taken if Lloyds had done everything 
it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Lloyds offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms, is fair in all the circumstances. 
If Lloyds has already paid Miss M compensation on this basis, I wouldnt consider it needed 
to do anything further  and Lloyds has said it has already made this payment to Miss M in 
November 2018 by cheque.Im grateful to Miss M for her courtesy and assistance throughout our consideration of her 
complaint.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Miss Ms complaint or make any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Miss M an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) - if 
it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman